FR940830-2-00027 FR940830-2-00011 Summaries of cost and performance parameters for specified technologies in the existing information base are available upon request. This technology information is structured in a format suitable for least-cost modeling purposes. For example, an existing electricity conversion technology, a coal combined cycle plant fueled with bituminous coal, might be described as follows (parameter values are illustrative): Bituminous Coal Combined Cycle Electricity Generation 1␣ 1␣ Fuel conversion efficiency 41.6% Availability/Utilization 60% Cost of capacity (real $) $1569 MM/Gigawatt Fixed O&M cost $47.4 MM/Gigawatt Variable O&M cost $0.37 MM/Petajoule input Delivered fuel cost $0.64 MM/Petajoule Peak availability 100% Life span 40 yrs. Installed capacity (current) 1.0 Gw Commercial availability Currently available Some technologies included in the inventory, such as the power plant example presented above, are cohesive single engineering processes. In other cases, a technology in the inventory will reflect an aggregation of engineering innovations, reflecting our inability to separately model each individual device. For example, a future vehicle technology might embody several innovations such as ultra light-weight construction, low rolling resistance tires, hybrid propulsion with automatic engine shut-off, and regenerative braking. Suggestions and comments are invited on both the addition of categories for the Energy Resource and Technology Inventory and for the nomination of specific technologies to be included. To be considered for inclusion, a technology must be sufficiently concrete that parameters for its cost, performance and applicability to the U.S. economy are discernible. Respondents are invited to suggest either single technologies or logical aggregates of technologies, as in the examples above, so long as the performance parameters can be described in terms similar to those in the example provided above. Respondents are requested to provide performance parameters in a standard format (Appendix A) for technologies that they nominate for the technology inventory, but may supplement this minimum requirement with additional information.
