FR940318-1-00031 FR940318-1-00011 In many cases, requiring taxpayers to recompute for AMT purposes those items of income and expense that are limited to a percentage of AGI results in extreme complexity. Many taxpayers will have to perform those complex calculations only to discover that they do not have any AMT liability for the year. In addition, taxpayers' recordkeeping burdens are greatly increased because they are required to maintain separate AMT carryforward schedules, regardless of whether AMT is paid in a given taxable year. Because of the extreme complexity and increased recordkeeping burdens imposed on a large number of noncorporate taxpayers under a completely separate and parallel AMT system, the proposed regulations provide that, in computing AMTI, any reference to AGI in determining the amount of items of income, exclusion, or deduction must be treated as referring to AGI for regular tax purposes. The regulations are proposed to be effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1993. See, however, Notice 94&hyph;28, I.R.B. 1994&hyph;14, for rules concerning the computation of AMTI in accordance with these proposed regulations for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1994. Special Analyses It has been determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in Executive Order 12866. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these proposed rules, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, this notice of proposed rulemaking will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small businesses. Comments and Public Hearing Before these proposed regulations are adopted as final regulations, consideration will be given to any written comments that are submitted timely (preferably a signed original and eight copies) to the IRS. All comments will be available for public inspection and copying. A public hearing has been scheduled for Monday, June 6, 1994, at 10 a.m. in the Auditorium, Internal Revenue Building, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC. Because of access restrictions, visitors will not be admitted beyond the Internal Revenue Building lobby more than 15 minutes before the hearing starts. The rules of 26 CFR 601.601(a)(3) apply to the hearing. Persons that wish to present oral comments at the hearing must submit written comments by May 17, 1994 and submit an outline of the topics to be discussed and the time to be devoted to each topic by Monday, May 16, 1994. A period of 10 minutes will be allotted to each person for making comments. An agenda showing the scheduling of the speakers will be prepared after the deadline for receiving outlines has passed. Copies of the agenda will be available free of charge at the hearing. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Kelly R. Berg of the Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Income Tax and Accounting). However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects in 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Proposed Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR part 1 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 continues to read in part: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 * * * Par. 2. Section 1.55&hyph;1 is added to read as follows: ยง1.55&hyph;1 Alternative minimum tax for noncorporate taxpayers. (a) General rule for computing alternative minimum taxable income. Except as otherwise provided by statute or regulations, all Internal Revenue Code provisions that apply in determining the regular taxable income of a taxpayer also apply in determining the alternative minimum taxable income of the taxpayer. (b) Items based on adjusted gross income. In determining the alternative minimum taxable income of a taxpayer other than a corporation, all references to the taxpayer's adjusted gross income in determining the amount of any item of income, exclusion, or deduction must be treated as references to the taxpayer's adjusted gross income as determined for regular tax purposes. (c) Effective date. These regulations are effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1993. Margaret Milner Richardson, Commissioner of Internal Revenue. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6373 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4830&hyph;01&hyph;U
