FR941007-1-00063 FR941007-1-00009 The revised proposal also would provide significantly more guidance regarding the standards for approval of a plan. Commenters on the December proposal were divided over the standards for approval. Some commenters thought the regulation should state that the standards for approval of a plan are the same as the standards on the lending, service, and investment tests, or that the plan should require no less lending than the lending test. In contrast, some industry commenters thought that the plan would not provide a real alternative unless it permitted an institution to depart from the standard tests in responding to local needs. Under the revised proposal, a plan would have to specify measurable goals for helping to meet the credit needs of the institution's service area, particularly the needs of low- and moderate-income geographies and low- and moderate-income individuals. These goals would have to reflect the institution's capacity and constraints, product offerings, and business strategy. The revised proposal would require that the plan specify measurable goals in lending, investment, and the provision of services, as appropriate to the circumstances. The proposal would specify the broad criteria in lending, investment, and services that should be the framework for the plan goals. At the same time, however, the proposal would make clear that an institution has great flexibility to fashion its program within those parameters. An institution would not be required to set levels of performance in all three categories. In order to maintain the focus on lending for retail institutions operating under a plan, a retail institution's goals would have to emphasize lending and lending-related activities, unless a different emphasis were appropriate given the credit needs of the service area, public comment, and the institution's capacity and constraints. The agencies intend through these provisions to provide guidance to the industry and the community regarding the standards for plan approval, while preserving substantial flexibility for institutions to tailor their CRA programs. The purpose of the plan is not to provide institutions operating under a plan with a different or lesser obligation to help meet the needs of their community; it is to provide more certainty and flexibility for those institutions that wish to meet their obligation in a fashion that they believe may not be appropriately assessed by the standard performance tests. The revised proposal would require that each plan specify measurable goals, the satisfaction of which, the institution believes, would warrant a ``satisfactory'' rating. An institution also would have the option of identifying a separate set of goals that, if met, would warrant an ``outstanding'' rating. An institution would not be considered for a rating of outstanding unless its plan contained outstanding goals that had been approved by the relevant agency. The revised proposal also would clarify how performance would be assessed under the plan. The agencies believe that the standard of performance in the December proposal should be strengthened, and the revised proposal would require an institution to substantially achieve its plan goals to receive that rating. This would apply to the satisfactory rating and, if the plan contained such approved goals, to the outstanding rating. Some commenters believed that the possibility of being considered under the standard tests, as contemplated by the December proposal, made the plan a less attractive alternative to the standard tests. The revised proposal would, unless the institution chose otherwise, rate an institution's performance under an approved plan solely in relation to its plan goals. An institution would have the option, however, to elect in its plan to be subject to the standard tests should its performance under the plan goals be less than satisfactory. The agencies intend that an institution operating under an approved plan would, during the period of the plan, never be subject to assessment under the standard tests, unless the institution so chose. In response to industry comments that said the two year plan term in the December proposal was too short to warrant the expense of preparing a plan and to permit institutions to initiate activities with a longer view, the agencies have lengthened the possible plan term to 5 years, but would require the plan to have annual interim measurable goals. The agencies agree that it is beneficial to provide institutions the opportunity for long-range planning, and the interim goals should enable effective examinations during the plan period. The proposal also would permit an institution to develop a single plan for one or more or all of its service areas and allow affiliated institutions to prepare joint plans.
