FR940805-1-00109 FR940805-1-00013 (4) Special clothing issue. The facility shall provide for the issue of special and, where appropriate, protective clothing and equipment to residents participating in special work assignments. Such clothing shall be available in quantities that permit exchange as frequently as the work assignment requires. (5) Hair care. The administrator or designee shall allow residents to arrange for hair cutting services. (j) Health care _(1) Written health care plan. A written plan shall provide for the delivery of health care services, including medical, dental, mental health and substance abuse treatment, under the control of a designated health authority. The plan shall include the participation of IHS, social services and tribal health care providers. A Memorandum of Agreement between the administrator and the Director of the appropriate Indian Health Service (IHS) Service Unit or IHS contract health care provider shall document the health care plan. When this authority is other than a physician, final medical judgments shall rest with a single responsible physician, designated by the appropriate health authority, who shall meet the applicable licensure requirements. (2) Health program coordinator. In facilities without full-time, qualified health personnel, a health-trained staff member shall coordinate the health care delivery system in the facility under the joint supervision of the responsible health authority and the administrator. (3) Annual review. The administrator and the health authority shall update the plan as needed, review it annually to determine program needs including staffing, equipment and supplies and document its review by signature and date. (4) Medical/mental health judgment. Medical, dental and mental health matters involving clinical judgments shall be the sole province of the responsible physician, dentist and/or psychiatrist or qualified psychologist. (5) Security regulations. Security regulations applicable to facility personnel shall apply to health personnel. (6) Meetings with provider. The health authority shall meet with the administrator or designee at least quarterly to review and evaluate the health care delivery system. The health authority shall provide an annual statistical report which documents the level and amount of health care services provided. (7) Review of health care policies. The health authority and the administrator shall review and approve all policies and procedures relative to the health care plan prior to submission of these policies to the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement. Policies and procedures shall be reviewed at least annually and documented by signature and date. (8) Health training program. The responsible health authority, in cooperation with the administrator, shall establish a health training program. The program shall provide instruction in the following areas: (i) appropriate procedures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases; (ii) the ability to respond to health-related situations within four minutes; (iii) recognition of signs, symptoms and actions required in potential emergency situations; (iv) recognition of chronic illness; (v) administration of first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); (vi) methods of obtaining assistance from the health care provider; (vii) recognition of signs and symptoms of and management of residents with mental illness, retardation, emotional disturbance, chemical dependency and suicidal behavior; and (viii) procedures for patient transfers to appropriate medical facilities or health care providers. (9) Sick call. The administrator or designee shall provide for the collection and referral of resident requests for health care. The facility shall have a system of sick call in-house or at the health care facility. The system shall include provision for referral of residents by staff for medical or other behavioral health evaluation, i.e, mental health, substance abuse, suicide. Sick call shall be held no less than once per week. (10) Twenty-four-hour emergency care. The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan for the provision of twenty-four hour emergency medical, dental and mental health care. The administrator and health authority shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. At a minimum, the plan shall include: (i) emergency evacuation of the resident from the facility; (ii) emergency evaluation of the resident for medical or mental health problems; (iii) use of an emergency medical vehicle; (iv) use of one or more designated hospital, clinic, emergency on-call physician, dentist, psychiatrist, qualified psychologist or otherwise qualified clinician; and (v) procedures that provide for the immediate transfer of residents when appropriate. (11) Health care treatment. Health care staff or health-trained community residential staff perform treatment pursuant to written direct orders by personnel authorized by law to give such orders. (12) Licensure requirements. The health authority shall comply with all applicable federal law, licensure requirements, rules, regulations and medical protocols in the delivery of health care services to the resident population. (13) Traditional practitioners. The facility shall allow residents to participate in or receive traditional healing ceremonies and to use traditional healing methods, limited only to the degree necessary to preserve institutional security and order. (14) Prohibited use of detainees. Residents shall not perform duties in the health care program. (15) Management of medications. The administrator and health authority shall provide for the proper management of individual doses of medications that are kept in the facility. The administrator and health authority shall review the policy annually and update it as needed. (16) Administration of medications. The administrator or designee shall ensure that persons administering medications have received training appropriate to their assignment. Employees shall administer medications according to direct or physician orders and record the administration of medications in a manner and on a form approved by the responsible physician. (17) Preliminary health care screening. The administrator or designee shall ensure that all residents have received a health screening interview prior to acceptance into the community residential program.
