FR940407-1-00051 FR940407-1-00012 The historical risk differential is commonly based on the historical return series published annually by Ibbotson Associates in the Stocks, Bonds, Bills, and Inflation Yearbook (``SBBI Yearbook''). The SBBI Yearbook provides averages of the historical risk differentials relative to various government securities for the period 1926 to the present, using Standard and Poor's 500 Index to compute the overall market rate of return. The Commission's proposed rule specifies the same source for measuring the arithmetic average risk premium relative to the required risk-free rate proxy (i.e., the five-year Treasury Note). The choice of a time period for measuring the historical differential sometimes differs, but frequently it matches the entire period over which Ibbotson Associates provides the data. Returns calculated over a substantially shorter horizon (e.g., five or ten years) are sometimes used to calculate the risk premium. This is not appropriate, however, due to the extreme volatility of the return on the overall stock market. 37 Accordingly, the Commission's proposed rule stipulates that the entire length of the data series be used as the time horizon. 37 In statistical terms, this extreme variability implies an extremely large standard deviation over any short period of time. Estimates of the overall market return calculated over such a short period of time are, therefore, unreliable. In summary, the proposed rule requires that the market return used in CAPM calculations be computed using a risk premium defined as the arithmetic average historical risk differential relative to the five-year Treasury Note using the data published in the most current SBBI Yearbook for the period 1926 through the most recent date for which the data are available. c. Risk Premium Method. The RP method, alternately referred to as the ``risk positioning method'' or the ``stock-bond yield spread method,'' is based upon the premise that common-stock equity capital is riskier than debt from an investors' perspective and that investors, therefore, require a larger rate of return on investments in common stocks than on bonds to compensate them for bearing the extra risk. Common stock equity is riskier than debt because the payment of interest and principal to debtholders has priority over the payment of dividends and return of capital to common-stock equityholders. The RP method, therefore, estimates the cost of capital by adding an explicit premium for risk to a current interest rate, frequently an interest rate on a particular government security. The general mathematical expression for the RP model is as follows: K e =K d +RP where: K e is the regulated firm's cost of common-stock equity capital; K d is the incremental (i.e., current) cost of debt; and RP is the risk premium. To illustrate the RP model, assume that the incremental cost of debt is 7 percent, and the risk premium is 5 percent. The regulated company's cost of common-stock equity capital is: K e =07+.05 =.12 or 12 percent.
