FR940720-0-00132 FR940720-0-00010 State Game and Fish regulations in New Mexico allow the use of live minnows, including those brought into the State from other drainages, for sport fishing. This practice has encouraged the spread of these species, one of which, the plains minnow, has completely replaced and/or hybridized with H. amarus in the Pecos River. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence In 1979, Cowley discovered the introduction of plains minnow ( H. placitus ) into the Pecos River drainage, New Mexico, from collections made as early as 1968, and also recognized the disappearance of native H. amarus. The last known collections of H. amarus from the Pecos River took place in 1968 near Roswell, New Mexico. These same collections verified the first specimens of H. placitus from the river. It is suspected, because of the widespread use of H. placitus as a commercial bait species, that its introduction into the Pecos River was the result of release of bait fish by anglers. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in determining to make this rule final. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list the Rio Grande silvery minnow ( Hybognathus amarus ) as endangered throughout its historic range. A decision to take no action would constitute failure to properly classify this species pursuant to the Endangered Species Act and would exclude it from protection of the Act. The Service believes threatened status is not the proper classification for the species because of the extremely limited habitat the species presently occupies and the threats it faces. Endangered status is appropriate because of the significantly reduced range and declining abundance of the species, and because of the remaining threats to this fish and its habitat. Without Federal protection, the Rio Grande silvery minnow can be expected to become extinct in the foreseeable future. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act requires, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, that the Secretary designate critical habitat at the time a species is determined to be endangered or threatened. Section 4(b)(6)(C) states that a concurrent critical habitat designation is not required, and that the final decision on designation may be postponed for 1 year from the date of publication of the final rule to list the species. Section 4(b)(6)(C)(ii) allows the Service to delay critical habitat designation if it is not then determinable. The Service's regulations (50 CFR 424.12(a)(2)) state that critical habitat is not determinable if information sufficient to perform required analyses of the impacts of the designation is lacking or if the biological needs of the species are not sufficiently well known to permit identification of an area as critical habitat. Section 4(b)(2) of the Act requires the Service to consider economic and other impacts of designating a particular area as critical habitat. The Service is in the process of evaluating the information obtained during the comment period on the economic impacts of designating critical habitat, and has started the process of having an economic analysis prepared on the proposed critical habitat designation. The complexities and extent of the activities that must be assessed preclude completion of the economic analysis within the 1-year deadline for listing the species. The completed draft economic analysis will be made available for public review and comment. The final decision on designation of critical habitat for the Rio Grande silvery minnow must be made by March 1, 1995, pursuant to section 4(b)(6)(C)(ii) of the Act. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain practices. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Endangered Species Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the States and authorizes recovery plans for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against taking and harm are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat if any is proposed or designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to ensure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a listed species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. Federal actions that are expected to occur that may affect the survival of H. amarus include the operation and maintenance of dams and other structures that regulate the flow of water in the Rio Grande. Federal agencies that serve as water managers and decision-makers who determine timing and amount of flow in the river include the International Boundary and Water Commission, which ensures delivery of water to Mexico under international treaties; the Bureau of Reclamation, which has played an important role in water development in the middle Rio Grande and has been actively involved in the major water supply networks of the basin; and the Corps, which is responsible for controlling any dredging or filling within navigable waterways and associated wetlands under section 404 of the Clean Water Act. The Corps also has constructed and operates Abiquiu, Cochiti, Galisteo, and Jemez dams to control flood waters and sediment in the Rio Grande. The Environmental Protection Agency oversees water quality issues that may affect the river. In addition, actions on the northern pueblos that are funded, authorized, or carried out by the Bureau of Indian Affairs may affect the Rio Grande silvery minnow.
