FR941005-2-00027 FR941005-2-00021 Acquisition Letter 94&hyph;14 September 28, 1994 Authority This Acquisition Letter is issued by the Procurement Executive pursuant to a delegation from the Secretary and under the authority of the Department of Energy Acquisition Regulation Subpart 901.301&hyph;70. Contents 1Citation 1Title FAR 17.605 Award, Renewal, and Extension. DEAR 917.605 Award, Renewal, and Extension. DEAR 970.0001 Renewal of management and operating contracts. I. Purpose The Department of Energy Contract Reform Team Report concluded that the Department's policies and practices regarding the extension of its management and operating contracts needed to be revamped. The Contract Reform Team found that existing policies favored indefinite extensions of incumbent contractors and that in practice, few competitions for management and operating contracts were undertaken. Such policies and practices effectively precluded the introduction of new companies and best management practices into the Department's laboratory and weapons production complex. The Report also recognized the need to balance the benefits of a competitive environment with the recognition that long contract terms of up to 10 years can facilitate superior performance. The purpose of this Acquisition Letter is to establish an interim policy that favors competition, yet preserves the benefits of long-term contract relationships. Under this new policy, competition will be the norm. Exceptions to competition will be made only in exceptional circumstances and only when authorized by the Head of the Agency. II. Background Subpart 17.6 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation prescribes policies and procedures for award, renewal, and extension of management and operating contracts. III. Guidance This Acquisition Letter is issued to revise and consolidate the policy and procedures regarding competing or extending performance-based management contracts, a new form of management and operating contract. The attached interim procedures supersede all previous guidance regarding extend or compete decisions. They will be used until the rulemaking process is completed. A class deviation from Department of Energy Acquisition Regulation 917.605 and 970.0001 has been authorized to implement the attached procedures. In addition, a class deviation to subsection 17.605(b) of the Federal Acquisition Regulation has been authorized to permit a revision to the timing of the Agency Head authorization for the renewal and extension of performance-based management contracts at the five-year point in the performance period under certain circumstances specified in this Acquisition Letter. By Action Memorandum dated July 5, 1994, the Secretary of Energy has made determinations regarding certain management and operating contracts which will expire in the near term. The Secretary's determination mandates that certain contracts be competed and that others be extended to facilitate either competition or the immediate negotiation of key elements of contract reform into the existing contracts. Contracts awarded or extended pursuant to that determination are subject to this Acquisition Letter; however, no further action is required relating to the extension of those contracts until the time of the next extend or compete decision. Furthermore, contracts extended pursuant to the Secretary's determination shall not include an option to extend the contract for an additional five years. The term ``performance-based management contract'' denotes the new form of management and operating contract that will be used by the Department of Energy for the operation of its Government-owned, or controlled, laboratories and weapons production facilities. Its use reflects the Department's policy and intent to convert traditional management and operating contracts to the new form of contract called for in the Contract Reform Team Report.
