FR941116-0-00153 FR941116-0-00022 (f) That is a converted wetland, as defined in part 12 of this title, land planted in violation of highly erodible land or wetland provisions, or highly erodible land, as defined in part 12 of this title, that does not have an approved conservation plan being actively applied; (g) That the producer does not own, lease, or sharecrop; (h) That is subject to a restrictive easement which prohibits its use for program crops. (i) That is used as turn rows, end rows, or headlands, unless the land meets all the eligibility requirements in accordance with ยง1413.61. (j) That is going out of agricultural production in the current year, unless the county committee determines the land, without the program, would be planted to a program crop for harvest in the current year. (k) That is credited for prevented planted or failed acreage unless the crop is eligible for harvest on ACR or CU for payment acreage. (l) That was flooded or under water any time during the year, unless either of the following applies: (1) before the flooding occurred, the land was planted to a cover crop, crop for harvest, or could have been planted in either the fall or spring to a crop for harvest in the current year; (2) After being flooded, the land could be planted in the current year by the final reporting date for spring-seeded crops. ยง1413.63 Required cover crops and practices on ACR. (a)(1) Producers participating in an ARP for a program crop shall plant or maintain an annual or perennial cover on at least 50 percent of the ACR acreage (or more at the producer's option) but not exceeding 5 percent of the CAB established for the crop. (2) This requirement shall not apply to arid areas, including summer-fallow areas, as determined by CCC; (3) If a producer elects to establish a perennial cover; (i) And the cover is capable of improving water quality or wildlife habitat, CCC shall make available cost-share assistance of not more than 25 percent of the approved cost of establishing the cover, on acreage not to exceed 50 percent of the required ACR; (ii) And the producer receives cost-share assistance with respect to the cover, the producer shall agree to maintain the perennial cover except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, and designate the acreage as ACR for a minimum of 3 consecutive years if ACR is required for the farm. (iii) If cost share is received in a year, cost-share under the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section is not available on any other acreage on the farm during the maintenance lifespan of the practice, unless the cover failed, or the required perennial cover requirements increase in subsequent years. (iv) And a producer receives cost-share benefits for establishing an approved cover, and the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section are not met, such cost-share benefits received by the producer shall be refunded to CCC.
