FR940830-2-00103 FR940830-2-00056 III Explanation Of The Proposed Final Judgment The parties have stipulated that the proposed Final Judgment may be entered by the Court at any time after compliance with the APPA. The proposed Final Judgment states that it shall not constitute an admission by either party with respect to any issue of fact or law. The proposed Final Judgment enjoins any direct or indirect continuation or renewal of the type of conspiracy alleged in the complaint. Specifically, Section IV enjoins and restrains the defendant from entering into, adhering to, maintaining, furthering, enforcing or claiming any right under any contract, agreement, understanding, plan or program with any dealer to fix, stabilize, or maintain the resale prices at which indoor tanning products sold or distributed by the defendant may be sold or offered for sale in the United States by any dealer. The proposed Final Judgment not only bars California SunCare's Unlawful practices, but also contains additional provisions that are remedial in nature. Section IV provides that the defendant is prohibited for five years from announcing to the public or to any present or potential dealer of its indoor tanning products that defendant has or is adopting, promulgating, suggesting, announcing or establishing any resale pricing policy for indoor tanning products that provides that: (1) defendant will sell only to a dealer that prices at or above defendant's suggested resale price, and/or (2) defendant will terminate any dealer for pricing below defendant's suggested resale price. Additionally, the defendant is prohibited for a period of five years from the date of entry of the final judgment from (1) threatening any dealer with termination or terminating any dealer for pricing below the defendant's suggested resale price, and (2) discussing with any present or potential dealer any decision regarding termination of any other dealer for any reason directly or indirectly related to the latter dealer's pricing below defendant's suggested resale price. Section V of the proposed Final Judgment is designed to ensure that California SunCare's dealers are aware of the limitations imposed on it by the Final Judgment. Section V requires the defendant to send notices and copies of the Judgment to each dealer who purchased indoor tanning products from the defendant in 1992, 1993 or 1994. In addition, the defendant is required to send notices and copies of the Judgment to every other dealer who purchases indoor tanning products from California SunCare within ten years of the date of entry of the proposed Final Judgment. Section VI requires the defendant to set up an antitrust compliance program. The defendant is also required to furnish a copy of the Judgment to each of its officers and directors and each of its non-clerical employees, representatives, or agents with supervisory or direct responsibility for the sale or advertising of indoor tanning products in the United States. In addition, the proposed Final Judgment provides methods for determining and securing the defendant's compliance with its terms. Section VIII provides that, upon request of the Department of Justice, the defendant shall submit written reports, under oath, with respect to any of the matters contained in the Judgment. Additionally, the Department of Justice is permitted to inspect and copy all books and records and to interview officers, directors, employees and agents of the defendant. Section IX makes the Judgment effective for ten years from the date of its entry.
