FR940207-1-00068 FR940207-1-00013 Part 61 of chapter I of title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 61_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 61 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401, 7412, 7414, 7416, 7601. 2. Section 61.220 is revised to read as follows: §61.220 Designation of facilities. (a) The provisions of this subpart apply to owners and operators of all sites that are used for the disposal of tailings, and that managed residual radioactive material during and following the processing of uranium ores, commonly referred to as uranium mills and their associated tailings, that are listed in, or designated by the Secretary of Energy under Title I of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978. (b) [Reserved] 3. Section 61.221 is amended by revising the introductory text, paragraphs (a) and (c) and by adding paragraphs (d) and (e) to read as follows: §61.221 Definitions. As used in this subpart, all terms not defined here have the meanings given them in the Clean Air Act or subpart A of Part 61. The following terms shall have the following specific meanings: (a) Long term stabilization means the addition of material on a uranium mill tailings pile for purpose of ensuring compliance with the requirements of 40 CFR 192.02(a). These actions shall be considered complete when the Nuclear Regulatory Commission determines that the requirements of 40 CFR 192.02(a) have been met. * * * * * (c) Residual radioactive materials means: (1) Waste (which the Secretary determines to be radioactive) in the form of tailings resulting from the processing of ores for the extraction of uranium and other valuable constituents of the ores; and (2) Other waste (which the Secretary determines to be radioactive) at a processing site which relate to such processing, including any residual stock of unprocessed ores or low grade materials. (d) Tailings means the remaining portion of a metal-bearing ore after some or all of such metal, such as uranium, has been extracted. (e) In significant part means in a manner that is not reasonably expected to materially (i.e., more than de minimis) interfere with compliance with the 20 pCi/m2-s flux standard as expeditiously as practicable considering technological feasibility (including factors beyond the control of the licensee). 4. Section 61.222 is amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §61.222 Standard. * * * * * (b) Once a uranium mill tailings pile or impoundment ceases to be operational it must be disposed of and brought into compliance with this standard within two years of the effective date of the standard. If it is not physically possible for an owner or operator to complete disposal within that time, EPA shall, after consultation with the mill owner or operator, establish a compliance agreement which will assure that disposal will be completed as quickly as possible. 5. Section 61.223 is amended by revising paragraph (b)(5) to read as follows: §61.223 Compliance procedures. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (5) Each report shall be signed and dated by a public official in charge of the facility and contain the following declaration immediately above the signature line: I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted herein and based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. See, 18 U.S.C. 1001. 6. Section 61.226 is added to subpart T to read as follows: §61.226 Reconsideration of rescission and reinstatement of this subpart. (a) Reinstatement of this subpart. (1) The Administrator shall reinstate 40 CFR part 61, subpart T as applied to owners and operators of non-operational uranium mill tailings disposal sites that are licensed by the NRC or an affected Agreement State if the Administrator determines by rulemaking, based on the record, that NRC or an affected Agreement State has: (i) Failed on a programmatic basis to implement and enforce, in significant part, the regulations governing the disposal of uranium mill tailings promulgated by EPA and NRC or the tailings closure plan (radon) (i.e., contained in the operating license) requirements establishing milestones for the purpose of emplacing a permanent radon barrier that will achieve compliance with the 20 pCi/m2-s flux standard; and (ii) Those failures may reasonably be anticipated to significantly interfere (i.e., more than de minimis) with the timely emplacement of a permanent radon barrier constructed to achieve compliance with the 20 pCi/m2-s flux standard at uranium mill tailings disposal sites.
