FR941202-0-00010 FR941202-0-00001 (2) Comment. There could be some difficulty when applying the quality management program to human research subjects. Also, annual review of human use studies is redundant of FDA regulations. Response. The quality management program (QMP) applies only to research procedures using quantities of byproduct material specified in §35.32(a)(1). However, because most research procedures use quantities of byproduct material that are less than those specified in §35.32, the QMP would not be required for these research procedures. The review specified in §35.32(b) applies only to human research procedures for which written directives are required. The review includes evaluation of a representative sample of administrations, recordable events, and misadministrations, to verify compliance with the QMP. These evaluations are specifically related to the requirements in the Commissions's regulations, which are not redundant of FDA regulations. Section 35.6␣Provisions for Research Involving Human Subjects In the preamble of the proposed rule, the Commission solicited public comment on the number and type of research activities which would not be funded by another Federal agency which has adopted the Federal Policy and which would require a license amendment under the proposed rule. No comments on the number and type of such research activities were received. Also, the Commission solicited public comment on whether it should broaden or narrow its focus to require compliance with all or none of the provisions of the Federal Policy or equivalent license conditions. The Commission stated that in making these comments, consideration should be given to the fact that all radiation safety provisions of 10 CFR part 35 would be made applicable to research involving human subjects. Several comments were received related to this topic. These comments and the NRC's responses are summarized below. (1) Comment. Omit all regulation of human research with radioactive material because the FDA handles this very nicely. Response. The Commission cannot omit all such regulation because it has the responsibility for ensuring adequate protection of public health and safety related to the use of byproduct material, including uses involving human research subjects. In view of the fact that this final rule would specifically permit, in certain circumstances, NRC licensees to use radioactive drugs containing byproduct material for research involving human subjects, the Commission has the responsibility to address the protection of the rights of those human subjects. At a minimum, this final rule requires NRC licensees who conduct such research to obtain the informed consent of the human research subjects and the prior review and approval of an IRB, within the meaning of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects. These requirements apply whether or not the research is conducted, funded, supported, or regulated by another federal agency which has implemented this Federal Policy or is approved by the amendment of an NRC license. However, NRC licensees whose human research is covered by the Federal Policy as adopted by another federal agency, may conduct such research without prior NRC approval. In this way, the provisions of this rule are designed to avoid duplication of the regulations of other federal agencies which have adopted the Federal Policy, including the FDA. (2) Comment. The NRC should take steps to ensure that all provisions of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects are met. Response. The basic safety objectives and ethical principles of the Federal Policy will be met by requiring licensees to obtain the informed consent of the human research subjects and prior approval by an IRB. However, some provisions of the Federal Policy are not directly applicable to the Commission's oversight of its licensees, such as the ``Use of Federal Funds,'' ``Evaluations of Proposals for Research to be Conducted or Supported by a Federal Department or Agency,'' and ``Early Termination of Research Support.'' Therefore, NRC does not need to take steps to ensure that all provisions are met. On the other hand, the proposed rule did not explicitly state that the required informed consent and IRB approval must be in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects. Therefore, a phrase ``in accordance with the meaning of these terms as defined and described in the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects'' has been added to the text of the final rule to clarify this point. There were comments concerning the addition of ``human research subjects'' in the definition of ``medical use'' and the broadening of the quality management program to include human research subjects. These comments and NRC's responses are summarized in the discussion of the definition of ``medical use'' under §35.2.
