FR940228-1-00143 FR940228-1-00010 (B) Subtract the unpaid amount of the scheduled cash payment from the amount that may be retained by the institution according to the institution's refund policy; and (iv) An institution shall return the total amount of Title IV, HEA program assistance (other than amounts received from the FWS Program) paid for institutional charges for the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged if the unpaid amount of the student's scheduled cash payment is greater than or equal to the amount that may be retained by the institution under the institution's refund policy. (3)(i) A student must repay to the institution or to the Title IV, HEA programs a portion of the overpayment as determined according to paragraph (e) of this section. The institution shall make every reasonable effort to contact the student and recover the overpayment in accordance with program regulations (34 CFR parts 673, 674, 675, 676, 690, and 691). (ii) The portion of the overpayment that the student or the institution (if the institution recovers the overpayment) shall return to the Title IV, HEA programs may not exceed the amount of assistance received under the Title IV, HEA programs other than the FWS, Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, or Federal SLS Program for the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged. (iii) Unless otherwise provided for in applicable program regulations_ (A) If the amount of the overpayment is less than $100, the student is considered not to owe an overpayment, and the institution is not required to contact the student or recover the overpayment; and (B) If the amount of the refund is $25 or less, the institution is not required to pay the refund. (g) Allocation of refunds and overpayments. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, if a student who received Title IV, HEA program assistance (other than assistance under the FWS Program) is owed a refund calculated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, or if a student who received Title IV, HEA program assistance (other than assistance under the FWS, Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, or Federal SLS Program) must repay an overpayment calculated in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, an institution shall allocate that refund and any overpayment collected from the student in the following order: (i) To eliminate outstanding balances on Federal SLS loans received by the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (ii) To eliminate outstanding balances on unsubsidized Federal Stafford loans received by the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (iii) To eliminate outstanding balances on subsidized Federal Stafford loans received by the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (iv) To eliminate outstanding balances on Federal PLUS loans received on behalf of the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (v) To eliminate outstanding balances on Federal Direct Stafford loans received by the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (vi) To eliminate outstanding balances on Federal Direct PLUS loans received on behalf of the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (vii) To eliminate outstanding balances on Federal Perkins loans received by the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (viii) To eliminate any amount of Federal Pell Grants awarded to the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (ix) To eliminate any amount of Federal SEOG Program aid awarded to the student for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (x) To eliminate any amount of other assistance awarded to the student under programs authorized by Title IV of the HEA for the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. (xi) To repay required refunds of other Federal, State, private, or institutional student financial assistance received by the student. (xii) To the student.
