FR941020-2-00063 FR941020-2-00038 Add Subchapter Subchapter S5C The Information Technology Systems Staff S5C.00␣Mission S5C.10␣Organization S5C.20␣Functions Section S5C.00␣The Information Technology Systems Staff_(Mission) The Information Technology Systems Staff (ITSS) (S5C) designs, implements and maintains automated information and communications systems DCPEA-wide and provides systems support to the Deputy Commissioner for Programs with respect to the Office Support System. Section S5C.10␣The Information Technology Systems Staff_(Organization) Information Technology Systems Staff, under the leadership of the Director of Information Technology Systems Staff, includes: A. The Director of Information Technology Systems Staff (S5C). B. The Immediate Office of the Director of Information Technology Systems Staff (S5C). Section S5C.20␣The Information Technology Systems Staff_(Functions) A. The Director of Information Technology Systems Staff (S5C) is directly responsible to the Deputy Commissioner, Policy and External Affairs (DCPEA), for carrying out ITSS's mission and provides managerial direction to the staff of ITSS. B. The Immediate Office of the Director of Information Technology Systems Staff (S5C) provides the Director with staff assistance on the full range of his/her responsibilities. 1. Designs, implements and maintains automated information and communications systems DCPEA-wide and provides systems support to the Deputy Commissioner for Programs (DCP) with respect to the Office Support System. 2. Prepares all support documentation and represents DCPEA interests with respect to Information Technology Systems (ITS) projects and procurements, including performing project officer duties on major contracts. 3. Performs contract management functions for all DCPEA computer system contracts and interagency agreements. 4. Provides end-user support to DCPEA and DCP users. Performs liaison function with vendors for servicing hardware and software. 5. Maintains inventory of computer property and performs property management function for ITS equipment and software.
