FR940425-1-00019 FR940425-1-00007 Upon completion of the 6,400-mile test, the adjusted wear rate for a candidate tire is extrapolated to the point of wearout, which is 1/16th inch of tread remaining, and the treadwear grade established. A grade of 100 represents a tire capable of achieving approximately 30,000 miles to the wearout point, as measured on the San Angelo course. A tire graded at 150 should achieve approximately 50 percent more mileage than the one graded at 100, assuming both are run on the same course and under the same conditions. It should be noted, however, that tire treadwear grades are not intended to be indicative of a tire's actual expected mileage. The tire quality grades are intended as indicators of relative, not absolute, performance. The actual mileage a tire achieves will depend on many factors, such as geographic location, individual driving habits, maintenance of proper tire pressure, load, type of road surfaces, climatic conditions, and road configurations. NHTSA has noted significant changes in treadwear ratings since the UTQGS became fully effective in 1980. Early in the UTQGS program, the treadwear grading criteria specified in ยง575.104(d)(2) produced consistent results. As the years progressed, however, treadwear ratings have drifted steadily upward in both manufacturers' and NHTSA's testing results to the point that many of the ratings appear to be questionable. For example, one brand of tires (brand A) recently tested on the San Angelo course resulted in a test grade of 832 which, when rounded off to the next lower 20-point increment as required by 49 CFR 575.104(e)(2)(ix)(F), would be labeled with a treadwear grade of 820. That figure suggests a degree of relative superiority in treadwear of brand A tires over lower tested brands that appears significantly disproportionate to the differences in the likely actual mileage of those tires. NHTSA understands that tires are of higher quality, perform better and last longer than tires produced even a few years ago. Such improvements result from industry developments such as improvements in rubber compounds, cord materials, tire designs, and tread configurations. The agency does not believe, however, that tires have improved to the point suggested by the test results for brand A, which suggests that, on the San Angelo course, the tire would last over 240,000 miles. This situation suggests either that the characteristics of the course itself are changing or that other factors as yet unidentified are responsible, or both. Course Monitoring Tires As noted above, the wear rates of tires can change on a daily basis because of such conditions as road surface, temperature, humidity, and precipitation. To compensate for those changes in conditions when conducting agency compliance testing, candidate tires are tested concurrently with course monitoring tires (CMT). Before 1991, CMTs were built to strict NHTSA specifications. Since that time, NHTSA has required that CMTs be built to the specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) standard E1136. CMTs are specially designed to have narrow limits of variability and, in fact, are assumed to be invariant among tires of a given batch, or lot. CMTs are procured by NHTSA in lots of 500&hyph;1500. Whenever a new lot is procured, a new base course wear rate (BCWR) is established for that lot. This is accomplished by treating the new CMT as a candidate tire and determining its adjusted wear rate in the same manner prescribed in ยง575.104 for candidate tires. The new CMT is tested in a convoy along with the old CMTs. A course severity adjustment factor (CSAF) is determined by dividing the BCWR for the old CMTs by the wear rate of the old CMTs in the test. The wear rate of the new CMT in the convoy is then multiplied by the CSAF to obtain the adjusted wear rate of the new CMT which then becomes the BCWR for the new CMTs. Once the BCWR for a new lot of CMTs is established, those new CMTs can then be used to grade candidate tires. Upon completion of the 6,400-mile test, the BCWR is divided by the average wear rate of the 4 new CMTs in the test convoy to determine the course severity adjustment factor. That factor is then applied to the wear rates of the candidate tires being graded in the same convoy. The adjusted wear rate of the candidate tire is then extrapolated to the point of wearout (1/16th inch tread remaining) which is then converted to the treadwear rating for that tire. NHTSA has noted over the years that significant changes have occurred in the BCWRs. Although the actual measured treadwear rates of CMTs have varied from 3.27 to 6.96 mils per 1,000 miles since 1975, the adjusted BCWRs have steadily decreased from 4.44 in 1975 to 1.56 in 1992, as shown in Table 1, as follows:
