FR940630-2-00021 FR940630-2-00020 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Office of Policy, Planning, and Program Evaluation; Guidelines for Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reductions, and Carbon Sequestration AGENCY: Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice of availability of draft sector-specific supporting document and request for comment. SUMMARY: Pursuant to Section 1605(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, the Department of Energy is developing guidelines for the voluntary reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, their reduction, and carbon fixation achieved through any measure. The data will be reported on forms to be developed by the Energy Information Administration (EIA) and entered into an EIA database. The draft technical supporting document for the voluntary reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and reductions, and of carbon sequestration, in the agriculture sector is available for public review and comment. DATES: Written comments on the draft technical supporting document for the agriculture sector (10 copies) are due on or before August 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments (10 copies) should be submitted to: U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Policy, PO&hyph;63/VRP NOA, Docket No. PO&hyph;VR&hyph;94&hyph;101, Room 4G&hyph;036, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585. A copy of the draft supporting document for the agriculture sector may be obtained by telephone request to (301) 601&hyph;8284. Persons who requested the draft guidelines through a request to this number will be mailed the agriculture document automatically, and do not need to transmit an additional request. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Elmer Holt at (202) 586&hyph;0714. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under section 1605(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct; Pub.L. 102&hyph;486), the Secretary of Energy with the Energy Information Administration is to establish a voluntary reporting system and database on emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), reductions in emissions of these gases, and carbon fixation. Draft guidelines and supporting methodologies provide guidance on the institutional and technical aspects of the voluntary program. They are provided in discrete parts, as discussed below. DOE requests comment on the draft supporting document for the agriculture sector. A complete discussion of the relevant legislative provisions and the organization of the guidelines and supporting documents is set forth in the June 1, 1994, Notice of Availability and Request for Comment on the draft guidelines and sector-specific supporting documents (59 FR 28345). The reader is referred to that notice for a discussion of the voluntary reporting program and issues in the development of the program, including those that may apply to greenhouse gas emissions and reductions and carbon sequestration in the agriculture sector. Sector-specific supporting documents for five of the six sectors were made available for comment on June 1, 1994. These are the sector-specific documents dealing with the following sectors: electricity supply, residential and commercial buildings, industrial, transportation, and forestry. At that time, DOE stated that the sector-specific supporting document for the agriculture sector would be available at a later date. The sector-specific supporting document for the agriculture sector is now available for public review and comment. Written Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments on the draft document, Agriculture Sector-Specific Issues and Reporting Methodologies Supporting the General Guidelines for the Voluntary Reporting of Greenhouse Gases under Section 1605(b) of the energy Policy Act of 1992. Ten copies should be submitted to the address indicated in the ADDRESSES section above, and must be received by the date indicated in the DATES section of this notice. All written comments received will be available for public inspection in the DOE Freedom of Information Office reading Room at the address provided at the beginning of this notice. Pursuant to provisions of 10 CFR 1004.11, any person submitting information which that person believes to be confidential information and which may be exempt from law from public disclosure, should submit one complete copy of the document as well as two copies from which the information claimed to be confidential has been deleted. DOE reserves the right to determine the confidential status of the information and to treat it according to its determination. Issued in Washington, DC on June 22, 1994. Susan F. Tierney, Assistant Secretary, Office of Policy, Planning, and Program Evaluation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15824 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
