FR940429-0-00107 FR940429-0-00012 (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;3) §667.24 Peer reviews of institutions. (a)(1) To carry out a review of a referred institution, the SPRE must contract with a nationally recognized accrediting agency or other peer review system the SPRE determines demonstrates competence in assessing educational programs. (2) In determining whether a peer review system is competent in assessing educational programs, the SPRE must, at a minimum, determine that the system has_ (i) An established basis for evaluating educational quality; (ii) Review procedures that include the selection of peer reviewers who have experience in evaluating the types of programs offered by the institution; and (iii) Established policies and procedures that guard against bias in conducting reviews of institutions. (b)(1) Under the contract described in paragraph (a) of this section, the nationally recognized accrediting agency or peer review system shall carry out a review or provide information from its previous grant of accreditation or preaccreditation or previous review to the SPRE regarding the agency's or system's assessment of the quality and content of the institution's educational programs in relation to achieving the stated objectives for which the programs were offered. (2) In making its assessment under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, for each educational program, the agency or system shall take into account the adequacy of the space, equipment, instructional materials, staff, and student support services, including student orientation and counseling provided for each program, and any other areas specified in the agency's contract with the SPRE. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;3) §667.25 Termination of an institution's participation in the title IV, HEA programs. (a)(1) If a SPRE determines that a referred institution should no longer participate in a title IV, HEA program, based upon its review, because the institution is in violation of State standards, or based upon a report or review of that institution by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or peer review system under §667.24, or has not complied with the SPRE requirements such as those listed in §667.23(g), the SPRE must provide the institution with the opportunity to contest that determination in accordance with procedures the Secretary has approved for that purpose under §667.26. (2) If the SPRE still concludes, after affording the institution the opportunity to challenge the SPRE's initial determination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, that the institution should no longer continue to participate in a title IV, HEA program, the SPRE notifies the Secretary of those findings and that determination. (b)(1) Upon notice by the SPRE that the institution should no longer participate in a title IV, HEA program, the Secretary immediately terminates that institution's participation in that program and notifies the institution, the SPRE, and the appropriate accrediting agency of the effective date of that termination. (2) If an institution's participation in a title IV, HEA program is terminated under this section_ (i) The institution may not appeal that termination to the Secretary; and (ii) The institution may not reapply to the Secretary to participate in that program until 18 months have expired from the effective date of its termination. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;3) §667.26 Due process requirements. (a) Each State shall submit to the Secretary for approval the procedures it uses to allow an institution to challenge a SPRE's finding that the institution is in violation of the State's review standards and should no longer continue to participate in a title IV, HEA program. (b) The Secretary approves a States' procedures described in paragraph (a) of this section if_ (1) The State review standards are in writing; and (2) The procedures require the SPRE to_ (i) Notify an institution of any required action and the bases for that action; (ii) Permit the institution the opportunity to challenge that adverse action before an impartial official designated by the State for this purpose, in writing or in a hearing, within a specified time; (iii) Notify the institution in writing of the result of its challenge, and the basis for that result; and (iv) Follow other applicable procedural requirements of State law. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;3)
