FR940318-1-00011 FR940318-1-00004 The FAA does not concur. While a ball valve may be reliable if properly maintained, it may still leak eventually due to seal wear or the entrapment of foreign material on the sealing surfaces. Damage to the sealing surfaces in a ball valve due to foreign materials, while uncommon, may also cause leakage at any time. If there are no maintenance actions aimed at detecting such leakage, the leakage could continue until the next leak check. An extremely long interval between leak checks, as suggested by the commenters, would allow leakage to go undetected for a long time and, thus, create conditions favorable for the eventual formation of blue ice. The FAA has determined that, by limiting the leak check interval to 1,500 flight hours, the risk of long term leakage is reduced. Ball Valve Leak Checks, Plus Maintenance and Training Programs Several commenters request that the proposed leak check intervals for drain systems incorporating a ball valve be extended to 4,000 or 6,000 flight hours, if those leak checks are coupled with a specific maintenance program as well as a program to train personnel to perform certain actions. Some of these commenters consider that incorporation of the 1,500-flight hour leak checks into the operators' FAA-approved maintenance program, as proposed in paragraph (b) of the previous NPRM, does not provide sufficient motivation for operators to incorporate ball valves into the fleet (even though the ball valves are more reliable than other types). The FAA concurs with these commenters' request. The FAA has determined that installation of a design package that includes a ball valve installed in accordance with Boeing Service Bulletin 727&hyph;38&hyph;0021, dated July 30, 1992, combined with certain maintenance actions and trained personnel (discussed in detail later) will provide adequate assurance that long term leakage will not occur. Therefore, the FAA has revised paragraph (b) of the supplemental NPRM to provide for leak check intervals up to 5,000 flight hours for applicable ball valve installations that are coupled with maintenance procedures and training of personnel. This change is specifically intended to encourage operators to use valve designs having proven reliability; the incorporation of sufficient maintenance practices and trained personnel will ensure that the inherent reliability of the design is not degraded. Shaw Aero Valves One commenter requests that the leak check intervals for drain systems with Shaw Aero valves that incorporate the inner door with second positive seal be increased from 1,000 flight hours, as proposed in paragraph (a)(2), to 1,500 or 4,000 flight hours. This commenter considers that this request is justified based on the lack of adverse service history on the subject valves. On the other hand, another commenter objects to the proposed 1,000-flight hour leak check interval for these valves, and suggests that it should be shortened. This commenter states that there are certain considerations that are critical in establishing leak check intervals based on component failure rates derived from evaluations of in-service history. Such considerations are: 1. If the ball valve is installed internally so that service personnel cannot damage it; 2. If the seals are composed of the correct material, and are not directly in the effluent path so that they cannot be damaged by items within the effluent that can normally cause seal damage; 3. If, because of the location of the ball valve, it is impractical to perform a seal replacement; 4. If the valve is leak checked on board the airplane without a seal change prior to the check;
