FR940114-0-00009 FR940114-0-00004 COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION 17 CFR Parts 1 and 5 Contract Market Rule Review Procedures AGENCY: Commodity Futures Trading Commission. ACTION: Final rules. SUMMARY: The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (``Commission'') is amending Regulation 1.41 to revise the Commission's requirements with respect to the number of copies of rule change proposals that an exchange must provide to the Commission. The Commission also is adopting amendments that would revise certain of the procedures and standards set forth in the Commission's expedited approval rules, Regulations 1.41(h) through 1.41(t), to reflect recent innovations by the exchanges as well as miscellaneous amendments to the procedural aspects of the expedited approval rules. Other proposed amendments include miscellaneous clarifying amendments to the Commission's Guideline No. 1. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 14, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard A. Shilts, Supervisory Economist, Division of Economic Analysis, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20581. Telephone: (202) 254&hyph;7303. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction Section 5a(a)(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act (``Act''), 7 U.S.C. 7a(12), provides that all rules 1 of a contract market which relate to terms and conditions 2 in futures or option contracts traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market must be submitted to the Commission for its prior approval. Section 5a(a)(12) further requires that contract markets submit all other rules to the Commission. Such other rules may be made effective ten days after Commission receipt unless, within the ten-day period, the Exchange requests Commission approval or the Commission notifies the Exchange that it intends to review the rules for approval. 1 Commission Regulation 1.41(a)(1) defines ``rule'' of a contract market as follows: *␣*␣*␣any constitutional provision, article of incorporation, bylaw, rule, regulation, resolution, interpretation, stated policy, or instrument corresponding thereto, in whatever form adopted, and any amendment or addition thereto or repeal thereof, made or issued by a contract market, or by the governing board of thereof or any committee thereof. 2 Commission Regulation 1.41(a)(2) defines ``terms and conditions'' as follows: Any definition of the trading unit or the specific commodity underlying a contract for the future delivery of a commodity or commodity option contract, specification of settlement or delivery standards and procedures, and establishment of buyers' and sellers' rights and obligations under the contract. Terms and conditions shall be deemed to include provisions relating to the following: (i) Quality or quantity standards for a commodity and any applicable exemptions or discounts; (ii) Trading hours, trading months and the listing of contracts; (iii) Minimum and maximum price limits and the establishment of settlement prices; (iv) Position limits and position reporting requirements; (v) Delivery points and locational price differentials; (vi) Delivery standards and procedures, including alternatives to delivery and applicable penalties or sanctions for failure to perform; (vii) Settlement of the contract; and (viii) Payment or collection of commodity option premiums or margins. Commission Regulation 1.41 sets forth procedures for submitting proposed exchange rules for Commission approval, permitting certain exchange rules to go into effect without Commission approval, and dealing with exchange emergency rules. All proposed exchange rules relating to the terms and conditions of a commodity futures or option contract must, and any other rule may, be submitted for prior Commission approval, under Section 5a(a)(12) of the Act, pursuant to procedures set forth in Regulation 1.41(b). Regulation 1.41(c) sets forth the submission requirements for rules that do not relate to terms and conditions and which may be placed into effect without Commission approval ten days after receipt by the Commission. Regulation 1.41(d) sets forth the submission requirements for rules that are exempt from the requirements of Section 5a(a)(12) of the Act. Regulations 1.41(h) through (t) set forth conditions under which, in lieu of submission under Regulation 1.41(b), certain types of exchange rule proposals relating to terms and conditions requiring Commission approval may be deemed approved either upon adoption by the exchange or within a specified number of days of Commission receipt, which ranges from one to ten days. 3 3 Regulations 1.41(e) and 1.41(f), respectively, set forth the submission requirements for exchange membership and contract market rules relating to temporary emergencies. These regulations are not affected by the amendments proposed in this notice.
