FR940617-0-00164 FR940617-0-00026 (2) If the Administrator determines that the change or new engine(s) meets the requirements of this subpart and the Act, the appropriate certificate of conformity is amended. (3) If the Administrator determines that the changed or new engine(s) does not meet the requirements of this subpart and the Act, the certificate of conformity will not be amended. The Administrator shall provide a written explanation to the manufacturer of the decision not to amend the certificate. The manufacturer may request a hearing on a denial. (e) A manufacturer may make changes in or additions to production engines concurrently with notifying the Administrator as required by paragraph (a) of this section, if the manufacturer complies with the following requirements: (1) In addition to the information required in paragraph (b) of this section, the manufacturer must supply supporting documentation, test data, and engineering evaluations as appropriate to demonstrate that all affected engines will still meet applicable emission standards. (2) If, after a review, the Administrator determines additional testing is required, the manufacturer must provide required test data within 30 days or cease production of the affected engines. (3) If the Administrator determines that the affected engines do not meet applicable requirements, the Administrator will notify the manufacturer to cease production of the affected engines and to recall and correct at no expense to the owner all affected engines previously produced. (4) Election to produce engines under this paragraph will be deemed to be a consent to recall all engines which the Administrator determines do not meet applicable standards and to cause such nonconformity to be remedied at no expense to the owner. ยง89.124&hyph;96 Record retention, maintenance, and submission. (a) The manufacturer of any nonroad compression-ignition engine must maintain the following adequately organized records: (1) Copies of all applications filed with the Administrator. (2) A detailed history of each test engine used for certification including the following: (i) A description of the test engine's construction, including a general description of the origin and buildup of the engine, steps taken to ensure that it is representative of production engines, description of components specially built for the test engine, and the origin and description of all emission-related components; (ii) A description of the method used for service accumulation, including date(s) and the number of hours accumulated;
