FR940105-2-00035 FR940105-2-00017 Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist In the Matter of RUSSELL J. OSBORN, a/k/a Russell J. Osborne and Russell J. Osbourne, individually, trading and doing business as THE HAIRBOW COMPANY, and as an officer of Rainbow Productions, Inc., and RAINBOW PRODUCTIONS, INC., a corporation. The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of Russell J. Osborn, a/k/a Russell J. Osborne and Russell J. Osbourne (hereafter ``Russell J. Osborn''), individually, trading and doing business as The Hairbow Company, and as an officer of Rainbow Productions, Inc., and Rainbow Productions, Inc., a corporation (``proposed respondents'' or ``respondents''), and it now appearing that proposed respondents are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed by and between Russell Osborn, individually, trading and doing business as The Hairbow Company, and as an officer of Rainbow Productions, Inc., and Rainbow Productions, Inc., a corporation, and their attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Respondent The Hairbow Company is an unincorporated association, with its principal office and place of business located at 19 Front Street, Danville, California 94526. Respondent Rainbow Productions, Inc., is a corporation, organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California, with its principal office and place of business located at 19 Front Street, Danville, California 94526. Respondent Russell Osborn is an individual, is the owner of The Hairbow Company, and is the owner and president of Rainbow Productions, Inc. Individually or in concert with others, he formulates, directs and controls the policies, acts and practices of The Hairbow Company and Rainbow Productions, Inc. His address is 19 Front Street, Danville, California 94526. 2. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft complaint here attached. 3. Proposed respondents waive: a. Any further procedural steps; b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law;
