FR940202-2-00106 FR940202-2-00071 Condensate formation can be eliminated by using a heat-moisture exchanger (HME) or a hygroscopic condenser humidifier (``artificial nose''). 265,270 An HME recycles heat and moisture exhaled by the patient, and eliminates the need for a humidifier. In the absence of a humidifier, no condensate forms in the inspiratory-phase tubing of the ventilator circuit. Thus, bacterial colonization of the tubing is prevented, and the need to routinely change tubings periodically is obviated. Some models of HMEs are equipped with bacterial filters, but the advantage of these filters remains unknown. HMEs can increase the dead space and resistance to breathing, may leak around the endotracheal tube, and may result in drying of sputum and blockage of the tracheo-bronchial tree. 271 Although recently developed HMEs with humidifiers increase airway humidity without increasing colonization with bacteria, 267,272 more studies are needed to determine whether the incidence of pneumonia is decreased. 273&hyph;276 3. Large-Volume Nebulizers Nebulizers with large-volume (>500 cc) reservoirs, including those used in intermittent positive-pressure breathing (IPPB) machines and ultrasonic or spinning-disk room-air ``humidifiers,'' pose the greatest risk of pneumonia to patients, probably because of the total amount of aerosol they generate.222,225,227,236,277 These reservoirs can become contaminated by hands of personnel, unsterile humidification fluid, or inadequate sterilization or disinfection between uses.119 Once introduced into the reservoir, various bacteria, including Legionella spp., can multiply to sufficiently large numbers within 24 hours to pose a risk of infection in patients who receive inhalation therapy. 121,122,227,237,277 Sterilization or high-level disinfection of these nebulizers can eliminate vegetative bacteria from their reservoirs and make them safe for patient use.240 Unlike nebulizers attached to IPPB machines, however, room-air ``humidifiers'' have a high cost-benefit ratio: evidence of clinical benefits from their use in hospitals is lacking, and the potential cost of daily sterilization or disinfection of, and use of sterile water to fill, such devices is substantial. 4. Small-Volume Medication Nebulizers Small-volume medication nebulizers for administration of bronchodilators, including those that are hand-held and those that are in the inspiratory circuit of mechanical ventilators, can produce bacterial aerosols.228 Hand-held nebulizers have rarely been associated with nosocomial pneumonia, and only when contaminated by medications from multidose vials.278 Medication nebulizers inserted in the ventilator circuit (``in-line'') may become contaminated by condensate in the inspiratory tubing and increase the patient's risk of pneumonia because the nebulizer aerosol is directed through the endotracheal tube and bypasses many of the normal host defenses against infection.260 5. Suction Catheters, Resuscitation Bags, Oxygen Analyzers, and Ventilator Spirometers Tracheal suction catheters can introduce microorganisms into a patient's lower respiratory tract. Preliminary studies suggest that the risk of pneumonia is not different between patients on whom the single-use suction method is used and those on whom the newly developed closed multi-use catheter system is used.279 In addition, the advantages of using one system over the other, in terms of oxygen desaturation in patients and less environmental contamination, have not been clearly shown. 280&hyph;282 Resuscitation bags are particularly difficult to clean and dry between uses; microorganisms in secretions or fluid left in the bag may be aerosolized and/or sprayed into the lower respiratory tract of the patient on whom the bag is used; in addition, contaminating microorganisms may be transmitted from one patient to another via hands of staff members.283&hyph;285 Oxygen analyzers and ventilator spirometers have been associated with outbreaks of gram-negative respiratory tract colonization and pneumonia resulting from patient-to-patient transmission of organisms via hands of personnel. 220,286 These devices require sterilization or high-level disinfection between uses on different patients. Education of physicians, respiratory therapists, and nursing staff regarding the associated risks and appropriate care of these devices is essential. F. Thoraco-Abdominal Surgical Procedures Certain patients are at high risk of developing postoperative pulmonary complications, including pneumonia. These persons include those who are more than 70 years of age, are obese, or have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 287&hyph;290 Abnormal pulmonary function tests (especially decreased maximum expiration flow rate), a history of smoking, the presence of tracheostomy or prolonged intubation, or protein depletion that can cause respiratory-muscle weakness are also risk factors. 59,65,129 Patients who undergo surgery of the head, neck, thorax, or abdomen may suffer from impairment of normal swallowing and respiratory clearance mechanisms as a result of instrumentation of the respiratory tract, anesthesia, or increased use of narcotics and sedatives; 288,291,292 patients who undergo upper abdominal surgery usually suffer from diaphragmatic dysfunction that results in decreased functional residual capacity of the lungs, closure of airways, and atelectasis. 293,294 Interventions aimed at reducing the postoperative patient's risk of pneumonia have been developed.295 These include deep breathing exercises, chest physiotherapy, use of incentive spirometry, IPPB, and continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) by face mask. 295&hyph;305 Studies evaluating the relative efficacy of these modalities have shown variable results, and have been difficult to compare because of differences in outcome variables assessed, patient populations studied, and study design. 295,297,298,304&hyph;307 Nevertheless, many studies have found deep breathing exercises, chest physiotherapy, use of incentive spirometry, and IPPB as advantageous maneuvers, especially in patients with preoperative pulmonary dysfunction. 298,299,301,302,304&hyph;306 In addition, control of pain that interferes with cough and deep breathing during the immediate postoperative period has been shown to decrease the incidence of pulmonary complications after surgery; several methods of controlling pain have been used; these include intramuscular or intravenous (including patient-controlled) administration, or regional (e.g., epidural) analgesia. 308&hyph;315
