FR940323-1-00038 FR940323-1-00005 19. A new §435.615 is added to subpart G to read as follows: §435.615 Income and resource standards and methodologies: Aged and disabled individuals with incomes at or below Federal poverty income guidelines. (a) General rule. If the agency provides Medicaid to aged and disabled individuals under §435.238, it must determine financial eligibility in accordance with the requirements of this section. (b) Establishing the income standard. (1) The agency must establish and apply an income standard at a level that does not exceed 100 percent of the Federal poverty income guidelines applicable to a family of the size involved. (2) For purposes of this section, ``family of the size involved'' is based on the SSI concept of eligibility for an individual as an individual or as part of a couple. If two individuals in a family are married and eligible under section 1902(m), their income will be compared to the Federal poverty income level for a family of two. In all other situations, eligibility will be determined on an individual basis, using the poverty level for one, with deeming of income as appropriate (under SSI deeming rules that do not conflict with title XIX of the Act). (c) Establishing the resource standard. The agency must establish and apply a resource standard that is either_ (1) The SSI resource standard; or (2) If the State has a medically needy program that uses a higher resource standard, at State option, the resource standard applied to the medically needy. (d) Methodologies for determining income and resources. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) (2) through (4) of this section, in determining financial eligibility, the agency must use the income and resource methodologies applied under SSI, or it may instead use any less restrictive income and resource methodologies than SSI as specified in the approved State plan in accordance with §435.601. (2) The agency may not deduct from income the costs incurred for medical care or any other type of remedial care in order to reduce the individual's income to the established income standard, except as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. (3) For severely disabled individuals who work, the agency may deduct the reasonable costs for attendant care services, medical devices, equipment, prostheses, and similar items and services (generally not including routine drugs or routine medical services) that are necessary in order for the individual to work. (4) In determining the financial responsibility of relatives, the State must use the requirements of §435.602. (5) In determining eligibility under this section for an individual entitled to monthly social security cash benefits, Title II COLA increases must be disregarded from December of each year through the month after the month in which the Federal poverty guideline for the next year is published. During that period, the poverty level for the previous year will be used for these individuals. (e) State plan requirement. The State plan must specify the income standard and the resource standard by the family size involved. 20. The heading of subpart J and §435.907 are revised to read as follows: Subpart J_Eligibility in the States, the District of Columbia, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa §435.907 Written application. (a) The agency must require a written application from the applicant, an authorized representative, or, if the applicant is incompetent or incapacitated, someone acting responsibly for the applicant. (b) The application must be on a form prescribed by the agency and signed under a penalty of perjury.
