FR940426-2-00098 FR940426-2-00063 [Release No. 34&hyph;33928; File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;8] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Amendments to its Listing Fee Schedule for Listed Companies April 19, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on March 8, 1994, the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc. (``PSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The PSE is proposing to make certain changes to its Listing Fee Schedule for listed companies. The Fee Schedule is proposed to be amended as follows: 1 1 With respect to the following schedule, italicizing indicates new material and brackets indicate material to be deleted. ␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ Original Listings: Common Stock, Dual Listing $10,000.00 Common Stock, Exclusive Listing 20,000.00 Processing Fee: Per Original Listing Application 1500.00 [250.00] Annual Maintenance Fee: For one issue, Dual listing 1,000.00 For one issue, Exclusive listing 2,000.00 1This is a fixed charge for the review of potential listings and is not refundable. Issues approved by the Equity Listing Committee may have this charge credited towards the original listing fee. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the fee increase and discussed any comments it received on the fee increase. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The Exchange has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (1) Purpose The exchange is proposing to amend its fees for listed companies. Specifically, the Exchange is proposing, first, to increase its original listing fee for the common stock of exclusively listed companies from $10,000 to $20,000. Second, the Exchange is proposing to increase its initial processing fee, applicable to all original listing applications, from $250 to $500. Third, the Exchange is proposing to increase its annual maintenance fee for exclusively listed companies from $1,000 to $2,000. The Exchange is proposing these changes in order to offset rising costs associated with maintaining listing services and related overhead expenses. (2) Statutory Basis The Exchange believes that the proposed fee increases are consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(4) in particular in that they are intended to assure the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees, and other charges among members, issuers, and other persons using the Exchange's facilities. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or others. No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the fee increase. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved.
