FR940513-2-00048 FR940513-2-00031 Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: STORAGE: Information stored electronically. Retrievability: Electronically retrievable by name, social security number, and other identifiers such as sex, geographic location, occupational series, etc. Safeguards: Records are kept in a secure area with access limited to those whose official duties require access. Retention and disposal: In accordance with National Archives and Records Administration General Records Schedule requirements. System manager(s) and addresses: Chief Operating Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Notification procedure: All inquiries about this system of records shall be addressed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Record access procedures: Requests for access to a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.3. Contesting record procedures: Requests for amendments of a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.7. Record source categories: Information in this system of records either comes from the individual to whom it applies or comes from information supplied by agency officials. FCSIC&hyph;2 System name: Employee Reports of Financial Interests and Employment_FCSIC. System location: These records are located at the Farm Credit Administration with copies at the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Current and former Corporation employees. Categories of records in the system: ``Public Financial Disclosure Report'' and ``Confidential Statement of Employment and Financial Interests'' required of certain employees. Contains statement of financial interests of the employee and of members of his or her immediate household as well as any other statements or memorandums concerning other employment or financial interests of the Corporation employee. Authority for maintenance of the system: Executive Order 12674, as amended by Executive Order 12731, and 5 U.S.C. App. 201, 205. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information in this record system may be used by authorized personnel for ascertaining conflicts or apparent conflicts of interest, recommending or taking appropriate action, monitoring the agency's ethics program. (1) In the event that information in this record system indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal, or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule, or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, local, or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant thereto. (2) Information in this record system may be disclosed as a routine use to a Federal, State, or local agency maintaining civil, criminal, or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to a decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a grant or other benefit. (3) Information in this record system may be disclosed to a Federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant, or other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. (4) Disclosure may be made to a congressional office from the record of an individual in response to an inquiry from the congressional office made at the request of that individual. (5) It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice or to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear, when (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or
