FR940927-0-00084 FR940927-0-00012 The Secretary hereby certifies that the proposed regulatory amendments will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities as they are defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612. These changes will not result in any major new administrative or procedural burdens on lenders or other program participants. They simply revise the criteria established by VA in determining whether home loans for veterans will be guaranteed by VA based on the veteran's income and credit history. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program numbers are 64.114 and 64.119. List of Subjects in 38 CFR Part 36 Condominiums, Handicapped, Housing Loan program_housing and community development, Manufactured homes, Veterans. These amendments are made final under the authority granted the Secretary by section 501(a) of title 38, United States Code. Approved: August 15, 1994. Jesse Brown, Secretary for Veterans Affairs. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 38 CFR part 36, is amended as set forth below. PART 36_LOAN GUARANTY 1. The authority citation for part 36 §§36.4300 through 36.4375 is revised to read as follows: Authority: Sections 36.4300 through 36.4375 issued under 38 U.S.C. 501(a). 2. Section 36.4337 is revised to read as follows: §36.4337 Underwriting standards, processing procedures, lender responsibility and lender certification (a) Use of standards. Except for refinancing loans guaranteed pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(8), the standards contained in paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section will be used to determine that the veteran's present and anticipated income and expenses, and credit history are satisfactory. (b) Waiver of standards. Use of the standards in paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section for underwriting home loans will be waived only in extraordinary circumstances when the Secretary determines, considering the totality of circumstances, that the veteran is a satisfactory credit risk. (c) Methods. The two primary underwriting tools that will be used in determining the adequacy of the veteran's present and anticipated income are debt-to-income ratio and residual income analysis. They are described in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section. Ordinarily, to qualify for a loan, the veteran must meet both standards. Failure to meet one standard, however, will not automatically disqualify a veteran. The following shall apply to cases where a veteran does not meet both standards: (1) If the debt-to-income ratio is 41 percent or less, and the veteran does not meet the residual income standard, the loan may be approved with justification, by the underwriter's supervisor, as set out in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. (2) If the debt-to-income ratio is greater than 41 percent, (unless it is larger due solely to the existence of tax-free income which should be noted in the loan file) the loan may be approved with justification, by the underwriter's supervisor, as set out in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. (3) If the ratio is greater than 41 percent and the residual income exceeds the guidelines by at least 20 percent the second level review and statement of justification is not required. (4) In any case described by paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, the lender must fully justify the decision to approve the loan or submit the loan to the Secretary for prior approval in writing. The lender's statement must not be perfunctory, but should address the specific compensating factors, as set forth in paragraph (c)(5), justifying the approval or submission of the loan. The statement must be signed by the underwriter's supervisor. It must be stressed that the statute requires not only consideration of a veteran's present and anticipated income and expenses, but also that the veteran be a satisfactory credit risk. Therefore, meeting both the debt-to-income ratio and residual income standards does not mean the loan is automatically approved. It is the lender's responsibility to base the loan approval or disapproval on all the factors present for any individual veteran. The veteran's credit must be evaluated based on criteria set forth in paragraph (g) of this section as well as a variety of compensating factors that should be evaluated. (5) The following are examples of acceptable compensating factors to be considered in the course of underwriting a loan: (i) Excellent long-term credit; (ii) Conservative use of consumer credit; (iii) Minimal consumer debt; (iv) Long-term employment;
