FR940725-0-00076 FR940725-0-00011 EPA Response West Virginia did not comment on EPA's proposed action or its underlying rationale, so no response is necessary. EPA intends to provide technical guidance to West Virginia to assist in the submittal of a fully approvable SIP revision. 2. EPA received comments from WPS dated February 4, 1994. WPS commented on and disputed deficiencies identified by EPA in the NPR. WPS also provided its own air quality analysis. WPS's comments are summarized and responses are provided below. a. Coke Oven Emissions WPS Comment. WPS agrees that the coke oven emissions estimations are in error and provided revised estimates attributed to the West Virginia Office of Air Quality. EPA Response. As described above, EPA intends to provide technical guidance to West Virginia to assist in the submittal of a fully approvable SIP revision. b. Intermediate Terrain 1 1 ``Intermediate terrain'' is a term used to describe terrain with an elevation between stack height and plume height. It is a subset of complex terrain and is defined separately for each stack. WPS Comment. WPS comments that at the time of the West Virginia SIP submittal, there was no single, EPA-approved model applicable to intermediate terrain; that its consultant had developed a post-processor to combine the results of simple and complex terrain models; and that EPA had approved the use of this post-processor in two permit applications in West Virginia in 1988. WPS continues to comment that its submittals to West Virginia and Ohio were consistent with EPA's intermediate terrain policy, including, in 1991, an analysis employing a model that integrates simple and complex terrain models. Finally, WPS comments that the deficiency relating to intermediate terrain is not identified in EPA's August 3, 1993 notice of proposed rulemaking for the Ohio PM&hyph;10 SIP (58 FR 41218). EPA Response. West Virginia's attainment demonstration did not address intermediate terrain as required by the Guideline on Air Quality Models as revised in 1986 (EPA&hyph;450/2&hyph;78&hyph;027R) 2 and clarified in 1989. 3 WPS's comments do not dispute this fact. The consultant's post-processor and integrated model were two of several approaches available at the time to implement EPA's intermediate terrain policy. (See, for example, EPA's widely available post-processor, POSTIT). The development of these techniques by WPS or its consultant does not alter the fact that no such analysis was included in the West Virginia SIP submittal. Therefore, this comment does not affect today's action or its underlying rationale. 2 This document has subsequently been revised (Supplement B) and incorporated into federal regulations at 40 CFR part 51 appendix W. 3 June 8, 1989 memorandum from Joseph Tikvart to Alan Cimorelli. As matter of clarification, EPA's August 3, 1993 notice for Ohio affected the regulation of PM&hyph;10 emissions state-wide. 4 Today's action applies only to the West Virginia SIP. Because of the broader scope of that notice, some issues that were presented in the NPR for the Follansbee, West Virginia nonattainment area were relegated to the technical support document 5 in EPA's rulemaking on the Ohio SIP. The NPR for the Ohio SIP clearly referred interested readers to the TSD for further information regarding EPA's underlying rationale for that notice, generally, and the deficiencies in Ohio's attainment demonstration, specifically. That TSD clearly articulated EPA's concern over Ohio's lack of an intermediate terrain analysis and other deficiencies in Ohio's November 4, 1991 and January 8, 1992 SIP submittals. 4 West Virginia and Ohio collaborated on parts of the attainment demonstration, but each submittal stands alone. 5 Memorandum from John Summerhays and Randall Robinson to ``Files'' dated November 17, 1992. c. The Use of RAM WPS Comment. WPS commented that the use of RAM was discussed with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA) before the West Virginia SIP was submitted. WPS also comments that this deficiency was not articulated in EPA's NPR for the Ohio PM&hyph;10 SIP referenced above (58 FR 41218).
