FR940110-1-00014 FR940110-1-00001 (2) The difference between the LTA's maximum payment limitation and the ACP cost-share assistance previously earned during the contract period. §701.118 Completion of practices. Cost-share assistance for the practices contained in this part is conditioned upon the performance of the practice according to all applicable specifications and program provisions. §701.119 Time of filing payment application. Payment of cost-share assistance will be made only upon application submitted on the prescribed form to the county office by a date established by the COC. Any application for payment may be denied if any form or information required of the applicant is not submitted to the county office within the applicable time limit. §701.120 Water Quality Incentive Projects. (a) The WQIP administered through the ACP provides both financial and technical assistance to achieve the source reduction of pollutants in an environmentally and economically sound manner in order to assist in compliance with State and Federal environmental laws to enhance the environment. (b) Other provisions as contained in subpart A and this subpart apply to WQIP. (c) Any representative of USDA, or designee thereof, shall have the right of access to land which is the subject of a WQIP application, or land which is under a WQIP agreement; and shall have the right to examine records, with respect to crop management systems, use of agricultural inputs, recordkeeping, land use decisions, resource inventory, and impacts on water quality for the purpose of determining whether there is compliance with the terms and conditions of the WQIP agreement. (d) A participant may, in addition to any payment earned under WQIP, receive other financial assistance, rental payments, or tax benefits from a State or subdivision of such State for enrolling lands in WQIP. (e) Eligible land areas must be: (1) Wellhead areas included by the Secretary or designee in consultation with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the State agency responsible for the State's operations under the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300 h-7); (2) Critical nonpoint agricultural areas identified in Clean Water Act 319 plans; (3) Karst topography areas with sinkholes; (4) Agricultural nonpoint source areas that may adversely impact threatened or endangered species habitat; (5) Areas recommended by State environmental agencies and approved by the Secretary; (6) Areas recommended by EPA and DOI in consultation with the Secretary; (7) Lands not located within approved or designated areas but that are in proximity and if allowed to continue to operate under the existing management practices would defeat the purpose of the program; and (8) Areas contributing to identified water quality problems in Secretarial designated areas. (f) WQIP agreements shall be administered through long-term agreements. These agreements shall be a minimum of three (3) years to a maximum of five (5) years in duration as determined by the Deputy Administrator. (g) The applicant, in consultation with the SCS or other designated technical agency, shall develop a Water Quality Resource Management Plan which will: (1) Include an assessment of the resources and management measures needed to achieve the source reduction of agricultural pollutants; (2) Cover the entire tract or tracts owned or operated by the applicant within the WQIP area; (3) Be reviewed and approved by SCS; (4) Be reviewed and approved by the local Conservation District; and (5) Be consistent with conservation compliance goals. (h) Technical assistance will be provided by the SCS as the lead agency with assistance from the Cooperative Extension Service, Agricultural Research Service, and other Federal agencies and private consultants as deemed necessary by the Secretary. §§701.121&hyph;701.199 [Reserved] Subpart C_Emergency Conservation Program §701.200 Program objective. The objective of the ECP is to cost share with eligible persons to rehabilitate farmlands damaged by wind and water erosion, floods, hurricanes, or other natural disasters and to provide water conservation or water enhancement measures during periods of severe drought. §701.201 Program availability. (a) The COC may implement the program subject to the availability of funds where new conservation problems have been created on farmland by a natural disaster or wind erosion which if not treated will: (1) Impair or endanger the land; (2) Materially affect the productive capacity of the land; (3) Represent damage which is unusual in character and except for wind erosion shall not be the type that would recur frequently in the same area; and (4) Be so costly to rehabilitate that Federal assistance is or will be required to return the land to productive agricultural use. (b) Subject to the availability of funds, the COC with the concurrence of the STC and approval of the Deputy Administrator may implement the program to carry out emergency water conservation and water enhancement measures during periods of severe drought. (c) Land normally used for farming or ranching which is protected by levees or dikes is eligible for enrollment in the ECP, except as follows: (1) Land adjacent to water impoundment reservoirs subject to inundation when the reservoir is filled to capacity; (2) Land that is subject to frequent damage which is any of the following: (i) Land has been severely damaged 3 or more times in the last 25 years, including the current disaster. Also land protected by levees or dikes that have physically failed and severely damaged adjoining land 3 or more times in the last 25 years, including the current disaster. (ii) Land that is susceptible to severe damage because of its location, regardless of whether it has been severely damaged in the last 25 years.
