FR940819-1-00032 FR940819-1-00010 Departmental review of the request will consist of (1) determining if the activities are, in fact, necessary, and (2) evaluating whether the estimated cost is reasonable for the activities to be conducted. We are also proposing to make technical changes throughout 45 CFR part 212 to update references to the office's designation and the agency official's title. Regulatory Procedures Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act (Public Law 96&hyph;354) requires the Federal Government to anticipate and reduce the impact of regulations and paperwork requirements on small entities. The primary impact of this rule is on State governments. Therefore, we certify that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because it would simply require agencies to obtain advance approval from the Administration for Children and Families before incurring administrative costs in developing implementation plans for the repatriation of groups of eligible individuals. Thus, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. Executive Order 12866 Executive Order 12866 requires that regulations be reviewed to ensure that they are consistent with the priorities and principles set forth in the Executive Order. The Department determined that this rule is consistent with these priorities and principles. An assessment of the costs and benefits of available regulatory alternatives (including not regulating) demonstrated that the approach taken in the regulation is the most cost-effective and least burdensome while still achieving the regulatory objectives. Paperwork Reduction Act This proposed amendment would require States to submit information regarding their activities and estimated costs for Departmental approval prior to the incurring of administrative expenses for planning and implementing group/emergency repatriation procedures. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) clearance under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. chapter 35) has been requested. (Catalogue of Federal Domestic Assistance Program No. 93.579, U.S. Repatriate Program) List of Subjects in 45 CFR Part 212 Administrative cost, Repatriation, Reporting and recordkeeping Requirements, Social Security Act, U.S. Repatriate Program. Dated: June 23, 1994. Mary Jo Bane, Assistant Secretary for Children and Families. Approved: August 5, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services.
