FR941011-2-00045 FR941011-2-00015 [Docket No. RP94&hyph;419&hyph;000] East Tennessee Natural Gas Company; Notice of Proposed Changes in FERC Gas Tariff October 4, 1994. Take notice that on September 30, 1994, East Tennessee Natural Gas Company (East Tennessee), tendered for filing as part of its FERC Gas Tariff, Second Revised Volume No. 1, First Revised Sheets Nos. 50 through 57. East Tennessee states that the purpose of this filing is to allow East Tennessee to provide an alternative no-notice service to its shippers on a trial basis from November 1, 1994 through October 31, 1995. East Tennessee requests an effective date for the above-referenced sheets of November 1, 1994. East Tennessee states that the above-referenced tariff sheets represent East Tennessee's LMS&hyph;MA Rate Schedule, which is used to provide balancing and no-notice service (DDS) to delivery point operators (Balancing Parties) on the East Tennessee system. East Tennessee states that its customers have requested that it provide an alternative no-notice service that allows customers to use their FS Storage and firm transportation on Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company (Tennessee) for balancing purposes. East Tennessee states that its proposed alternative no-notice service will meet this need. Under the proposed revisions to the LMS&hyph;MA Rate Schedule, East Tennessee states that a Balancing Party has two choices with respect to no-notice service. The Balancing Party may elect to use the currently authorized no-notice service (DDS Option) or, if the Balancing Party has access to Tennessee's firm storage and transportation, the Balancing Party may release such storage and associated transportation to East Tennessee, and elect the newly proposed Storage Swing Option. Under the Storage Swing Option, East Tennessee will use the Balancing Party's Tennessee storage and transportation to provide no-notice service. Any variance between the quantity of gas scheduled for delivery at the Balancing Party's Delivery Point(s) and the actual quantity delivered Daily Variance), shall be treated as an automatic injection into or withdrawal out of storage. East Tennessee will operate the storage contracts in such a manner that a Balancing Party electing the Storage Swing Option can deviate from scheduled quantities by up to the Maximum Daily Withdrawal Quantity assigned without incurring any Daily Variance Charges or imbalances under the LMS&hyph;MA Rate Schedule. East Tennessee states that it will not charge any administrative fee for this service but rather will bill the Balancing Party that elects the Storage Swing Option the applicable rates under the Tennessee Agreements for storage and transportation services, plus any applicable charges for firm transportation provided by East Tennessee, just as if the Balancing Party had actually made the nominations for the storage service in advance. East Tennessee requests that the revisions to the LMS&hyph;MA Rate Schedule that provide for the Storage Swing Option remain in effect on a trial basis only until October 31, 1995. After one year of offering the Storage Swing Option, East Tennessee shall have the option of continuing the storage swing option as currently proposed, revising and enhancing the service to better meet customer needs, or discontinuing the Storage Swing Option if it proves unduly burdensome to administer. East Tennessee and Tennessee request that the Commission grant all waivers its deems necessary for acceptance of this filing. East Tennessee certifies that a copy of this cover letter has been mailed to all affected customers and state regulatory commissions as shown on the service list. Any person desiring to be heard or to make any protest with reference to said filing should file a petition to intervene or protest with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426, in accordance with Sections 211 and 214 of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 CFR 385.211 and 385.214. All such petitions or protests should be filed on or before October 12, 1994. Protests will be considered by the Commission in determining the appropriate action to be taken, but will not serve to make protestants parties to this proceeding. Any person wishing to become a party must file a petition to intervene. Copies of this filing are on file and available for public inspection. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24972 Filed 10&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
