FR940414-2-00110 FR940414-2-00076 6. Only a small proportion of the Morgan Stanley Group's employees qualify as Eligible Employees. The Eligible Employees are experienced professionals in the investment banking, merchant banking, or securities business, or in administrative, financial, accounting, or operational activities related thereto. No Eligible Employee will be required to invest in the Partnership. 7. The management and control of the Partnership, including all investment decisions, is vested exclusively in the General Partner. The management and control of the General Partner, in turn, is vested exclusively in MSVC II. The business and affairs of MSVC II is managed by or under the direction of its board of directors (the ``Board''). Thus, the Board indirectly manages and controls the Partnership. The Board will, among other things, act as the investment committee of the Partnership responsible for approving all investment and valuation decisions. Actions by the Board require the vote of a majority of its members. The Board is comprised exclusively of directors and senior officers of the Morgan Stanley Group, each of whom qualifies as an Eligible Employee. Members of the Board who are not partners of the General Partner have indicated their intention to participate in the Partnership on the same terms as other Eligible Employees. 8. The day-to-day affairs of the Partnership will be managed by certain individuals who are general and limited partners of the General Partner. These individuals have primary responsibility for identifying, investigating, structuring, and monitoring Partnership investments, and making recommendations with respect to investment decisions to the Board. All such individuals qualify as Eligible Employees and are officers of the Morgan Stanley Group. 9. The Partnership has obtained subscriptions from a number of Eligible Employees to acquire limited partnership interests in the Partnership; however, such Eligible Employees have not yet been admitted to the Partnership. In connection with the subscriptions, each Eligible Employee has deposited an amount equal to 10% of such Eligible Employee's capital commitment in a segregated interest-bearing account established by MS&Co. (the ``Segregated Account''). Funds held in the Segregated Account on behalf of an Eligible Employee (including interest) will be returned to such person if admission to the Partnership does not occur before June 30, 1994, or if the Eligible Employee's subscription for a limited partnership interest is rejected by the General Partner for any reason. 10. Upon the occurrence of certain events (including receipt by the Partnership of the requested order), the Eligible Employees will be admitted to the Partnership as limited partners (the ``Limited Partners''), and all amounts held in the Segregated Account (including interest on the deposited amounts) will be paid over to the Partnership. Simultaneously with the occurrence of these events, the limited partnership interest held by MSVC II will be redeemed by the Partnership in full and MSVC II will receive from the Partnership an amount equal to the sum of (a) the balance of MSVC II's capital account in the Partnership; (b) the expenses and management fee previously charged against MSVC II's capital account; and (c) interest on MSVC II's capital contributions to the Partnership calculated at an annual rate of 3% from the date each such capital contribution was made. Upon their admission into the Partnership, the Eligible Employees will be treated for all purposes (including without limitation the allocation of Partnership profits and losses) as it they had been Limited Partners from the initial formation of the Partnership. The date on which Eligible Employees are initially admitted to the Partnership is hereinafter referred to as the ``Initial Closing.'' 11. The Board, through the General Partner, will determine in its sole discretion the amount and timing of capital contributions to be made by the General Partner and the Limited Partners to the Partnership, subject to certain maximum amounts that may be required during specified periods. Capital contributions will fund Partnership investments and the payment of Partnership expenses. The capital contribution of each Partner, including the General Partner, will be applied towards the Partner's pro rata share of each Partnership investment and each Partnership expense. 12. The maximum amount of capital contributions that a Limited Partner may be required to make during the life of the Partnership will be limited to the Limited Partner's capital commitment. The minimum capital commitment of each Limited Partner will be $100,000, subject to waiver by the General Partner in its sole discretion. The General Partner will be authorized to cause the Partnership to raise additional capital after the Initial Closing by admitting, at one or more additional closings held not later than June 30, 1994, additional Eligible Employees as Limited Partners. An additional Limited Partner will be required, at the time of admission to the Partnership, to make a capital contribution and to pay an interest charge to the Partnership as if such Limited Partner had been admitted to the Partnership at the Initial Closing and the Partnership had made a loan to such Limited Partner for any capital contribution required during the period from the Initial Closing to the admission date. Such interest charge will be allocated to the capital accounts of the Partners who had been previously admitted to the Partnership. 13. The General Partner has made a capital commitment to the Partnership equal to at least 1% of the Partnership's aggregate capital commitments. The partners of the General Partner are obligated to make capital contributions to the General Partner as and when the General Partner is required to make capital contributions to the Partnership. 14. The General Partner serves as the sole general partner of one MS Venture Capital Fund and a co-general partner (with responsibility for investment decisions) of the other MS Venture Capital Fund. The management and control of the MS Venture Capital Funds are vested exclusively in the General Partner, in its capacity as the general partner of such Funds. Thus, as in the case of the Partnership, the Board indirectly manages and controls the MS Venture Capital Funds, and the individual general and limited partners of the General Partner manage the day-to-day affairs of the MS Venture Capital Funds.
