FR940328-2-00083 FR940328-2-00051 The Exchange's proposed policy would prevent unintended results by continuing a pilot program, established in 1992, for stopped market orders in minimum variation markets. 9 Specifically, the pilot program would require the execution of stopped market orders in minimum variation markets after a transaction takes place on the primary market at the stopped price or worse (higher for buy orders and lower for sell orders), or after the applicable Exchange share volume is exhausted. In no event would a stopped order be executed at a price inferior to the stopped price. 10 In the Exchange's view, the proposed policy would continue to benefit customers because they might receive a better price than the stop price, yet it also protects Exchange specialists by eliminating their exposure to executing potentially large amounts of pre-existing bids or offers when such executions would otherwise not be required under Exchange rules. 9 See 1992 Approval Order, supra , note 4. 10 Exchange Rule 28 (Article XX) states: An agreement by a member or member organization to ``stop'' securities at a specified price shall constitute a guarantee of the purchase or sale by him or it of the securities at the price or its equivalent in the amount specified. If an order is executed at a less favorable price than that agreed upon, the member or member organization which agreed to stop the securities shall be liable for an adjustment of the differences between the two prices. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b) (5) in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange believes that no burdens will be placed on competition as a result of the proposed rule change. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others No comments were received. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CHX. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;93&hyph;30 and should be submitted by April 18, 1994. IV. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange and, in particular, with section 6(b) (5) 11 and Section 11(b) 12 of the Act. The Commission believes that proposed interpretation and policy .03 to Rule 37 should further the objectives of section 6(b) (5) and section 11(b) through pilot program procedures designed to allow stops, in minimum variation markets, under limited circumstances that offer primary market price protection for customers whose orders are granted stops, while still adhering to traditional auction market rules of priority and precedence. 13 11 15 U.S.C. 78f (1998). 12 15 U.S.C. 78k (1998). 13 For a description of CHX procedures for stopping stock in minimum variation markets, and of the Commission's rationale for approving those procedures on a pilot basis, see 1992 Approval Order, supra , note 4. The discussion in the aforementioned order is incorporated by reference into this order.
