FR941031-1-00007 FR941031-1-00002 Finally, the proposed regulation would also define ``System banks and associations'' to include Farm Credit Banks (FCBs), Agricultural Credit Banks (ACBs), banks for cooperatives (BCs), production credit associations (PCAs), agricultural credit associations (ACAs), Federal land bank associations (FLBAs), and Federal land credit associations (FLCAs). The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation and the Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation would not be included because these and other similar Farm Credit institutions are not authorized to provide related services. Although service corporations are not included within the term ``System banks and associations,'' these entities would continue to be authorized to offer related services, except insurance, based on section 4.25 of the Act. 2 2 Section 4.25 of the Act states that service corporations may perform all the functions and services of the banks, with the exception of extending credit and providing insurance. 2. Section 618.8005_Eligibility Based on the provisions of sections 1.12, 2.5, 2.12(15) and 3.7 of the Act, proposed §618.8005 requires that related services 3 be offered by an institution to persons or entities eligible to borrow from the System. The proposed regulation would determine eligible recipients for related services by reference to persons eligible to borrow as defined in the lending regulations at part 613 of this chapter. Proposed §618.8005(a) would authorize FCBs and associations to offer related services to the persons eligible to borrow as defined in §§613.3010; 613.3020(a)(1), (a)(2), and (b); and 613.3045. For BCs, proposed §618.8005(b) would authorize related services to be provided to eligible borrowers as defined in §§613.3110 and 613.3120. Proposed §618.8005(c) would authorize ACBs to offer related services appropriate to on-farm and aquatic operations to persons eligible to borrow as specified in paragraph (a) of this section and to offer related services appropriate to cooperative operations to entities eligible to borrow as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. 3 Although insurance is included within the definition of related services, more specific eligibility requirements are provided in revised §618.8040; those requirements govern eligibility for receipt of insurance. The FCA is currently developing proposed amendments to the lending eligibility regulations. Once any lending eligibility amendments become final, §618.8005 would be modified as necessary to conform to lending eligibility. The FCA believes that marketers and processors that meet the eligibility requirements of §613.3045 would also be included within the recipients that Congress considered eligible to receive related services. For any processing and marketing unit to be eligible to borrow, there must be a portion of the operation's throughput that is produced on-farm by the entity or its owners. The FCA believes that related services provided to marketing and processing units would be appropriate to the on-farm or aquatic operations of the unit or its owners. Therefore, these entities would be included within the eligible recipients specified in proposed §618.8005(a). Because rural home residents and farm-related businesses do not have farming or aquatic operations, services provided to them would not meet the statutory ``on-farm'' requirement and, therefore, they would continue to be excluded from the eligible recipients specified in proposed §618.8005. The proposed regulation would approach the eligibility provisions for related services offered by ACBs in the same manner as eligibility is treated for FCBs and BCs. An ACB would be authorized under proposed §618.8005(c) to provide related services to persons eligible to borrow from FCBs. Such related services would have to be appropriate to the on-farm and aquatic operations of the recipients. Further, an ACB could provide related services to its cooperative customers, as long as the service is appropriate to their cooperative operations. Therefore, although an FCB and BC will be combined into an ACB, the services that can be provided to each type of borrower under titles I, II, and III of the Act would not change under the proposed regulation. Recent requests from System institutions have led the FCA to consider whether there are situations in which persons eligible to borrow may be denied the ability to receive the benefit of related services merely because an intermediary or other person or entity involved would not meet the eligibility requirements of the Act. The FCA believes that all farmers, ranchers, and other eligible persons and entities should be able to receive the full benefit of the related services authorized in the Act. Similar requests have been received asking the FCA to consider allowing the System to provide fee appraisals for agricultural real estate to entities such as the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA), commercial banks, and other lenders in connection with loan applications from persons eligible to borrow, and loan servicing actions (including bankruptcies and foreclosures) involving agricultural assets. The FCA also received a letter from the FmHA requesting that System institutions be authorized to provide the appraisals. The FmHA and certain System institutions have stated that there is a shortage of qualified agricultural appraisers in certain areas of the country, especially following the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act. 4 System personnel, who have developed an expertise in agricultural appraisals, could help meet this need. The availability of qualified appraisers would benefit farmers and ranchers in that their property would be fairly valued in situations such as loan applications and loan servicing. Under current regulations, System institutions have not been able to provide the appraisals when they are provided directly to the FmHA or a commercial bank, entities not eligible to borrow from a System institution. Also, the FmHA procedures provide that the FmHA will contract for appraisals rather than having each borrower obtain an appraisal. 4 Pub. L. 101&hyph;73, Aug. 9, 1989.
