FR940217-1-00074 FR940217-1-00014 Finally, these proposed regulations would include determinations of misuse of all Federal (as opposed to simply Title IV, HEA programs) funds and State or local government funds. For example, a person determined to have committed fraud in the acquisition of State educational grant funds could foreshadow a potential danger to the Title IV, HEA programs if that person were employed by an institution. These additional requirements are needed to establish appropriate safeguards to protect the Title IV, HEA programs if serious questions are raised about the honesty and lawful conduct of an individual, agency, or organization that contracts with or is employed by an institution. Section 668.13␣Factors of financial responsibility. Section 498(e) of the HEA introduces the concept of ``substantial control'' over an institution essentially by adopting the current regulatory concept of ``the ability to affect substantially the actions of'' an institution. Accordingly, the Secretary substitutes the new phrase where applicable in these proposed regulations. Further, the Secretary proposes to establish that an institution is not considered financially responsible_a condition of participation in the Title IV, HEA programs_if a person with substantial control over the institution_ (1) Has or had substantial control, either alone or in combination with members of his or her family, over another institution or a third-party servicer that owes liabilities for violations of Title IV, HEA program requirements, if those liabilities are not being properly repaid; (2) Has family members who, alone or in combination with one another, exercise or exercised substantial control over the other institution or servicer; or (3) Owes liabilities, or members of his or her family owe liabilities, for violations committed by the other institution or servicer, and the liabilities are not being properly repaid. The institution could continue to be considered financially responsible if_ (1) The person repays a proportion of the liabilities equivalent to the amount of control held over the other institution or servicer; (2) The institution can establish that the person does not, in fact, have substantial control over the institution; or (3) The institution can establish that neither the person nor any of his or her family members in fact has or had substantial control over the other institution or servicer. The definition of a family member (as currently defined in §668.13(j)) refers to a parent, sibling, spouse, or child; spouse's parent or sibling; or sibling's or child's spouse. Finally, the Secretary would apply the concepts of ``substantial control'' and ``ownership interest'' (as currently defined in section 498(e) of the HEA and §668.13) to third-party servicers.
