FR941213-2-00100 FR941213-2-00061 b. The Field Office must determine that there is a need and a market for the proposed household type and bedroom sizes, taking into consideration the documentation submitted by the PHA on housing supply and demonstration of need, any local plans, and other assisted housing (e.g., HUD or FmHA) existing and proposed (including housing funded but not completed). D. Threshold Approvable Applications Applications in categories 1, 2, and 3 will be determined approvable if they successfully pass the threshold review. Threshold-approvable applications in category 4 (``other'') will be reviewed and analyzed by the Field Office. E. ``Other'' Development Applications Threshold approvable ``Other'' applications will have points assigned by a Rating Panel(s) on the basis of Field Office analysis and PHA documentation relating to the following criteria. ␣ 1Criteria 1Points 1. Relative Need. The application proposes a project for a locality which has been previously under-funded for the household type (family or elderly) requested, relative to the need for housing for the same household type in the respective metropolitan or non-metropolitan portion of the Field Office's jurisdiction. [Select (a), (b) or (c)]: (a) Housing need in the locality specified in the application has been severely under-funded. (A locality with a percentage of need served that is equal to or less than one-half the Field Office percentage will be determined to be severely under-funded.); or 20 (b) Housing need in the locality specified in the application has received a proportionate share of funding or has been moderately under-funded. (A locality with a percentage of need served that is equal to or less than the Field Office percentage, but greater than one-half that percentage will be determined to be moderately under-funded.); or 10 (c) Housing need in the locality specified in the application has been over-funded. (A locality with a percentage that is greater than the Field Office percentage will be determined to have been over-funded.) 0 2. Vacancy Rate. [Select (a) or (b)]: (a) The vacancy rate in public housing projects under management is not greater than 5 percent, indicating that the PHA will and can fully utilize the units for which it applied; or 20 (b) The vacancy rate in public housing projects under management is greater than 5 percent but less than 6 percent (or two units if that is greater) 10 3. Large-Family Housing. The application is for a project comprising 51 percent or more three bedroom or larger units 20 4. Relocation. The proposed project would primarily assist households displaced or to be displaced by Federal action or a natural disaster in a Federally declared disaster area 10 5. Low Density Family Housing. The application proposes scattered site development to expand housing opportunities 10 6. PHA Development Experience. 1 [Select (a), (b), or (c)]: (a) The PHA scored at least 90 percent (``A'') in Indicator 12 (Development) of PHMAP; or 20 (b) The PHA's latest PHMAP score for Indicator 12 (Development) is between 80 and 89 percent; or the Field Office has no information on the PHA's previous development experience to rate the PHA under paragraph (a) above; however, the application demonstrates the capability for, and the expectation of, expeditious quality or other development experience, or submitted a development management contract with an experienced PHA); or 15 (c) The PHA's latest PHMAP score for Indicator 12 (Development) is between 60 and 79 percent; or the PHA has no development experience under either paragraph (1) or (2) above, but the PHA has evidenced staff capability and organization that demonstrates the PHA has the capability for, and the expectation of, expeditious quality development or has submitted a proposed development management contract 5 7. PHA Management Experience. 2 [Select (a), (b), or (c)]: (a) The PHA's latest PHMAP score (excluding development) is 90 percent or better; and there were no Inspector General audit findings during the PHA's last fiscal audit; and there are no outstanding HUD monitoring findings; or 20 (b) The PHA's latest PHMAP score (excluding development) is between 80 and 89; and Inspector General audit findings (if any) have been addressed; and outstanding HUD monitoring findings have been resolved; or 10 (c) Choose (1) or (2): (1) The PHA's latest PHMAP score (excluding development) is between 60 and 79; and Inspector General audit findings (if any) have been addressed; and outstanding HUD monitoring findings have been resolved; or 5 (2) The PHA has no public housing in management, but has management experience in the section 8 program and management reviews or Inspector General audit findings (if any) are being addressed satisfactorily 5 8. Other Criteria. [Select any that apply]: (a) The PHA indicated that it has formed a ``partnership'' (i.e., a cooperative relationship) with an entity that will play a substantive role in design, management, selection, or representation to the community; or the PHA has submitted evidence that it has formed a ``partnership'' with an entity that plays a substantive role in the delivery of services and that these services will be available to residents of the project under development 5 (b) The PHA has certified that it will acquire units in developments where the non-public housing units require incomes that, on average, are at or above 80 percent of median, or that it will acquire sites in developments where the units require incomes that, on average, are at or above 80 percent of median 5 (c) The PHA has submitted evidence that over the past five years it has met any commitments made under the provisions of section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C., 1701u), as amended from time to time, and the implementing regulations for section 3 at 24 CFR part 135. If the PHA does not have development experience, it may instead submit evidence related to its experience with the modernization program 5 (d) The PHA has submitted its goals for complying with section 3 employment and training with regards to this application 5 (e) The application proposes a project which, as evidenced by a letter from local officials, actively supports an area of local initiative such as a Community Development Block Grant, urban revitalization, Enterprise Zone, or other similar local activity, or includes a commitment for a donation to the project in the event it is selected for funding 15 (f) The Field Office, based on documentation submitted by the PHA, has determined that the PHA is working with residents to establish and/or foster resident empowerment activities (such as establishing Resident Corporations or Resident Management Corporations) 5 n,s Total Possible Points 160 1 The Department reserves the right to require contracted oversight of the administration of the project's development where it deems necessary. 2 The Department reserves the right to require contracted oversight of the administration of the project implementation where it deems necessary. F. Field Office Reports 1. Category 1, 2, and 3 Applications Each Field Office shall forward its lists (by category) of fair-share exempt threshold-approvable applications to Headquarters within two weeks of the deficiency ``cure'' period. The lists shall include the project number, total number of units and units by bedroom size, structure type(s), cost areas, funding required and the metropolitan/non-metropolitan designations for each application. Category 1 and 2 applications shall also identify the underlying project and its current status (e.g., approved (date), under review in Field Office, etc.). 2. Category 4 All Field Office reports to Rating Panels on threshold-approvable ``other'' applications shall be submitted within four weeks of the deficiency ``cure'' period and include the information described in F.1., above, the analysis of each application, and Field Office recommendations for funding. V. Rating Panels A. Rating Panels 1. General The Rating Panel(s) shall ensure that all category 4 applications have been properly determined to be threshold-approvable. The Rating Panel(s) shall compile data furnished by Field Offices for category 4 (other) applications, and rate each application based on Field Office analyses, comments, and recommendations. A list of rated applications shall be forwarded to Headquarters, with copies of Field Office reviews and recommendations, and justifications for Rating Panel rankings. Headquarters shall not modify ratings of category 4 (``other'') applications unless a gross error has occurred. Examples of ``gross errors'' include, but are not limited to, errors in calculating the vacancy rate in the proposed community, or assigning points for development/management experience based on a PHMAP score that was successfully appealed, or simple errors of arithmetic.
