FR940112-0-00090 FR940112-0-00021 When an individual pays a bill, his or her income (or resources) is reduced, thus reducing the countable amount of remaining income (or resources) in determining whether the individual is eligible (or remains eligible) for medical assistance. Therefore, there is less justification for deducting the payment in a later spenddown calculation. In contrast, an enforceable unpaid bill remains a current claim on the individual's income or resources that should be taken into account when the payment is made. Comment : Commenters suggested that individuals should be able to carry over not only noncovered medical expenses from one budget period to the next, as we proposed in §§435.831(d)(6) and 436.831(d)(6), but also expenses covered under the State plan. Response : When an individual is determined eligible, with the exception of bills deducted in spenddown, medically necessary expenses covered under the State plan are normally paid by Medicaid. Hence, there would be no covered expenses to carry over. In a State that places payment limits on the amount, duration or scope of services included in the State plan, however, bills for services that exceed the State's limits are not paid by Medicaid, even though the services are included in the State plan. In this situation, there would be unreimbursed noncovered expenses. Expenses exceeding amount, duration or scope limits (like unpaid, unused old bills the State elects to deduct) must be carried over and deducted from income in the next budget period when an individual is eligible in the immediately preceding budget period (or periods). Comment : Some commenters suggested that we define current payments on old bills to include only those bills being repaid on a negotiated payment schedule. Response : We have defined ``current payments'' in §§435.831(f)(5) and 436.831(f)(5) to mean only those payments made in the current budget period. Our intent in proposing that current payments on old bills be counted as deductions from income was to provide an incentive for individuals to pay those old bills, no matter how small the payments might be. We believe that to count only payments made on a negotiated payment schedule would act as a disincentive for individuals to repay the old bills not subject to a payment schedule. Comment : Some commenters objected to this provision on the basis that placing limits on the age of bills which can be deducted in spenddown acts as a disincentive for individuals to pay old bills. Response : We do not believe there is a greater disincentive for individuals to pay old bills under the proposal than under the policy in existence at the time of the proposed rule or under the existing method. In fact, the policy in existence at the time of the proposed rule specified that bills incurred before the eligibility period could be deducted from income only if they were unpaid. Current policy allows current payments and unpaid bills to be deducted. This appears to be a direct incentive for individuals not to pay old bills. Therefore, we believe no revisions are necessary with regard to this comment. Provision D_Permit States To Apply Incurred Medical Expenses to the Spenddown Period in Chronological Order Comment : Commenters argued that the Act does not authorize us to revise regulations to permit States to deduct medical expenses in chronological order. Response : As noted earlier, we have authority under section 1902(a)(17) of the Act to prescribe the extent to which medical costs may be deducted from income for the medically needy. This covers the order in which incurred medical expenses will be counted. Comment : Some commenters proposed that this provision be extended to States using more restrictive eligibility criteria than SSI, under section 1902(f) of the Act. Response : We believe it is useful to clarify our earlier, and perhaps overly broad, statement in the NPRM that this provision cannot be applied to the eligibility process as specified in section 1902(f) of the Act.
