FR941202-2-00190 FR941202-2-00098 4.3.1␣Performance Evaluation Samples Performance evaluation samples appropriate for the accredited methodology shall be acquired twice per year from a source acceptable to the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program, successfully analyzed, and reported to the accrediting body within required deadlines. In the event of unsatisfactory performance and required reanalysis, repeat analysis shall also be completed and reported within established deadlines. Poor performance on a performance evaluation sample or failure to submit results within required deadlines may be cause for downgrading accreditation. 4.3.2␣On-Site Assessments Announced on-site assessments shall be performed by the accrediting agency at a minimum frequency of one assessment every year. Unannounced on-site assessments or follow-up on-site assessments may be conducted more frequently, for cause, at the option of the accrediting agency. Situations which might trigger an unannounced on-site assessment or follow-up on-site assessment include, review of a previously deficient on-site assessment, poor performance on a performance evaluation sample, change in other accreditation elements, or other information concerning the capabilities or practices of the accredited laboratory. On-site assessments, regardless of frequency, shall be successfully completed to maintain accreditation. Deficiencies identified during the on-site assessment shall be corrected within deadlines established in these guidelines or according to deadlines in an approved correction action plan. Failure to pass an on-site assessment or to correct deficiencies according to the provisions of an approved corrective action plan may be cause for downgrading accreditation. 4.3.3␣Other Accreditation Elements The accredited laboratory shall maintain other key accreditation elements which originally served as the basis for accreditation including the facility, organization and management, qualifications of key personnel, sample handling procedures, calibration standards, analytical methods, data reduction procedures, and laboratory quality assurance plan. Failure to maintain, revise, or replace any of these key components may be cause for downgrading accreditation status. 4.3.4␣Notification and Reporting Requirements The accredited laboratory shall notify the accrediting body of any changes in key accreditation criteria including but not necessarily limited to the laboratory ownership, location, key personnel, and major instrumentation. The accredited lab shall also comply with any other reporting requirements identified in these guidelines. 4.3.5␣Record Keeping and Retention All lab records associated with accreditation parameters, including raw data associated with each analysis, changes in method standard operating procedures, or the laboratory quality assurance plan, shall be maintained for a minimum of five years unless otherwise designated for a longer period in another regulation. In the case of data used in litigation, the laboratory is required to store such records for a longer period upon written notification from the accrediting agency. 4.3.6␣Payment of Fees The accredited lab shall pay all fees associated with maintaining accreditation to the accrediting body within established deadlines. 4.4␣Suspension, Revocation and Denial of Accreditation
