FR940711-2-00030 FR940711-2-00017 Golden Field Office; Notice of Financial Assistance Award to International Geothermal Association AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of financial assistance award in response to a non-competitive financial assistance application. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2) is announcing its intention to make a financial assistance award to the International Geothermal Association to organize, convene and market the World Geothermal Congress 1995, which is to be held in Florence, Italy. ADDRESSES: Questions regarding this announcement may be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden, CO 80401, Attention: Ruth E Adams, Contract Specialist, or at phone number (303) 275&hyph;4722. The Contracting Officer for this action is John W. Meeker. The Project Officer for this action is Jeff Hahn. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposal was a solicited application. The primary purpose of the World Geothermal Conference (WGC) 1995 is to provide a forum for international exchange of scientific and technological information on geothermal development during the period 1990&hyph;1995. The International Geothermal Association (IGA) is convening and organizing the WGC. The Department believes that the proposed effort will benefit the public, and that providing financial assistance through a grant mechanism is an appropriate method for providing funding. Through this financial assistance the U.S. Department of Energy will be listed as a sponsor of the WGC. Competition for this effort would have an adverse effect on the urgency and completion of the activities. The proposed project will contribute to the DOE mission of ``.␣.␣. providing the scientific and educational foundation and technology .␣.␣. necessary to achieve efficiency in energy use, diversity in energy sources, and access to technical information .␣.␣.''. The IGA will do this by providing a forum on an international scale where the U.S. geothermal industry can exchange scientific and technological information. The objective of this effort is to convene an international conference where governments and industry can meet and share scientific and technological information as well as their relevant experiences. The WGC '95 will provide the forum for presentations of world-wide electrical and direct use, country updates, reports on international cooperative projects and other invited papers. Pre-congress courses will be taught by experts in the field on subjects such as: Drafting a Geothermal Project for Financing by International Organizations, Injections, Drilling Technology and Regulation, Software for Geothermal Applications, Geothermal Heat Pumps, Small Power Plants, Direct Uses and Environmental Aspects of Geothermal Development. The probability of meeting the objectives listed above are very high, given that the IGA has been successful in the past for similar endeavors. The staff of the International Geothermal Association is qualified and positioned to provide this service. The IGA is an international association for the geothermal industry. Its membership includes 1,971 organizations and individuals. The IGA's base of operations is an office in Berkeley, California, and is fully capable of meeting their needs. The budget proposed for the anticipated work was reviewed and is considered to be appropriate and adequate. The public benefit to be derived from the World Geothermal Conference is the opportunity for the geothermal industry to meet and exchange information and experiences, as well as to encourage research, development and use of geothermal energy world wide. The services provided through this proposed grant fully support the program's direction and objectives. The International Geothermal Association is taking the lead role in organizing, convening and marketing the World Geothermal Conference 1995. The IGA is qualified and positioned to undertake this task since they organized the last WGC in New Zealand in 1993. Competition for this effort would have a significant adverse impact on the urgency and completion of the proposed activities. Issued in Golden, Colorado on: June 23, 1994. John W. Meeker, Chief, Procurement, Golden Field Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16705 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
