FR940426-0-00036 FR940426-0-00010 To ensure that the flight crew is advised of the potential hazard associated with fuel exhaustion due to undetected fuel leakage, and of the procedures necessary to address it, accomplish the following: (a) Within 60 days after the effective date of this AD, revise the Non-Normal Procedures Section of the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to include the following procedures, which will enable the flight crew to identify fuel system leaks and to take appropriate action to prevent further fuel loss. This may be accomplished by inserting a copy of this AD in the AFM. ``Flight Management Computer (FMC) Message Fuel QTY Error or Fuel Disagree Compare the Fuel Quantity Indicating System (FQIS) total fuel quantity and the FMC calculated fuel remaining (based on fuel flow) with estimated fuel usage data. If a fuel leak is suspected, close the crossfeed valve and turn off the center fuel pumps. Watch for any unusual decrease in fuel tank quantity and/or a fuel imbalance to determine if fuel is being lost. If an engine fuel leak is confirmed (either visually or by cockpit indications), shut down the affected engine to stop the leak and retain fuel. After shutdown, fuel from the remaining center, left, and right main tanks may be used for the operating engine. Use FQIS to determine fuel remaining.'' (b) An alternative method of compliance or adjustment of the compliance time that provides an acceptable level of safety may be used if approved by the Manager, Seattle Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate. Operators shall submit their requests through an appropriate FAA Principal Maintenance Inspector, who may add comments and then send it to the Manager, Seattle ACO. Note: Information concerning the existence of approved alternative methods of compliance with this AD, if any, may be obtained from the Seattle ACO. (c) Special flight permits may be issued in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) 21.197 and 21.199 to operate the airplane to a location where the requirements of this AD can be accomplished. (d) This amendment becomes effective on May 11, 1994. Issued in Renton, Washington, on April 20, 1994. S. R. Miller, Acting Manager, Transport Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9989 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;U
