FR940830-0-00089 FR940830-0-00013 8. Section 905.672 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b)(2)(i), (b)(3) through (b)(5), (c)(2), (d)(1), (d)(2)(i)(E), (d)(4), (d)(5)(i), (d)(5)(iii), (d)(6)(i), (d)(6)(ii), (d)(7)(v), (d)(7)(viii), and (d)(7)(xv); by adding a new paragraph (d)(7)(xviii); by revising paragraphs (e)(2), (3) and (4), to read as follows: §905.672 Comprehensive Plan (including Five-Year Action Plan). (a) Submission. As soon as possible after modernization funds first become available for allocation under this subpart, HUD shall notify IHAs in writing of their formula amount. For planning purposes, IHAs may use the amount they received under CGP in the prior year in developing their Comprehensive Plan or they may wait for the annual HUD notification of formula amount under §905.669(b)(1). (b) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (i) To assure that residents are fully briefed and involved in developing the content of, and monitoring the implementation of, the Comprehensive Plan including, but not limited to, the physical and management needs assessments, viability analysis, Five-Year Action Plan, and Annual Statement. If necessary, the IHA shall develop and implement capacity building strategies to ensure meaningful resident participation in CGP. Such technical assistance efforts for residents are eligible management improvement costs under CGP; * * * * * (3) Public notice. Within a reasonable amount of time before the advance meeting for residents and duly elected resident organizations under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and the public hearing under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the IHA shall provide public notice of the advance meeting and the public hearing in a manner determined by the IHA and which ensures notice to all duly elected resident organizations; (4) Advance meeting for residents and duly elected resident organizations. The IHA shall hold, within a reasonable amount of time before the public hearing under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, a meeting for residents and duly elected resident organizations at which the IHA shall explain the components of the Comprehensive Plan. The meeting shall be open to all residents and duly elected resident organizations; (5) Public Hearing. The IHA shall hold at least one public hearing, and any appropriate number of additional hearings, to present information on the Comprehensive Plan/Annual Submission and the status of prior approved programs. The public hearing shall provide ample opportunity for residents, duly elected resident organizations, local government officials, and other interested parties, to express their priorities and concerns. The IHA shall give full consideration to the comments and concerns of residents, local government officials, and other interested parties. (c) *␣*␣* (2) A copy of the summary of total preliminary estimated costs to address physical needs by each development and management/operations needs IHA-wide and a specific description of the IHA's process for maximizing the level of participation by residents and a summary of the general issues raised on the plan by residents and others during the public comment process and the IHA's response to the general issues. IHA records, such as minutes of planning meetings or resident surveys shall be maintained in the IHA's files and made available to residents, resident organizations, and other interested parties upon request; and * * * * * (d) *␣*␣* (1) Summaries. An IHA shall include as part of its Comprehensive Plan the following summaries: (i) A summary of total preliminary estimated costs to address physical needs by each development and management needs IHA-wide; and (ii) A specific description of the IHA's process for maximizing the level of participation by residents during the development, implementation and monitoring of the Comprehensive Plan, a summary of the general issues raised on the plan by residents and others during the public comment process and the IHA's response to the general issue. IHA records, such as minutes of planning meetings or resident surveys, shall be maintained in the IHA's files and made available to residents, duly elected resident organizations, and other interested parties, upon request. * * * * * (2) *␣*␣* (i) * * * (E) In addition, the IHA shall provide with respect to vacant or non-homebuyer-occupied Turnkey III units, the estimated number of units that the IHA is proposing for substantial rehabilitation and subsequent sale, in accordance with §905.666(d)(3). * * * * * (4) Demonstration of long-term physical and social viability. (i) General. The plan shall include, on a development-by-development basis, an analysis of whether completion of the improvements and replacements identified under paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section will reasonably ensure the long-term physical and social viability, including achieving structural/system soundness and full occupancy of the development at a reasonable cost. For cost reasonableness, the IHA may choose to use the 90% of Total Development Cost (TDC) approach (the preliminary estimate of hard costs for work proposed at the development is 90% or less of TDC) or a cost reasonableness approach related to the cost of individual work items as indicated by National cost indices, adjusted by local conditions and the IHA's own recent procurement experience. The IHA shall keep documentation in its files to support its reasonable cost determinations of each major work item (e.g., kitchen cabinets, exterior doors). HUD will review cost reasonableness as part of its review of the Annual Submission and the Performance and Evaluation Report. Where necessary, HUD will review the IHA's documentation in support of its cost reasonableness; (ii) Determination of non-viability. Where an IHA's analysis of a development, under paragraph (d) of this section, establishes that completion of the identified improvements and replacements will not result in the long-term physical and social viability of the development at a reasonable cost, the IHA shall not expend CGP funds for the development, except for emergencies and essential non-routine maintenance necessary to maintain habitability until residents can be relocated. The IHA shall specify in its Comprehensive Plan the actions it proposes to take with respect to the non-viable development (e.g., demolition or disposition under 24 CFR part 905, subpart M). (5) Five-Year Action Plan_(i) General. The Comprehensive Plan shall include a rolling Five-Year Action Plan to carry out the improvements and replacements (or a portion thereof) identified under paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section. In developing its Five-Year Action Plan, the IHA shall assume that the current year funding or formula amount will be available for each year of its Five-Year Action Plan, whichever the IHA is using for planning purposes, plus the IHA's estimate of the funds that will be available from other sources, such as State, local and tribal governments. All activities specified in an IHA's Five-Year Action Plan are contingent upon the availability of funds; * * * * * (iii) Procedure for maintaining current Five-Year Action Plan. The IHA shall maintain a current Five-Year Action Plan by annually amending its Five-Year Action Plan, in conjunction with the Annual Submission;
