FR940610-2-00160 FR940610-2-00079 In 1993, the municipal securities market came under increased scrutiny because of concerns that municipal securities dealers were influencing municipal securities issuers to hire such dealers for municipal securities business through the payment of political contributions and other monies to persons with influence over the dealer selection process. While the Board addressed the issue of political contributions through rule G&hyph;37, the Board was concerned that other activities, such as excessive gifts, also might be viewed as influencing the dealer selection process. The proposed rule change requires dealers to keep and retain specific records of all gifts and gratuities subject to paragraph (a) of the rule. 2 The proposed rule change also requires dealers to keep and retain records of all contracts of employment or agreements for compensation for services and all compensation paid as a result of those agreements. These amendments are consistent with the rules of other self-regulatory organizations. The Board believes that the amendments to the recordkeeping and record retention requirements related to gifts and gratuities will facilitate dealer compliance with rule G&hyph;20, and assist enforcement agencies in monitoring for compliance with the rule. 2 The proposed rule change also clarifies that dealers complying with Rule 17a&hyph;3 of the Act are required to maintain this information. The Board believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act, which provides that the Board's rules shall be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in municipal securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Board does not believe that the proposed rule change imposes any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others In January 1994, the Board published for comment the proposed rule change. 3 The Board received one comment letter that supported the proposed amendments to rules G&hyph;8 and G&hyph;9 to strengthen the Board's recordkeeping and record retention requirements. 4 3 MSRB Reports, Vol. 14, No. 1 (January 1994) at 11&hyph;12. The request for comment also requested information and comment on a number of specific questions regarding dealings with issuer officials. 4 In addition, the commenter acknowledged that business entertainment practices present opportunities for abuse, but believed that existing law and regulation, properly enforced, provides sufficient protection against abuse in the area of business entertainment and gift-giving in the municipal securities industry. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period: (i) As the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by July 1, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14127 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
