FR940630-2-00162 FR940630-2-00128 Thursday June 30, 1994 Part IV Department of Housing and Urban Development NOFA for Consolidated Technical Assistance for Community Planning and Development (CPD) Programs; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 125␣/␣Thursday, June 30, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3787; FR&hyph;3735&hyph;N&hyph;01] NOFA for Consolidated Technical Assistance for Community Planning and Development (CPD) Programs AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, HUD. SUMMARY: This notice (NOFA) announces the availability of four Community Planning and Development (CPD) Technical Assistance (TA) programs. By announcing the funding for four programs in one NOFA, HUD's goal is to simplify the requirements of its Community Planning and Development Programs and to streamline the Technical Assistance application process. This NOFA announces the availability of $51 million in TA funds from four separate technical assistance programs: Supportive Housing (SH) TA, HOME TA, Community Housing Development Organization (CHDO) TA and Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) TA. These funds are available for eligible applicants in support of individual program objectives and cross-cutting and coordinated approaches to improving the effective use of these program funds. The funding of these four TA programs through a single NOFA will not affect the ability of eligible applicants to seek TA funding. Eligible applicants are able, as they have been in the past, to apply for funding under as few as one, and as many as four, separate TA programs, individually or collectively, singularly or in combination. The specific provisions of the four separate CPD TA programs have not been changed. The NOFA reflects the statutory requirements and differences in the four different TA programs. As a result, this new application procedure will not affect the way individual TA programs function. In the body of this NOFA is information concerning: (a) The purpose and background of the NOFA, and the funding level provided through this NOFA; (b) Eligible applicants and activities, factors for award, and statutory and cooperative agreement requirements; and (c) The application requirements and steps involved in the application process. DATES: Completed applications must be submitted no later than 4:30 p.m. EST on August 1, 1994. HUD reserves the right to extend the deadline date through notification in the Federal Register . In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, an application will be treated as ineligible for consideration if it is not physically received by the deadline date and hour. Applicants should take this requirement into account and make early submission of their materials to avoid any risk of losing eligibility brought about by unanticipated delays or other delivery-related problems.
