FR940617-2-00159 FR940617-2-00093 Trading in France takes place on a centralized order driven market through member firms, authorized by the Conseil des Bourses de Valeurs, acting as brokers. Transactions are handled by CAC, an electronic trading system, through terminals installed in member firms' premises and linked to the Paris Bourse central computers. The core of the CAC system is linked upstream to an order routing system and downstream to a computerised system that disseminates key markets data in real time. Orders entered in the CAC system by the Bourse member firms acting either on their own behalf or as agents for their clients, are automatically ranked by price limit and, within each limit, are queued to reflect the order of entry in the system. From 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. the market is in its pre-opening phase and orders are entered into the centralized order book, without any transaction taking place. At 10 a.m., the market opens. Based on the limit orders received, the central computer calculates the opening price at which the largest number of bids and asks orders can be matched. At the same time, the system transforms orders at market price into limit orders at the opening price, with the result that all limit buy orders at higher prices and limit sell orders at lower prices are executed. Limit orders at the opening price are executed to the extent that match orders are available. From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., trading takes place on a continuous basis. The execution price is the price limit placed on the matching order. Where price limits are identical, orders are executed on a first entered, first matched basis. CAC automatically feeds information into the system's electronic data dissemination network. As a result, at any given time, the CAC displays the five best bids and asks (price and volume) as well as, in real time, the five latest transactions completed (time price, number of shares traded). French securities brokers may also act as principals with respect to clients on the Paris Bourse. However, such prices must be lodged on to the CAC and must be at or within the current market spread at the time of their transmission. After hours principal transactions may also take place at any price within the spread at the previous close, plus or minus 1%. Those transactions must be reported to the SBF prior to the opening of the next trading session. Every morning, prior to the opening, the SBF disseminates through the market data feed message zone the name of the stocks on which after hours transactions have been reported and the number of shares traded. Finally block trades in specific securities are permitted outside the market spread, subject to certain restrictions ( e.g. the securities broker effecting the trade must agree to fill all buy orders whose price is higher and all sell orders whose price is lower than such block trade). The Enforcement Division of the SBF is in charge of seeing that member firms of the Paris Bourse comply with the securities laws and the regulations of the CBV. B. The MONEP (The Options Market) The MONEP (Paris Traded Options Market) is located within the Paris Bourse; it is governed and regulated by the Conseil des Bourses de Valeurs, through its general regulation. There are 21 market markers in options on the shares on the MONEP. The market makers are registered with a professional body, the ``Société de Compensation des Marchés Conditionnels'' (SCMC) which is affiliated with the SBF and to which the SBF has delegated responsibility for (i) options market administration, (ii) technical clearing of the MONEP, (iii) surveillance and control of operations and members. MONEP members can operate on the markets as brokers and/or as market makers. Twenty seven series of equity options and two series of options based on the CAC 40 index are traded on the floor of the Paris Bourse, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., on a continuous basis by open outcry around different pits., two to four classes of options being listed and traded in each pit. In each pit, several SCMC representatives execute orders from the Public Order Book and are responsible for seeing that traders comply with the market's rules. In addition, for retail orders, brokerage firms have a direct access to an automated trading system called STAMP ( Système de Transactions Automaiisées du MONEP ) through terminals in their own trading rooms. Orders are keyed into the centralized public order book and the data are displayed and disseminated to users. Such orders are either matched automatically inside the book when they represent the market's best price or routed to SCMC staff for priority execution on the floor if better prices are available there. MONEP member firms operate through representatives acting in two distinct capacities: (i) As brokers who trade orders received directly from clients or issued for brokerage houses' own account, (ii) as market makers. Since a modification of the General Regulation of the CBV that took place in August 1993, there are three types of market makers: _The market makers ``specialist'': a specialist market maker is designated for each class of option. He is the only market maker responsible for quoting and continuously updating a bid/ask price for the series of option allocated to the firm. The bid/ask price offered by the specialist is disseminated by the SCMC on quotation screens. _The market maker ``counterpart to the market'': he is required to be present on the floor and may trade within the bid/ask price offered by the specialist. There are various counterparts to the market for the same class of option. _The market maker acting as ``block transaction counterpart''. His activity consists in arranging options blocks transactions for institutional clients, typically from the firm's trading room. The transaction is then executed on the market if the price is within the spread displayed. This change is being implemented gradually on a class of option by class of option basis. Market makers are required to be present on the floor during trading hours and to quote a bid/ask price to any broker or to the SCMC upon requests. Market makers quotation (bid/ask prices) are entered and disseminated on a real time basis. All trades are immediately time-stamped and entered into the market system in order to be displayed on the floor and disseminated outside the floor. After hours trading is forbidden. C. The Regulatory Authorities A professional body, the Conseil des Bourses de Valeurs (CBV) (Stock Exchange Council) is the market regulatory body. The Conseil des Bourses de Valeurs promulgates regulation dealing with the operation of the French stock exchanges and set forth the conditions for authorization of member firms, for admission and withdrawal from listing, and for take over bids. The CBV rules also set forth a professional code of conduct for Bourse members, their subsidiaries, their manager and their staff. In addition, the Council can take disciplinary action as necessary.
