FR940511-0-00073 FR940511-0-00015 Federal project means any water resources development project conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or operating under a permit or authorization issued by the Corps of Engineers and authorized by Federal law. Historical resource means any resource possessing historical, cultural, archaeological or paleontological significance, including sites, structures, districts and objects significantly associated with or representative of earlier people, cultures and human activities and events. Historical resources include historical properties as defined in the National Historic Preservation Act, as amended, and implementing regulations, as amended. Indian reservation means a tract of land set aside by the Federal Government for use by a Federally recognized American Indian tribe and includes, but is not limited to, the Makah, Quileute, Hoh and Quinault Reservations. Indian tribe means any American Indian tribe, band, group, or community recognized by the Secretary of the Interior. Injure means to change adversely, either in the short or long term, a chemical, biological or physical attribute of, or the viability of, and includes, but is not limited to, to cause the loss of or to destroy. Mineral means clay, stone, sand, gravel, metalliferous ore, non-metalliferous ore, or any other solid material or other solid matter of commercial value. Person means any private individual, partnership, corporation or other entity; or any officer, employee, agent, department, agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government, of any State or local unit of government, or of any foreign government. Sanctuary means the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary. Sanctuary quality means any particular and essential characteristic of the Sanctuary, including, but not limited to, water, sediment and air quality. Sanctuary resource means any living or non-living resource of the Sanctuary that contributes to its conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, research, educational or aesthetic value, including, but not limited to, the substratum of the waters off the Olympic Peninsula, bottom formations, marine plants and algae, invertebrates, plankton, fish, birds, turtles, marine mammals and historical resources. Take or taking means: (1) For any marine mammal, sea turtle or seabird listed as either endangered or threatened pursuant to the Endangered Species Act, the term means to harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, collect or injure, or to attempt to engage in any such conduct; (2) For any other marine mammal, sea turtle or seabird, to harass, hunt, capture, kill, collect or injure, or to attempt to engage in any such conduct. (3) For the purpose of both paragraphs (l) and (2) of this definition, the term includes, but is not limited to, collecting any dead or injured marine mammal, sea turtle or seabird, or any part thereof; restraining or detaining any marine mammal, sea turtle or seabird, or any part thereof, no matter how temporarily; tagging any sea turtle, marine mammal or seabird; operating a vessel or aircraft or doing any other act that results in the disturbing or molesting of any marine mammal, sea turtle or seabird. Traditional fishing means fishing using a commercial or recreational fishing method that has been used in the Sanctuary before the effective date of Sanctuary designation, including the retrieval of fishing gear. Treaty means a formal agreement between the United States Government and an Indian tribe. Vessel means a watercraft of any description capable of being used as a means of transportation in/on the waters of the Sanctuary. (b) Other terms appearing in the regulations in this part are defined at 15 CFR 922.2 and/or in the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1401 et seq . and 16 U.S.C. 1431 et seq. §925.4 Allowed activities. All activities except those prohibited by §925.5 may be undertaken subject to any emergency regulations promulgated pursuant to §925.6, subject to all prohibitions, restrictions, and conditions validly imposed by any other authority of competent jurisdiction, and subject to the liability established by section 312 of the Act (see §925.8). §925.5 Prohibited activities. (a) Except as specified in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this §925.5, the following activities are prohibited and thus unlawful for any person to conduct or cause to be conducted: (1) Exploring for, developing or producing oil, gas or minerals within the Sanctuary. (2) Discharging or depositing, from within the boundary of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter except: (i) Fish, fish parts, chumming materials or bait used in or resulting from traditional fishing operations in the Sanctuary; (ii) Biodegradable effluent incidental to vessel use and generated by marine sanitation devices approved in accordance with Section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, (FWPCA) 33 U.S.C. 1322 et seq. ;
