FR941121-2-00115 FR941121-2-00088 (e) Identify long range plans for full scale deployment of the technologies when the operational test has been successfully completed. 4. Suitability of the Test Site, Vehicle Fleet, and Infrastructure The Operational Test offer of participation shall: (a) Demonstrate that the operational test is part of a continuing, ongoing transportation management program or that there is a good opportunity for components of the operational test to evolve into operational systems after the testing is completed; (b) Demonstrate that the size and characteristics of the test and site are adequate for meaningful evaluation of the proposed system or technology and that the test and site have the operational or environmental characteristics to challenge the performance, reliability, and durability of the product or prototype being evaluated; (c) Ensure that local public transportation services are in place to provide a valid market test of the operational test technology and that the local public transportation providers are interested in the adoption of new technologies; (d) Provide the opportunity to evaluate the safety and air quality benefits of systems or operations where such issues are important considerations; and (e) Ensure adequate records to support the project evaluation with regard to operation, reliability, costs, institutional issues, and maintenance of the device or system being tested. 5. Non-Federal Partners' Role The Operational Test offer of participation shall: (a) Clearly state who will be the principal staff dedicated to the operational test by partner(s) and indicate the amount of time each staff member is expected to devote to the test; and (b) Ensure non-Federal contributions shown are allowable costs according to the cost principles in OMB circulars A&hyph;21, A&hyph;87 or A&hyph;122 or 48 CFR Part 31, as applicable to the organization incurring the costs. Cost share arrangements should show enough detail to determine whether the resources being committed to the potential project are sufficient to ensure successful completion. Letters from all participants committing themselves to the project and specifically stating their financial commitment should be included with the offer. 6. Federal Role The Operational Test offer of participation shall: (a) Demonstrate that the Federal government role in the operational test is consistent with the Department's statutory role and responsibilities; (b) Provide for Federal participation in the design and conduct of the project evaluation to ensure that the project is independently evaluated on a national program scale; (c) Show that the proposed Federal ITS contribution to the operational test is consistent with the agency's ITS operational test funding policy and appropriate to the type and scope of the test; (d) Demonstrate that Federal ITS funds are not being used when regular Federal-aid, State, or private funds can and should be used or where the primary benefit of the operational test is in areas of private sector responsibility; and (e) Demonstrate that Federal participation in the proposed test is an appropriate use of the Federal Government's resources. Negotiation and Approval Process Final approval and announcement of the selected offers are expected to take several months from the date the offers are received. For those offers selected, the lead DOT agency will begin negotiations with the project partners to reach mutually agreeable terms for an ITS operational test, including financial and technical issues. The negotiations will result in a funding agreement that documents project tasks, roles of partners, a budget, and a schedule for project execution and evaluation. The funding agreement between the DOT and the partnership is arranged through one non-federal partner, typically a State agency, who then serves as the lead for all funding agreements among the partners. Other non-federal partners, including local governments, universities, and the private sector, could also serve as lead. Only upon successful completion of these negotiations would a partnership be formed. The funding agreement considers the partners of an operational test to be independent contracting parties, and not business partners for the purposes of sharing profits and losses. (Secs. 6051 through 6059, Pub. L. 102&hyph;240, 105 Stat. 1914, 2189&hyph;2195; 23 U.S.C. 315; 49 CFR 1.48) Issued on: November 14, 1994. Rodney E. Slater, Federal Highway Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28599 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;P
