FR940407-2-00164 FR940407-2-00081 Part VIII_Post Award Information and Reporting Requirements Following approval of the applications selected for funding, notice of project approval and authority to draw down project funds will be made in writing. The official award document is the Financial Assistance Award which provides the amount of Federal funds approved for use in the project, the project and budget period for which support is provided, the terms and conditions of the award, and the total project period for which support is contemplated. Project directors and chief evaluators will be required to attend two national evaluation workshops in Washington, DC. A program development and evaluation workshop will be scheduled shortly after the effective date of the grant. They also will be required to attend, as presenters, the final evaluation workshop on utilization and dissemination to be held at the end of the project period. Grantees will be required to submit quarterly progress and financial reports (SF 269) as well as a final progress and financial report within 90 days of the expiration of the grant. Interim evaluation reports, along with a written policies and procedures manual based on the findings of the process evaluation, will be due 30 days after the first twelve months, and the second interim evaluation 30 days after the second twelve months, and a final evaluation report will be due 90 days after the expiration of the grant. This final report will cover 36 months of activities related to project participants. Grantees are subject to the audit requirements in 45 CFR Parts 74 (non-profit organization) and OMB Circular A&hyph;133. Section 319 of Public Law 101&hyph;121, signed into law on October 23, 1989, imposes new prohibitions and requirements for disclosure and certification related to lobbying on recipients of Federal contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and loans. It provides limited exemptions for Indian tribes and tribal organizations. Current and prospective recipients (and their subtier contractors and/or grantees) are prohibited from using appropriated funds for lobbying Congress or any Federal agency in connection with the award of a contract, grant, cooperative agreement or loan. In addition, for each award action in excess of $100,000 (or $150,000 for loans) the law requires recipients and their subtier contractors and/or subgrantees (1) to certify that they have neither used nor will use any appropriated funds for payment to lobbyists, (2) to submit a declaration setting forth whether payments to lobbyists have been or will be made out of nonappropriated funds and, if so, the name, address, payment details, and purpose of any agreements with such lobbyists whom recipients or their subtier contractors or subgrantees will pay with the nonappropriated funds and (3) to file quarterly up-dates about the use of lobbyists if an event occurs that materially affects the accuracy of the information submitted by way of declaration and certification. The law establishes civil penalties for noncompliance and is effective with respect to contracts, grants, cooperative agreements and loans entered into or made on or after December 23, 1989. See Attachment F for certification and disclosure forms to be submitted with the applications for this program. Attachment G indicates the regulations which apply to all applicants/grantees under the Job Opportunities for Low-Income Individuals Program. Dated: March 31, 1994. Donald Sykes, Director, Office of Community Services.
