FR940104-2-00007 FR940104-2-00003 Issues Tentatively, several issues of concern have been identified through the scoping process. These issues are briefly described below: •Whitetailed and Mule Deer Winter Thermal Cover_How would the proposed action maintain and enhance winter thermal cover? •Visuals_What effects would the proposed action have on naturally appearing views seen from trails, private land, Dickey Lake and Highway 93? •Timber Supply_How would the proposed action help satisfy local and national needs? •Activity in Roadless Area_What effect would the proposal have on the roadless character of Marston Face and Thompson-Seton Roadless Areas. •Grizzly Bear_How would the proposal maintain and enhance grizzly bear habitat? •Old Growth_What effect would the proposed action have on old growth habitat? •Forest Health_Some stands are not growing at their full potential and some have sustained heavy mortality due to the mountain pine beetle. What effect would the proposed action have to reduce susceptibility to bark beetles and improve stand conditions? •Water Quality_What effects would the proposed action have on riparian areas, lakes, and private water developments? Public Involvement and Scoping Public participation to this point has been extensive. On August 15, 1991 an initial scoping meeting was held with the local community and interested individuals for the development of a timber sale proposal. On May 28, 1992 we held another open house to present a revised proposal. In addition, a field trip to the Murphy Decision Area was conducted on June 26, 1992 with seven individuals attending. Comments were requested in writing during all of these public involvement efforts. Consultation with appropriate State and Federal agencies has been initiated. Preliminary effects analysis indicated that the proposed action may significantly affect quality of the human environment and may substantially alter the undeveloped character of the Marston Face Roadless Area. These potential effects prompted the decision to prepare an EIS for the Murphy Timber Sales. This environmental analysis and decision making process will unable additional interested and affected people to participate and contribute to the final decision. Public participation will be requested at several points during the analysis. The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed projects. This input will be used in preparation of the draft and final EIS. The scoping process will include: •Identifying potential issues. •Identifying major issues to be analyzed in depth. •Exploring additional alternatives which will be derived from issues recognized during scoping activities. •Identifying potential environmental effects of this project and alternatives (i.e. direct, indirect, and cumulative effects and connected actions). The analysis will consider a range of alternatives, including the proposed action, no action, and other reasonable action alternatives. Estimated Dates for Filing The draft Murphy EIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and to be available for public review by September, 1994. At that time EPA will publish a Notice of Availability of the draft EIS in the Federal Register . The comment period on the draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the EPA publishes the Notice of Availability in the Federal Register . The final EIS is scheduled to be completed by December, 1994. In the final EIS, the Forest Service is required to respond to comments and responses received during the comment period that pertain to the environmental consequences discussed in the draft EIS and applicable laws, regulations, and policies considered in making a decision regarding the proposal. Reviewer's Obligations The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. versus NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon versus Hodel , 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. versus Harris , 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45 day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider and respond to them in the final EIS. To be most helpful, comments on the draft EIS should be as specific as possible and may address the adequacy of the statement or the merit of the alternatives discussed. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. Responsible Official Jane P. Kollmeyer, District Ranger, Fortine Ranger District, Kootenai National Forest, P.O. Box 116, Fortine, Montana, 59918, is the Responsible Official. As the Responsible Official I will decide which, if any, of the proposed projects will be implemented. I will document the decision and reasons for the decision in the Record of Decision. That decision will be subject to Forest Service Appeal Regulations. Dated: December 16, 1993. Jane P. Kollmeyer, District Ranger, Fortine Ranger District. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
