FR940920-1-00026 FR940920-1-00007 (7) ``Economic Impact Analysis for Proposed Emission Standards and Guidelines for Municipal Waste Combustors,'' EPA&hyph;450/3&hyph;91&hyph;029, March 1994. Docket Nos. A&hyph;89&hyph;08 and A&hyph;90&hyph;45 are available for public inspection and copying between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, at the location specified in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. A reasonable fee may be charged for copying. Additionally, the docket may be accessed by telephone, as specified in the ADDRESSES section. Comments. Today's action is a proposal and comments are requested. The MWC regulations are complex, and the EPA expects to receive numerous comments on this proposal. The EPA has specifically requested comments on items fundamental to the proposal, including but not limited to the MACT floor, MACT performance levels, and materials separation plans. The EPA seeks full public participation in arriving at its final decisions, and strongly encourages comments on all aspects of this proposal from all interested parties. Whenever applicable, full supporting data and detailed analyses should be submitted with all comments to allow the EPA to respond to the comments. Commenters wishing to submit proprietary information for consideration should clearly distinguish such information from other comments, and clearly label it ``Confidential Business Information.'' Submissions containing such proprietary information should be sent directly to the following address, and not to the public docket, to ensure that proprietary information is not inadvertently placed in the docket: Attention: Mr. Walter Stevenson, c/o Ms. Melva Toomer, U.S. EPA Confidential Business Manager, 411 W. Chapel Hill Street, Room 944, Durham, North Carolina 27701. Information covered by such a claim of confidentiality will be disclosed by the EPA only to the extent allowed and by the procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. If no claim of confidentiality accompanies a submission when it is received by the EPA, it may be made available to the public without further notice to the commenter. Public Hearing. The public hearing will be held to provide interested parties an opportunity for oral presentations of data, views, or arguments concerning the proposed standards (see DATES for the hearing schedule). The public hearing will be held at Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, and will start at about 9 a.m. Persons wishing to present oral testimony at the public hearing must call Ms. Julia Latta at (919) 541&hyph;5578 at least 2 days in advance of the public hearing. Persons interested in attending the hearing should also call Ms. Latta to verify the time, date, and location of the hearing. Persons may call (919) 541&hyph;5264 to hear a recorded message that provides current information on the status of the public hearing. Preamble Outline. The following outline is provided to aid in locating information in this preamble. I. Introduction A. Summary of Regulatory Decisions B. New Source Performance Standards_General Goals C. Overview of this Preamble II. Summary of the Proposed Subpart Eb Standards A. Source Category to be Regulated B. Pollutants to be Regulated C. Format for the Proposed Standards D. Proposed Standards E. Comparison of the 1991 NSPS and Today's Proposed NSPS F. Performance Testing and Monitoring Requirements G. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements III. Impacts of the Proposed Standards A. Incremental Impacts of the Proposed NSPS over the 1991 NSPS B. Impacts of the Proposed NSPS Over a Pre-1989 Baseline IV. Rationale for Proposed Standards for MWC Emissions A. Background B. Selection of Source Category C. Modification or Reconstruction of Existing MWC's D. Selection of Designated Pollutants E. Selection of Affected Facilities F. Selection of Maximum Achievable Control Technology G. Selection of Format for the Proposed Standards H. Performance Test Methods and Monitoring Requirements I. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements V. Rationale for the Proposed Standards for Siting Requirements A. Overview B. Siting Analysis C. Materials Separation Plan
