FR940928-2-00146 FR940928-2-00075 10. Applicants consent to the following terms of and conditions to the issuance of an order granting an exemption under Section 26(b): 3 3 Counsel for Applicants represents that an amended application consenting to the terms and conditions will be filed during the notice period. (a) The Substitution is of shares of the J&hyph;P Money Market Fund, which is a money market fund whose objectives, policies and restrictions and substantially similar to those of the VIP Money Market Portfolio so as to continue fulfilling Contract owners' objectives and risk expectations; (b) If a Contract owner requests, during the Free Transfer Period, asserts will be reallocated for investment in a Contract owner selected Subaccount. The Free Transfer Period is sufficient time for Contract owners to reconsider the Substitution; (c) The Substitution will, in all cases, be at net asset value of the respective shares, without the imposition of any transfer or similar charges; (d) Jefferson-Pilot will assume all expenses and transaction costs, including, among others, legal and accounting fees and any brokerage commissions, relating to the Substitution in a manner that attributes all transaction costs to Jefferson-Pilot; (e) The Substitution in no way will alter the insurance benefits to the Contract owners, the contractual obligations of Jefferson-Pilot; (f) The Substitution in no way will alter the tax benefits to Contract owners; (g) Contract owners may choose to withdraw amounts credited to them following the Substitution under conditions that currently exist under the Contracts, subject to any applicable deferred sales charge; and (h) The Substitution is expected to confer certain modest economic benefits to Contract owners by virtue of the enhanced asset size of the VIP Money Market Portfolio. Conclusion Applicants submit that the exemptive relief requested under Section 26(b) of the 1940 Act is necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policies and provisions of the 1940 Act. Accordingly the Applicants request that the Commission grant the necessary exemptions and approvals pursuant to Section 26(b) of the 1940 Act permitting the Substitution. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23992 Filed 9&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
