FR940317-1-00098 FR940317-1-00013 (3) The Commander, USARCS, or his designees. (4) The SJA or chief of the command claims service of the following commands: (i) USAREUR. (ii) Eighth U.S. Army, Korea. (iii) WESTCOM. (iv) USARSO. (5) Area claims offices. (b) Approval authority. Claims processing offices with approval authority are delegated authority to approve and pay, in full or in part, claims presented for $1,000 or less and to compromise and pay, regardless of amount claimed, an agreed award of $1,000 or less. (c) Exercise of authority. Authority delegated by this paragraph will not be exercised unless the claims settlement or approval authority has been assigned an office code. ยง536.91 Reconsideration. (a) An original approval or settlement authority may reconsider the quantum of a claim upon request of the claimant or someone acting in his behalf. In the absence of such a request, an approval or settlement authority may on his or her own initiative reconsider the quantum of a claim. Reconsideration may occur even in a claim that was previously disapproved in whole or in part (even though a settlement agreement has been executed) when it appears that his or her original action was incorrect in law or fact based on the evidence of record at the time of the action or subsequently received. If he or she determines that the original action was incorrect, he or she will modify the action and, if appropriate, make a supplemental payment. If the original action is determined correct, the claimant will be so notified. The basis for either action will be stated in a memorandum included in the file. (b) An approval or settlement authority may reconsider the applicability of this chapter to a claim upon request of the claimant or someone acting in his behalf, or on his or her own initiative. Such reconsideration may occur even though all parties had previously agreed per ยง536.84 when it appears that this agreement was incorrect in law or fact based on the evidence of record at the time of the agreement or subsequently received. If he or she determines the agreement to be incorrect, the claim will be reprocessed under the applicable chapter of this regulation. If he or she determines the agreement to have been correct, that is, that this subpart is applicable, he or she will so advise the claimant. This advice will include reference to any appeal or judicial remedies available under the chapter which the claimant alleges the claim should be processed under. (c) A successor or higher approval or settlement authority may also reconsider the original action on a claim under a or b above, but only on the basis of fraud, substantial new evidence, errors in calculation, or mistake (misinterpretation) of law. (d) A request for reconsideration should indicate fully the legal or factual basis asserted as grounds for relief. Subpart F_Claims Arising From Activities of the Army National Guard
