FR940610-1-00009 FR940610-1-00002 B. Examples The following examples apply the proposed rule. For the sake of convenience, amounts in the examples are rounded to the nearest million. Example 1_Partial transfer of deposits; transferor remains in business. Institution A reported $100 million worth of deposits in its report of condition as of December 31. On January 15, Institution B agrees to acquire a branch office of Institution A that held $5 million worth of deposits reported in Institution A's December 31 report of condition. Institution A continues to be an insured institution. Institution A's February 28 assessment invoice that will be collected on March 30 will be based on the reported $100 million worth of deposits, in accordance with normal processing. Institution A remains responsible for the assessment liability on January 1 based on the December 31 report of condition. The February invoice represents the second installment payment of the January through June semiannual assessment period. The FDIC expects that Institutions A and B may well have dealt with any question of allocating the cost of the assessment premium. But Institution A must still make the payment to the FDIC. Example 2_Partial transfer of deposits; transferor remains in business. Institution A reported $100 million worth of deposits in its report of condition as of September 30. On October 1, Institution B agrees to acquire a branch office of Institution A that held $10 million worth of deposits reported in Institution A's September 30 report of condition. Institution A continues to be an insured institution. Institution A's November 30 assessment invoice that will be collected on December 30 will be based on the $100 million worth of deposits, in accordance with normal processing. Institution A remains responsible for the assessment liability established on October 1 based on the September 30 report of condition. The November invoice represents the first installment payment for the next semiannual assessment period (January through June). The FDIC expects that Institutions A and B may well have dealt with any question of allocating the assessment premium. But Institution A must still make the assessment payment to the FDIC. Example 3_Transfer of deposits; transferor ceases to exist. Institution A reported $100 million worth of deposits in its report of condition as of September 30. Its assessment base (deposits less deductions) is $90 million. On October 15, Institution A transfers all its deposits to Institution B and goes out of business. Institution A has only $98 million in deposits at the time of the transfer. The FDIC will increase Institution B's September 30 assessment base to reflect its pro rata share of Institution A's assessment base. That is, Institution B's assessment base will be increased by $88 million, determined as follows: $98 million deposits acquired divided by $100 million deposits reported by Institution A on its September 30 report of condition multiplied by $90 million assessment base (98/100 × $90 million), or $88 million. Institution B would receive credit for any assessment payments attributable to the transferred deposits that have already been made by Institution A. Institution B's payment represents the first installment for the January through June assessment period. The FDIC considers that the deposits transferred in bulk to Institution B continue to pose a risk to the insurance fund. Accordingly, it is appropriate to adjust Institution B's assessment base to reflect that risk. Example 4_Multiple transfers of deposits; transferor ceases to exist. Institution A reported $100 million worth of deposits in its report of condition as of September 30; its assessment base is $90 million. On October 15 it transfers $33 million of its deposits in bulk to Institution B. Institution A then shrinks in size from $67 million to $50 million, and on November 30 transfers all its remaining deposits to Institution C. The FDIC will increase the September assessment bases of Institutions B and C by $30 million and $45 million, respectively. The supporting calculation shows: Institution B_$33 million in deposits acquired by Institution B divided by $100 million deposits reported by Institution A on the September report of condition multiplied by $90 million assessment base of Institution A determined from the report of condition based on September 30 report of condition; Institution C_$50 million in deposits acquired from Institution A divided by $100 million deposits reported by Institution A's September report of condition multiplied by the $90 million assessment base of Institution A determined from its report of condition. The FDIC believes that the pro rata methodology presented properly reflects the continued risk to the insurance fund presented by the deposits transferred in bulk from Institution A to Institutions B and C. The insurance fund will bear the cost of deposits that are not transferred in bulk.
