FR940425-2-00089 FR940425-2-00060 Minerals Management Service (MMS) The MMS' Intent to Join the Training Technology Consortium (TTC) AGENCY: Minerals Management Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. ’ SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the MMS plans to join the TTC, a Government-industry nonprofit group, as a means of developing interactive training modules for use in training members of fits inspection work force. ADDRESSES: Minerals Management Service, Information and Training Branch, MS 4810, 381 Elden Street, Herndon, Virginia 22070. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joseph Levine, Chief, Information and Training Branch at the above address: telephone (703) 787&hyph;1033/fax (703) 787&hyph;1575. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The MMS is responsible for inspecting oil and gas operations in the Outer Continental Shelf. The MMS inspects these highly complex operations to make certain that operators conduct them in a safe and environmentally sound manner. To ensure that a highly trained and professional work force is available to perform these inspections, MMS provides this work force with accurate and timely training information. To that end, MMS will augment its program of traditional classroom-based instruction to include computer-based interactive instruction. An interactive training system will help the agency provide low cost and simple to use training to its inspection work force. This training will focus on technical, environmental, and safety issues relevant to offshore oil and gas operations. The TTC, when incorporated, will be a nonprofit association composed of domestic oil and gas exploration or producing companies and regulatory agencies. The goal of TTC will be to identify common training needs and to develop training material using an interactive format (i.e., compact disk interactive or CD&hyph;I). As a training technology, CD&hyph;I offers several advantages over traditional classroom-based training approaches. Short-term retention has been shown to be better; it is portable and can be displayed on several platforms; there is less time off the job since it is not dependent on a classroom setting and can be done as time permits; and the content can be changed with relative ease and furnished identically to several locations. Hardware technology supporting CD&hyph;I is also relatively inexpensive. The TTC will minimize member costs by allowing individuals to pool their financial and technical resources to develop appropriate training materials. This is particularly important to MMS because it allows MMS inspectors to stay abreast of technological advances made by the offshore industry. It is anticipated that TTC will be incorporated during the month of April or May 1994. At that time, MMS intends to become an active member in the consortium. Dated: April 15, 1994. Thomas Gernhofer, Associate Director for Offshore Minerals Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9869 Filed 4&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;MR&hyph;M
