FR940825-1-00044 FR940825-1-00008 HUD believes that the hearing process provided under the 1988 proposed rule was legally sufficient, and complied with the requirements of the 1987 Act. The 1988 proposed rule met the minimum statutory requirements for a hearing. Under 42 U.S.C. 1436a(d)(6), HUD is required to make available to an individual who has been determined to be an ineligible noncitizen ``*␣*␣* the applicable fair hearing process.'' The section lists the minimum statutory criteria needed to comport with due process requirements, which include: (1) Written notice of the determination to deny or terminate benefits, and of the opportunity for a hearing to discuss the determination; (2) a hearing before an impartial hearing officer; and (3) written notification by the responsible entity of the decision of the hearing officer. The 1994 proposed rule adds certain other due process components to the informal hearing process. These additional components are those provided by HAs and project owners for termination of tenancy (e.g., see 24 CFR 905.340, and 24 CFR 966.56). HUD believes that the type of hearing provided for termination of tenancy also should be available to applicants who are denied assistance on the basis of ineligible immigration status. 3. Timeframes for Requesting Hearings and Issuing Decisions Four commenters objected to the 1988 proposed rule's 14-day period for requesting a hearing, claiming that the period is too brief since it would run from the date on the notice, and not from the date of receipt. They urged HUD instead to grant a hearing whenever reasonable cause is shown for a belated hearing request, or whenever there is only nominal prejudice to the responsible entity. Another commenter asked HUD to extend the period for requesting a hearing from 14 to 30 days. While HUD has not entirely adopted either of these suggestions in the 1994 proposed rule, the 1994 proposed rule provides that a hearing must be requested within 14 days of the date of mailing the written notice of ineligibility or the INS appeals decisions (established by the date of postmark) or the date of personal delivery of the notice (established by date of actual delivery) to the applicant or tenant. In addition, the 1994 proposed rule requires the responsible entity to grant an extension for requesting a hearing upon good cause shown by the applicant or tenant. Other commenters objected to the requirement that responsible entities must provide an applicant or tenant with a written final decision regarding the decision to deny or terminate benefits within five days of the informal hearing. They claimed that this five-day limit does not provide a responsible entity with sufficient time to investigate and verify additional documentation that may have been submitted by the applicant or tenant at the hearing. HUD agrees with these commenters, and the 1994 proposed rule provides that the responsible entity must provide its written decision within 14 days of the hearing date. 4. Hearing Officers Several commenters expressed concern about the qualifications of hearing officers under the 1988 proposed rule. The commenters cited the United States Supreme Court's decisions in Schweiker v. McClure, 456 U.S. 188 (1982) and Matthews v. Eldredge, 424 U.S. 319 (1976) in support of their claims that the requirements for hearing offices contained in the 1988 proposed rule are constitutionally deficient. Specifically, a number of commenters asserted that under the standards established in McClure, a project owner who wants his or her employee to qualify as a hearing officer must first ensure that the employee has knowledge of the SAVE program, immigration law, and relevant program information. HUD disagrees with this interpretation of the McClure case. In McClure, the Supreme Court focused on the second of the three factors cited in Matthews, which considers the risk of an erroneous decision and the probable value, if any, of additional or substitute due process safeguards. The Court then noted that in that case the Department of Health and Human Services by regulation required its carriers to select as a hearing officer: [A]n attorney or other qualified individual with the ability to conduct formal hearings and with a general understanding of medical matters and terminology. The hearing officer must have a thorough knowledge of the Medicare program and the statutory authority and regulations upon which it is based, as well as rulings, policy statements, and general instructions pertinent to the Medicare Bureau.'' (Id. at 1188). The Supreme Court found that because the HHS regulation ensured the qualifications of hearing officers, the record did not support the appellee's claims that additional due process safeguards would reduce the risk of erroneous deprivation of benefits. However, it is inaccurate to point to the HHS regulatory standards on the qualification of Medicaid hearing officers as establishing the minimum constitutional standards needed to comply with due process. Moreover, contrary to the suggestion of commenters, it is unnecessary for HUD to require under its rule implementing section 214 that hearing officers have substantive knowledge of immigration law. The INS has undisputed expertise in this area, and under the rule any applicant or tenant who is faced with the denial or termination of benefits because of ineligible immigration status is guaranteed an opportunity to directly appeal to the INS the ineligibility determination. As a result, it would be duplicative and unnecessary to require hearing officers to have in-depth knowledge of immigration law. Two commenters contended that the regulatory sections in the 1988 proposed rule which permitted a hearing to be held before an officer or employee of the owner so long as he or she did not make the initial decision of ineligibility, violates the 1987 Act's requirement of an impartial hearing officer. Another commenter claimed that the informal hearing established in the 1988 proposed rule failed to satisfy statutory and constitutional requirements, since both the initial decision and the decision following the hearing are issued by the owner, and not the owner's designated representative.
