FR941019-0-00049 FR941019-0-00007 Finally, this rule adds the Czech Republic to the list of countries exempted from certain validated license requirements on the basis of its recent membership in the 26-nation Australia Group. In addition, this rule revises ยง778.8(a)(1)(i) for conformity and consistency. Saving Clause Shipments of items removed from general license authorizations as a result of this regulatory action that were on dock for loading, on lighter, laden aboard an exporting carrier, or en route aboard a carrier to a port of export pursuant to actual orders for export before October 19, 1994 may be exported under the previous general license provisions up to and including November 16, 1994. Any such items not actually exported before midnight November 16, 1994, require a validated export license in accordance with this regulation. Rulemaking Requirements 1. This interim rule has been determined to be not significant for the purposes of Executive Order 12866. 2. This rule involves collections of information subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). These collections have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0694&hyph;0005, 0694&hyph;0010, 0694&hyph;0023 and 0694&hyph;0067. This rule imposes a new requirement that has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Public burden for the collection contained within the rulemaking is estimated to average one-half hour per response. This includes the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding these burden estimates or any other aspect of the data requirements, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the Office of Security and Management Support, Room 4513, Bureau of Export Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503 (Attn: Paperwork Reduction Project_0694&hyph;XXXX). 3. This rule does not contain policies with Federalism implications sufficient to warrant preparation of a Federalism assessment under Executive Order 12612. 4. Because a notice of proposed rulemaking and an opportunity for public comment are not required to be given for this rule by section 553 of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553) or by any other law, under sections 3(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 603(a) and 604(a)) no initial or final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis has to be or will be prepared. 5. The provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, (5 U.S.C. 553), requiring notice of proposed rulemaking, the opportunity for public participation, and a delay in effective date, are inapplicable because this regulation involves a military or foreign affairs function of the United States. No other law requires that a notice of proposed rulemaking and an opportunity for public comment be given for this rule. However, because of the importance of the issues raised by these regulations, this rule is issued in interim form and comments will be considered in the development of final regulations. Accordingly, the Department encourages interested persons who wish to comment to do so at the earliest possible time to permit the fullest consideration of their views. The period for submission of comments will close November 18, 1994. The Department will consider all comments received before the close of the comment period in developing final regulations. Comments received after the end of the comment period will be considered if possible, but their consideration cannot be assured. The Department will not accept public comments accompanied by a request that a part or all of the material be treated confidentially because of its business proprietary nature or for any other reason. The Department will return such comments and materials to the person submitting the comments and will not consider them in the development of final regulations. All public comments on these regulations will be a matter of public record and will be available for public inspection and copying. In the interest of accuracy and completeness, the Department requires comments in written form. Oral comments must be followed by written memoranda, which will also be a matter of public record and will be available for public review and copying. Communications from agencies of the United States Government or foreign governments will not be made available for public inspection. The public record concerning these regulations will be maintained in the Bureau of Export Administration Freedom of Information Records Inspection Facility, Room 4525, Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Records in this facility, including written public comments and memoranda summarizing the substance of oral communications, may be inspected and copied in accordance with regulations published in Part 4 of Title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Information about the inspection and copying of records at the facility may be obtained from Edward Lingelbach, Bureau of Export Administration Freedom of Information Officer, at the above address or by calling (202) 482&hyph;5653.
