FR940907-2-00062 FR940907-2-00044 The first criterion in the FY 1995 contractor performance evaluation is ``Claims Processing'', which measures contractual performance against claims processing accuracy and timeliness requirements. Within the Claims Processing criterion, we have identified those performance standards which are mandated by either legislation, regulation or judicial decision. These standards include claims processing timeliness, the rate of cases reversed by an Administrative Law Judge, the timeliness of intermediary reconsideration cases, and the accuracy and timeliness of carrier reviews and hearings. Further evaluation in the Claims Processing criterion may include, but is not limited to, the accuracy of bill and claims processing, the level of electronic claims payment, and the accuracy of intermediary reconsideration cases. The second criterion is ``Customer Service'', which assesses the completeness of the service provided to customers by the contractor in its administration of the Medicare program. Mandated standards in the Customer Service criterion include the accuracy of Explanations of Medicare Benefits, and the accuracy and timeliness of carrier replies to beneficiary telephone inquiries. In FY 1995, customer feedback may be used to collect comparable data on customer satisfaction and identify areas in need of improvement. Among the specific contractor services that may be included in the evaluation process under the Customer Service criterion are: beneficiary relations; provider education; appropriate telephone inquiry responses; and the tone and accuracy of all correspondence. The third criterion is ``Payment Safeguards'', which evaluates whether the Medicare trust fund is safeguarded against inappropriate program expenditures. Intermediary and carrier performance may be evaluated in the areas of medical review, Medicare secondary payer, fraud and abuse, and audit and reimbursement. Mandated performance standards in the Payment Safeguards criterion are the accuracy of decisions on skilled nursing facility (SNF) demand bills, and the timeliness of processing Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act (TEFRA) target rate adjustments, exceptions, and exemptions. Further evaluation in this criterion may include, but is not limited to, the efficient and effective compilation and analysis of data to bring about continuous improvement in contractor efforts to safeguard Medicare program dollars. The fourth criterion is ``Fiscal Responsibility'', which evaluates the contractor's efforts to protect the Medicare program and the public interest. Contractors must effectively manage Federal funds for both payment of benefits and cost of administration under the Medicare program. Proper financial and budgetary controls must be in place to ensure contractor compliance with its agreement with HHS and HCFA. Additional functions reviewed under this criterion may include, but are not limited to, bottom line unit cost, compliance with the Budget and Performance Requirements, adherence to Chief Financial Officer's Act. The fifth and final criterion is ``Administrative Activities'', which measures a contractor's administrative management of the Medicare program. A contractor must efficiently and effectively manage its operations to assure constant improvement in the way it does business. Proper systems security, ADP maintenance, and disaster recovery plans must be in place. A contractor's evaluation under the Administrative Activities criterion may include, but is not limited to, establishment, application, documentation, and effectiveness of internal controls. Internal controls include all aspects of a contractor's operation. It can include implementation reviews of corrective action plans, task management plans, data and reporting requirements, and management improvement plans. We have also developed separate measures for evaluating unique activities of Regional Home Health Intermediaries (RHHIs).
