FR940304-1-00113 FR940304-1-00014 The Department has considered these expenses in the analysis of direct heating equipment. The increase in consumer expenses caused by a design option includes not only the increase in retail price, but also any additional installation and maintenance expenses that result from incorporating that design option into the equipment. Southern Gas Association contended that more efficient direct heating equipment would have a severe economic impact on lower-income and elderly consumers, and that low usage in Southern states should be evaluated. (Southern Gas Association, No. 4 at 7,10). Minnegasco also commented on the issue of low usage by urging DOE to consider regional usage when performing the engineering analysis. (Minnegasco, No. 83 at 2). The Department has lowered its usage assumption by using the modified burner operating hours contained in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking mentioned above for furnace test procedures. The proposed burner operating hours for direct heating equipment has been revised downward to account for the regional distribution of this product disproportionately to the southern half of the Nation. The Department has no data with which to measure the standards' impacts on elderly and lower-income consumers in determining whether a standard level is economically justified; however, DOE will consider the financial effect that the standard has on such consumers. In the Advance Notice for this rulemaking, the Department described how it performs sensitivity analyses to help it understand the effects on the forecasted impacts because of changes in the exogenous variables and assumptions. (55 FR 39633). Those sensitivities were developed at the national level, and no effort was made to link them with any specific population groups. With the exception of the direct heating equipment analysis discussed above, the standards analysis assumed that nationwide average appliance usage rates, energy prices, and efficiency applied to all consumers in all areas of the nation, although the Department recognized that there exist large variations in each of these factors. The Department seeks additional information concerning the extent to which any proposed national efficiency standard is likely to affect identifiable groups of consumers disproportionally and, especially how best to consider such impacts in the selection of efficiency standard levels. The Department is also seeking additional data to help it better assess the disproportionate impacts on such groups. 4. Mobile Home Furnaces Design options. The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association stated that an intermittent ignition device design is not appropriate to mobile home furnaces. The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association stated there is almost no flow through the heat exchanger during the off-cycle. If the intermittent ignition device failed, a gas-air mixture could build up and possibly lead to an explosion when the intermittent ignition device is activated. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 7). The Department accepted Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association's comment and did not consider an intermittent ignition device plus vent damper as an engineering design for mobile home furnaces. American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy proposed intermittent ignition devices and vent dampers be separately considered and that two-speed or variable-speed blowers be evaluated. (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 4). The Department has accepted these approaches. The intermittent ignition device with fan-forced combustion has been considered as one option, while the combustion box damper has been considered as a separate option. A combustion box damper has the same effect on efficiency as a vent damper for isolated combustion-type systems. Mobile home furnaces are required to have isolated combustion systems by the Housing and Urban Development code. Both two-stage and continuously modulated burners were included in the final list of design options.
