FR940208-0-00080 FR940208-0-00031 On January 27, 1993, the Natural Resources Defense Council and other environmental groups sued to compel designation of critical habitat for the Mojave population of the desert tortoise, alleging that the Secretary had failed to meet the designation deadline under section 4(b)(6)(C)(ii) of the Act ( Natural Resources Defense Council v. Babbitt , No. C&hyph;93&hyph;0301 MHP (N.D. Cal.)). Plaintiffs further requested the court to prohibit the Service from issuing any further biological opinions for the tortoise under section 7 of the Act until critical habitat was designated. On May 21, 1993, the plaintiffs, in both cases, and the Secretary agreed on a stipulation requiring the defendants to propose critical habitat for the desert tortoise by August 1, 1993, and to designate critical habitat by December 1, 1993. On July 30, 1993, the plaintiffs agreed to an extension of these deadlines to August 29, 1993, for a proposal and December 15, 1993, for a final decision. On March 30, 1993, the Service announced the availability of the Draft Recovery Plan for the Desert Tortoise (Mojave Population) (Draft Recovery Plan) (58 FR 16691). The Draft Recovery Plan (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1993) divides the range of the desert tortoise into 6 recovery units and recommends establishment of 14 Desert Wildlife Management Areas (DWMAs) within the recovery units. Within each DWMA, the Draft Recovery Plan recommends specific management actions to effect recovery of desert tortoises. The public comment period on the Draft Recovery Plan closed on June 30, 1993. The Service published a proposed rule to designate critical habitat for the desert tortoise on August 30, 1993 (58 FR 45748). The August 30 proposal requested comments from all interested parties on the proposed determination and associated economic analysis. This final rule represents the Service's final decision on this issue. However, the Service may revise critical habitat in the future if land management plans, recovery plans, or other conservation strategies that are developed and fully implemented reduce the need for the additional protection provided by critical habitat designation. Definition of Critical Habitat Critical habitat is defined in section 3(5)(A) of the Act as ``(i) the specific areas within the geographic area occupied by the species *␣*␣* on which are found those physical or biological features (I) essential to the conservation of the species and (II) which may require special management considerations or protection; and (ii) specific areas outside the geographical area occupied by the species at the time it is listed *␣*␣* upon a determination *␣*␣* that such areas are essential for the conservation of the species.'' The term ``conservation,'' as defined in section 3(3) of the Act, means ``*␣*␣* to use and the use of all methods and procedures which are necessary to bring an endangered species or threatened species to the point at which the measures provided pursuant to this Act are no longer necessary,'' i.e., the species is recovered and removed from the list of endangered and threatened species. Section 3 further states that in most cases the entire range of a species should not be encompassed within critical habitat. Role in Species Conservation Use of the term ``conservation'' in the definition of critical habitat indicates that its designation should identify lands that may be needed for a species' eventual recovery and delisting. However, when critical habitat is designated at the time a species is listed, the Service frequently does not know exactly what may be needed for recovery. In this regard, critical habitat serves to preserve options for a species' eventual recovery. The designation of critical habitat will not, in itself, lead to recovery, but is one of several measures available to contribute to a species' conservation. Critical habitat helps focus conservation activities by identifying areas that contain essential habitat features (primary constituent elements) regardless of whether or not they are currently occupied by the listed species, thus alerting the public to the importance of an area in the conservation of a listed species. Critical habitat also identifies areas that may require special management or protection. Critical habitat receives protection under section 7 of the Act with regard to actions carried out, funded, or authorized by a Federal agency. The added protection of these areas may shorten the time needed to achieve recovery. Aside from the added protection provided under section 7, the Act does not provide other forms of protection to lands designated as critical habitat. Designating critical habitat does not create a management plan, it does not establish numerical population goals, it does not prescribe specific management actions (inside or outside of critical habitat), nor does it have a direct effect on areas not designated as critical habitat. Specific management recommendations for critical habitat are more appropriately addressed in recovery plans, management plans, and section 7 consultations. In addition to considering biological information in designating critical habitat, the Service also considers economic and other relevant impacts of designating critical habitat. The Service may exclude areas from critical habitat when the benefits of such exclusion outweigh the benefits of including the areas within critical habitat, provided that the exclusion will not result in the extinction of a species.
