FR940304-1-00109 FR940304-1-00014 Modification of Existing Venting Systems The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association mentioned that for water heating systems to be compatible with existing venting systems, recovery efficiencies must be less than 82 percent. Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association further stated that elimination of the draft hood and installation of a new venting system for both a furnace and water heater would modify the installed price of the water heater by three to five times. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No.40 at 4). The Gas Research Institute said that additional expenses of altering venting systems are necessary for high- efficiency water heaters. Estimates of these expenses 25 were provided to the Department on a regional basis. (Gas Research Institute, No. 59 at 2&hyph;3). 25 Ibid. The Washington Gas Light, Inc. indicated that ``installing a water heater with a vent damper or power combustion into an existing masonry chimney .␣.␣. may result in the need to reline the chimney.'' The charge for this would be between $500 and $2000. (Washington Gas Light, Inc., No. 37 at 8). ENTEX estimated installing a new vent system in its service area would be approximately $260. (ENTEX, No. 58 at 5). Energen Corporation estimated the incremental cost of adding a new vent system at $125 to $175. (Energen, No. 12 at 6). The charge for relining venting systems that were not type-B was added to the installation expense of all design options with recovery efficiencies above 80 percent that were not power vented. The Department used values of $408 for relining masonry chimneys, $85 for replacing vent connectors, and $75 for adding a sidewall venting system. 26 26 Ibid. Maintenance Mississippi Valley and Energen stated that when an intermittent ignition device and flue damper or forced draft combustion are added to a gas water heater, it is likely that at least one of the following components (ignitor, fan motor, printed circuit board, fan relay system, or vent damper assembly) will fail and need service or replacement in the 10- to 12-year life of the water heater. (Mississippi Valley, No. 5 at 6; Energen, No. 12 at 8). Among other comments on the engineering analysis of water heaters, Energen stated that reliability and functionality issues are most important in a total system-specific, real world situation. Issues such as venting materials, vent categories, common venting, vent-system condensation, corrosion, masonry chimney suitability, backdrafting, spillage, negative room pressure, combustion air management, construction clearances, vent termination requirements, heat or flame roll out, flammable vapors ignition, and others must be a significant part of the efficiency equation. (Energen, No. 12 at 9). The limited data available on component lifetimes suggested failure would occur near the end of the service life of water heaters. Therefore, the Department did not include maintenance expenses in the analysis. The Department requests data on water heater lifetimes, component lifetimes and service costs for consideration in the final rule. Baseline Model The Southern Gas Association and other gas suppliers recommended baseline units and costs. (Southern Gas Association, No. 4 at 8). Energen said that the baseline unit should logically be a natural draft, non-powered unit upgraded to the highest field-proven technology level, including heat traps, advanced insulation techniques, sealing of the pilot light and/or main burner combustion cavity, piezo pilot ignitors, flue dampers and or advanced flue baffling. (Energen No. 12 at 8). Lone Star proposed that shipment data from the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association be used for baselines. (Lone Star, No. 39 at 3). The baseline model used in this analysis was established from data provided by the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association who was supplied with the data by manufacturers. The baseline represents a typical water heater that marginally meets the 1990 National Appliance Energy Conservation Act standards. The baseline gas-fired storage water heater is a center flue, glass- lined steel tank with a standing pilot. It has a 40-gallon tank and 1-inch-thick foam insulation. Both the inlet and outlet are at the top of the tank. It has six feed throughs and no heat traps. It is bottom-fired with a three-inch central flue. The burner input is 34,000 Btu per hour. The pilot light input rate is 400 Btu per hour.
