FR940711-0-00014 FR940711-0-00002 (3) Review. The Office is not authorized to review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency. (4) Employees who transfer from one paying agency to another. If, after the creditor agency has submitted the debt claim to the Office, the employee transfers from OPM to a different paying agency before the debt is collected in full, the Office will certify the total amount collected on the debt. One copy of the certification will be furnished to the employee and one copy to the creditor agency along with notice of the employee's transfer. §179.214 Interest, penalties and administrative costs. The office shall assess interest, penalties and administrative costs on debts owed pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 4 CFR part 101.1 et seq. Penalties and administrative costs will be assessed on all delinquent debts. (a) In cases of default on a previous repayment agreement, the Office reserves the right to set a new interest rate which reflects the current value of funds to the Treasury at the time a new repayment agreement is executed. (b) The Office, on a case-by-case basis, may waive all interest accrued on debts paid in full within 60 days of the due date if there is no indication of fault or lack of good faith on the part of the debtor. (c) The Office may waive, in whole or in part, the collection of interest, penalties, and/or administrative costs assessed under this section under the criteria specified in part 103 of 4 CFR, chapter II, relating to the compromise of claims (without regard to the amount of the debt). (d) The Office may waive, in whole or in part, the collection of interest, penalties, and/or administrative costs assessed under this section if the Office determines that collection of these charges would be against equity and good conscience or not in the best interests of the United States. (e) The Office shall waive the accrual of interest pending consideration of a request for reconsideration, administrative review, or waiver of the underlying debt under provisions of a permissive statute providing for such review related to the debt. (f) The Office shall waive interest on repayment agreements when the amount of interest accruing equals or exceeds the amount of installments the debtor can reasonably afford and there is no indication of fault or lack of good faith on the part of the debtor. §179.215 Refunds. (a) The Office shall promptly refund any amounts deducted under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514 when: (1) The debt is waived or otherwise found not to be owing the United States (unless expressly prohibited by statute or regulation); or (2) An administrative or judicial order directs the Office to make a refund. (b) Unless required or permitted by law or contract, refunds under this subsection shall not bear interest. §179.216 Request for the services of a hearing official when the creditor agency is not OPM. (a) The Office will provide a hearing official upon request of the creditor agency when the debtor is employed by the Office and the creditor agency cannot provide a prompt and appropriate hearing before a hearing official furnished pursuant to another lawful arrangement. (b) The salary offset coordinator will secure qualified personnel to serve as hearing officials. (c) Services rendered under this section will be provided on a fully reimbursable basis pursuant to the Economy Act of 1932, as amended , 31 U.S.C. 1535. §179.217 Non-waiver of rights by payments. An employee's involuntary payment of all or any portion of a debt collected under this subpart must not be construed as a waiver of any rights which the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of contract or law unless there are statutory or contractual provisions to the contrary. §179.218 Additional administrative collection action. Nothing contained in this subpart is intended to preclude the use of any other administrative remedy which may be appropriate. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16633 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;M
