FR940325-0-00054 FR940325-0-00013 2. Service definition. PageMart, Inc. (PageMart) requested that traditional paging services be excluded from the new narrowband PCS spectrum, arguing that the Commission provided no safeguards to ensure that the spectrum would be used for advanced messaging and paging services. The Commission declined to amend the board definition of service adopted in the R&O , stating that it would not be desirable to limit the range of services and technologies that are allowed to use these frequencies and that the definition adopted in the R&O will allow the market to determine the mix of services and technologies that best meets the needs of the public. 3. Channel plan. PageMart requested that a greater variety in the size of channels be provided, arguing that the channel plan would limit efficient use of this spectrum, encourage warehousing and speculation, and inhibit development of services that require either smaller or larger channels. The Commission declined to amend the 50 kHz-based channel plan adopted in the R&O , stating that the services proposed in this docket would be best accommodated by its 50 kHz-based channel plan, with aggregation possibilities, as adopted. 4. Service areas. Paging Network, Inc. (PageNet) requested that larger local and regional service areas be provided, arguing that BTAs are technically unworkable, not representative of existing local paging systems, and not economically viable; and that MTAs pose technical difficulties and are not representative of existing regional services. The Commission responded that MTAs contain sufficient population and geographic area to support viable services and retained MTAs for service areas. However, the Commission revised its service areas to include five large regions in addition to BTAs, MTAs and nationwide. The Commission stated that the regions better reflect the technologies and business plans of the parties proposing to implement large regional systems. The new five large regions are based upon aggregations of MTAs, and each has approximately 20 percent of the nation's population. See §99.102, infra. The Commission also amended the spectrum plan to accommodate the new regional service areas, as follows: ␣ 1Service area 1Channels available Nationwide 3&hyph;50 kHz paired with 12.5 kHz. ␣ 5&hyph;50 kHz paired with 50 kHz. ␣ 3&hyph;50 kHz unpaired. Regions 4&hyph;50 kHz paired with 12.5 kHz. ␣ 2&hyph;50 kHz paired with 50 kHz. MTA 3&hyph;50 kHz paired with 12.5 kHz. ␣ 2&hyph;50 kHz paired with 50 kHz. ␣ 2&hyph;50 kHz unpaired. BTA 2&hyph;50 kHz paired with 12.5 kHz.
