FR940920-2-00022 FR940920-2-00007 2. Guaisa For Guaisa, we based FMV on packed prices to unrelated customers in Germany and Sweden. For third country price-to-purchase price comparisons, we deducted quality-related credits. We also deducted post-sale home market movement charges from FMV under the circumstance-of-sale provision of 19 CFR 353.56. This adjustment included foreign inland freight. Pursuant to 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2), we made circumstance-of-sale adjustments, where appropriate, for differences in credit expenses and commissions paid to an unrelated party. We deducted third country packing costs and added U.S. packing costs, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. For third country price-to-ESP comparisons, we made deductions for foreign inland freight, credit expenses and commissions paid to an unrelated party. We also deducted the weighted-average third country indirect selling expenses, up to the amount of the greater of related party commissions or indirect selling expenses, including invoice carrying costs, incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(1) ( See the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum). Inventory carrying costs were based on an inventory carrying period of seven days, as was done for the calculation of USP. Regarding credit expenses, Guaisa incorrectly calculated the credit period for certain third country transactions. In addition, Guaisa calculated its short-term interest rate based on borrowings from related parties. Accordingly, as BIA, we used the shortest credit period reported for any third country sale. We then recalculated Guaisa's third country and U.S. purchase price credit expenses using its interest rate paid to unrelated parties. For CV-to-purchase price comparisons, we made circumstance of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for credit expenses. For CV-to-ESP comparisons, we made deductions, where appropriate, for credit expenses. We also deducted from CV the weighted-average third country market indirect selling expenses, including inventory carrying costs, up to the amount of the greater of related party commissions or indirect selling expenses, including indirect carrying costs, incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). We added U.S. packing costs, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. 3. Floricola For Floricola, we based FMV on CV. The CV includes the cost of materials and cultivation of the merchandise exported to the United States, plus SG&A expenses, profit, and packing. We used U.S. selling expenses in our CV calculation instead of using Floricola's home market selling expenses. For the final determination, however, we will revisit the issue of the appropriate selling expenses for use in Floricola's CV calculation. We deducted credit expenses. We also deducted U.S. indirect selling expenses, including inventory carrying costs, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(1) ( See the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum). We also added U.S. packing costs, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. Third Country Versus Constructed Value On March 30, 1994, counsel for 14 of the 16 Colombian respondents in the companion investigation on fresh cut roses from Colombia requested that the Department reject third-country sales and rely instead on constructed value as The basis for FMV. We considered this issue for this case as well. The Department's normal preference, based on its regulations, is to utilize third-country sales rather than constructed value when there is a viable third country market. See 19 CFR 353.48(b). Respondents have urged departure from this practice, citing Certain Fresh Cut Flowers from Colombia; Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review 55 FR 20491 (May 17, 1990) ( Flowers ). The Department determined in Flowers that departure from our normal practice was warranted after an analysis of three unusual factors present in that case. Respondents argue that the facts in this investigation present even more compelling reasons to reject third-country sales than were present in Flowers . In determining whether the circumstances in this case are such that it should fall under the exception established in Flowers , we have analyzed the information presented in light of the three factors set forth in Flowers : 1) negative correlation of price and volume movements between markets; 2) peak to non-peak comparisons; and 3) the perishability of the subject merchandise.
