FR941221-1-00018 FR941221-1-00005 (d) Require escorting of ships transporting certain potentially hazardous cargoes, if appropriate. The Coast Guard does not intend to use PWSA to circumvent other escorting mandates of OPA 90. For example, PWSA will not be used to provide relief from the two-escort-vessel minimum for Prince William Sound and Puget Sound because section 4116(c) of OPA 90 clearly requires the use of two escort vessels by laden oil tankers over 5,000 GT operating in those waters. 5. Waterway Evaluation Criteria As previously discussed, the Coast Guard is developing criteria for evaluating waterways where escorting should be required. The criteria under consideration are based on certain general factors which must be taken into account when issuing regulations under the PWSA. These factors are located in section 5 of the PWSA (33 U.S.C. 1224). The criteria which the Coast Guard is considering using in making determinations with regard to the necessity of escort vessels are as follows (the criteria are further elaborated by a series of questions which are intended to more-specifically focus the criteria on escorting): (a) Scope and degree of risk or hazard involved. What are the navigational limitations of the waterway? How much sea room (open water, deep water) is available? What hazards (reefs, shoals, oil platforms, etc.) or constrained points (narrow channels, bridge abutments, etc.) are along the waterway? What are the risks of grounding, and what is the nature of the bottom (hard, soft, mud, coral, etc.)? What are the risks of collision? Are there other risk conditions such as currents, tides, ice, fog, or severe weather patterns? (b) Vessel traffic characteristics. What are the traffic routes through the waterway? Who are the other users of the waterway (commercial, military, fishing, recreational) and what traffic density do they create? (c) Port and waterway configuration. Where are the terminals located? How many transits (per year) of ships carrying oil and other potentially hazardous cargo? What are the sizes of such ships, and are they constrained in their ability to maneuver? (d) Need for granting exemptions for small vessels. Should small vessels be exempted from escorting? If so, how small? (e) Proximity to fishing grounds, oil and gas drilling or production operations, or other conflicting activity. How would these activities be affected by escorting? (f) Environmental factors. Where are the environmentally-sensitive areas of the waterway? How close do ships carrying oil and other potentially hazardous cargoes transit?
