FR941004-2-00130 FR941004-2-00075 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Office of the Secretary Secretary's Task Force on Excellence in State and Local Government Through Labor-Management Cooperation: Meeting AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, Labor. ACTION: Notice of partially closed meeting. SUMMARY: The Secretary's Task Force on Excellence in State and Local Government Through Labor-Management Cooperation was established in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA) (Pub. L. 82&hyph;463)). A Notice of Establishment for the Task Force was published in the June 9, 1994, Federal Register. Pursuant to Section 10(a) of FACA, this is to announce the first meeting of the Task Force which is to take place on October 19 and 20, 1994. The purpose of the Task Force is to investigate worker-management relations in the public sector and identify trends in excellence in labor-management cooperation. Specifically, the Task Force will be asked to address the following questions: (1) What (if any) new methods or institutions should be encouraged to enhance the quality, productivity and cost-effectiveness of public sector services through labor-management cooperation and employee participation, recognizing the broad variety of functions performed by different levels of government and various other agencies and public organizations? (2) What (if any) changes to legal frameworks which impact on labor-management relations, including collective bargaining and civil service legislation could be considered to enhance cooperative behaviors that would improve the delivery of services by reducing conflict, duplication and delays? (3) What (if anything) should be done to increase the extent to which workplace problems are resolved directly by the parties themselves rather than through recourse to administrative bodies and the courts? (4) What (if anything) can be done to improve the coordination between appropriate executive and legislative bodies to enhance labor-management relations in the public sector and to create a climate where productivity improvement, innovation and risk taking are encouraged and rewarded? (5) What conditions are necessary to enable elected political leaders, public managers, public employees and labor organizations to work together to achieve excellence in state and local government? What (if any) are the obstacles, and how can they be overcome? (6) What examples of successful cooperative efforts are appropriate to serve as public sector models? Why have some initially successful efforts failed, and what can be done to enhance prospects for success? TIME AND PLACE: The meeting will be held on Wednesday, October 19 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., in the Great Hall and Thursday, October 20 from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. in Conference Room N&hyph;3437 A&hyph;D in the Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC. AGENDA: The agenda for the meeting is as follows: (a) Introduction of Task Force Members (b) Legal Guidance from the Solicitor (c) Guidance to the Task Force by the Secretary of Labor (d) Statements by experts regarding Excellence and Labor-Management Cooperation (e) Inquiries by Task Force members of experts (f) Comments by interested parties on Task Force objectives (time permitting)
