FR940413-0-00065 FR940413-0-00024 D. Additional Comments The FAA received two comments that requested revisions to the rule that are beyond the scope of the notice. One commenter supports the proposal only if a flight check also is required for renewal of a flight instructor certificate because requiring classroom time without a flight check does not ensure that the flight instructor can apply the knowledge learned from the classroom. Another commenter is opposed to the proposal on the grounds that safety would be better served if the flight instructor were required to demonstrate competency in an aircraft for renewal of the flight instructor certificate, as opposed to classroom time. One commenter requests that the word ``she'' be taken out of the amended rule language in ยง61.197(c), and one commenter suggests that the FAA should form a task group to study technology advancements in education and their applicability to the FIRC's. Both commenters agree with the proposal to allow for approval of the number of hours of instruction that holders of flight instructor certificates must complete in an FAA approved FIRC to renew their certificate. International Civil Aviation Organization and Joint Aviation Regulations The FAA has determined that a review of the Convention on International Civil Aviation Standards and Recommended Practices is not warranted because flight instructor certification requirements have virtually no bearing on flight operations internationally. Paperwork Reduction Act This final rule will not change reporting requirements. Therefore, in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;511), there are no additional requirements for information collection associated with this final rule. Economic Evaluation This section contains the full regulatory evaluation prepared by the FAA that provides information on the economic consequences of this regulatory action. This evaluation quantifies, to the extent practicable, estimates of the costs and benefits to the private sector, consumers, and Federal, State, and local governments. Executive Order 12866, dated September 30, 1993, directs Federal agencies to promulgate new regulations or modify existing regulations only if benefits to society for each regulatory change outweigh potential costs. The order also requires the preparation of an economic analysis of all ``significant regulatory actions'' except those responding to emergency situations or other narrowly-defined exigencies. The FAA has determined that this rule is not significant. Therefore, a full regulatory analysis that includes the identification and evaluation of cost-reducing alternatives to the rule has not been prepared. Instead, the agency has prepared a more concise regulatory evaluation that analyzes only this rule without identifying alternatives. In addition to the regulatory evaluation, this section also contains a regulatory flexibility determination required by the 1980 Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) and an international trade impact assessment. Accordingly, the FAA makes the following economic evaluation of this rule. Based on the results of its investigation, the FAA has concluded that this final rule is cost-beneficial.
