FR940616-0-00105 FR940616-0-00012 General Comments Intent of Change in Long-Term Training Regulations Comment: A commenter expressed the opinion that since university programs have long been addressed in the long-term category, the change in regulations appears to be intended to eliminate any training that results in less than an academic degree. Discussion: Approximately 70 percent of grants under the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program are currently for academic training. The 30 percent that are non-academic are concentrated in several areas: Administration, prosthetics and orthotics, community rehabilitation personnel, mental illness, independent living, client assistance program, supported employment, and deafness. The intent is not to eliminate any training for less than an academic degree, but to clarify and focus the specific mission of each training authority to improve program management. Regulations that accurately reflect the program purpose of providing academic training in areas of personnel shortages identified by the Secretary permit targeted allocations of funds to specific personnel needs, facilitate pertinent outcome measures, and ensure that administrative requirements relating to proposal evaluations, scholarships, recordkeeping, matching, and reporting are appropriate. Changes: None. Insufficient Public Input in the Regulations Development Process Comments: There were a number of comments stating that the proposed regulations were developed without participation of the rehabilitation field. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that open and extensive public participation strengthens the regulations process. In fact, extensive public input was obtained when the Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA) convened a public meeting on rehabilitation training and published a notice requesting written public comments in May 1991. Comments received provided useful information that was considered in crafting the regulations. Also, training meetings were held throughout the United States in 1993 on the Rehabilitation Act Amendments. Changes: None. The Department Should Conduct a Needs Assessment Before Enacting New Regulations That Reduce or Eliminate Post-Employment Training for Rehabilitation Personnel Comments: Most of the comments calling for needs assessments were from direct service providers who were concerned that the academic program emphasis in the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program would reduce or eliminate crucial training for current service delivery personnel. Discussion: The Department has conducted needs assessments of the training needs of personnel providing vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities since 1983 and will continue to do so in the future, as the authorizing statute requires it. Changes: None. Funding Post-Employment Training if Long-Term Training Regulations Are Enacted Comments: A number of commenters expressed concern that there appears to be no money to provide post-employment training under training authorities other than long-term training. Commenters requested that, if the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program is to be substantially changed, new regional networks of community-based continuing education units be established. These units would be similar to the Rehabilitation Continuing Education Programs and would be focused on individuals at the front lines of service delivery. Several commenters suggested that separate regulations could be developed for university and non-university grant recipients. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that post-employment training needs of community rehabilitation training providers should be addressed, in part, by a network of regional continuing education programs. The Secretary annually allocates funds to address personnel shortages of qualified rehabilitation personnel. These funds are targeted to address training needs by professional discipline and rehabilitation jobs. The Secretary submits an annual report to the Congress containing and justifying rehabilitation training allocations in detail. The Secretary has authority to allocate funds from the long-term training area to continuing education or other short-term or specialized training for post-employment training of community rehabilitation personnel. Changes: None. Specific Comments by Section The Program Purpose of Rehabilitation Long-Term Training (§§386.1 and 386.20(g)(2) Comments: A number of commenters supported inclusion of academic training as the primary purpose of the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program. They stated that the emphasis on academic outcomes is consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992 (1992 Amendments) to the Rehabilitation Act, which stress the use of ``qualified'' personnel. However, a number of other commenters asked about the statutory authority for funding only academic programs and excluding continuing education programs under the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program. These commenters argued that there is no justification in the Rehabilitation Act for stating that the purpose of RSA's Long-Term Training program is to provide ``academic'' training. Discussion: Section 302 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended, is the statutory basis for the rehabilitation training programs. Except for the in-service training program, which now is included in the Act, the specific rehabilitation training programs, including the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program, are established in regulations issued by the Secretary based on the statutory authority in section 302. The Secretary establishes programs so that each has a specific mission defined in regulations with appropriate outcome measures. The Secretary believes that the long-term training program should be focused on academic training. Changes: None Client Assistance Program (CAP) (§386.1) Comments: Several commenters observed that preparation for employment in client assistance programs is not currently offered in academic training settings and that CAP training should continue to be provided under long-term training. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that no current academic training exists for preparing individuals to work in client assistance programs and that there is a demonstrated need for continued post-employment training of CAP personnel. Existing CAP training projects will continue to be funded until their current grant periods end. The Secretary plans to invite future applications for CAP training under the provisions in section 302 of the Act and in the general regulations for Rehabilitation Training in 34 CFR part 385. Future CAP training notices will be targeted to specific needs for training and technical assistance and published for public comment before applications are solicited. Changes: None.
