FR940830-2-00007 FR940830-2-00001 The Conference supports the use of prehearing conferences and stipulations, which could streamline the hearing process by narrowing issues and ensuring that the necessary evidence will be available at the hearing. In some cases, a prehearing conference may obviate the need for a hearing. It is our understanding, based on discussions with the Redesign Team, that the Proposal would limit prehearing conferences to cases where claimants are represented. This is consistent with Conference recommendations. 25 25 Recommendation 90&hyph;4, preamble and (2). 3. Consultation With Medical Sources in Appeals The Conference believes that improved case development will result from the special responsibilities given to disability claim managers at the initial decisionmaking level and to prehearing officers at the administrative hearing level. At the same time, the Conference supports retaining authority for administrative law judges to consult with medical sources, as needed. The Conference believes that, in doing so, ALJs should follow practices similar to those set out in Recommendation 89&hyph;10. 26 26 Recommendation 89&hyph;10(C). 4. Retention of De Novo Hearing With an Administrative Law Judge The Conference supports the proposed role for prehearing officers in developing the record as a way to improve the effectiveness of ALJ decisionmaking. The Conference's recommendations, however, have been predicated on the presumption that an ALJ would have the ultimate decisionmaking responsibility. Although others may be available to assist, the ALJ must retain the responsibility for the content and quality of his or her decisions. 5. Role of the Appeals Council The Conference has previously recommended that the Appeals Council role in the disability process be limited. 27 The Conference believes that, in reviewing cases, the Council should focus on cases raising precedential questions. The Conference supports the Proposal's idea of having the Appeals Council also review cases on a random basis, looking at both grants and denials. The Conference also believes that the Appeals Council should have a role in providing guidance to decisionmakers at all stages in the claims process, through the use of precedent and interpretive guidelines concerning adjudicatory principles and decisional standards. 27 Recommendation 87&hyph;7. D. Other Issues 1. Training The Conference supports proposals to enhance training of all staff involved in processing and adjudicating disability benefit claims. 28 28 Recommendations 89&hyph;10(A)(6), 78&hyph;2(C). 2. Representatives The Conference has recommended that claimants be provided information about sources of representation, both attorneys and nonattorneys. 29 It also has suggested that appropriate standards be adopted concerning proper practice, and that nonattorney representatives be encouraged. 30 The Redesign Proposal contains similar types of suggestions. 29 Recommendation 78&hyph;2(E). 30 Recommendation 86&hyph;1. 3. Precedent The Proposal calls for a single presentation of all substantive policies used for determination of eligibility for benefits. This is consistent with a number of Conference recommendations that SSA make more use of agency guidance in disability benefits cases. 31 The Conference also recommends use of precedent and clear agency statements of policy to encourage uniform outcomes among similar cases. The Appeals Council could undertake, as one of its functions, the review of ALJ determinations for use as precedent. 31 Recommendations 87&hyph;7(1)(a)(2); 78&hyph;2(c)(2); 89&hyph;8 n.2. 4. Reopening the Record The Proposal implies that the record will be closed at the ALJ level. We support the idea that the record should close following the ALJ hearing, at a time set by the ALJ, and suggest that this be made explicit. The Proposal is silent on the availability of any opportunity to reopen the record following the ALJ hearing. While the Conference does not generally encourage such reopenings, SSA should consider offering a limited opportunity to reopen the record in appropriate cases, consistent with Recommendation 90&hyph;4(4), (5). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21304 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6110&hyph;01&hyph;P
