FR940426-0-00039 FR940426-0-00011 The amendments also expand the availability of short-form registration to all investment grade securities of majority-owned subsidiaries of foreign companies, which mirrors the treatment of domestic companies, as proposed. D. Secondary Offerings, Rights Offers, Dividend or Interest Reinvestment Plans, Convertible Securities and Warrants Previously, a public float test applied to all users of Form F&hyph;3. In the amendments adopted today, the Commission, as proposed, is eliminating the public float requirements for short-form registration in connection with secondary offerings and certain rights offers, dividend or interest reinvestment plans, conversion of convertible securities and exercise of warrants, 31 to parallel the requirements for domestic issuers. 31 See General Instructions I.B.3. and I.B.4 to Form F&hyph;3. In addition, the revisions being made today provide immediate effectiveness of registration statements relating to dividend or interest reinvestment plans. See revisions to General Instruction III. to Form F&hyph;3 and Rule 462 under the Securities Act (§230.462). Conforming revisions to Rules 475a and 477 under the Securities Act (§§230.475a and 230.477) also are being made. See also Rule 405 under the Securities Act (§230.405) which defines ``dividend or interest reinvestment plan.'' For domestic issuers that do not have $75 million in public float, use of Form S&hyph;3 for rights offers, dividend or interest reinvestment plans, conversion of convertible securities and exercise of warrants is conditioned on delivery of information to subject security holders in the 12 months prior to registration. 32 The required information is contained in the issuer's proxy statement and annual report to securityholders prepared pursuant to the Commission's proxy rules. 33 Foreign private issuers are exempt from the proxy rules and thus would not have had reason to deliver such information to their securityholders. 32 See General Instruction I.B.4. of Form S&hyph;3. 33 See Rule 14a&hyph;3(b) under the Exchange Act (§240.14a&hyph;3(b)). Comment was requested concerning whether an information delivery condition should be applied to all or certain foreign issuers. Several commenters suggested that a foreign issuer with a public float below $75 million should be required to deliver information similar to that required of domestic issuers. In view of the requirement being adopted today that an issuer filing a registration statement on Form F&hyph;3 have filed at least one annual report under the Exchange Act and given foreign issuers' historic exemption from the proxy rules, including the annual report delivery requirement, the revisions to Form F&hyph;3 do not impose an information delivery requirement. Form F&hyph;3 requires an issuer to provide copies of its Form 20&hyph;F annual report to offerees upon request. 34 Thus, annual information will be available to investors. 34 See General Instruction II.B. to Form F&hyph;3 and Item 502(c) of Regulation S&hyph;K (§229.502(c)). III. Streamlining Reconciliation Requirements A. Acceptance of Cash Flow Statements Prepared in Accordance With International Accounting Standards The Commission is adopting as proposed, with certain clarifications, amendments to accept without reconciliation a cash flow statement prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards No. 7, ``Cash Flow Statements,'' as amended (``IAS 7'').
