FR940513-1-00079 FR940513-1-00017 3. MACT Determination a. Product loading. _(1). Existing sources emitting 1 Mg/yr or less. Under Regulatory Alternative B, the average cost effectiveness to control existing facilities emitting less than 1 Mg/yr of HAP is approximately $3.4 million per Mg. The Administrator has determined that these costs are unreasonable and, as a result, that MACT for the subcategory represented by existing facilities with emissions less than or equal to 1 Mg per year of HAP emissions is equivalent to a MACT floor of no control. This determination follows section 112(d) of the Act where the Administrator is required to consider cost of achieving emission reductions beyond the MACT floor (among other criteria) when selecting MACT. These smaller facilities represent only 2 percent of all industry-wide emissions. (2). Existing sources emitting greater Than 1 Mg/yr. The Administrator has determined that MACT for the subcategory represented by existing facilities with HAP emissions exceeding 1 Mg per year is the MACT floor of 93 percent overall control. The incremental benefits of additional control are not justified considering the costs of achieving these reductions. The bulk of the incremental costs of control beyond the 93 percent emission limit (MACT floor) are the costs to retrofit a sufficient number of vessels to capture emissions beyond those required at the MACT floor and supplemental operating costs. Unfortunately, the Agency's marine vessel data base does not contain the type of data needed to analyze the nationwide cost effectiveness of a more stringent alternative. However, the average cost per facility to retrofit sufficient vessels to allow the facility to comply with the incremental emission reduction required for that facility to meet standards beyond the MACT floor ranges from approximately $9,000 to $60,000 per year. (Additional information on this analysis is found in Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;44, item II-A&hyph;23 and item II-A&hyph;32). In addition, there may be substantial additional costs to the facility to equip additional emission points (e.g., berths) with emission control equipment. The Administrator deems that any costs beyond the MACT floor, which itself has a cost effectiveness of over $90,000 per Mg, would not be reasonable. (The statute itself precludes the Administrator from selecting a less costly MACT floor.) Based on this limited analysis, the Administrator has elected to not require control beyond the MACT floor for this subcategory. The selection of 93 percent emission limit as MACT for existing sources emitting greater than 1 Mg/yr should provide flexibility to terminals that install control equipment that is expected to achieve 95 to 98 percent emissions reduction. This flexibility enables facilities to control HAP emissions in the most efficient manner by not requiring the control of liquids having minimal emissions. The Agency is soliciting comment on the need for this flexibility, and on methods to ensure enforceability of these standards given this flexibility. It should be noted that the EPA does not believe that the analysis performed above for MACT-regulated facilities is applicable to the determination of RACT discussed in section III-C. The EPA believes that the incremental benefits of controlling the MACT-regulated terminals above 93 percent control is unjustified, given the costs already associated with the MACT standard. On the other hand, the RACT standards apply only to the largest crude oil and gasoline terminals in the United States. The cost effectiveness associated with requiring 95 or 98 percent control at these facilities is considerably more favorable than that associated with requiring 95 or 98 percent control for the MACT-regulated facilities. As shown above, the cost effectiveness associated with the RACT standard is $2,100/Mg, considerably less than that for the MACT standard. Therefore, the Agency believes that it is not appropriate to reduce the percent reduction requirements of the RACT standard to match those of the MACT standard. The EPA recognizes that for some individual facilities regulated under both sections 112 and 183(f), the RACT standard may be more stringent than the MACT standard. The EPA believes that this result is appropriate, but the EPA is taking comment on this issue. The EPA also notes that the control equipment required under both the MACT standard and the RACT standard must meet the 95 or 98 percent control threshold. The MACT standard offers flexibility with regard to the type of liquids controlled, not the manner in which they are controlled.
