FR941128-2-00128 FR941128-2-00076 Job Training Partnership Act, Title III Program; Career Management Accounts AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and solicitation for grant application (SGA). SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), Employment and Training Administration (ETA), announces a demonstration program to provide dislocated workers with re-employment and retraining services through individual career management accounts. The demonstration program will be funded with Secretary's National Reserve funds appropriated through Title III of the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA). This notice describes the process that eligible entities must use to apply for demonstration funds, the subject area for which applications will be accepted for funding, how grantees are to be selected, and the responsibilities of grantees. It is anticipated that up to $3 million will be available for funding the demonstration projects covered by this solicitation. Everything needed to apply is contained in this announcement. DATES: Applications for grant awards will be accepted commencing November 28, 1994. The closing date for receipt of applications will be January 20, 1995, at 2:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) at the address below. ADDRESSES: Applications shall be mailed to: U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Attention: Mr. Willie E. Harris, Reference: SGA/DAA 94&hyph;22, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room S&hyph;4203, Washington, DC 20210. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Willie E. Harris, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;8706 (this is not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This announcement consists of four parts. Part I describes the authorities and purpose of the demonstration program and identifies demonstration policy and topics. Part II describes the application process and provides detailed guidelines for use in applying for demonstration grants. There is no separate application package. Part III includes the statement of work for the demonstration projects. Part IV identifies and defines the selection criteria which will be used in reviewing and evaluating applications. Part V describes the reporting requirements. Part I. Background A. Authorities Section 324 of the Job Training Partnership Act authorizes the use of funds reserved under Part B of Title III for demonstration programs of up to three years in length. Under section 324, the Secretary is required to conduct or provide for an evaluation of the success of each demonstration program. B. Purpose of the Demonstration Projects funded through this solicitation are to provide reemployment and retraining services_as described in sections 314(c), 314(d) and 314(e) of JTPA_to dislocated workers through the use of individual career management accounts. The goals of career management accounts are to: _Increase customer choice; _Allow maximum flexibility in customizing services, and service delivery, to the needs of the individual dislocated worker; _Expand the resources and sources of assistance which are available to the individual dislocated worker. The purpose of this demonstration is to determine if career management accounts are an administratively feasible approach for achieving these goals. C. Demonstration Policy 1. Awards DOL will select three to five applicants to conduct demonstrations of the use of career management accounts. It is anticipated that individual grant awards will be up to a maximum of $1,000,000 each.
