FR940426-1-00054 FR940426-1-00006 Par. 3. Section 6.1 is revised to read as follows: ยง6.1 General. The regulations in this part, issued pursuant to section 105 of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 205), specify practices that are means to induce under 105(b), criteria for determining whether a practice is a violation of 105(b), and exceptions to 105(b). This part does not attempt to enumerate all of the practices that may be a violation of section 105(b) of the Act. Nothing in this part shall operate to exempt any person from the requirements of any State law or regulation. ยง6.4 [Amended] Par. 4. Section 6.4 is amended by removing the reference to ``section 5(b) of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act'' where it appears in paragraph (b) and replacing it with a reference to ``section 105(b) of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act''. Par. 5. Section 6.5 is added to subpart A to read as follows: ยง6.5 Administrative provisions. (a) General. The Act makes applicable the provisions including penalties of sections 49 and 50 of title 15, United States Code, to the jurisdiction, powers and duties of the Director under this Act, and to any person (whether or not a corporation) subject to the provisions of law administered by the Director under this Act. (b) Examination and subpoena. The Director or any authorized ATF officers shall at all reasonable times have access to, for the purpose of examination, and the right to copy any documentary evidence of any person, partnership, or corporation being investigated or proceeded against; and the Director shall have the power to require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of all such documentary evidence relating to any matter under investigation. (c) Reports required by the regional director (compliance). _(l) General. When required in writing by the regional director (compliance), an industry member shall submit a written report containing information on sponsorships, advertisements, promotions, and other activities pertaining to its business subject to the Act conducted by, or on behalf of, or benefiting the industry member. (2) Preparation. The report will be prepared by the industry member in letter form, executed under the penalties of perjury, and will contain the information specified by the regional director (compliance). (3) Filing. The report will be filed in accordance with the instructions of the regional director (compliance). (27 U.S.C. 202(c) and (d)). Par. 6. Section 6.11 is amended by adding the definitions for ``ATF officer,'' ``Director,'' ``brand'' and ``regional director (compliance),'' and by revising the term ``retailer establishment'' to read ``retail establishment''. as follows: ยง6.11 Meaning of terms. * * * * * ATF officer. An officer or employee of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) authorized to perform any function relating to the administration or enforcement of this part. Brand. The term ``brand'' refers to differences in the brand name of a product or in the nature of a product. Examples of different brands are products having a different brand name; class, type, or kind designation; appellation of origin (wine); vintage date (wine); age (distilled spirits); or percentage of alcohol. Differences in packaging such as difference in label design or color, or a different style, type or size of container are not considered different brands. Director. The Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC. * * * * * Regional director (compliance). The principal ATF regional official responsible for administering regulations in this part. * * * * *
