FR940603-1-00150 FR940603-1-00009 1. Burned 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (describe) XXXX B. Trees that are felled shall be cut to commercial wood lengths, stacked neatly, and left on the right-of-way for the landowner. Commercial wood length means the length designated by the Owner but in no case shall it be required to be less than XXXX ( XXXX ) feet. Brush, branches, and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Owner will direct (Owner to strike out methods not to be used): 1. Burned 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (describe) XXXX ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials R Section S_Substation Assembly Units A substation assembly unit consists of the complete substation ready for connection of the line conductors, as shown on the substation drawings attached. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials S Section UD_Underground Cable Assembly Units An underground cable assembly unit consists of 1,000 feet of cable for underground primaries, secondaries or services. It does not include the conduit, plowing, trenching and backfilling, or the termination of the primary cable which are provided for in other assembly units. It includes the termination, connection and sealing of secondary and service cables and conductors as shown in the specifications and construction drawings, and all primary, secondary and service cable splices (buried cable may be spliced only when and where permitted by the Owner. 1,2 ) In computing the compensation to the Contractor for underground cable assembly units, only the distance between stakes, paralleling the cable shall be used. The number of units so computed will include all cable installed in place in all specified trenches, risers, conduits, crossings, manholes, transformers, terminal housings and meter boxes. 3 ) The conductor or cables listed are the manufacturer's designation of types, size, voltage rating and material. The Contractor and the Owner shall jointly perform cable acceptance tests on installed cable in accordance with the specifications using test equipment furnished by the XXXX . (Owner to insert Owner or Contractor). 1 XXXX Owner check here if primary splices are permitted; 2 XXXX Owner check here if secondary and service splices are permitted. 3 XXXX Owner check here if 12 feet of service conductor is to be left as a coil three feet from the building with ends capped instead of connection to meter box. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials UD Section UG_Underground Transformer Assembly Units An underground transformer assembly unit consists of the transformer, its housing, warning sign, switches, over-current protective devices, grounding loop, and hardware and leads with their connectors and supporting insulators installed in place. This unit includes the cable terminations but does not include lightning arresters, fault indicators, ground rods or trenching. For submersible transformers, it includes the cable terminations, the enclosure and cover, drainable material (when specified 4 ), and the excavation when required. For pad-mount transformers, it does not include the pad, site preparation, drainable material, backfilling or compaction which are included in the pad assembly units. 4 XXXX Owner check here if drainable material is specified. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials UG Section UK_Underground Secondary and Service Assembly Units An underground secondary and service assembly unit consists of secondary or service cable terminal housing mounted in place. It includes the power pedestal, stake (when required), mounting hardware, warning sign, directional marker, housing identification marking, and the cable identification tags. It does not include the cable terminations, ground rod, or pad, when required. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials UK
