FR940323-0-00059 FR940323-0-00020 (ii) Subdivisions of States, Indian Tribes, public or private nonprofit organizations (including labor organizations), and institutions of higher education may apply either to a State or directly to the Corporation for operational grants. The Corporation may limit the categories of applicants eligible to apply directly to the Corporation for assistance under this section consistent with its National priorities. (3) Duration. An operational grant will be negotiated for a term not to exceed three years. Within a three-year term, renewal funding will be contingent upon periodic assessment of program quality, progress to date, and availability of Congressional appropriations. (c) AmeriCorps Educational Awards Only. _(1) Purpose. The purpose of these awards is to provide AmeriCorps educational awards to programs that are not receiving or applying to the Corporation for program assistance but that meet the criteria for approved AmeriCorps positions, and desire to provide an AmeriCorps educational award to participants serving in approved positions. (2) Eligibility. States, subdivisions of States, Indian Tribes, Federal agencies, public or private nonprofit organizations (including labor organizations), and institutions of higher education may apply directly to the Corporation for AmeriCorps educational awards only. (d) Replication Grants. The Corporation may provide assistance for the replication of an existing national service program to another geographical location. (e) Training, technical assistance and other special grants._ (1) Purpose. The purpose of these grants is to ensure broad access to AmeriCorps programs for all Americans, including those with disabilities; support disaster relief efforts; assist efforts to secure private support for programs through challenge grants; and ensure program quality by supporting technical assistance and training programs. (2) Eligibility. Eligibility varies and is detailed under 45 CFR part 2524, ``Technical Assistance and Other Special Grants.'' (3) Duration. Grants will be negotiated for a renewable term of up to three years. ยง2521.30 How will AmeriCorps program grants be awarded? In any fiscal year, the Corporation will award AmeriCorps program grants as follows: (a) Grants to State Applicants. (1) For the purposes of this section, the term ``State'' means the fifty States, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia. (2) One-third of the funds available under this part and a corresponding allotment of AmeriCorps educational awards, as specified by the Corporation, will be distributed according to a population-based formula to the 50 States, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia if they have applications approved by the Corporation. (3) At least one-third of funds available under this part and an appropriate number of AmeriCorps awards, as determined by the Corporation, will be awarded to States on a competitive basis. In order to receive these funds, a State must receive funds under paragraphs (a)(2) or (b)(1) of this section in the same fiscal year. (4) In making subgrants with funds awarded by formula or competition under paragraphs (a) (2) or (3) of this section, a State must: (i) Provide a description of the process used to select programs for funding including a certification that the State or other entity used a competitive process and criteria that were consistent with the selection criteria in ยง2522.410 of this chapter. In making such competitive selections, the State must ensure the equitable allocation within the State of assistance and approved AmeriCorps positions provided under this subtitle to the State taking into consideration such factors as the location of the programs applying to the State, population density, and economic distress; (ii) Provide a written assurance that not less than 60 percent of the assistance provided to the State will be used to make grants in support of AmeriCorps programs other than AmeriCorps programs carried out by the State or a State agency. The Corporation may permit a State to deviate from this percentage if the State demonstrates that it did not receive a sufficient number of acceptable applications; and (iii) Ensure that a minimum of 50 percent of funds going to States will be used for programs that operate in the areas of need or on Federal or other public lands, and that place a priority on recruiting participants who are residents in high need areas, or on Federal or other public lands. The Corporation may waive this requirement for an individual State if at least 50 percent of the total amount of assistance to all States will be used for such programs. (b) Grants to Applicants other than States. (1) One percent of available funds will be distributed to the U.S. Territories 1 that have applications approved by the Corporation according to a population-based formula. 2 1 The United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau (until such time as the Compact of Free Association with Palau is ratified). 2 The amount allotted as a grant to each such territory or possession is equal to the ratio of each such Territory's population to the population of all such territories multipled by the amount of the one percent set-aside. (2) One percent of available funds will be reserved for distribution to Indian tribes on a competitive basis. (3) The Corporation will use any funds available under this part remaining after the award of the grants described in paragraphs (a) and (b) (1) and (2) of this section to make direct competitive grants to subdivisions of States, Indian tribes, public or private nonprofit organizations (including labor organizations), institutions of higher education, and Federal agencies. No more than one-third of the these remaining funds may be awarded to Federal agencies. (c) Allocation of AmeriCorps educational awards only. The Corporation will determine on an annual basis the appropriate number of educational awards to make available for eligible applicants who have not applied for program assistance. (d) Effect of States' or Territories' failure to apply. If a State or U.S. Territory does not apply for or fails to give adequate notice of its intent to apply for a formula-based grant as announced by the Corporation and published in applications and the Notice of Funds Availability, the Corporation will use the amount of that State's allotment to make grants to eligible entities to carry out AmeriCorps programs in that State or Territory. Any funds remaining from that State's allotment after making such grants will be reallocated to the States, Territories, and Indian tribes with approved AmeriCorps applications at the Corporation's discretion.
