FR941116-0-00071 FR941116-0-00012 The AOPL contends that the proposed application process is unfair because an oil pipeline must shoulder its burden of proof prior to knowing whether the competitiveness of a market has been challenged. Both the AOPL and ARCO suggest alternative procedures based on the use of screens. Total, the Farmers, Petrochemical, and Sinclair approve of the Commission's procedural rules requiring the oil pipeline to file a case-in-chief at the outset. Total maintains that this will lessen the burden on parties to a market power case. It suggests that the burden could be further minimized and the analytical quality of the data enhanced if the Commission would direct staff to aggregate oil pipeline data by origin and destination markets. 38 38 In example, Total states that: ``delivery-based market shares of pipelines can be aggregated to calculate delivery-based HHIs. The availability of such studies to shippers would minimize their burden of constructing an answer to a pipeline's direct case.'' Comments at 2, 3. As indicated above, the Commission is not adopting any market power screens. Hence, it rejects the AOPL's and ARCO's proposed alternative procedures. In any event, the Commission sees no unfairness in adopting the proposed case-in-chief approach in lieu of the ``Buckeye'' approach. 39 The Commission is requiring no more than an oil pipeline bear its burden of proof in a fashion that ensures that there is no reliance on presumed market forces. 40 Last, the Commission, as part of this rule, sees no reason to direct staff to aggregate oil pipeline data. 39 In general, an oil pipeline tariff filing was not suspended or investigated unless it was protested. Under the ``Buckeye'' approach, if its rates were protested, the oil pipeline could elect at the hearing to prove it lacked significant market power, filing its case-in-chief after discovery. See Buckeye Pipe Line Co., 44 FERC ¶61,066 (1988). 40 Farmers Union Central Exchange, Inc. v. FERC, 734 F.2d 1486, 1510 (D.C. Cir. 1984). ARCO suggests that if an oil pipeline's indexed-based rates are challenged as substantially exceeding its increase in costs, the oil pipeline should be allowed to advance a market-based justification of those rates in a Buckeye bifurcated procedure. The Commission rejects ARCO's suggestion because it is appropriate to keep cost challenges to indexed rates separate from market-based rate cases. For example, under ARCO's proposal, if the oil pipeline failed in its market-based defense, it would still be able to defend on cost grounds. The Commission believes it better for the oil pipeline to defend solely on cost grounds under Order No. 561. An oil pipeline may file an application for market-based rates at any time. Buckeye asks about noncompetitive markets after others are found to be competitive. It asks the Commission to clarify that it will ``permit substantially competitive pipelines to propose alternative ratemaking programs or approaches that do not apply the index to their less competitive markets.'' 41 It also is concerned about the difficulty of an allocation of costs between competitive and noncompetitive markets under a cost-of-service analysis if raised by the shipper or oil pipeline. 41 Comments at 8. Buckeye refers to its own program but states that it does not suggest that it be addressed here. The Commission sees no need to discuss Buckeye's requests and concerns here. Any oil pipeline seeking a waiver from the index for another approach for noncompetitive markets may file such a waiver request with its application for market-based rates. VII. Monitoring and Constraints As in the NOPR, the Commission proposes no generic constraints on the level of market-based prices or on their duration. In addition, the Commission proposes no mechanism to monitor market-based rates. Sinclair maintains that the Commission, to discharge its responsibilities under the ICA, must impose price caps and term limits on market-based rates. The Farmers submit that any market-based rates should be experimental and for a trial period such as the three-year period allowed in Buckeye. They argue that this will allow the Commission and shippers to judge whether competition is actually effective in a particular market. In addition, they maintain that the final rule should require applicants for market-pricing authority to propose specific safeguards against the risk that competition will not effectively constrain rate increases. Alberta maintains that the Commission should require an oil pipeline to file comprehensive information about the markets in which it is charging market rates so that the Commission can examine whether the pipeline has been able to exercise significant market power. It also suggests that the Commission monitor an oil pipeline's earnings because comparison of its earnings prior to using market rates to its earnings thereafter may indicate that it has exerted monopoly power. Alberta further suggests the Commission reconsider adopting a rate trigger mechanism as a safeguard against monopoly rents and to provide a tolerance level around rates to ensure they do not stray from a zone of reasonableness.
