FR940426-1-00151 FR940426-1-00018 (a) The recipient or subrecipient shall provide supportive services designed to assist the enrollee in participating successfully in community service employment assignments and, where appropriate, to prepare and assist the enrollee in obtaining unsubsidized employment. To the extent feasible, the recipient or subrecipient shall utilize supportive services available from other titles of the OAA, particularly those administered by area agencies on aging and other funding sources. (b) Supportive services may include, but need not be limited to, all or some of the following: (1) Counseling or instruction designed to assist the enrollee to participate successfully in community service employment assignments or to obtain unsubsidized employment. (2) Counseling designed to assist the enrollee personally in areas such as health, nutrition, social security benefits, medicare benefits, and retirement laws. (3) Incidentals, including, but not limited to: work shoes, badges, uniforms, safety glasses, eyeglasses, and hand tools, may be provided if necessary for successful participation in community service employment assignments and if not available from other sources. (4) Periodic meetings on topics of general interest, including matters related to health, job seeking skills, safety, and consumer affairs. (5) Enrollee transportation. (i) Enrollee transportation may be payable if transportation from other sources at no cost to the project is unavailable and such unavailability is documented. When authorized in the grant agreement, transportation may be provided for enrollees from home to work, to training or to supportive services. [Section 502(b)(1)(L).] (ii) Grant funds may not be used for enrollee transportation in connection with performing work of the recipient, subrecipient or host agency, including activities under other titles of the OAA. ยง641.313 Training. (a) The recipient or subrecipient shall provide a new enrollee with training related to community service employment assignments prior to, and as preparation for, actual community service employment. Training may be provided through lectures, seminars, classroom instruction, individual instruction or other arrangements, including but not limited to arrangements with employment and training programs. The recipient or the subrecipient is encouraged to obtain such services through locally available resources, including employment and training programs, as defined in ยง641.103, and through host agencies, at no cost or reduced cost to the project. [Section 502(b)(1)(I).] (b) Training shall consist of up to 480 hours and shall be consistent with the enrollee's IDP. Such training shall cover all aspects of training, e.g., orientation, skill, job search, etc. Enrollees shall not be enrolled solely for the purpose of receiving job search and job referral services. Waivers for additional hours of training will be considered on an exception basis. (c) The recipient or subrecipient shall enroll each individual in the project prior to training in preparation for community service employment assignments and shall pay each enrollee as provided in ยง641.310(b). (d) In addition to training in preparation for community service employment assignments, as described in this section, a recipient or subrecipient is encouraged to arrange for, or directly provide, skills-training opportunities beyond the SCSEP community service training activities which will permit the enrollee to acquire or improve skills, including literacy training, applicable in community service employment or for unsubsidized employment. (e) A recipient or subrecipient, to the extent feasible, shall arrange skill-training for the enrollee which is realistic and consistent with his or her IDP. A recipient or subrecipient shall place major emphasis on the training available through on-the-job experience at SCSEP work sites, thereby retaining the community service focus of the SCSEP. (f) An enrollee engaging in skills-related training as described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, may be reimbursed for the documented travel cost and room and board necessary to engage in such training. [Section 502(b)(1)(I).]
