FR940127-1-00093 FR940127-1-00019 (3) Level three funding assistance shall be based on equal distribution of remaining funds among qualifying applicants. (f) Determination of qualification for level of funding assistance shall be as follows: (1) A funding level qualification value shall be determined for each eligible applicant using the following formula. Such formula shall only be used to determine which applicants qualify for level one funding assistance. Acreage and allowable cut data used in the formula shall be as maintained by the Secretary. Eligible applicants with a funding level qualification value of one (1) or greater shall qualify for level one assistance. Funding Level Qualification Formula E:GRAPHICSEP27JA94.003 where: CA=applicant's total commercial Indian forest land acres; Tot. CA=national total commercial Indian forest land acres; AAC=applicant's total allowable annual cut from commercial Indian forest land acres; and Tot. AAC=national total allowable annual cut from commercial Indian forest land acres. (2) All category 1 or 2 reservations that are eligible applicants under ยง163.36(d) are qualified and eligible for level two assistance. (3) All category 1, 2 or 3 reservations that are eligible applicants under ยง163.36(d) are qualified and eligible for level three assistance. (g) Tribal forestry program financial support funds shall be distributed based on the following: (1) All requests from reservations qualifying for level one funding assistance must be satisfied before funds are made available for level two funding assistance; (2) All requests from reservations qualifying for level two funding assistance must be satisfied before funds are made available for level three funding assistance; and (3) If available funding is not adequate to satisfy all requests at a particular level of funding, funds will be evenly divided among tribes qualifying at that level. ยง163.37 Forest management research. The Secretary, with the consent of the authorized Indian representatives is authorized to perform forestry research activities to improve the basis for determining appropriate land management activities to apply to Indian forest land. Subpart C_Forestry Education, Education Assistance, Recruitment and Training ยง163.40 Indian and Alaska Native forestry education assistance. (a) Establishment and evaluation of the forestry education assistance programs. (1) The Secretary shall establish within the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry an education committee to coordinate and implement the forestry education assistance programs and to select participants for all the forestry education assistance programs with the exception of the cooperative education program. Such committee will be, at a minimum, comprised of a professional educator, a personnel specialist, an Indian or Alaska Native who is not employed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and a professional forester from the Bureau of Indian Affairs. (2) The Secretary, through the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry, shall monitor and evaluate the forestry education assistance programs to ensure there are adequate Indian and Alaska Native foresters and forestry-related professionals to manage the Bureau of Indian Affairs forestry programs and forestry programs maintained by or for tribes and ANCSA Corporations. Such monitoring and evaluating shall identify the number of participants in the intern, cooperative education, scholarship, and outreach programs; the number of participants who completed the requirements to become a professional forester or forestry-related professional; and the number of participants completing advanced degree requirements. (b) Forester intern program. (1) The purpose of the forester intern program is to ensure the future participation of trained, professional Indians and Alaska Natives in the management of Indian and Alaska Native forest land. In keeping with this purpose, the Bureau of Indian Affairs in concert with tribes and Alaska Natives will work: (i) To obtain the maximum degree of participation from Indians and Alaska Natives in the forester intern program; (ii) To encourage forester interns to complete an undergraduate degree program in a forestry or forestry-related field; and
