FR941202-2-00180 FR941202-2-00098 (a) Size, appearance, adequacy of the laboratory facility; (b) Organization and management of the laboratory; (c) Qualifications and experience of laboratory personnel; (d) Receipt, tracking and handling of samples; (e) Quantity, condition, performance of laboratory instrumentation and equipment; (f) Preparation and traceability of calibration standards; (g) Analytical and biological methodology (including the laboratory's standard operating procedures as well as confirmation of individuals' adherence to SOPs, and the individual's proficiency with the methodology); (h) Data reduction procedures, including an examination of raw data and confirmation that final reported results can be traced to the raw data/original observations; (i) Quality assurance/quality control procedures, including adherence to the laboratory's quality assurance plan and adequacy of the plan; (j) General health and safety procedures as they relate to good scientific practices; (k) Laboratory waste disposal procedures; (l) Environmental and toxicological test methods and SOPs; and (m) Care, use, and maintenance of test organisms. 3.6.2␣Assessors Role When performing an on-site laboratory evaluation, the assessor must appraise each of the areas listed in section 3.6.1. The on-site assessor should use a variety of tools in the evaluation process. The experience of the assessor, his/her observations, interviews with laboratory staff, and examination of SOPs, raw data, and the laboratory's documentation will all play an important role in the assessment. The role of the on-site assessor is a critical one in the entire laboratory accreditation process. The accreditation of a particular laboratory will depend to a large extent on the assessor's recommendation. While much of the on-site assessment will depend upon the assessor's judgement, the recommendation not to accredit a laboratory must be based on factual information, not on opinions or suppositions. Therefore it is crucial that the on-site assessor have a clear understanding of the laboratory's procedures and policies, and that the assessor document any deficiencies. Also the assessor should discuss any deficiencies with the laboratory's management in order to allow them to provide additional information which might affect the assessor's recommendations. 3.6.3␣Checklists Standardized checklists for the on-site assessment must be used. The use of checklists does not discourage the need for additional observations and staff interviews, but is merely another tool in the assessor's inventory which assists in conducting a thorough and efficient evaluation. Using a checklist as a substitute for assessor training and experience must not occur. Note: It is anticipated that standardized checklists will be developed or adopted by NELAC's On-Site Assessment Committee for the assessor's review of analytical and biological methodology. 3.6.4␣Evaluation Criteria
