FR941128-2-00092 FR941128-2-00047 IV It is further ordered, That Lilly shall retain all documents, and shall cause PCS to separately retain all documents, that relate to (A) the exclusion of any prescription drug products from the Open Formulary required by Paragraph II.A above, (B) any preference or ranking accorded to any prescription drug product on the Open Formulary required by Paragraph II.A above, or (C) statements or indications of discounts, rebates, or other concessions, as described in Paragraph II.C above, for a period of five (5) years from the date such document is created or received. V It is further ordered, That Lilly shall disclose the availability of the Open Formulary as follows: A. Lilly shall cause PCS to disclose the availability of the Open Formulary to all persons who currently have an agreement with PCS concerning PBM services or concerning the inclusion of pharmaceuticals on a formulary, by providing to each such person a letter containing the following statement within ten (10) days after initiation of contact between PCS and such person regarding renewal or extension of such person's existing agreement with PCS: PCS maintains an Open Formulary that allows, subject to the determination of an independent Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee, the inclusion of any ambulatory prescription drug product approved by the FDA for use in the United States. This Open Formulary will be provided to you upon request. B. For a period of five (5) years from the date this Order becomes final, Lilly shall cause PCS to provide in writing the statement set forth in Paragraph V.A above to each prospective customer of PCS at the time of PCS's response to such prospective customer's request for proposal, or at the time of PCS's initial written proposal to such prospective customer, whichever occurs first. VI It is further ordered, That, for a period of five (5) years from the date this Order becomes final, respondent shall not, without the prior approval of the Commission, directly or indirectly, through subsidiaries, partnerships, or otherwise: A. Acquire any stock, share capital, equity, leasehold or other interest in any person, corporate or non-corporate, engaged in the providing of Formulary Services in the United States, if such person has more than two (2) million lives covered by its Formulary Services in the United States; B. Acquire any assets used for, or previously used for (and still suitable for use for), the providing of Formulary Services in the United States from any person who has (or had within the two years preceding such acquisition) more than two (2) million lives covered by its Formulary Services in the United States; or C. Enter into any agreement, understanding, or condition with McKesson or any other wholesaler of pharmaceutical products that Lilly will sell or distribute pharmaceutical products bearing any brand or trade name used by Lilly, in the United States or any part of the United States, exclusively through such wholesaler. VII It is further ordered, That respondent shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any proposed change in the corporate Respondent such as dissolution, assignment, sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation, or the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries or any other change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising out of the Order. VIII It is further ordered, That: A. Within sixty (60) days after the date this Order becomes final, Respondent shall submit to the Commission a verified written report setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it intends to comply, is complying, and has complied with this Order. B. One year (1) from the date this Order becomes final, annually for the next nine (9) years on the anniversary of the date this Order becomes final, and at other times as the Commission may require, respondent shall file a verified written report with the Commission setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it has complied and is complying with this Order. C. Respondent shall include in its compliance reports a copy of the Open Formulary required by Paragraph II.A above, and all written communications, internal memoranda, and reports and recommendations concerning compliance with the Order. IX It is further ordered, That, for the purpose of determining or securing compliance with this Order, respondent shall permit any duly authorized representative of the Commission: A. Access, during office hours and in the presence of counsel, to inspect and copy all books, ledgers, accounts, correspondence, memoranda and other records and documents in the possession or under the control of respondent relating to any matters contained in this Order; and B. Upon five days' notice to respondent and without restraint or interference from it, to interview officers, directors, or employees of respondent.
