FR940713-1-00022 FR940713-1-00001 List of Subjects in 9 CFR Part 381 Poultry inspection, Poultry and poultry products. Proposed Rule For the reasons set forth in the preamble, FSIS is proposing to amend 9 CFR part 381 of the poultry products inspection regulations as follows: PART 381_POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS 1. The authority citation for part 381 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 138F; 7 U.S.C. 450; 21 U.S.C. 451&hyph;470; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.55. 2. Section 381.36 would be amended by removing paragraphs (d) and (e) and by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: §381.36 Facilities required. * * * * * (c) Facilities for post-mortem inspection. The following facility requirements for post-mortem inspection are in addition to the other requirements to obtain a grant of inspection. (1) The following provisions shall apply to every inspection station: (i) The conveyor line shall be level for the entire length of the inspection. The vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the top of the adjustable platform (paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section) in its lowest position shall not be less than 60 inches. (ii) Floor space shall consist of 4 feet along the conveyor line for each inspector, with a total of 8 feet for the two inspection stations, and 4 feet for the inspector helper provided by the establishment as required under §381.76(d). (iii) Guidebars shall be installed in all establishments so that the inspector will receive birds on at least 6-inch centers for young chicken lines and at least 12-inch centers for turkey lines. The guidebar must move the bird to the edge of the trough for the inspector, and provide smooth, steady, and consistent movement through both the on-line post-mortem inspection station and the on-line/off-line carcass inspection station. (iv) The on-line post-mortem inspection station and the on-line/off-line carcass inspection station shall meet the requirements specified in §381.53. Each inspection station shall have a platform that is slip-resistant and can be safely accessed by the inspector. The platform shall be designed so that it can be easily and rapidly adjusted for a minimum of 14 inches vertically while standing on the platform. The platform shall be a minimum length of 4 feet and have a minimum width of 2 feet; the platform shall be designed with a 42-inch high rail on the back side and with 1/2 inch foot bumpers on both sides and front to allow safe working conditions. The platform must have a safe lift mechanism and be large enough for the inspector to sit on a stool and to change stations during breaks or inspector rotation. (v) Conveyor line stop/start switches shall be located within easy reach of each inspector. (vi) A trough or other facilities complying with §381.53(g)(4) shall extend beneath the conveyor at all places where processing operations are conducted from the point where the carcass is opened to the point after the second inspector. The trough must be of sufficient width to preclude trimmings, drips, and debris from accumulating on the floor or platforms. The clearance between the suspended carcasses and the trough must be sufficient to preclude contamination of carcasses by splash. (vii) A minimum of 200 footcandles of shadow-free lighting with minimum color rendering index value of 85 1 where the birds are inspected to facilitate inspection, notwithstanding the requirements of §381.52(b). 1 This requirement may be met by deluxe cool white type of fluorescent lighting. (viii) ``On-line'' handrinsing facilities with a continuous flow of water conforming to §381.51(f) shall be provided for and within easy reach of each inspector and each establishment employee working on the line. (ix) Hangback racks shall be provided for and positioned within easy reach of the inspector. (x) The on-line post-mortem inspection station shall be provided with receptacles for condemned carcasses and parts. Such receptacles shall conform to the requirements of §381.53(m). (2) In addition to the requirements prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the establishment shall provide safely accessible space for the on-line/off-line carcass inspector to perform on-line inspection checks of carcasses between the viscera harvest and the final wash. (3) Reinspection stations for Finished Product Standards (FPS) monitoring, as prescribed in §381.76(h), are required. The Agency will determine the number of stations needed in those establishments having more than one processing line or more than one chiller. One or more FPS reinspection stations shall be conveniently located at the end of the line or lines prior to chilling. Each reinspection station must meet the following provisions: (i) Floor space shall consist of 3 feet along each conveyor line. The space shall be level and protected from all traffic and overhead obstructions. (ii) A table at least 2 feet wide and 2 feet deep and 3 feet in height shall be provided for reinspecting the sampled carcasses, except that such a table shall be at least 3 feet wide and 2 feet deep in establishments processing turkeys. All such tables shall be designed to be readily cleanable and drainable. (iii) A minimum of 200 footcandles of shadow-free lighting with a minimum color rendering index of 851 on the table surface shall be provided. (iv) A separate clip board holder shall be provided for holding the recording sheets.
