FR940607-2-00075 FR940607-2-00055 [Docket No. 50&hyph;245] Northeast Nuclear Energy Co.; Consideration of Issuance of Amendment to Facility Operating License, Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination, and Opportunity for Hearing The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. DPR&hyph;21 issued to Northeast Nuclear Energy Company (NNECO) for operation of Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit 1, located in New London County, Connecticut. The proposed amendment adds a new section to Technical Specification Section 6.17 and would require that procedures be in place to provide for monitoring and sampling of emergency service water (ESW) discharge flow during accident conditions when a positive differential pressure cannot be maintained between ESW and low pressure coolant injection (LPCI) in the LPCI heat exchangers. Before issuance of the proposed license amendment, the Commission will have made findings required by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act) and the Commission's regulations. The Commission has made a proposed determination that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Under the Commission's regulations in 10 CFR 50.92, this means that operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not (1) involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated; or (2) create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated; or (3) involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: NNECO has reviewed the proposed change in accordance with 10CFR50.92 and concluded that the change does not involve a significant hazards consideration (SHC). The basis for this conclusion is that the three criteria of 10CFR50.92(c) are not compromised. The proposed change does not involve an SHC because the changes would not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously analyzed. The proposed change does not affect the probability of any previously evaluated accidents because the proposed change only affects postaccident operation. The consequences of an accident are possibly affected by the change since LPCI/torus fluid could enter the ESW system, and ultimately Long Island Sound, if a positive differential pressure is not maintained in the LPCI heat exchangers. There is not a significant increase in the probability of adverse consequences however, since a passive failure of the LPCI heat exchangers tubes would be required. Additionally, at Millstone Unit No. 1, the heat exchangers are only used for occasional torus cooling during the warmer months of the year. As such, they experience very little use. In addition, eddy current testing and shall side pressurization demonstrate tube integrity each refueling outage. During operation, quarterly surveillance testing of the LPCI system will identify if any leakage occurs. Monitoring of the ESW discharge will allow timely detection of any radiological leakage. If a release is detected, the appropriate actions will be taken as the situation requires. Actions could include the isolation of one heat exchanger, the throttling of ESW to restore the positive differential pressure with LPCI, or continued operation with the leakage monitored. Therefore, the proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequence of a previously analyzed accident.
