FR941205-2-00173 FR941205-2-00074 Training of Interpreters for Individuals Who Are Deaf and Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind Purpose of Program: The purpose of this program is to assist in providing a sufficient number of skilled interpreters throughout the country for employment in public and private agencies, schools, and other service-providing institutions to meet the communication needs of individuals who are deaf and individuals who are deaf-blind by_(1) Training manual, tactile, oral, and cued speech interpreters; (2) Ensuring the maintenance of the skills of interpreters; and (3) Providing opportunities for interpreters to raise their level of competence. For Further Information Contact: Victor Galloway, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Room 3228, Switzer Building, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2736. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;9152. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number at (202) 205&hyph;8352. Priorities: Priority 1_National Project With Major Emphasis on Interpreting for Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind Background The Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992 expanded the purpose and scope of this program to include a requirement that each funded project train interpreters for ``individuals who are deaf-blind'' as well as interpreters for ``individuals who are deaf.'' Each project has the discretion to provide training for interpreters for these two disability populations to the extent, and in the specific communication modes, appropriate to the needs of these populations in the geographical area to be served by the project. To participate in major life activities, increased numbers of individuals who are deaf-blind require skilled interpreting services. Interpreting for individuals who are deaf-blind is an intensive, one-to-one exercise, requiring significant skill. Expertise in the training of interpreters for individuals who are deaf-blind needs to be developed and made available to the field. A national project is needed that will give primary focus to training interpreters for individuals who are deaf-blind to better enable regional projects supported under this program to meet the communication needs of individuals who are deaf-blind. A national project is also needed to assist in improving the training of interpreters for individuals who are deaf. There is also need for technical assistance to regional projects on curriculum development for interpreters to serve deaf-blind individuals and on model methods of instruction for use in the training of interpreters. The Secretary has identified a maximum possible project period of 60 months. The Secretary believes that at least 36 months will be necessary to meet the requirements of the priority. The Secretary will be assessing, during the third year of the project period, whether there is a need to provide funding beyond 36 months.
