FR940407-2-00155 FR940407-2-00081 (iii) Facilities If the rearrangement or alteration of facilities will be required in implementing the project, the applicant has described and justified such changes. Criterion IV: Significant and Beneficial Impact (Maximum: 25 Points) (i) Quality of JOBS/Business Opportunities The proposed project is expected to produce permanent and measurable results that will reduce the incidence of poverty in the community. Expected results are quantifiable in terms of the creation of permanent, full-time jobs or business opportunities developed. In developing business opportunities and self-employment for low-income individuals the applicant proposes, at a minimum, to provide basic business planning and management concepts, and assistance in preparing a business plan and loan package. The application documents that: _The business opportunities to be developed for eligible participants will contribute significantly to their progress toward self-sufficiency; and/or _Jobs to be created for eligible participants will contribute significantly to their progress toward self-sufficiency; they provide, for example, wages that exceed the minimum wage, plus benefits such as health insurance, transportation, child care and career development opportunities. (ii) Cost-per-Job During the project period the proposed project will create new, permanent jobs or business opportunities for low-income residents at a cost-per-job below $15,000 in OCS funds, (e.g. cost per job is calculated by dividing the total amount of grant funds requested ($420,000) divided by the number of jobs to be created (60) equals the cost-per-job ($7,000)). If any other calculations are used, please include your methodology in this section. (Note: Except in those instances where independent reviewers identify extenuating circumstances related to business development activities, the maximum number of points will be given only to those applicants proposing cost-per-job created estimates of $5,000 or less of OCS requested funds. Higher cost-per-job estimates will receive correspondingly fewer points.) Criterion V: Third-Party Evaluation (Maximum: 10 Points) A plan for a methodologically sound third-party (i.e., independent) evaluation of the demonstration project must be included in the application. The Evaluation Plan: _Includes a specific working definition of ``self-sufficiency'' (consistent with the broad definition contained in Part I) that permits the measurement of incremental progress of eligible individuals and their families from dependency toward self-sufficiency; _Clearly defines the changes or benefits (outcomes) to be produced, the activities (interventions) that will produce the changes, and the measures of client progress toward self-sufficiency for which information will be collected (for example: increases in income, decreases in public assistance payments); _Provides for the annual compilation of community-level data on the characteristics of the population in the project area, including percentage on public assistance, percentage below the poverty line, unemployment rate, business starts and failures, and major employers; _Provides for the conduct of a continuing process evaluation. This should include the periodic assessment of the following: client characteristics, pertinent policies and procedures, staffing, cooperative partnerships with state and local agencies, use of other community resources, client outreach and recruitment, client service delivery, cost of services, and level of technical and financial assistance to employers. The types of data and information, measures and indicators to be used for the process evaluation, as well as the methods and timeframe for collecting and analyzing the required data should be indicated; _Provides for the completion of two interim evaluation reports and a final report. The final evaluation report will describe the program design and any changes from the original workplan, outreach and recruitment results, interventions, and accomplishments. The measurement instruments, data collection procedures, and analysis techniques should be discussed, and the report should yield conclusions as to how well the program works and why. It should also discuss the program's potential for replication in other communities; and _Includes a realistic plan for disseminating the project findings to other interested organizations and public agencies.
