FR941216-1-00036 FR941216-1-00010 Section 1.1275&hyph;6␣Integration Many commentators suggested that the integration of contingent payment debt instruments with associated hedges provides the best method of taxing contingent payment debt instruments that are hedged. The proposed regulations respond to this suggestion by providing for the integration of contingent or variable rate debt instruments with certain financial instruments (§1.1275&hyph;6). The integration rules are issued under the authority of section 1275(d), and until the proposed regulations under §1.1275&hyph;6 are finalized, the integration rules are not a permissible means of determining the character and timing of income, deductions, gains, and losses. The rules in the proposed regulations are modeled after the integration rules of section 988(d) and §1.988&hyph;5(a). The rules in the proposed regulations, however, have been modified to reflect the different policy concerns underlying the rules for taking currency gain or loss into account and for taking interest income or deductions into account. The IRS and Treasury intend to make conforming changes to §1.988&hyph;5(a) and request comments on the extent to which §1.988&hyph;5(a) should be modified to conform to the proposed regulations. The integration rules apply to qualifying debt instruments, which are defined as contingent payment debt instruments, variable rate debt instruments, and the synthetic debt instruments that are the result of integration under the proposed regulations. Thus, the integration rules do not apply to fixed rate debt instruments. For a financial instrument to qualify as a hedge under the proposed regulations (a §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge), the combined cash flows of the qualifying debt instrument and the financial instrument must permit the calculation of a yield to maturity or must be the same as the cash flows on a variable rate debt instrument that pays interest at a qualified floating rate or rates. Thus, the proposed regulations generally require a perfect hedge. Section 1.1275&hyph;6 hedges, however, are not limited to hedging transactions as defined in §1.1221&hyph;2(b). For example, a §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge need not reduce risk from all of the operations of a business. A debt instrument held by a taxpayer cannot be a §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge of a debt instrument issued by the taxpayer and a debt instrument issued by a taxpayer cannot be a §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge of a debt instrument held by the taxpayer. Physical assets, such as inventory, generally will not be treated as §1.1275&hyph;6 hedges because they do not provide the predictable cash flows necessary to create a perfect hedge. A supply or sales contract, however, may qualify as a §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge. Stock does not qualify as a §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge. To qualify as an integrated transaction, the taxpayer must issue or acquire a qualifying debt instrument, enter into a §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge, and meet six requirements. First, the taxpayer must satisfy the identification requirements of the proposed regulations, such as by entering a description of the qualifying debt instrument and the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge in its books and records. Second, the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge must not be with a related party (other than a member of the same consolidated group making the separate-entity election under §1.1221&hyph;2(d)). Third, the same taxpayer must enter into the qualifying debt instrument and the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge. Fourth, if the taxpayer is a foreign person engaged in a U.S. trade or business who issues or acquires the qualifying debt instrument or enters into the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge through the trade or business, all items of income and expense associated with the debt instrument or hedge (other than interest expense that is subject to §1.882&hyph;5) must be effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business. Fifth, the qualifying debt instrument, any other debt instrument that is part of the same issue as the qualifying debt instrument, or the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge cannot have been part of an integrated transaction that was previously legged out of by the taxpayer. Finally, the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge must be entered into by the taxpayer on or after the date the taxpayer issues or acquires the qualifying debt instrument. If the taxpayer meets these requirements, the qualifying debt instrument and the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge are integrated and the resulting synthetic debt instrument is taxed accordingly. The Commissioner may require integration if a qualifying debt instrument and a financial instrument have, in substance, the same combined cash flows as a fixed or variable rate debt instrument. Therefore, even if the taxpayer fails one or more of the requirements for integration, the Commissioner may integrate a qualifying debt instrument and a financial instrument. For example, if the taxpayer fails to meet the identification requirements, or enters into a hedge with a related party, the Commissioner may integrate the transaction. The Commissioner also may integrate a transaction even if the hedge is not perfect. Thus, taxpayers may not avoid integration by altering the hedge so that there is a small amount of basis risk or the payments under the hedge do not fully match the payments on the qualifying debt instrument. The Commissioner will not integrate a debt instrument with an imperfect hedge, however, if the taxpayer retains substantial risk. The proposed regulations provide rules for legging into and legging out of an integrated transaction. Legging into an integrated transaction generally means entering into the hedge after the qualifying debt instrument is issued or acquired by the taxpayer. If a taxpayer legs into an integrated transaction, the qualifying debt instrument is subject to the separate transaction rules up to the leg-in date, except that the day before the leg- in date is treated as the end of an accrual period for purposes of computing OID and interest accruals on the qualifying debt instrument. After the taxpayer legs in, the qualifying debt instrument and the §1.1275&hyph;6 hedge are integrated. Built-in gain or loss on the qualifying debt instrument is not treated as realized on the leg-in date (contrary to the rule for currency gain or loss in §1.988&hyph;5(a)(6)(i)). Because the built-in gain or loss will be reflected in the accruals on the synthetic debt instrument, the built-in gain or loss on the leg-in date will be recognized over the term of the synthetic debt instrument.
