FR940207-2-00072 FR940207-2-00028 Comment: Clearly the use of the Engineering Ten-Year Plan is a deviation from the requirements of DOE Order No. RA 6120.2. It is for the simple reason that it does not, and indeed is not necessarily intended to, reflect only investment costs ``for which Congress has appropriated funds for construction and which will be in service within the cost evaluation period.'' (DOE Order No. RA 6120, paragraph 10 k) As such a deviation, its use will be required to be accompanied by a statement disclosing and justifying the deviation. (DOE Order No. RA 6120.2, paragraph 13.) Such justification must be included in the transmittal memorandum from the Secretary to FERC or in a footnote to the reports that accompany such transmittal. Response: All of the investments in the Ratesetting PRS are authorized power system facilities for which Congress has appropriated funds for FY 1993 construction, and which will be in service within the cost evaluation period. Therefore, Western believes it has complied with DOE Order No. RA 6120.2. The Engineering Ten-Year Plan was used to determine if the investments in the FY 1993 Budget were still planned to be in service within the cost evaluation period. The Engineering Ten-Year Plan was a better source of data to use in terms of timing of completion of construction activities and the dollars that will be spent in years 1994&hyph;98. The appropriated budget amounts for FY 1993 were changed only to match the most current budget information. Western believes that the Engineering Ten-Year Plan was the best data available at the time. Comment: Reclamation should increase the rate for project use. Response: Reclamation is currently reviewing the accuracy of the project use rates. If it is determined that the project use rates require adjustment, Reclamation will take the necessary steps to implement a change in these rates. The resulting change, if any, will be reflected in a future PRS conducted by Western. Comment: Western continues to be out of compliance with DOE Order No. RA 6120.2 which requires audits at least once every 2 years. Response: Western is in compliance with DOE Order No. RA 6120.2 in that it has annual audits. Western has either had an annual consolidated Western-wide audit or project-specific audit which both meet the criteria of DOE Order No. RA 6120.2. Currently, P&hyph;DP is undergoing a project-specific audit. Comment: There is concern in justifying this rate increase in light of WAPA's own admission that the existing rate is adequate to fully recover costs and meet repayment requirements for at least the next 5 years. The pinch-point methodology used in the PRS for determining the rates is doing the customers a disservice. Comment: The establishment of the current rate based upon anticipated revenue requirements in FY 2047 is unreasonable. Response: P&hyph;DP's PRSs are required to repay each dollar of investment with interest within a period not to exceed 50 years. The use of the pinch-point methodology and the longstanding practice of repaying investment with interest within 50 years are justified and identified in DOE Order No. RA 6120.2. Section 12 of the Order describes the guidelines for the cost recovery criteria which is what the pinch-point methodology accomplishes. The pinch-point in the Ratesetting PRS is FY 2047. This pinch-point is due to a required payment needed to fully repay an investment within a 50-year period. Comment: There is disagreement with Western's classification process for capitalizing versus expensing. O&M expense costs should be classified as a capital cost and amortized over the expected service life of the facility involved. Specifically, vehicle expenditures were classified as expense rather than capitalized. Response: Vehicle expenditures were expensed rather than capitalized and it is Western's policy to expense minor replacements ($5,000 or less) and capitalize major replacements (over $5,000). However, the particular budget document that is being questioned contains a significant number of (i) expendable communication items and (ii) electrical test equipment, in addition to several vehicles. The service lives of the communication items and test equipment is sufficiently short enough to justify expensing the costs of said equipment. Due to the fact that only a small portion of the costs of the budget document were related to the purchase of vehicles, a decision was made to expense the entire budgeted amount. Comment: Customer feels Western should withdraw its proposal regarding the expansion of its area load control boundaries to the Basic Substation. They feel Western has no justification for this proposal and there are no benefits.
