FR940725-2-00100 FR940725-2-00063 C. Calculation of the Index The Nikkei 300 Index is capitalization-weighted and reflects changes in the prices of the Index component securities relative to the base data of the Index (October 1, 1982). The value of the Index is calculated by multiplying the price of each component security by the number of shares outstanding of each such security, adding the products, and dividing by the current Index divisor. The Index divisor is adjusted to reflect certain events relating to the component stocks. 11 The Index had a closing value of 303.99 on June 24, 1994. 11 See supra Section II.B. The Index divisor was get to give the Index a value of 100 on its base date. Because trading does not occur on the TSE during the CBOE's trading hours, the CBOE calculates the Index once each day based on the most recent official closing price of each Index component security as reported by the TSE. This closing value will be disseminated throughout the trading day on the CBOE. D. Contract Specifications The proposed options on the Nikkei 300 Index will be cash-settled, European-style options. 12 The CBOE is proposing to trade options on the Index from 8:00 a.m. to 3:15 p.m. (Chicago Time). The proposed starting time for Index options is one-half hour earlier than trading in options normally begins at the CBOE. The multiplier for the Index will be 100. Strike prices on Index options and full-value Index LEAPS will be set to bracket the Index level at $5.00 intervals. The Exchange intends to list options series with expirations in the three near-term calendar months, plus up to three additional calendar months in the March, June, September, December cycle. As described in more detail below, the Exchange also intends to list Index LEAPS, and LEAPS on a reduced-value Index, that will expire from 12 to 36 months from the date of the issuance. 12 A European-style option can be exercised only during a specified period before the option expires. Options on the Index (including full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS) will expire on the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month. The last trading day in an option series normally will be the second to last business day preceding the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month (normally a Thursday). Trading in expiring options will cease at the close of trading on the last trading day. The exercise settlement value for all of the Index's expiring options will be calculated based upon the most recent official closing price of each of the component securities as reported by the TSE at the close of the regular Friday sessions in Japan (ordinarily at 3:00 p.m. Tokyo time). When expirations are moved in accordance with Exchange holidays, such as when the CBOE is closed on the Friday before expiration, the last trading day for expiring options will be Wednesday and the exercise settlement value of expiring Index options will be determined at the close of the regular Thursday trading sessions in Japan, even if the Japanese markets are open on Friday. If the Japanese markets will be closed on the Friday before expiration but the CBOE will not be closed, the last trading day for expiring options will be Wednesday and the exercise settlement value of expiring Index options will be determined at the close of the regular Thursday trading sessions in Japan. E. Listing of Long-Term Options on the Full-Value or Reduced-Value Index The Exchange may list series of LEAPS on the Nikkei 300 Index that expires from 12 to 36 months from the date of their issuance on either the full-value Index or a reduced-value Index computed at one-tenth of the full-value index, subject to existing Exchange requirements applicable to full-value and reduced-value LEAPS. 13 The current and closing values for reduced-value Index LEAPS on the Index will be computed by dividing the value of the full-value Index by ten and rounding the resulting figure to the nearest one-hundredth. For example, a Nikkei 300 Index value of 303.99 would be 30.40 for the reduced-value Index LEAPS, and 303.94 would become 30.39. The reduced-value Index LEAPS will have a European-style exercise and will be subject to the same rules that govern trading of all of the Exchange's index options, including sales practices rules, margin requirements, and floor trading procedures. Strike price intervals for the reduced-value Index LEAPS will be no less than $2.50, instead of $5.00. 14 13 See CBOE Rule 24.9(b). 14 See CBOE Rule 24.9(b)(2)(B). F. Position and Exercise Limits, Margin Requirements, and Trading Halts Position limits for options (including Index LEAPS) on the Nikkei 300 Index will be set at no more than 25,000 contracts on the same side of the market, provided that no more than 15,000 of such contracts are in series in the nearest expiration month. 15 Exercise limits will be set at the same level as position limits. 16 For purpose of calculating applicable position and exercise limits, positions in reduced-value options on the Index will be aggregated with each other and with positions in the full-value Index options. 17 Ten reduced-value contracts will equal one full-value contract for purposes of aggregating these positions. 18 15 See CBOE Rule 24.4(a)(i). 16 See CBOE Rule 24.5. 17 See CBOE Rule 24.4(e). 18 Id.
