FR940810-0-00307 FR940810-0-00021 (3) Close down the field iris so that it is visible in the field of view. Focus the image of the iris with the condenser focus. Center the image of the iris in the field of view. (4) Install the phase telescope and focus on the phase rings. Critically center the rings. Misalignment of the rings results in astigmatism which will degrade the image. (5) Place the phase-shift test slide on the microscope stage and focus on the lines. The analyst must see line set 3 and should see at least parts of 4 and 5 but, not see line set 6 or 6. A microscope/microscopist combination which does not pass this test may not be used. 6.6.2. Counting Fibers (1) Place the prepared sample slide on the mechanical stage of the microscope. Position the center of the wedge under the objective lens and focus upon the sample. (2) Start counting from one end of the wedge and progress along a radial line to the other end (count in either direction from perimeter to wedge tip). Select fields randomly, without looking into the eyepieces, by slightly advancing the slide in one direction with the mechanical stage control. (3) Continually scan over a range of focal planes (generally the upper 10 to 15 m m of the filter surface) with the fine focus control during each field count. Spend at least 5 to 15 seconds per field. (4) Most samples will contain asbestos fibers with fiber diameters less than 1 m m. Look carefully for faint fiber images. The small diameter fibers will be very hard to see. However, they are an important contribution to the total count. (5) Count only fibers equal to or longer than 5 m m. Measure the length of curved fibers along the curve. (6) Count fibers which have a length to width ratio of 3:1 or greater. (7) Count all the fibers in at least 20 fields. Continue counting until either 100 fibers are counted or 100 fields have been viewed; whichever occurs first. Count all the fibers in the final field. (8) Fibers lying entirely within the boundary of the Walton-Beckett graticule field shall receive a count of 1. Fibers crossing the boundary once, having one end within the circle shall receive a count of 1/2. Do not count any fiber that crosses the graticule boundary more than once. Reject and do not count any other fibers even though they may be visible outside the graticule area. If a fiber touches the circle, it is considered to cross the line. (9) Count bundles of fibers as one fiber unless individual fibers can be clearly identified and each individual fiber is clearly not connected to another counted fiber. See Figure 2 for counting conventions. (10) Record the number of fibers in each field in a consistent way such that filter non-uniformity can be assessed. (11) Regularly check phase ring alignment. (12) When an agglomerate (mass of material) covers more than 25% of the field of view, reject the field and select another. Do not include it in the number of fields counted. (13) Perform a ``blind recount'' of 1 in every 10 filter wedges (slides). Re-label the slides using a person other than the original counter. 6.7. Fiber Identification As previously mentioned in Section 1.3., PCM does not provide positive confirmation of asbestos fibers. Alternate differential counting techniques should be used if discrimination is desirable. Differential counting may include primary discrimination based on morphology, polarized light analysis of fibers, or modification of PCM data by Scanning Electron or Transmission Electron Microscopy. A great deal of experience is required to routinely and correctly perform differential counting. It is discouraged unless it is legally necessary. Then, only if a fiber is obviously not asbestos should it be excluded from the count. Further discussion of this technique can be found in reference 8.10.
