FR940606-1-00084 FR940606-1-00012 (ii) For propylene oxide, not more than 7.0 Bar guage (99.6 psig); and (iii) For propylene oxide and ethylene oxide mixtures, not more than 5.3 Bar guage (75.4 psig). (3) Have an automatic nitrogen make-up system that provides a padding of nitrogen and that does not allow the tank pressure to fall below 0.07 Bar guage (1.0 psig) in the event of a decrease in cargo temperature. Sufficient nitrogen of commercially pure quality must be available to satisfy this requirement. This requirement for automatic pressure control may be satisfied by a battery of nitrogen bottles connected to the cargo tank by a pressure reduction valve. (4) Be thoroughly cleaned, including washing or purging of associated piping, before other cargoes may be carried. §154.1775 Propylene oxide and mixtures of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide containing not more than 30% ethylene oxide by weight: Transfer operations. (a) Propylene oxide and mixtures of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide containing not more than 30% ethylene oxide by weight may be transported only in accordance with cargo handling plans which have been approved by the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Center (G&hyph;MSC). A separate cargo handling plan for each loading arrangement must be prepared which shows the entire piping system and the location of all blank flanges installed under §154.1770(a)(2). A copy of each approved cargo handling plan must be kept on board the vessel. The IMO Certificate must be endorsed to include reference to the approved cargo handling plans. (b) Before loading the product, a person acceptable to the Captain of the Port must perform the following: (1) Certify in writing that the piping separation under §154.1770(a)(2) has been achieved. This certification must be kept on board the vessel. (2) Fit a wire and seal to each connection between a blank flange and a pipeline flange to ensure that the blank flange is not inadvertently removed. (c) A list of the maximum allowable tank filling limits for each cargo tank, at each of the planned loading temperatures and at the maximum reference temperature, must be prepared and submitted to the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Center (G&hyph;MSC) for approval. A copy of the approved list must be kept on board the vessel. (d) The master shall ensure that, before the product is loaded into a cargo tank_ (1) The tank is thoroughly clean, dry, and free from rust; (2) The hold spaces are inerted with an inert gas that meets §154.1710(b)(1); and (3) The cargo tank vapor space is tested to ensure that the oxygen concentration is 2% (by volume) or less. (e) Cargo hoses used for the transfer of these products must be marked ``FOR ALKYLENE OXIDE TRANSFER ONLY''. (f) Filling and discharge piping must extend to within 100mm (4 in) of the bottom of the tank or any sump pit. (g) Venting of the cargo tanks to the atmosphere must not occur during loading or discharge. A vapor return to shore may be used during loading provided that the vapor return system connected to a containment system for the product is separate from all other containment systems. (h) The pressure in the cargo tank must be maintained above 0.07 Bar guage (1.0 psig) during discharge operations. (i) The cargo must be discharged by deepwell pumps, hydraulically operated submerged pumps, or inert gas displacement. (j) Cargo pumps must be arranged to ensure that, if the discharge from the pump is turned off or otherwise blocked, there will not be a significant increase in the temperature of the cargo. (k) Before disconnecting the lines connecting to the shore facility, the pressure in liquid and vapor lines must be relieved through valves installed at the loading header. Liquid and vapor from the lines must not be discharged to the atmosphere. 58. Section 154.1800 is revised to read as follows: §154.1800 Operating requirements under part 35 of this chapter. Each vessel must operate in accordance with part 35 of this chapter, except for §35.30&hyph;20 of this chapter. 59. In §154.1803, paragraph (b) is revised to read as follows: §154.1803 Expiration of Certificates of Compliance. * * * * * (b) If a vessel's IMO Certificate expires or otherwise becomes invalid, the vessel's Certificate of Compliance becomes invalid for the carriage of cargoes listed in table 4 of this part or authorized by special approval under §154.30. To maintain the validity of the Certificate of Compliance, the vessel's owner must submit a copy of the revised or reissued IMO Certificate to the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Center (G&hyph;MSC).
