FR940511-2-00152 FR940511-2-00096 (6) Any other information which the professional arbitration association or organization may consider relevant. 37 CFR 251.3(a). Section 251.3(b) directs: After May 6, 1994 *␣*␣* the Librarian of Congress shall publish in the Federal Register a list of at least 30, but not more than 75 persons, submitted to the Librarian from at least three professional arbitration associations or organizations. The persons so listed must satisfy the qualifications and requirements of this subchapter and can reasonably be expected to be available to serve as arbitrators on a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel during that calendar year. This list will constitute the ``arbitrator list'' referred to in this subchapter. The publication of today's list satisfies the requirements of §251.3. Although §251.3(b) sets an upper limit of 75 names, the Copyright Office is publishing an arbitrator list containing 107 names. The short period of time between receipt of the names from the arbitrator associations and the need to publish the arbitrator list precluded the possibility of prescreening the list to stay within the 75 person maximum. The Office is therefore waiving the maximum limitation for this year and is publishing all the names submitted by the arbitration associations that met the eligibility criteria of §251.5. Arbitration associations submitted names of people that they found to satisfy the CARP eligibility requirements described in §251.5 including ability to serve on a CARP at any time during 1994. 1 1 This also includes any ``spill over'' into 1995 that may occur as a result of a CARP proceeding beginning late this year. As noted above in the quotation from §251.3(b), today's list constitutes the CARP ``arbitrator list'' for purposes of subchapter B. The information submitted by an arbitration association with respect to each person listed is available for copying and inspection at the Licensing Division of the Copyright Office. See §251.3(b) of the new regulations. Thus, for example, if the Librarian is required to convene a CARP this year for a royalty fee distribution, parties to that proceeding may contact the Licensing Division of the Copyright Office, LM&hyph;458, to review that information as a means of formulating objections to listed arbitrators under §251.4. Deadline for Filing Financial Disclosure Statement Publication of today's list also triggers a requirement imposed by the new regulation on the individuals named in the list. Section 251.32(a) of the CARP rules provides that, within one month of date of publication in Federal Register , each listed person must ``file with the Librarian of Congress a confidential financial disclosure statement as provided by the Library of Congress.'' The Copyright Office is sending a financial disclosure statement, with specific instructions for completing and filing the statement, to every arbitrator on the CARP arbitrator list. The disclosure statement will be used by the Librarian for purposes of determining what conflicts of interest, if any, may preclude the person from serving as an arbitrator in a CARP proceeding. Unlike the information submitted by arbitration associations under §251.3(a), the information contained in the financial disclosure statements is confidential and is not available to the public or to the parties to the proceeding. The arbitrators identified on the arbitrator list published today have until June 13, 1994, to file their financial disclosure statement with the Librarian. Failure to file the statement on time may preclude consideration of the person to serve on a CARP. The CARP arbitrator list for 1994 includes: Name and Affiliation Mark Aarons, Esq._ American Arbitration Association Eugene N. Aleinikoff, Esq._American Arbitration Association Allen H. Arrow, Esq._American Arbitration Association John S. Barr, Esq._American Arbitration Association Professor Hadley Batchelder_``Judge-Net'' Gerald E. Battist, Esq._American Intellectual Property Law Association William W. Becker, Esq._American Arbitration Association Rosalyn B. Bell, Esq._American Arbitration Association Richard Bennett, Esq._American Arbitration Association Richard M. Berman, Esq._American Arbitration Association Terrell C. Birch, Esq._American Arbitration Association Bruce Brickman, Esq._American Arbitration Association Stuart N. Brotman, Esq._American Arbitration Association The Honorable J. Robert Brown_Judicate, Inc. E. Fulton Brylawski, Esq._American Film Martketing Association The Honorable Charles Clark_Center for Public Resources, Inc. Herbert B. Cohn, Esq._American Arbitration Association Edward T. Colbert, Esq._American Arbitration Association Joel Davidow, Esq._American Arbitration Association
