FR941205-2-00174 FR941205-2-00074 Priority This project must_ •Be of national scope; •Concentrate on curriculum development for training interpreters for individuals who are deaf-blind in order to improve the capabilities of regional projects; •Furnish technical assistance to the regional projects in training interpreters to meet the communication needs of individuals who are deaf; •Establish cooperative relationships with the regional interpreter training projects to be funded by the Secretary in fiscal year 1995; •Use collaborative training approaches, such as workshops and seminars, to address curriculum development, classroom training of interpreters, preparation of interpreter trainers (faculty development), and other activities that will increase the number of interpreters and the skills and knowledge of interpreters to meet the communication needs of individuals who are deaf and individuals who are deaf-blind. Priority 2_National Project to Address the Interpreting Needs of Culturally Diverse Communities Background A national project is needed that will provide technical assistance to interpreter training projects to improve the recruitment of interpreters who are minority group members and to improve the training of interpreters to better meet the special needs of minority individuals who are deaf or deaf-blind. This project would assist all other projects funded under this program in increasing their efforts in these areas and in better meeting the interpreting needs of different cultures. The interpreter service needs of minority group individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing is an issue that has been raised nationally. An RSA-funded evaluation study reported that approximately 90 percent of graduates from the interpreter training programs around the country are White, while 4 percent are African-American and 5 percent are Hispanic. The National Registry of Interpreters for the Deaf reported that, in a given year, of 2,057 interpreters certified by their registry, only 20 were non-White persons. A Health Interview Survey, conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics in 1990&hyph;91, reported that of the 20 million individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing, 1.2 million are Afro-American and 900,000 are Hispanic. A national project is needed to concentrate on curriculum that will improve the skills of interpreters working with minority group members. Strategies for the recruitment of minority interpreters also need to be developed and made available to the field. The Secretary has identified a maximum possible project period of 60 months. The Secretary believes that at least 36 months will be necessary to meet the requirements of the priority. The Secretary will be assessing, during the third year of the project period, whether there is a need to provide funding beyond 36 months. Priority This project must_ •Be of national scope; •Provide technical assistance to the regional interpreter training projects supported under this program in recruiting and training interpreters to meet the communication needs of culturally diverse populations; •Develop curriculum to improve the knowledge of interpreters with respect to social and cultural concepts of interpreting, such as body language, spatial considerations, and communication between individuals from different cultures; •Establish cooperative relationships with the regional projects to be funded by the Secretary during fiscal year 1995 by conducting workshops and seminars to improve curriculum development, classroom training of interpreters, preparation of interpreter trainers, recruitment outreach to members of racial and ethnic minority groups, and other activities that will increase the number and skills of interpreters to help meet the communication needs of individuals from different cultures; and •In carrying out project activities, address at a minimum the needs of the minority populations referred to in section 21 of the Rehabilitation Act, including African-Americans, Hispanics, American Indians, and Asian-Americans. Applicable Program Regulations: 34 CFR Part 396. Program Authority: 29 U.S.C. 771a(f). Intergovernmental Review These programs are subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for these programs. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.264 Rehabilitation Continuing Education Program; 84.246 Rehabilitation Short-Term Training; 84.275 Rehabilitation Training_General; and 84.160 Training of Interpreters for Individuals Who Are Deaf and Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind) Dated: November 30, 1994. Judith E. Heumann, Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29859 Filed 12&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
