FR941003-2-00104 FR941003-2-00049 (g) Student positions established in support of the Cooperative Education Program in which the student is enrolled in an undergraduate certificate or diploma program in an accredited college, technical, trade, vocational, or business school which provides for scheduled periods of classroom study combined with at least 16 weeks or 640 hours of study-related work in a Federal agency. The periods of study and work must satisfy requirements for an undergraduate certificate or diploma and provide experience necessary for a career or career-conditional appointment into office and administrative support, technician, assistant, helper, and preapprentice occupations in the Federal career service upon the student's graduation. (h)&hyph;(i) (Reserved). (j) Special executive development positions established in connection with Senior Executive Service candidate development programs which have been approved by OPM. A Federal agency may make new appointments under this authority for any period of employment not exceeding 3 years for one individual. (k) Positions at grades GS&hyph;15 and below when filled by individuals who (1) are placed at a severe disadvantage in obtaining employment because of a psychiatric disability evidenced by hospitalization or outpatient treatment and have had a significant period of substantially disrupted employment because of the disability; and (2) are certified to a specific position by a State vocational rehabilitation counselor or a Veterans Administration counseling psychologist (or psychiatrist) who indicates that they meet the severe disadvantage criteria stated above, that they are capable of functioning in the positions to which they will be appointed, and that any residual disability is not job related. Employment of any individual under this authority may not exceed 2 years following each significant period of mental illness. (l) (Reserved). (m) Positions when filled under any of the following conditions: (1) Appointment at grades GS&hyph;15 and above, or equivalent, in the same or a different agency without a break in service from a career appointment in the Senior Executive Service (SES) of an individual who: (i) Has completed the SES probationary period; (ii) Has been removed from the SES because of less than fully successful executive performance or a reduction in force; and (iii) Is entitled to be placed in another civil service position under 5 U.S.C. 3594(b). (2) Appointment in a different agency without a break in service of an individual originally appointed under paragraph (m)(1). (3) Reassignment, promotion, or demotion within the same agency of an individual appointed under this authority. Section 213.3203␣Executive Office of the President (a) (Reserved). (b) Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations. (1) Seventeen positions of economist at grades GS&hyph;12 through GS&hyph;15. Section 213.3204␣Department of State (a)&hyph;(c) (Reserved). (d) Fourteen positions on the household staff of the President's Guest House (Blair and Blair-Lee Houses). (e) Four Physical Science Administration Officer positions at GS&hyph;11 through and GS&hyph;13 under the Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs' Science, Engineering and Diplomacy Fellowship Program. Employment under this authority is not to exceed 21/2 years. (f) Scientific, professional, and technical positions at grades GS&hyph;12 to GS&hyph;15 when filled by persons having special qualifications in foreign policy matters. Total employment under this authority may not exceed 4 years. Section 213.3205␣Department of the Treasury (a) Positions of Deputy Comptroller of the Currency, Chief National Bank Examiner, Assistant Chief National Bank Examiner, Regional Administrator of National Banks, Deputy Regional Administrator of National Banks, Assistant to the Comptroller of the Currency, National Bank Examiner, Associate National Bank Examiner, and Assistant National Bank Examiner, whose salaries are paid from assessments against national banks and other financial institutions.
