FR940722-2-00110 FR940722-2-00067 _ Language Support. The Advisory Committee encourages attention to the non-Russian languages of the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the less commonly taught languages of the East European countries. Support provided for Russian language instruction/study normally will be only for advanced level. Applicants proposing to offer language instruction are encouraged to apply to a national program as described above which has appropriate peer group review mechanisms. _ Support for Non-Americans. The purpose of the program is to build and sustain U.S. expertise on the countries of Eastern Europe and the independent states of the former Soviet Union. Therefore, the Advisory Committee has determined that highest priority for support always should go to American specialists (i.e., U.S. citizens or permanent residents). Support for such activities as long-term research fellowships, i.e., nine months or longer, should be restricted solely to American scholars. Support for short-term activities also should be restricted to Americans, except in special instances where the participation of a non-American scholar has clear and demonstrable benefits to the American scholarly community. In such special instances, the application must justify the expenditure. In making its recommendations, the Committee will seek to encourage a coherent, long-term, and stable effort directed toward developing and maintaining a national capability on the countries of Eastern Europe and the independent states of the former Soviet Union. Program proposals can be for the conduct of any of the functions enumerated, but in making its recommendations, the Committee will be concerned to develop a balanced national effort which will ensure attention to all the countries of the area. Legislation requires and this announcement indicates under Program Information of this section that in certain cases grantee organizations must include shared-cost provisions in their arrangements with end-users. Cost-sharing is encourage, whenever feasible, in all programs. Part III Available Funds Awards are contingent upon the availability of funds. Funding may be available at a level up to $10 million. The precise level of funding will not be known until legislative action is complete. In Fiscal Year 1994, the Congress appropriated to the program $10 million from the Agency for International Development budget. The Department legally cannot commit funds that may be appropriated in subsequent fiscal years. Thus multi-year projects cannot receive assured funding unless such funding is supplied out of a single year's appropriation. Grant agreements may permit the expenditure from a particular year's grant to be made up to three years from the grant's effective date, depending upon the source of the appropriation. Applications Applications must be prepared and submitted in 20 copies in the form of a statement, the narrative part of which should not exceed 20 double-spaced pages. This must be accompanied by a one page executive summary, a budget, and vitae of key professional staff. Proposers may append other information they consider essential, although bulky submissions are discouraged and run the risk of not being reviewed fully. The one-page summary and budget should precede the narrative in the proposal. Proposed programs should be described fully, including benefits for the fields. All applicants should provide detailed information about their plans for peer evaluation and review procedures and estimates of the types and amounts of anticipated awards. Applicants who have received a grant from this program in the previous competition should provide detailed information on the peer evaluation and review procedures followed, and awards made, including, where applicable, names/affiliations of recipients, and amounts and types of awards. If an applicant received support prior to the last competition, a summary of those awards also should be included.
