FR940524-1-00016 FR940524-1-00005 ยง101&hyph;6.604 Requirements. (a) The equivalent level of life safety evaluation is to be performed by a qualified fire protection engineer. The engineer conducting the analysis must have a thorough understanding of the principles of physics and chemistry governing fire growth, spread, and suppression. The analysis should include a narrative discussion of the features of the building structure, function, operation support systems and occupant activities which impact fire protection and lifesafety. Each analysis should describe potential reasonable worst case fire scenarios and their impact on the building occupants and structure. Specific issues which must be addressed include rate of fire growth, type and location of fuel lines, space layout, building construction, openings and ventilation, suppression capability, detection time, occupant notification, occupant reaction time, occupant mobility, and means of egress. (b) To be acceptable, the analysis must indicate that the combination of features used to achieve equivalency will prevent flashover in the room of fire origin, limit fire size to no more than 1 megawatt (950 Btu/sec), or prevent flames from leaving the room of origin. A 1 megawatt fire is approximately equivalent to a burning easy chair or two burning 1.8 m (6 ft) tall Christmas trees. Analytical and empirical tools, including fire models and grading schedules such as the Fire Safety Evaluation System, should be used to support the life safety equivalency evaluation. If fire modeling is used as part of an analysis, an assessment of the predicative capabilities of the fire models must be included. This assessment should be conducted in accordance with the American Society for Testing and Materials Standard Guide for Evaluating the Predictive Capability of Fire Models (ASTM E 1355). ยง101&hyph;6.605 Responsibility. The Head of the agency responsible for physical improvements in the facility or providing Federal assistance or a designated representative will determine the acceptability of each equivalent level of safety analysis. The determination of acceptability must include a review of the fire protection engineer's qualifications, the appropriateness of the fire scenarios for the facility, and the reasonableness of the assumed maximum probable loss. Dated: March 30, 1994. Kenneth R. Kimbrough, Commissioner, Public Buildings Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12617 Filed 5&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;23&hyph;M
