FR941007-1-00132 FR941007-1-00009 (6) The bank's public file, as described in §345.43 of this part, and any signed, written comments about the bank's CRA performance submitted to the bank or the FDIC; and (7) Any other information deemed relevant by the FDIC. (c) Assigned ratings. The FDIC shall assign to each bank one of the following four ratings as set out in §345.28 of this part and Appendix A of this part: ``outstanding''; ``satisfactory''; ``needs to improve''; or ``substantial noncompliance'' based on: (1) The results of the applicable assessment test(s) or standards or performance under an approved strategic plan; and (2) Any evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices. (d) Safe and sound operations. This part and the CRA do not require any bank to make loans or investments, or to provide services that are inconsistent with safe and sound operations. Banks are permitted and encouraged to develop and apply flexible underwriting standards, consistent with safe and sound operations, for loans that benefit low- or moderate-income geographies or individuals. (e) Compliance with community reinvestment obligation. The assigned ratings reflect the extent of compliance or noncompliance with the community reinvestment obligation described in §345.11(b) of this part. A bank that receives an assigned rating of ``substantial noncompliance'' shall be subject to enforcement actions pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818. §345.22 Lending test. (a) Scope of test. (1) The lending test evaluates a bank's performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) through its lending activities, as measured by home mortgage originations and purchases, small business and small farm loans outstanding, and community development loans outstanding. At the bank's option, the lending test will also evaluate the bank's consumer loans outstanding and any other loan distribution data the bank may choose to provide, such as data on extensions of lines of credit, commitments, and letters of credit. (2) When evaluating a bank's overall lending performance, the FDIC shall weigh its assessments of the bank's home mortgage lending, small business and small farm lending, and (at the bank's option) consumer lending to reflect the relative importance of each category of lending to the bank's overall business. (3) The FDIC shall weigh the bank's community development lending according to the characteristics and needs of the bank's service area(s), the capacity and constraints of the bank, and the opportunities available to the bank for this lending. (b) Assessment criteria. The FDIC shall evaluate a bank's lending performance pursuant to the following criteria: (1) Geographic distribution. The geographic distribution of the bank's lending (based on the location of the loan as provided in §345.12 of this part), including: (i) The proportion of total lending in the bank's service area(s); (ii) The dispersion of lending throughout the bank's service area(s); and (iii) The number and amount of loans in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies in the bank's service area(s); (2) Borrower characteristics. The distribution, particularly in the bank's service area, of the bank's lending (based on borrower characteristics), including: (i) The number and amount of home mortgage loans to low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income individuals; (ii) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans to businesses and farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million;
