FR941103-2-00021 FR941103-2-00014 _ Diversified Scientific Services, Inc. (Kingston, TN). This commercial facility could accept most of the mixed waste from Mound. Treatment, however, may be restricted by air permit conditions limiting the type of waste used for fuel and by Environmental Protection Agency regulations for boilers and industrial furnaces (40 CFR 266.100&hyph;112 and Appendices I&hyph;IX). _ Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL). INEL has a permitted incinerator facility, the Waste Experimental Reduction Facility (WERF), capable of burning radioactive material and hazardous waste. WERF is currently shut down, and its operation is contingent upon completion of National Environmental Policy Act review and DOE approval of a Safety Analysis Report. The current waste acceptance criteria for WERF limit the radioactive and chloride content of wastes and prohibit receipt of any free liquids. These criteria would prohibit the acceptance at WERF of almost all of the waste proposed for treatment in the Glass Melter. The criteria could not be changed without substantial upgrades to WERF. _ Los Alamos National Laboratory. The proposed Controlled Air Incinerator is currently being permitted and undergoing National Environmental Policy Act review for operation at production capacity. Current operational plans do not include acceptance of offsite wastes, and the draft RCRA permit proposes to prohibit treatment of offsite waste. _ Savannah River Site. DOE is currently constructing the Consolidated Incinerator Facility under a construction permit from the State of South Carolina that does not allow out-of-state waste to be treated in the facility. DOE is preparing an environmental impact statement on waste management at the Savannah River Site, which will include further analysis of operation of the Consolidated Incinerator Facility and other volume reduction alternatives. Trial burns and operation of the facility are being deferred until the completion of the environmental impact statement process. _ Oak Ridge Gaseous Diffusion Plant. The incinerator at the Oak Ridge Gaseous Diffusion Plant currently treats mixed waste. The primary sources of waste treated at this incinerator are the Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plant, the Portsmouth Gaseous Diffusion Plant, and the Oak Ridge Reservation. A substantial backlog of waste exists that will take several years to treat. Thus, this alternative would not be available to Mound for several years and would not meet Mound's immediate needs. _ Nevada Test Site. Disposal of mixed waste at the Nevada Test site is considered a possible alternative to treatment in the Glass Melter. Land disposal restrictions under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act would require, however, that any mixed waste be treated before disposal. The Nevada Test Site would only, therefore, be a reasonable alternative for Mound waste already treated at another facility. DOE has not yet decided to what extent the Nevada Test Site would be used for future disposal of offsite waste; such decisions will be made after completion of the Environmental Restoration and Waste Management Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement and the Nevada Test Site Sitewide Environmental Impact Statement. Proposed Determination Based on the information and the analysis in the environmental assessment, DOE believes the proposed action (operation of the Glass Melter for treatment of backlog mixed waste only) does not constitute a major Federal action that would significantly affect the quality of the human environment within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act. Therefore, DOE proposes to issue a finding of no significant impact and not require the preparation of an environmental impact statement. DOE will make a final determination after considering the comments received during a 30-day public comment period. Issued at Washington DC, this 27th day of October 1994. Peter Brush, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, Environment, Safety and Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27307 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
