FR940516-1-00121 FR940516-1-00006 The levels of the proposed emission standards under this rule are in large part driven by the aggressive timeline of Phase 1. EPA agreed to promulgate Phase 1 small SI engine standards to realize early emission reduction benefits while a more comprehensive long-term program will be developed for Phase 2. A. Achievability of Proposed Emission Standards EPA believes that the proposed Phase l emission standards are the lowest standards for Class I&hyph;V engines achievable by the 1996 model year. The engines covered by this proposed regulation are divided into five classes with unique emission standards proposed for each class. The lowest level of emission standards achievable was determined for each class of engines. The unique standards for each class are driven by differences in emission reduction capability of engines with different combustion cycles and different displacements. Class I and II engines represent nonhandheld engines that, in large part, use 4-stroke combustion cycle engines, as opposed to Class III&hyph;V engines which represent handheld engines that, in large part, use 2-stroke combustion cycle engines. Within the time constraints for compliance with this rule, Class I and II engines will be capable of achieving a lower HC + NO X composite emission standard and lower CO emission standard than the Class III&hyph;V engines are capable of achieving. Furthermore, within each combustion cycle type, the larger displacement classes will be capable of achieving lower HC + NO X , HC, and CO emission standards. A full discussion of the technical rationale for these limitations is set forth in the draft RSD. EPA's belief that the proposed emission standards for Classes I&hyph;V are the lowest achievable standards is based on emission data provided on nonoptimized prototype configurations of engines that meet the proposed standards, technical discussions with manufacturers, and EPA analysis of information on technologies collected from a range of sources. The following is a summary of these analyses. A complete analysis is provided in the draft RSD. EPA has compiled emission data on selected Class I&hyph;V engines and prototypes that were tested at either an independent or industry laboratory and met the proposed emission standards. These prototypes represent the greatest degree of emission control technology achievable given the aggressive timeline for earliest possible introduction of these engines into commerce at reasonable cost (one of the parameters for achievability listed in CAA section 213(a)(3)). Data was compiled and reported on three Class I engines, two Class II engines, one Class III engine, two Class IV engines plus one data point representing the aggregate of 27 Class IV engines, and one Class V engine plus one data point representing the aggregate of 18 Class V engines. These data and the specific technologies used on each are presented in Chapter 1 of the draft RSD. Additional support for the proposed emission standards being the lowest achievable standards is provided by EPA's analytical summary of confidential discussions with manufacturers and information on technologies collected from a range of sources. EPA used this summary information to compile and predict the expected percentage usage of each emission control technology discussed. For Class I and II engines, EPA predicts that manufacturers will use different combinations of the following technologies: Carburetor enleanment and/or modifications; fuel system modifications; ignition timing modifications; valve system and valve timing modifications; combustion chamber modifications; cooling system modifications; some conversion from side valve to overhead valve engines; and some conversion from 2-stroke to 4- stroke engines. For Class III, IV, and V engines, EPA predicts that manufacturers will use combinations of the following technologies: Carburetor enleanment and/or modifications; carburetor limiter cap installation; fuel system modifications; combustion chamber modifications; port timing and scavenging modifications; cooling system modifications; and some conversion from 2-stroke to 4-stroke engines. The estimated percent usage of each technology by engine class is presented and discussed in the draft RSD. In addition to the technologies listed, the use of catalytic converters, exhaust gas recirculation (EGR), and air injection technology may occur on a limited basis or not at all in the 1996 model year. EPA estimates that manufacturers will meet proposed Phase 1 emission standards without the use of catalysts. However, some manufacturers are developing low efficiency catalysts in case some marginally acceptable engine family should need this technology to meet the standards. If catalysts were to be used, EPA estimates that their use would occur on no more than 30 percent of Class I engines and one percent of all Class II&hyph;V engines. EPA requests information on the likelihood that catalyst, EGR, or air injection systems will be used and, if so, any additional information on percent usage. B. Proposed Emission Standards Are Lowest Feasible EPA believes that three specific emission control technologies, while allowing engines to meet lower standards than those proposed today, cannot be developed within the timeline of this rule or at reasonable cost. Technologies such as high efficiency catalytic converters, low cost fuel injection systems, and low cost electronic control systems are currently either available on only a limited basis or are in the early design phase. These technologies cannot be used on the vast majority of engines by the proposed implementation date. These technologies have the potential to develop much greater emission reductions than those technologies determined to be achievable for this rule. As discussed in Chapter 1 of the draft RSD, a number of technical barriers and safety issues must still be overcome before standards can be set that would reflect general or blanket use of these technologies.
