FR940822-2-00153 FR940822-2-00061 c. Consultants. The written prior approval of the Institute is required when the rate of compensation to be paid a consultant exceeds $300 a day. 3. Travel Costs Transportation and per diem rates must comply with the policies of the applicant organization. If the applicant does not have an established written travel policy, then travel rates shall be consistent with those established by the Institute or the Federal Government. Institute funds shall not be used to cover the transportation or per diem costs of a member of a national organization to attend an annual or other regular meeting of that organization. 4. Indirect Costs These are costs of an organization that are not readily assignable to a particular project, but are necessary to the operation of the organization and the performance of the project. The cost of operating and maintaining facilities, depreciation, and administrative salaries are examples of the types of costs that are usually treated as indirect costs. It is the policy of the Institute that all costs should be budgeted directly; however, if a recipient has an indirect cost rate approved by a Federal agency as set forth below, the Institute will accept that rate. a. Approved Plan Available. i. The Institute will accept an indirect cost rate or allocation plan approved for a grantee during the preceding two years by any Federal granting agency on the basis of allocation methods substantially in accord with those set forth in the applicable cost circulars. A copy of the approved rate agreement must be submitted to the Institute. ii. Where flat rates are accepted in lieu of actual indirect costs, grantees may not also charge expenses normally included in overhead pools, e.g., accounting services, legal services, building occupancy and maintenance, etc., as direct costs. iii. Organizations with an approved indirect cost rate, utilizing total direct costs as the base, usually exclude contracts under grants from any overhead recovery. The negotiation agreement will stipulate that contracts are excluded from the base for overhead recovery. b. Establishment of Indirect Cost Rates. In order to be reimbursed for indirect costs, a grantee or organization must first establish an appropriate indirect cost rate. To do this, the grantee must prepare an indirect cost rate proposal and submit it to the Institute. The proposal must be submitted in a timely manner (within three months after the start of the grant period) to assure recovery of the full amount of allowable indirect costs, and it must be developed in accordance with principles and procedures appropriate to the type of grantee institution involved. c. No Approved Plan. If an indirect cost proposal for recovery of actual indirect costs is not submitted to the Institute within three months after the start of the grant period, indirect costs will be irrevocably disallowed for all months prior to the month that the indirect cost proposal is received. This policy is effective for all grant awards. I. Procurement and Property Management Standards 1. Procurement Standards For State and local governments, the Institute is adopting the standards set forth in Attachment O of OMB Circular A&hyph;102. Institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit organizations will be governed by the standards set forth in Attachment O of OMB Circular A&hyph;110. 2. Property Management Standards The property management standards as prescribed in Attachment N of OMB Circulars A&hyph;102 and A&hyph;110 shall be applicable to all grantees and subgrantees of Institute funds except as provided in section X.O. All grantees/subgrantees are required to be prudent in the acquisition and management of property with grant funds. If suitable property required for the successful execution of projects is already available within the grantee or subgrantee organization, expenditures of grant funds for the acquisition of new property will be considered unnecessary. J. Audit Requirements 1. Implementation
