FR940705-2-00091 FR940705-2-00067 (b) disseminated information relating to possible changes in automobile body repair rates; and (c) discussed plans of various area automobile body repair shops concerning possible rate increases. 17. This combination and conspiracy had the following effects, among others: (a) coordinated interaction among the defendants and co-conspirators was made more successful and more complete; (b) price competition among the defendants and their co-conspirators for providing automobile body repair services in the Casper, Wyoming area has been unreasonably restrained and eliminated; and (c) consumers have been deprived of the benefits of free and open competition in the purchase of automobile body repair services. VI. Prayer WHEREFORE, the plaintiff prays: 1. That the Court adjudge and decree that the defendants and their co-conspirators engaged in unlawful agreements, combinations and conspiracies in unreasonable restraint of interstate trade and commerce in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 1. 2. That each defendant, its officers, directors, agents, employees, and successors and all other persons acting or claiming to act on its behalf be enjoined, restrained ad prohibited for a period of ten years from: (a) agreeing with any other automobile body repair shop to fix, establish, raise, stabilize or maintain any hourly rate or part price of discount; (b) participating in any discussion with or communicating with any other automobile body repair shop concerning adherence to or changes to, or the need or desirability of adhering to or changing, any hourly rate or part price or discount; and (c) disseminating any information to any automobile body repair shop concerning any planned or contemplated change in an hourly rate or part price or discount. 3. That each defendant shall establish and maintain an antitrust compliance program. 4. That for ten years after the entry of the Final Judgment, on or before its anniversary date, each defendant shall file with plaintiff an annual Declaration reporting that such defendant has complied with the terms of the Final Judgment and has engaged in no activities of the type prohibited by the Final Judgment. 5. That plaintiff have such other relief as the nature of the case may require and the Court may deem just and proper. 6. That plaintiff recover the costs of this suit. Dated: June 2, 1994. Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General. Robert E. Litan, Deputy Assistant Attorney General. March C. Schechter, Gary R. Spratling, Attorneys, U.S. Department of Justice. David D. Freudenthal, United States Attorney, District of Wyoming. Richard B. Cohen, Carla G. Addicks, Attorneys, U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, Box 36046, 450 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94102, (415) 556&hyph;6300.
