FR940906-1-00011 FR940906-1-00006 In proposing to revise the provisions of §103.17, a balance has been sought to provide clear procedures for Customs employees and litigants to follow when Customs information is sought in Federal, State, local, and foreign proceedings. So that limited government resources will not be inordinately tied up with the processing of subpoena demands, the proposed regulations require litigants demanding Customs-maintained information to demonstrate that the information sought is (a) relevant and material to the action pending, (b) genuinely necessary to the proceeding, i.e., a showing of substantial need is made, and (c) unavailable from other sources. In addition, Customs will examine whether the scope of the request is reasonable. Customs is also proposing that copies of the summons and complaint be attached to the subpoena, and that the information sought be described with particularity, so that it can be located quickly and reviewed for privilege, confidentiality, law enforcement sensitivities, and other Customs matters that impact the decision whether to withhold or release the information. Section-by-Section Analysis and Discussion Section 103.0 It is proposed to revise the scope section to state that the extent of production/disclosure of requested Customs information depends, to some extent, upon whether the information is requested pursuant to statutes, i.e. , the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552), or the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a), or demanded on other legal bases, i.e. , pursuant to a subpoena. Sections 103.1&hyph;103.13 These sections are grouped under a new Subpart A, which carries the heading ``Production of documents/disclosure of information pursuant to the FOIA''. No changes to these regulatory provisions are proposed. Sections 103.14&hyph;103.16 and section 103.18 These sections are reordered and redesignated as §§103.31 through 103.34 and grouped under a new Subpart C, which carries the heading ``Other information subject to restricted access''. Although no changes to these regulatory provisions are proposed, because redesignated §103.18 (§103.33, see below) has a specific statutory basis (19 U.S.C. 1628), this authority citation is added under the authority section for part 103. Section 103.17 This section is redesignated and expanded to embrace seven sections (§§103.21&hyph;103.27), all grouped under a new Subpart B, which carries the heading ``Production/disclosure in Federal, State, Local, and Foreign proceedings''. The provisions of the proposed new sections are as follows: New §103.21, headed ``Purpose and definitions,'' is in eight paragraphs ((a) through (h)). Paragraph (a) indicates both the types of information covered and the circumstances under which the regulations apply. Paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) define the terms ``Customs employee'', ``Customs documents'', and ``originating component'', respectively. Paragraphs (e) through (g) serve to limit the scope of the regulations, by providing that they are not intended to impede or restrict the appropriate disclosure of: (1) any information to federal, state, local, or foreign law enforcement or regulatory agencies (paragraph e); (2) any information to certain federal attorneys and judges in connection with Customs cases referred by the Department of the Treasury to the Department of Justice for prosecution or defense (paragraph (f)); or, (3) any non-Customs information, in cases where a Customs employee, in a personal capacity, is either a party or witness to a proceeding (paragraph g). Paragraph (h) provides that these regulations do not create any rights or benefits, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party against the United States.
