FR940819-1-00022 FR940819-1-00007 Table 1. Allowable Tank Pressure Change 1Tank or compartment capacity (gallons) 1Allowable pressure change per tank or compartment tested (inches of water, gauge, per 5 minutes) 2Annual certification 2Year-round (not to be exceeded anytime) 2,500 & Up 1 2.5 2,499&hyph;1,500 1.5 3.0 1,499&hyph;1,000 2.0 3.5 999&hyph;less 2.5 4.0 Table 1 presents a year-round allowable pressure change standard that is 1.5 inches of water column higher than annual certification allowable pressure change. This year-round standard is periodically demonstrated by a combustible gas detector method or the annual certification test procedure (using the allowable year-round pressure change value) by owners and operators and used by the California ARB and districts for audits and compliance, respectively. Combustible gas detectors are easy to use and transport and can be used in the field while trucks are loading gasoline. The annual certification pressure/vacuum test procedure requires the tank to be taken out of gasoline service and requires more test equipment than the combustible gas detector method. Therefore, the combustible gas detector method provides an easy-to-use field compliance procedure. Tank trucks with a leak found above 100 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) on a combustible gas detector are required to be taken out of service until they pass the allowable year-round pressure change using the annual certification test method. If the truck fails both tests, the truck owner is fined and the tank is not allowed to return to service until it meets the annual certification standard. Those tanks found to have leaks above 100 percent of the LEL and found to meet the year-round allowable pressure change with the annual certification test procedure are not penalized if maintenance is not performed before the pressure test. A similar combustible gas detector procedure was presented in the EPA's CTG, but is not contained in the NSPS or this proposed NESHAP. However, some other States and oil companies are using this detector procedure as a compliance method, in addition to the annual pressure and vacuum tests. The Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) developed a field pressure test procedure that measures the pressure change without taking the tank out of service. Nitrogen gas is used to pressurize the tank's vapor head space. This field pressure test method was determined by the California ARB in 1986 to be equivalent to the combustible gas detector method. Since 1986, the BAAQMD has implemented a comprehensive outreach program with the field pressure test. Operators are instructed in the field test procedure, and participate in an ongoing inspection and maintenance program. Participation is voluntary, and the incentive is to reduce the penalties for violations by having documentation showing a history of regular tests and maintenance on the tank truck. The third California standard for tank trucks is the annually tested certification pressure test on the tank truck's internal vapor valve. This valve provides a seal between the truck's tank and its vapor piping and connected hose. For this test, the tank and associated vapor piping and hose are pressurized to 18 inches of water column, and the valve is then closed. Then, while leaving the tank under pressure, the pressure in the tank truck's vapor collection piping and vapor hose is released to atmospheric pressure and then capped. After 5 minutes, a pressure increase of no more than 5 inches of water column is allowed to occur downstream of the valve in the tank truck's vapor piping and hose. Any pressure increase indicates that the valve is leaking. This leakage would eventually be released to the atmosphere when the vapor hose and piping are not connected to a vapor collection system. This standard for internal vapor valves is not contained in the CTG, the NSPS, or the proposed standard. The California ARB is currently revising its tank truck standards to change the level of the annual test and is updating its test procedures and methods. The BAAQMD tested 200 tank trucks and found that 86 percent of the trucks could pass a 0.25-inch standard and 91 percent could pass a 0.5-inch standard. The California ARB proposed that the allowable annual certification's allowable pressure change be reduced by 50 percent (1-inch drop is proposed to be reduced to a 0.5-inch, etc.). Besides general updating and clarifications of the test procedures and methods, the California ARB is adding the field pressure test used by BAAQMD in the ARB certification procedures.
