FR941110-1-00075 FR941110-1-00011 Thus, any proposed application for an essential use would be evaluated based on the social utility of that application, the availability of substitutes, and the potential for meeting that need through banked or recycled controlled substances. Decision IV/25 also set out the procedural steps for implementing this process. It first calls for individual Parties to nominate essential uses. These nominations are then to be evaluated by the Protocol's Technology and Economic Assessment Panel (TEAP or the Panel) which makes recommendations to representatives of all Protocol Parties. The final decision on which nominations are to be approved is to be taken by a meeting of the Parties. The initial cycle of implementing this Decision has been completed in the context of halons which were phased out of production at the end of 1993. EPA issued a Federal Register notice requesting nominations for essential uses of halons (February 2, 1993; 58 FR 6786). In response, the Agency received over ten nominations, but was able to work with applicants to resolve their near-term requirements. As a result, the U.S. did not nominate any uses for continued halon production in 1994. About a dozen other nations put forth nominations which were reviewed by the Technical and Economics Assessment Panel. Because the Panel determined that in each case alternatives existed or that the existing supply of banked halons was adequate to meet near-term needs, it did not recommend approval of any of the nominations. In November of 1993, at the Fifth Meeting, the Parties unanimously adopted the recommendation of the Panel not to approve any essential uses for the production or consumption of halons in 1994. EPA issued a second notice for essential use nominations for halons on October 18, 1993 (58 FR 53722). These nominations covered possible production of halons in 1995 for essential uses. In response to this inquiry, EPA received no nominations. Only one nomination (from France) was received by the TEAP for production and consumption of halons for an essential use in 1995. The TEAP did not recommend approval of this nomination. EPA also issued a Federal Register notice requesting nominations for essential use applications which would need to continue beyond the 1996 phaseout of consumption and production allowances for CFCs, methyl chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, and hydrobromofluorocarbons (May 20, 1993, 58 FR 29410). EPA received 20 applications in response to this notice. For several of these applications, EPA determined that the criteria contained in the Decision had not been satisfied. For example, two applications sought CFCs for servicing existing air-conditioning equipment. EPA rejected these applications on the basis that if all economically feasible steps were taken prior to the 1996 phaseout, then adequate supplies of banked and recycled CFCs should be available. However, in rejecting these nominations, the United States noted that servicing existing air-conditioning and refrigeration remains a major challenge to the successful transition from the use of CFCs and that a future nomination in this area might be necessary if a combination of retrofits, replacements, recycling, recovery at disposal, and banking do not adequately address these needs. Of the responses to the Federal Register request for essential use applications, the United States submitted essential use nominations to the Protocol for the following uses of CFCs: metered dose inhalers and other selected medical applications; a bonding agent for the Space Shuttle; aerosol wasp killers; limited use in a specified bonding agent and polymer application; and a generic application for laboratory uses under specified limitations. (Letter from Pomerance to UNEP, September 27, 1993). Nominations from the U.S. and other countries for over 200 specific uses were submitted to the Montreal Protocol Secretariat and provided to the Technical and Economics Assessment Panel for review. In March 1994, the Panel issued the ``1994 Report of the Technology and Economic Assessment Panel.'' The Report includes the Panel's recommendations for essential-use production and consumption exemptions. The Panel recommended that essential use exemptions be granted for nominations of: methyl chloroform in solvent bonding of the Space Shuttle; CFCs used in metered dose inhalers; and specific controlled substances needed for laboratory and analytical applications. For each of the other nominations submitted, the Panel determined that one or more of the criteria for evaluating an essential use had not been satisfied. For example, in the case of several of the U.S. nominations, the report states that alternatives are available and therefore the essential use exemption is not warranted.
