FR941213-1-00003 FR941213-1-00001 All determinations with regard to whether a foreign bank is subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis will be made in the context of the supervision and regulation of the foreign bank's existing U.S. operations. Just as is the case with other supervisory or regulatory determinations, a foreign bank generally will have an opportunity to provide its views and any information it considers to be relevant in advance of any decision being made with regard to question of comprehensive, consolidated supervision, unless expeditious action is necessary to protect the public interest. The proposed criteria set out below reflect the factors the Board considers will be relevant for purposes of evaluating the operations of any foreign bank the Board determines is not subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by its home country supervisors in accordance with 12 CFR 211.24(c)(1). Criteria Following a determination by the Board that a foreign bank is not subject to comprehensive, consolidated supervision by its home country supervisor in accordance with ยง211.24(c)(1) of Regulation K, the Board proposes to take into account a number of criteria in reaching a view regarding whether the foreign bank's U.S. operations should be terminated or permitted to continue, and, if the latter, whether any supervisory constraints should be placed upon the bank in connection with those operations. These criteria are: 1. The proportion of the foreign bank's total assets and total liabilities that are located or booked in its home country, as well as the distribution and location of its assets and liabilities that are located or booked elsewhere; 2. The extent to which the operations and assets of the foreign bank and any affiliates are subject to supervision by its home country supervisor; 3. Whether the foreign bank has effective and reliable systems of internal controls and management information and reporting, which enable management properly to oversee the bank's worldwide operations; 4. Whether the foreign bank's home country supervisor has any objection to the bank continuing to operate in the United States; 5. Whether the foreign bank's home country supervisor and the home country supervisor of any parent of the foreign bank share material information regarding the operations of the foreign bank with other supervisory authorities; 6. The relationship of the U.S. operations to the other operations of the foreign bank, including whether the foreign bank maintains funds in its U.S. offices that are in excess of amounts due from the foreign bank's non-U.S. offices; 7. The soundness of the foreign bank's overall financial condition; 8. The managerial resources of the foreign bank, including the competence, experience, and integrity of the officers and directors and the integrity of its principal shareholders;
