FR940707-1-00025 FR940707-1-00009 Another option that we are exploring is to revise the nationwide permit # 8 to eliminate the authorization for all anchors and cables and chains associated with oil and gas drilling and production in water depths greater than 600 feet within fairways. This would result in the requirement that the activities occurring in water depths greater than 600 feet would be subject to the Corps individual permit procedures. The nationwide permit in 33 CFR 330 would continue to apply to those activities in waters less than 600 feet in depth, without any changes to the regulations. The following is the text in 33 CFR 322.5(l)(1) (Existing): (l) *␣*␣* (1) Shipping safety fairways and anchorage areas. DA permits are required for structures located within shipping safety fairways and anchorage areas established by the U.S. Coast Guard. (1) The Department of the Army will grant no permits for the erection of structures in areas designated as fairways, except that district engineers may permit temporary anchors and attendant cables or chains for floating or semisubmersible drilling rigs to be placed within a fairway provided the following conditions are met: (i) The installation of anchors to stabilize semisubmersible drilling rigs within fairways must be temporary and shall be allowed to remain only 120 days. This period may be extended by the district engineer provided reasonable cause for such extension can be shown and the extension is otherwise justified. (ii) Drilling rigs must be at least 500 feet from any fairway boundary or whatever distance necessary to insure that minimum clearance over an anchor line within a fairway will be 125 feet. (iii) No anchor buoys or floats or related rigging will be allowed on the surface of the water or to a depth of 125 feet from the surface, within the fairway. (iv) Drilling rigs may not be placed closer than 2 nautical miles of any other drilling rig situated along a fairway boundary, and not closer than 3 nautical miles to any drilling rig located on the opposite side of the fairway. (v) The permittee must notify the district engineer, Bureau of Land Management, Mineral Management Service, U.S. Coast Guard, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the U.S. Navy Hydrographic Office of the approximate dates (commencement and completion) the anchors will be in place to insure maximum notification to mariners. (vi) Navigation aids or danger markings must be installed as required by the U.S. Coast Guard. (2) *␣*␣* Options Option # 1 : Take no action. Leave existing regulations in place with all existing time limits for temporary anchors etc., as stated above. Option # 2 : Remove time restrictions on temporary and permanent anchors within fairways when water depths exceed 600 feet, as follows: (l) *␣*␣* (1) The Department of the Army will grant no permits for the erection of structures in areas designated as fairways, except that district engineers may permit temporary or permanent anchors and attendant cables or chains for floating or semisubmersible drilling and/or production systems to be placed within a fairway provided the following conditions are met: (i) In water depths of 600 feet or less, the installation of anchors to stabilize semisubmersible drilling rigs within fairways must be temporary and shall be allowed to remain only 120 days. This period may be extended by the district engineer provided reasonable cause for such extension can be shown and the extension is otherwise justified. In water depths greater than 600 feet, time restrictions on anchors and attendant cables or chains for floating or semisubmersible drilling rigs and/or production system located within a fairway, whether temporary or permanent, shall not apply.
