FR941216-1-00055 FR941216-1-00010 (B) Treatment of excess losses. If the loss recognized by a holder on the sale, exchange, or retirement of a tax-exempt obligation exceeds the amount measured under paragraph (d)(2)(vii)(A) of this section, the excess is treated as loss from the sale or exchange of the tax-exempt obligation. (e) Timing of income and deductions from notional principal contracts. For the rules governing the timing of income and deductions with respect to notional principal contracts characterized as including a loan, see §1.446&hyph;3. (f) Effective date. This section is effective for debt instruments issued on or after the date that is 60 days after final regulations are published in the Federal Register . Par. 8. Section 1.1275&hyph;5 is amended by: 1. Revising paragraph (a)(1). 2. Adding the word ``only'' immediately following the parenthetical in the introductory language of paragraph (a)(3)(i). 3. Removing the language ``less than 1 year'' in the first sentence of paragraph (a)(3)(ii) and adding the language ``1 year or less'' in its place. 4. Adding paragraph (a)(5). 5. Revising paragraph (c)(1). 6. Revising the text of paragraph (d) preceding the examples, revising Examples 4 through 6 , and adding Example 10. 7. Revising paragraph (e)(2). 8. Revising the text of paragraph (e)(3)(v) preceding the examples and revising Example 3. The revisions and additions read as follows: §1.1275&hyph;5 Variable rate debt instruments. (a) Applicability_ (1) In general. This section provides rules for variable rate debt instruments. A variable rate debt instrument is a debt instrument that meets the conditions described in paragraphs (a) (2), (3), (4), and (5) of this section. If a debt instrument that provides for a variable rate of interest does not qualify as a variable rate debt instrument, the debt instrument is a contingent payment debt instrument. See §1.1275&hyph;4 for the treatment of a contingent payment debt instrument. If a taxpayer holds (or issues) a variable rate debt instrument that the taxpayer hedges, see §1.1275&hyph;6 for the treatment of the debt instrument and the hedge by the taxpayer. * * * * * (5) No contingent principal payments. The debt instrument must not provide for any principal payments that are contingent (within the meaning of §1.1275&hyph;4(a)). * * * * * (c) Objective rate_ (1) In general_ (i) Debt instruments issued on or after the date that is 60 days after final regulations are published in the Federal Register _(A) In general. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section, for debt instruments issued on or after the date that is 60 days after final regulations are published in the Federal Register, an objective rate is a rate (other than a qualified floating rate) that is determined using a single fixed formula and that is based on objective financial or economic information. For example, an objective rate generally includes a rate that is based on one or more qualified floating rates or on the yield of actively traded personal property (within the meaning of section 1092(d)(1)). (B) Exception. For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section, an objective rate does not include a rate based on information that is within the control of the issuer (or a related party within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)) or that is unique to the circumstances of the issuer (or a related party within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)), such as dividends, profits, or the value of the issuer's stock. However, a rate does not fail to be an objective rate merely because it is based on the credit quality of the issuer. (ii) Debt instruments issued after April 3, 1994, and before the date that is 60 days after final regulations are published in the Federal Register . For debt instruments issued after April 3, 1994, and before the date that is 60 days after final regulations are published in the Federal Register , an objective rate is a rate (other than a qualified floating rate) that is determined using a single fixed formula and that is based on_ (A) One or more qualified floating rates; (B) One or more rates where each rate would be a qualified floating rate for a debt instrument denominated in a currency other than the currency in which the debt instrument is denominated; (C) The yield or changes in the price of one or more items of personal property (other than stock or debt of the issuer or a related party within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)), provided each item of property is actively traded within the meaning of section 1092(d)(1) (determined without regard to section 1092(d)(3)); or (D) A combination of rates described in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A), (B), and (C) of this section. * * * * *
