FR941028-2-00090 FR941028-2-00066 The HCP details project actions that may result in take of the gnatcatcher and 65 additional species proposed by the applicant to be included in an Implementation Agreement (in preparation), and specific actions that will mitigate such takings. Mitigation measures include dedication of the proposed on and off-site preserve areas to a ``conservation entity'' approved by the Service, and long-term funding, management and monitoring. Other sensitive species that occur on-site and are proposed to be included in the Implementation Agreement are the federally proposed endangered Del Mar manzanita ( Arctostaphylos glandulosa crassifolia ); the Federal category 2 candidates: summer holly ( Comarostaphylis diversifolia diversifolia ), Bell's sage sparrow ( Amphispiza belli belli ), orange-throated whiptail ( Cnemidophorus hyperythrus beldingi ), and San Diego horned lizard ( Phrynosoma coronatum blainvillii ); and the State endangered thread-leaved brodiaea ( Brodiaea filifolia ). The major alternatives under consideration during planning include: 1) no take of listed species; 2) no take of gnatcatchers; 3) take only within the Rancho Santa Fe Road project area; 4) delay of take pending completion of the HMP; 5) an off-site mitigation strategy with unlimited take in the plan area; 6) reconfiguration of the proposed on-site conserved habitat; 7) no action; and 8) the applicants' proposal. Alternatives 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7 were considered financially infeasible by the applicants. Alternative 5 was considered biologically unacceptable by the Service. Alternative 8 is still under discussion. All agencies and individuals are urged to provide comments and suggestions regarding the draft EA, proposal, and the consistency of the HCP with the HMP and MHCP under the NCCP. All comments received by the closing date will be considered in finalizing NEPA compliance and permit issuance or denial. Upon completion of the Implementation Agreement and the NEPA compliance document, the Service will publish a second notice in the Federal Register inviting public comment. Dated: October 24, 1994. Don Weathers, Acting Deputy Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26713 Filed 10&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
