FR940825-0-00134 FR940825-0-00022 Institution of higher education means an educational institution as defined in sections 481, 1201(a) and 1204 of the HEA. Low-income individual means an individual whose family's taxable income did not exceed 150 percent of the poverty level in the calendar year preceding the year in which the individual participates in the project. Poverty level income is determined by using criteria of poverty established by the Bureau of the Census of the U.S. Department of Commerce. Summer internship means an educational experience in which participants, under the guidance and direction of experienced faculty researchers, are provided an opportunity to engage in research or other scholarly activities. Target population means the universe from which McNair participants will be selected. The universe may be expressed in terms of geography, type of institution, academic discipline, type of disadvantage, type of underrepresentation, or any other qualifying descriptor that would enable an applicant to more precisely identify the kinds of eligible project participants they wish to serve. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;11, 1070a&hyph;15, and 1141) Subpart B_Assurances §647.10 What assurances must an applicant submit? An applicant must submit as part of its application, assurances that_ (a) Each participant enrolled in the project will be enrolled in a degree program at an institution of higher education that participates in one or more of the student financial assistance programs authorized under Title IV of the HEA; (b) Each participant given a summer research internship will have completed his or her sophomore year of study; and (c)(1) At least two thirds of the students to be served will be low-income individuals who are first-generation college students; and (2) The remaining students to be served will be members of groups underrepresented in graduate education. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;15) Subpart C_How Does the Secretary Make a Grant? §647.20 How does the Secretary decide which new grants to make? (a) The Secretary evaluates an application for a new grant as follows: (1)(i) The Secretary evaluates an application on the basis of the selection criteria in §647.21. (ii) The maximum score for all the criteria in §647.21 is 100 points. The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses with the criterion. (2)(i) For an application from an applicant who has carried out a McNair project in the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the applicant is applying, the Secretary evaluates the applicant's prior experience on the basis of the criteria in §647.22. (ii) The maximum score for all the criteria in §647.22 is fifteen (15) points. The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses with the criterion. (iii) If an applicant described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section applies for more than one new grant in the same fiscal year, the Secretary applies the criteria in §647.22 to a project that seeks to continue support for an existing McNair project on that campus. (b) The Secretary makes new grants in rank order on the basis of the total scores received by applications under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section. (c)(1) If the total scores of two or more applications are the same and there are insufficient funds for these applications after the approval of higher-ranked applications, the Secretary uses the remaining funds to achieve an equitable geographic distribution of all new projects. (2) In making an equitable geographic distribution of new projects, the Secretary considers only the locations of new projects. (d) The Secretary may decline to make a grant to an applicant that carried out a Federal TRIO Program project that involved the fraudulent use of funds. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;11 and 1070a&hyph;15) §647.21 What selection criteria does the Secretary use? The Secretary uses the following criteria to evaluate an application for a new grant: (a) Need (16 Points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the applicant can clearly and definitively demonstrate the need for a McNair project to serve the target population. In particular, the Secretary looks for information that clearly defines the target population; describes the academic, financial and other problems that prevent potentially eligible project participants in the target population from completing baccalaureate programs and continuing to postbaccalaureate programs; and demonstrates that the project's target population is underrepresented in graduate education, doctorate degrees conferred and careers where a doctorate is a prerequisite. (b) Objectives (9 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of the applicant's proposed project objectives on the basis of the extent to which they_ (1) Include both process and outcome objectives relating to the purpose of the McNair program stated in §647.1; (2) Address the needs of the target population; and (3) Are measurable, ambitious, and attainable over the life of the project. (c) Plan of Operation (44 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the applicant's plans of operation, including_ (1) (4 points) The plan for identifying, recruiting and selecting participants to be served by the project, including students enrolled in the Student Support Services program; (2) (4 points) The plan for assessing individual participant needs and for monitoring the academic growth of participants during the period in which the student is a McNair participant;
