FR940630-2-00140 FR940630-2-00108 [Release No. 34&hyph;34251; International Series Release No. 677; File No. SR&hyph;ISCC&hyph;94&hyph;2] Self-Regulatory Organizations; International Securities Clearing Corporation; Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change Relating to an Amendment to the Linkage Agreement With Japan Securities Clearing Corporation June 24, 1994. On May 26, 1994, International Securities Clearing Corporation (``ISCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''). 1 The Commission published notice of the proposed rule change in the Federal Register on June 10, 1994. 2 No comments have been received on the notice. As discussed below, the Commission is approving the proposed rule change on an accelerated basis. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34163, International Series Release No. 670 (June 6, 1994), 59 FR 30068. I. Description In 1988, ISCC entered into a linkage agreement with the Japan Securities Clearing Corporation (``JSCC'') 3 which permits JSCC to obtain access through ISCC to certain services of The Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') for U.S. shares listed on stock exchanges in Japan and included in JSCC's central depository clearing system for foreign shares. In 1994, ISCC and JSCC entered into an amendment to the linkage agreement which permits JSCC to obtain access through ISCC to the National Securities Clearing Corporation's (``NSCC'') New York Window (``NYW'') services for initial public offerings (``IPOs'') of U.S. securities listed on exchanges in Japan until such time as such securities are eligible for deposit at DTC. 4 3 JSCC is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Tokyo Stock Exchange and provides clearing services for securities listed on stock exchanges in Japan. JSCC acts as the central depository for the benefit of the beneficial owners of foreign shares, including U.S. shares, listed on stock exchanges in Japan. It appoints local custodians with respect to non-Japanese securities. 4 ISCC is a member and wholly owned subsidiary of NSCC. Under NSCC's NYW service, JSCC gives ISCC instructions to receive securities from an underwriter. 5 ISCC forwards these instructions to NSCC, which accepts the securities on behalf of ISCC. Securities received are checked for good form and apparent negotiability and then are matched with receive instructions. Securities which are not in good form ( i.e., not negotiable) or do not match receive instructions within specified tolerances are returned to ISCC. NSCC holds these securities in its custody in vault space leased from DTC. JSCC may then provide further instructions to NSCC via ISCC to deliver securities to parties designated by JSCC. All other securities will be delivered to DTC at such time as these securities become eligible for deposit at DTC. 5 Delivers and receives of these securities will be free of payment. The related money settlements for the securities movements will take place between the parties outside of ISCC. NSCC provides NYW services to ISCC under the following conditions. NSCC acts as agent for ISCC and not as principal or for its own account. All actions taken by NSCC are based on instructions from ISCC. ISCC is not entitled to reimbursement from NSCC for any losses suffered or liabilities incurred as a result of NYW operations. ISCC's liability to JSCC is limited to losses resulting from a breach of their agreement caused by ISCC's gross negligence, criminal act, or willful misconduct. The securities held by NSCC will be used as the basis for the bookkeeping entries at JSCC. JSCC will pay to ISCC fees for ISCC services and NSCC charges that ISCC incurs as a result of activity in the ISCC-sponsored account for JSCC. ISCC will capture information about each transaction including, among other things: (1) The daily number of securities delivers and receives that take place within the ISCC-sponsored account at NSCC for JSCC, (2) the quantity of shares, by issue, for each delivery and receipt, (3) the identity of the parties delivering to NSCC and the parties to whom NSCC delivers securities, (4) the start of day and end of day position in each issue, and (5) the identity of the JSCC party to each transaction. In addition, ISCC will provide such information to the Commission upon request pursuant to Section 17(a)(1) of the Act. II. Discussion The Commission believes the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 17A of the ACt and, therefore, is approving the proposal. Specifically, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with Section 17A(b)(3)(F) 6 of the Act in that it promotes the prompt and accurate clearance of settlement of securities transactions. NSCC's NYW services were developed to provide a more efficient and standardized procedure for the clearance and settlement of physical securities. Without access to the NYW services, JSCC would be required to develop its own window service, which would be a fairly expensive venture. 7 ISCC's provision of this service to JSCC enables it to settle securities transactions more efficiently and to expedite the transfer of its securities to DTC when the securities become eligible for deposit. 6 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F) (1988). 7 The NYW services was initially developed because individual participants complained about the high fixed costs associated with window activity ( i.e., the processing of physical securities). In the initial order granting ISCC temporary registration as a clearing agency, the Commission stated that the development of efficient and comparable automated national and international clearance, settlement, and payment systems is one of the more important international goals. 8 In light of the increase in foreign activity in U.S. stocks, the Commission stressed the importance of developing clearing linkages between existing clearance and settlement systems. The amendment to the linkage agreement will make the U.S. securities market more accessible to foreign investors by giving Japanese investors a more efficient method of settling U.S. IPO activity. 8 Securities Exchange Act Release 26812 (May 12, 1989), 54 FR 21691. ISCC has requested that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of the notice of filing. JSCC is participating in an IPO during the month of June for which the securities will not be immediately eligible for DTC services. Without the agreement in effect, JSCC will need to develop its own window service for the securities during the short period prior to the expiration of the customary notice period. Due to the burdensome nature of this process, the Commission finds sufficient cause to accelerate approval of this proposal. III. Conclusion For the reasons stated above, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 17A of the Act. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;ISCC&hyph;94&hyph;02) be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15848 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
