FR940304-1-00030 FR940304-1-00008 Discussion of Comments Comment: Most commenters favor deletion of proposed §146.92(a), involving the definition of ``Assay''. Response: Customs agrees. Laboratory analyses are sufficient to verify feedstock characteristics and provide API gravity. Comment: Most commenters indicated that the cumulative entry activity report defined in proposed §146.92 (c) is only required in the Houston District and, therefore, favor its deletion because the information is already contained in the subzone activity report. Response: Upon further consideration, Customs has determined to delete proposed §146.92 (c), (d), (h) and (l), involving the report in question, as well as certain related reports, specifically, the duty and user fee report, the inventory disposition report, and the product shipment report, all of which were principally addressed in proposed §146.96 which, as a result, is also deleted from the proposed rule. Comment: Commenters indicated that the definition in proposed §146.92(e) concerning ``feedstock'' should be expanded to include natural gas and other hydrocarbons to comply with EPA regulations. Response: Customs agrees and has so modified the wording of proposed §146.92(e) (now redesignated as §146.92(b)). Comment: Many commenters noted that proposed §146.92(f) defining ``final product'' should also include products consumed in the zone. Response: Customs agrees with this suggestion and has so changed proposed §146.92(f) (now redesignated as §146.92(d)). Comment: Most commenters indicated that fungibility is already defined in §146.1(b), and that a definition for this term is not needed in the proposed subpart if the assay requirement is deleted. Response: Customs agrees. Proposed §146.92(g) has been eliminated. Comment: A majority of commenters propose that the ``manufacturing period'' coincide with the normal accounting cycle. Response: After reviewing the comments, particularly those of the Congressional sponsors of the legislation, Customs is convinced that a literal interpretation of the statutory language would not be appropriate. Therefore, proposed §146.92(i) (now redesignated as §146.92(e)) dealing with this matter has been reworded. The definition allows an operator to make the attribution of a final product either during the period in which the final product was produced (even if not consumed or removed from the refinery subzone during that same period) or the period in which the final product was consumed or removed from the zone (even if the final product was made in a prior period). The selection of the method is at the operator's option, but once selected, the method must be used consistently. Comment: Most commenters suggested that they should be permitted to use standard product values, based on published prices. Response: Customs agrees that standard product values, based on published prices, may be utilized, but that this must be done on a consistent basis. Thus, proposed §146.92(j) (now redesignated as §146.92(g)), involving the price of products in the subzone, has been reworded. Comment: Most commenters suggested rewording proposed §146.92(n) which defined the ``relative value'' of products produced in the subzone. Response: The definition of ``relative value'' proposed by the commenters has been included in proposed §146.92(n) (now redesignated as §146.92(i)) because it states the same information as the proposed regulation, albeit more succinctly. Comment: Many commenters noted that, generally, the ``time of separation'' will coincide with the ``manufacturing period''.
