FR940725-0-00067 FR940725-0-00008 (4) The suspension of the student is only effective for the duration of the emergency. Appendix C to Part 80_Hearing Procedures A. Purpose This appendix establishes adjudicative requirements whereby the parents of infants, toddlers, preschool children, and children who are covered by this part and, as the case may be, the cognizant Military Department or Section 6 School System are afforded impartial due process hearings and administrative appeals on the early intervention services or identification, evaluation, and educational placement of, and the free appropriate public education provided to, such children by the Department of Defense, in accordance with Pub. L. 101&hyph;476, as amended, 20 U.S.C. sec. 1401 et seq.; Pub. L. 81&hyph;874, sec. 6, as amended, 20 U.S.C. sec. 241; Pub. L. 97&hyph;35, sec. 505(c), 20 U.S.C. sec. 241 note; and Pub. L. 102&hyph;119, sec. 23, 20 U.S.C. sec. 241(a). B. Administration 1. The Directorate for the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) shall have administrative responsibility for the proceedings authorized by this appendix. 2. This appendix shall be administered to ensure that the findings, judgments, and determinations made are prompt, fair, and impartial. 3. Impartial hearing officers, who shall be DOHA Administrative Judges, shall be appointed by the Director, DOHA, and shall be attorneys who are independent of the Section 6 School System or the Military Department concerned in proceedings conducted under this appendix. A parent shall have the right to be represented in such proceedings, at no cost to the government, by counsel and by persons with special knowledge or training with respect to the problems of individuals with disabilities. DOHA Department Counsel normally shall appear and represent the Section 6 School System in proceedings conducted under this appendix, when such proceedings involve a preschool child or child. When an infant or toddler is involved, the Military Department responsible under this part for delivering early intervention services shall either provide its own counsel or request counsel from DOHA. C. Mediation 1. Mediation can be initiated by either a parent or, as appropriate, the Military Department concerned or the Section 6 School System to resolve informally a disagreement on the early intervention services for an infant or toddler or the identification, evaluation, educational placement of, or the free appropriate public education provided to, a preschool child or child. The cognizant Military Department, rather than the Section 6 School System, shall participate in mediation involving early intervention services. Mediation shall consist of, but not be limited to, an informal discussion of the differences between the parties in an effort to resolve those differences. The parents and the appropriate school or Military Department officials may attend mediation sessions. 2. Mediation must be conducted, attempted, or refused in writing by a parent of the infant, toddler, preschool child or child whose early intervention or special education services (including related services) are at issue before a request for, or initiation of, a hearing authorized by this appendix. Any request by the Section 6 School System or Military Department for a hearing under this appendix shall state how this requirement has been satisfied. No stigma may be attached to the refusal of a parent to mediate or to an unsuccessful attempt to mediate. D. Practice and Procedure
