FR940426-0-00040 FR940426-0-00011 The commenters specifically addressing this issue supported the proposal. Most of the commenters did not believe that the Financial Accounting Standards Board (``FASB'') should devote the resources to amend Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95 (``SFAS 95''), and the Commission agrees. One commenter recommended that the final rules provide guidance on the transition from a statement prepared in or reconciled to U.S. GAAP to one prepared in accordance with IAS 7. In response to this comment, the General Instructions to Form 20&hyph;F provide that the presentation of cash flow information should be consistent for all periods presented in the filing. B. Transitional Reconciliation Requirements The Commission is adopting, as proposed, amendments to Form 20&hyph;F that would permit first-time registrants with the Commission to reconcile the required financial statements 35 and selected financial data for only the two most recently completed fiscal years and any required interim periods. 36 35 Where financial statements of an acquired business or significant investee must also be furnished, the amendments eliminate the requirement to reconcile the earliest of the three years if that information was not previously included in a filing with the Commission. 36 Reconciliation of interim information is not required for periodic reporting purposes under the Exchange Act. In each subsequent year an additional year of reconciliation would be required. Thus, for example, a foreign company with a calendar fiscal year-end entering the U.S. market in November 1994 would be required to provide reconciled information with respect to 1993 and 1992 and interim periods. In the annual report it files for 1994 and any registration statement filed thereafter (until the filing of the 1995 annual report), the reconciled data would be provided for three years, i.e. , 1992, 1993 and 1994, and interim periods if applicable. The amendments do not change the requirements with respect to the primary financial statements to be included in the filings, i.e. , audited balance sheets for the two most recently completed fiscal years and audited income and cash flow statements for the three most recently completed fiscal years, 37 and separate financial statements of significant acquirees or significant investees. Likewise, the requirement to include selected financial data for the five most recent fiscal years remains unchanged. 37 If the financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, the audited income statement and statement of cash flows would only be required for two years. Selected financial data for the full five fiscal years would still be required, using the accounting principles used for reporting to its shareholders. A majority of commenters supported the proposed transitional rules for reconciliation. There were some, on the other hand, that opposed the change and several others that questioned whether the cost savings from eliminating the reconciliation of the earliest year of the audited income and cash flow statements would be significant enough to justify the accommodation. Based on its review of the comments, as well as its prior discussions with foreign issuers that have entered or considered entering the U.S. public securities markets, the Commission believes the amendments will facilitate foreign companies' entry into the U.S. public securities market consistent with investor protection. Therefore, the amendments are adopted as proposed. In response to comments, Form 20&hyph;F will be clarified to indicate that the transitional reconciliation relief also applies to financial disclosures required by U.S. GAAP and Regulation S&hyph;X. The Commission also is adopting, as proposed, amendments to allow the simpler reconciliation pursuant to Item 17 of Form 20&hyph;F for all offerings of non-convertible investment grade securities (whether debt, preferred stock or other securities) regardless of the registration form used by the foreign private issuer. 38 38 See General Instruction I.B.2. to Form F&hyph;3, General Instruction I.D. to Form F&hyph;2, Item 11(c) of Form F&hyph;1 and Instruction 2 thereto, Instructions to Item 11(a) of Form F&hyph;4, Item 12(b)(2) and 12(b)(3)(vii) of Form F&hyph;4, Instructions to Item 13(a) of Form F&hyph;4 and Item 14(h) of Form F&hyph;4. C. Reconciliation of Financial Statements of Significant Acquirees and Significant Equity Investees The Commission is adopting, substantially as proposed, amendments that forego requiring a quantified reconciliation of separate financial statements of certain acquired businesses and of certain less-than-majority-owned investees (``equity investees'') based on higher thresholds of significance. A description of differences in accounting methods would continue to be required. Financial statements of acquirees would not have to be reconciled unless the acquiree exceeds the 30% significance level based on the registrant's investment, assets and pre-tax income. 39 Similarly, financial statements of significant equity investees would not have to be reconciled unless the investee exceeds the 30% significance level, but using only the investment and pre-tax income tests for significance. 40 39 Reconciliation to U.S. GAAP would continue to be required for pro forma financial information depicting the effects of a registrant's acquisition of a business. 40 See Rule 1&hyph;02(v) of Regulation S&hyph;X (17 CFR ยง210.1&hyph;02(v)). The reconciliation of the registrant's primary financial statements to U.S. GAAP will continue to encompass reconciliation of the registrant's investment in the investee. In circumstances where a registrant furnishes separate financial statements of an equity investee pursuant to Rule 3&hyph;09 of Regulation S&hyph;X, the staff has not required the registrant to also furnish summarized financial data of the investee pursuant to Rule 4&hyph;08(g) of Regulation S&hyph;X (Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 6:K). However, a registrant that furnishes separate financial statements of an investee that are not prepared using the same accounting standards as the registrant should furnish the summarized financial data pursuant to Rule 4&hyph;08(g) on the same basis as the registrant. Frequently, the information required by Item 18 of Form 20&hyph;F regarding U.S. GAAP and Regulation S&hyph;X is more difficult to obtain for financial statements of acquirees and investees than for the issuer, but it is typically less critical to an understanding of the issuer's financial condition. 41 As suggested by several commenters, compliance with Item 17 of Form 20&hyph;F will be acceptable for financial statements of all significant acquirees and investees. 42 41 Instruction 11 of Item 9 (management's discussion and analysis) to Form 20&hyph;F requires ``a discussion of any aspect of the differences between foreign and United States generally accepted accounting principles, not discussed in the reconciliation, that the registrant believes is necessary for an understanding of the financial statements as a whole.'' These matters may relate to items that would be disclosed if the financial statements were prepared under Item 18 of Form 20&hyph;F. (See Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 1:D). The registrant should consider discussing the separate financial statements of acquirees and investees in management's discussion and analysis. 42 In response to several commenters, the Commission today is proposing in a separate release amendments to rules and forms that would apply similar provisions to domestic issuers. See Securities Act Release No. 7055 (April 19, 1994).
