FR940513-0-00033 FR940513-0-00005 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AGL&hyph;16] Modification of Class D Airspace; and Establishment of Class E Airspace; Rockford, IL, Cincinnati, OH, Jackson, MI, Saginaw, MI, Traverse City, MI, Sioux Falls, SD, and Rochester, MN AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This action modifies Class D airspace areas at Greater Rockford Airport, Rockford, IL, Cincinnati Municipal Airport Lunken Field, Cincinnati, OH, Jackson County-Reynolds Field, Jackson, MI, Tri City International Airport, Saginaw, MI, Cherry Capital Airport, Traverse City, MI, Joe Foss Field, Sioux Falls, SD, and Rochester Municipal Airport, Rochester, MN, by amending the areas' effective hours to coincide with the associated control tower's hours of operation. This action also establishes Class E airspace at these areas when the associated control tower is closed. The intended effect of this action is to clarify when two-way radio communication with these air traffic control towers is required and to provide adequate Class E airspace for instrument approach procedures when these control towers are closed. DATES: Effective date: 0901 u.t.c., June 23, 1994. Comment date: Comments must be received on or before June 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the rule in triplicate to: Manager, Air Traffic Division, System Management Branch, AGL&hyph;530, Docket No. 94&hyph;AGL&hyph;16, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018. The official docket may be examined in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 E. Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the address listed above. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Angeline D. Perri, Air Traffic Division, System Management Branch, AGL&hyph;530, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018, telephone (708) 294&hyph;7571. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments on the Rule Although this action is a final rule, and was not preceded by notice and public procedure, comments are invited on the rule. This rule will become effective on the date specified in the ``DATES '' section. However, after the review of the comments and, if the FAA finds that further changes are appropriate, it will initiate rulemaking proceedings to extend the effective date of the rule or amend the regulation. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in evaluating the effects of the rule, and in determining whether additional rulemaking is required. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the rule which might suggest the need to modify the rule. The Rule This amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) modifies the Class D airspace areas at Greater Rockford Airport, Rockford, IL, Cincinnati Municipal Airport Lunken Field, Cincinnati, OH, Jackson County-Reynolds Field, Jackson, MI, Tri City International Airport, Saginaw, MI, Cherry Capital Airport, Traverse City, MI, Joe Foss Field, Sioux Falls, SD, and Rochester Municipal Airport, Rochester, MN, by amending the areas' effective hours to coincide with the associated control tower's hours of operation. This action also establishes Class E airspace at these areas when the associated control tower is closed. Prior to Airspace Reclassification, an airport traffic area (ATA) and a control zone (CZ) existed at these airports. However, Airspace Reclassification, effective September 16, 1993, discontinued the use of the term ``airport traffic area'' and ``control zone,'' replacing them with the designation ``Class D airspace.'' The former CZ was continuous, while the former ATA was contingent upon the operation of the air traffic control tower. The consolidation of the ATA and CZ into a single Class D airspace designation makes it necessary to modify the effective hours of the Class D airspace to coincide with the control tower's hours of operation. This action also establishes Class E airspace during the hours the control tower is closed. The intended effect of this action is to clarify when two-way radio communication with these air traffic control towers is required and to provide adequate Class E airspace for instrument approach procedures when these control towers are closed.
