FR940725-0-00055 FR940725-0-00008 ยง80.4 Policy. It is DoD policy that: (a) All individuals with disabilities ages 3 to 21 years receiving or entitled to receive educational instruction from the Section 6 School Arrangements shall be provided a free, appropriate education under this part in accordance with the IDEA as amended, 20 U.S.C. Chapter 33; Pub. L. 102&hyph;119, Section 23; and DoD Directive 1342.21. (b) All individuals with disabilities ages birth through 2 years (inclusive) and their families are entitled to receive early intervention services under this part, provided that such infants and toddlers would be eligible to enroll in a Section 6 School Arrangement but for their age. ยง80.5 Responsibilities. (a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)) shall: (1) Ensure that all infants and toddlers with disabilities (birth through 2 years inclusive) who but for their age would be eligible to attend the Section 6 Arrangement Schools, and their families are provided early intervention services in accordance with IDEA as amended, (20 U.S.C., Chapter 33, Subchapter VIII.) and in conformity with the procedures in appendix A to this part. (2) Ensure that preschool children and children with disabilities ages 3&hyph;21 years (inclusive) receiving educational instruction from Section 6 School Arrangements are provided a free appropriate public education and that the educational needs of such preschool children and children with disabilities are met using the procedures established by this part. (3) Ensure that educational facilities and services provided by Section 6 School Arrangements for preschool children and children with disabilities are comparable to educational facilities and services for non-disabled students. (4) Maintain records on special education and related services provided to children with disabilities, consistent with 32 CFR part 310. (5) Ensure the provision of all necessary diagnostic services and special education and related services listed on an IEP (including those supplied by or under the supervision of physicians) to preschool children and children with disabilities who are enrolled in Section 6 School Arrangements. In fulfilling this responsibility, (USD(P&R)), or designee, may use intercomponent arrangements, or act through contracts with private parties, when funds are authorized and appropriated. (6) Develop and implement a comprehensive system of personnel development, in accordance with 20 U.S.C. 1413&hyph;(a)(3), for all professional staff employed by a Section 6 School Arrangement. This system shall include: (i) Inservice training of general and special educational instructional and support personnel, (ii) Implementing innovative strategies and activities for the recruitment and retention of medically related service providers, (iii) Detailed procedures to assure that all personnel necessary to carry out the purposes of this part are appropriately and adequately prepared and trained, and (iv) Effective procedures for acquiring and disseminating to teachers and administrators of programs for children with disabilities significant information derived from educational research, demonstration, and similar projects, and (v) Adopting, where appropriate, promising practices, materials, and technology.
