FR940317-1-00145 FR940317-1-00013 (ii) If the injured party or the injured party's insurer decline to pay and the claims office does not recover the full amount asserted from the tortfeasor's liability insurer, the claims office will forward the file to USARCS, which will refer the matter to the OCHAMPUS General Counsel. In this instance, the claims office will not waive or compromise any portion of the Government's claim because of undue hardship to the injured party without the approval of Chief, Personnel Claims and Recovery Division, USARCS. (5) On-the-job injuries. In states that recognize the United States as a beneficiary of state workers' compensation systems, the claims office will present a claim to the appropriate office. (6) Other injuries. Other instances giving rise to third party liability include gas explosions, malpractice by civilian physicians, slip-and-fall incidents, and products liability cases. Claims offices will assert demands against the tortfeasor and his insurer citing the FMCRA. (f) Determination of the amount asserted _(1) MTF costs. Recovery for MTF care is presently based upon multiple ``clinical group'' per diem inpatient rates and a single per visit outpatient rate established by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Claims personnel should obtain a billing from each MTF. The RJA should, however, obtain information from the MTF registrar and adjust the amount asserted if it appears that the billings include inpatient days where the injured party was retained in the MTF for administrative purposes rather than medical needs. (2) CHAMPUS costs. Recovery for inpatient care provided in civilian hospitals and paid through CHAMPUS is based upon the CHAMPUS ``Diagnosis Related Group'' (DRG) rates, regardless of the ``actual'' costs. Rates for outpatient care are based on the CHAMPUS ``allowable charge'' for that medical service. Claims offices should assert for the amount that CHAMPUS paid even though this can sometimes exceed the amount that the civilian hospital billed. (3) Ambulance services. Ambulance and air ambulance services provided to soldiers, family members and retirees are ``medical costs'' within the meaning of the FMCRA and 10 U.S.C. 1095, but they are not included in the OMB rates. Claims offices should try to obtain a specific breakdown of costs from the MTF or the unit providing the services and include these in the amount asserted. (4) Burial expenses. If a soldier dies from injuries received and is buried at Government expense, the installation Mortuary Affairs Office completes DD Form 2063 and itemizes expense data on this form. While burial expenses are not ``medical care'' within the meaning of the FMCRA or 10 U.S.C. 1095, many insurance policies provide for the payment of such expenses. Claims offices may assert a demand for burial expenses incurred by the Government if the insurance contract provides for payment of such expenses and state law recognizes the United States as a third party beneficiary of the contract. Claims personnel should, however, be extra sensitive to the possibility that the insurance proceeds might be inadequate and should consider waiving or compromising the Government's claim in appropriate cases to avoid undue hardship to the deceased injured party's next of kin. ยง536.226 Relations with the injured party. (a) Claims personnel will advise the injured party and/or his attorney that_ (1) The United States has a right to recover the reasonable value of medical care that has been furnished or will be furnished in the future. (2) The injured party is required to cooperate with the United States by providing a complete statement of the facts and circumstances surrounding the injury, information about any legal action brought against any prospective defendant, and information about and copies of any insurance policies. (3) The injured party should not execute a release or settle any claims without notifying the RJA. (4) The injured party may consult with a legal assistance attorney if he or she is otherwise entitled to legal assistance. (b) Claims personnel should attempt to coordinate action to collect the claim of the United States with the injured party's action to collect his or her own claim against a tortfeasor or insurer. (1) The RJA may enter into a written agreement with the injured party's attorney to assert the Government's claim and to include it as an item of special damages if the injured party sues. The agreement must state that the Government will not pay counsel fees, and that the attorney will not compute his fee based on the Government's portion of any recovery. The agreement must also state that the Government must be consulted regarding any potential compromise and must agree to any settlement. (2) The RJA should coordinate with the injured party's attorney to ensure that any request for compromise or waiver of the Government's claim is considered as far in advance of settlement as is practical. (3) The RJA may arrange to make local witnesses available for the injured party's attorney. With approval from USARCS, the RJA may arrange to make other Army witnesses available for the injured party's attorney if it is in the Government's best interests to do so. Any such request must be submitted as far in advance as practical. The appearance of present and former DA military and civilian personnel as witnesses is governed by AR 27&hyph;40, chapter 7. (4) The RJA should immediately terminate a representation agreement and independently pursue the Government's right to recover if the injured party's interests conflict with the Government's interests, or if the injured party's attorney fails to keep the RJA informed of developments or otherwise acts in a manner inconsistent with representing the Government's interest.
