FR940803-1-00025 FR940803-1-00004 The ``investable balance'' method, where credit unions pay dividends on a percentage of the balance, excluding an amount credit unions set aside for reserve requirements 2. Use of 365-day basis. Credit unions may apply a daily periodic rate that is greater than 1/365 of the dividend rate_such as 1/360 of the dividend rate_as long as it is applied 365 days a year. 3. Periodic dividend payments. A credit union can pay dividends each day on the account and still make uniform dividend payments. For example, for a one-year term, term share certificate account, a credit union could make monthly dividend payments that are equal to 1/12 of the amount of dividends that will be earned for a 365-day period, or 11 uniform monthly payments and a final payment that accounts for the total dividends earned for the period. 4. Leap year. Credit unions may apply a daily rate of 1/366 or 1/365 of the dividend rate for 366 days in a leap year, if the account will earn dividends for February 29. 5. Maturity of term share accounts. Credit unions are not required to pay dividends after term share accounts mature, such as: During any grace period offered by a credit union for an automatically renewable term share account, if the member decides during that period not to renew the account Following the maturity of nonrollover term share accounts When the maturity date falls on a holiday, and the member must wait until the next business day to obtain the funds 6. Dormant accounts. Credit unions may contract with a member not to pay dividends if the account becomes ``dormant,'' as defined by applicable state or other law. 7. Insufficient funds. Credit unions are not required to pay dividends on checks or share drafts deposited to a member's account that are returned for insufficient funds. If a credit union accrues dividends on a check that it later determines is not good, it may deduct from the accrued dividends any dividends attributed to the proceeds of the returned check. If dividends have already been credited before the credit union determines the item has insufficient funds, the credit union may deduct the amount of the check and associated dividends from the account balance. The dividend deduction should not be included in the dividend amount and annual percentage yield earned that is reported for the next period. 8. Account drawn below par value of a share. If a member draws his or her account below the par value of a share, dividends would continue to accrue on the account. However, under the NCUA Standard FCU Bylaws, if a member who reduces his or her share balance below the value of a par value share and does not increase the balance within at least six months, the credit union may terminate the member's membership. State-chartered credit unions may have similar termination provisions. (a)(2) Determination of minimum balance to earn dividends 1. General. Credit unions may set minimum balance requirements that must be met in order to earn dividends. However, credit unions must use the same method to determine a minimum balance required to earn dividends as they use to determine the balance upon which dividends will accrue. For example, a credit union that calculates dividends on the daily balance method must use the daily balance method to determine if the minimum balance to earn dividends has been met. Similarly, a credit union that calculates dividends on the average daily balance method must use the average daily balance method to determine if the minimum to earn dividends has been met. Credit unions may have a par value of a share that is different from the minimum balance requirement to earn dividends (See commentary to ยง707.4(b)(3)(i).) 2. Daily balance accounts. Credit unions that use the daily balance method to calculate dividends and require a minimum balance to earn dividends may choose not to pay dividends for days when the balance drops below the required daily minimum balance. For example, a credit union could set a minimum daily balance level of $200 and pay dividends only those days the $200 daily balance is maintained. 3. Average daily balance accounts. Credit unions that use the average daily balance method to calculate dividends and require a minimum balance to earn dividends may choose not to pay dividends for the average daily balance calculation period in which the average daily balance does not meet the required minimum. For example, a credit union could set a minimum average daily balance level of $200 and pay dividends only if the $200 average daily balance is met for the calculation period. 4. Beneficial method. Credit unions may not require members to maintain both a minimum daily balance and a minimum average daily balance to earn dividends, such as by requiring the member to maintain a $500 daily balance and an average daily balance that is higher or lower. But a credit union could determine the minimum balance to earn dividends by using a method that is ``unequivocally beneficial'' to the member such as the following: A credit union using the daily balance method to calculate dividends and requiring a $500 minimum daily balance could choose to pay dividends on the account (for those days the minimum balance is not met) as long as the member maintained an average daily balance throughout the month of $400. A credit union using the average daily balance method to calculate dividends and requiring a $400 minimum average daily balance could choose to pay dividends on the account as long as the member maintained a daily balance of $500 for at least half of the days in the period. A credit union using either the daily balance method or average daily balance method to calculate dividends that requires either of the following, but not both, $500 daily balance or a $400 average daily balance to pay dividends on the account.
