FR941110-2-00024 FR941110-2-00009 Department's Position: It is our longstanding practice, pursuant to section 772(e)(2) of the Tariff Act, to deduct all expenses incurred in the United States, including direct selling expenses, in calculating ESP. In calculating purchase price (PP), adjustments for differences in COS pursuant to 19 C.F.R. §353.56, including direct selling expenses, are made to FMV, and no deduction of direct selling expenses is made from PP. This is necessary to avoid a systematic distortion in the amounts of duty assessed which would result if the value on which dumping margins were calculated were consistently different than the entered value, to which Customs will apply the margin. Entered value is most commonly based on the price to the United States between the exporter and the importer. In contrast, the basis of ESP is the resale price in the United States to the first unrelated purchaser, which will approximate the entered value only after all expenses incurred in the United States (including direct selling expenses) are deducted. PP will approximate the entered value without the deduction of any expenses because the direct selling expenses are incurred in the exporting country and included in the price to the United States used for both PP and entered value. On September 30, 1994, the Federal Circuit reversed the decisions of the CIT in Koyo Seiko Co., Ltd. and Koyo Corporation of U.S.A. and Isuzu Motors, Ltd. and American Isuzu Motors, Inc., v. United States and The Timken Company (93&hyph;1525, 93&hyph;1534), holding that ``(n)othing in the plain language *␣*␣* of the Antidumping Act precludes Commerce's approach of adjusting exporter's sales price by deducting therefrom certain direct selling expenses incurred in the United States. Indeed, Commerce's stated rationale for its approach is well within the bounds of reasonableness.'' Therefore, we have maintained our practice for these final results. Comment 13: Timken maintains that Koyo cannot consolidate its sales to a related distributor and then report the selling expenses of that distributor ( e.g., indirect selling expenses, credit), when it reported the sale between Koyo and its related distributor and did not report the distributor's re-sale prices to unrelated parties. In Timken's view, Koyo's ad hoc treatment of related distributors' expenses and sales information, which were consolidated for some purposes and not for others, renders the entire indirect selling expense claim invalid. Koyo states that Timken misinterpreted the verification report, which makes clear that Koyo reported only selling expenses incurred by Koyo at its headquarters and sales offices, and did not include any expenses incurred by related companies. Department's Position: We disagree with Timken. We have reexamined the documents cited by Koyo, including the home-market verification report, and have concluded that the information on the record regarding Koyo's indirect selling expenses is accurate. Although we have adjusted Koyo's home-market indirect selling expenses as a result of other positions taken by the Department for these final results, we are satisfied that Koyo submitted only those expenses it incurred at its headquarters and sales offices. Comment 14: Timken maintains that in the preliminary results of review for Yamaha, the Department erroneously deducted an imputed adjustment for home-market credit expense from FMV. Because Yamaha made no claim for this adjustment, Timken asserts that the Department is under no obligation to adjust for this expense, and that for the final results the Department should not make the credit expense adjustment to FMV. Department's Position: We agree. The CIT has stated that the burden of proving entitlement to adjustments rests with the respondent making the claim ( Timken II ). Therefore, we have not made an adjustment to FMV for Yamaha's imputed credit expenses. Comments Regarding Calculation of USP Comment 15: Timken asserts that section 772 of the Tariff Act requires the Department to adjust USP for ``all costs, charges, and expenses .␣.␣. incident to bringing the merchandise from the place of shipment in the country of exportation to the place of delivery in the United States. .␣.␣.'' Timken states that this includes pre-sale inland freight. In contrast, Timken observes that there is no similar provision for deduction of such expenses from FMV. Therefore, Timken argues that the statute calls for distinct treatment of pre-sale inland freight, depending upon whether USP or FMV is at issue. Timken notes that the Federal Circuit's rejection of the Department's practice of treating home-market pre-sale inland freight as a direct deduction from FMV is categorical and not limited to the PP context ( Ad Hoc Committee of AZ-NM-TX-FL Producers of Gray Portland Cement v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;1239 (Fed. Cir., January 5, 1994) ( Ad Hoc Committee )). Timken asserts that the Department's implementation of Ad Hoc Committee requires that any adjustment for pre-sale inland freight be made pursuant to the ESP offset (as an indirect selling expense), rather than pursuant to the COS provision of section 773 of the Tariff Act. Koyo points out that the Department treated pre-sale inland freight as an indirect expense, which is contrary to the Department's established practice in previous reviews of this case of treating pre-sale inland freight as a direct selling expense. Koyo cites 1990/91 and 1991/92 TRBs. Koyo states that in Ad Hoc Committee , which involved PP sales, the Federal Circuit held that the Department may not make a deduction for pre-sale inland freight in calculating FMV. Koyo notes, moreover, that the Federal Circuit's decision explains that the case before it was a departure from the Department's longstanding practice of deducting pre-sale transportation expenses from FMV in ESP situations. Therefore, Koyo maintains that the Department should continue its practice of deducting pre-sale inland freight expenses as direct selling expenses from FMV. Koyo also asserts that Timken's reliance on Ad Hoc Committee is misplaced because the decision applied only to situations involving PP transactions and does not apply to Koyo's transactions in these reviews where USP is calculated using ESP. NSK argues that the Ad Hoc Committee decision has no bearing on NSK's sales. NSK contends that the Federal Circuit decision involved PP sales, in which foreign inland freight was post-sale freight, whereas NSK's sales are ESP sales, in which all inland freight is pre-sale freight. NSK argues that, in an ESP analysis, the deduction of pre-sale freight from USP but not from home-market price would result in an unequal comparison. Department's Position: The Ad Hoc Committee decision states that the statute does not give the Department the authority to deduct home-market movement expenses from FMV by invoking its inherent power to fill in ``gaps'' in the antidumping statute ( Ad Hoc Committee , Slip. Op. 93&hyph;1239). Consistent with the rationale of this decision, the Department applies this methodology to both PP and ESP situations. As a result, we must now evaluate a claim for pre-sale inland freight within the context of the COS adjustment provision of the Tariff Act. With respect to Koyo's and NSK's claims of having incurred pre-sale freight expenses, we find that neither claim is directly related to any specific sale and no specific sale is anticipated at the time when respondents incurred the pre-sale inland freight expense. Consistent with our practice regarding non-sales-specific expenses, we have treated pre-sale inland freight for NSK and Koyo as a home-market indirect selling expense (19 CFR 353.56(b)(2)). Comment 16: Timken notes that in the preliminary results the Department excluded NSK's sales with prices of zero from the margin analysis. Timken contends that these sales are likely sample or promotional sales, and should be included in the margin calculation as required by both the statute and past Department practice. NSK argues that transactions showing zero prices are not ``sales'' because sales require the payment of money, and are thus more properly viewed as selling expenses. NSK notes that, as verified by the Department, sample sales are included in NSK's reported SG&A expenses, and thus should not be included in the Department's analysis of sales. Department's Position: We agree with Timken. Our general practice has been to include zero-priced sample U.S. sales in margin calculations. In AFBs II, where our policy is discussed at length, we stated,
