FR941019-1-00030 FR941019-1-00004 While the Wheat Commission's Report to the Commission, published in 1969, recognized that most investment decisions are based essentially on estimates of future earnings, the Commission determined that the detriments to investors associated with permitting forward-looking disclosure weighed against lifting the ban on disclosure of such information. In the Wheat Commission's view, the heightened litigation exposure, updating requirements and risk of undue investor reliance on this information outweighed any countervailing benefits. 7 7 The Wheat Report stated these findings as follows: From a management standpoint, projections may change rapidly during a given year as changes occur in the factors on which they are based. Inclusion of such changing projections in a prospectus, which might be used long after it became effective would give rise to significant problems. It has been the Commission's long-standing policy not to permit projections and predictions in prospectuses and reports filed with the Commission. Such documents are designed to elicit material facts. Their factual character is widely recognized. Investors and their advisers are at liberty to make their own projections based on the disclosures resulting from the Commission's requirements. A real danger exists, in the Study's judgment, that projections appearing in prospectuses and other documents filed under securities laws and reviewed by the Commission would be accorded a greater measure of validity by the unsophisticated than they would deserve. Wheat Report, supra note 5, at 95&hyph;96. 2. Rulemaking Initiatives The Commission continued to consider these issues and conducted hearings in 1972 to determine whether to lift the ban and, instead, either mandate or permit disclosure of forward-looking information. The 1972 hearings involved fifty-three witnesses and resulted in the submission of over 200 letters of comment. A significant number of those letters were from issuers objecting to any suggestion that they be required to file forward-looking statements with the Commission. Following those hearings, the Commission elected in 1973 not to require disclosure of forward-looking information, but announced in a policy statement its intention to promulgate rules to permit voluntary disclosure of projections and to protect those projections from civil antifraud liability. 8 8 Securities Act Release No. 5362 (Feb. 2, 1973) (``[t]he Commission has never required a company to publicly disclose its projections and does not intend to do so now''). The Commission stated that its decision not to mandate disclosure of forward-looking statements was based on its desire not to deviate too far from its historical position of prohibiting such disclosure. Id. In 1975, the Commission issued a series of proposals designed to implement the 1973 policy statement. 9 Specifically, the proposals would have: 9 See Securities Act Release No. 5581 (April 28, 1975). 1. Required the filing of a Form 8&hyph;K by any registrant that (a) had furnished a projection to any person, (b) had reason to believe that its public projections no longer had a reasonable basis, (c) had determined to cease issuing projections, or (d) wished to disassociate itself from a third person's projections; 2. Amended Form 10&hyph;K to (a) require inclusion therein of all prior projections, together with actual and historical results; (b) require inclusion of projections for future periods that had been previously filed with the Commission; and (c) limit the filing of projections to those issuers with Exchange Act reporting histories and budgeting experience and to those projections that satisfied the requirements of proposed safe harbor Rules 132 (a proposed predecessor of Rule 175) and 3b&hyph;6; 3. Created new Rules 132 and 3b&hyph;6, providing a safe harbor ``by defining circumstances under which a projection would be deemed not to be an untrue or misleading statement of a material fact or a manipulative, deceptive, or fraudulent device, contrivance, act or practice as those terms are used in the various liability provisions of the federal securities laws''; and 4. Required that all projection information contained in the text of Form 10&hyph;K (but not exhibits) be included in the registrant's annual report to shareholders. 10 10 See id.
