FR941102-2-00110 FR941102-2-00074 DOT/ALL&hyph;10 System name: Debt Collection File System location: Federal Aviation Administration, General Ledger Branch, Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center, 6500 S. MacArthur Blvd., Oklahoma City, OK 73125. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Persons currently or formerly associated with the Department of Transportation (DOT) who are financially indebted to the U.S. Government under some particular service or program of the DOT other than under a contract. Individuals may include current, retired, or formerly employed DOT personnel or personnel from other Federal agencies. Categories of records in the system: Information varies depending on the individual debtor, and includes the history of debt collection activity on the individual. Normally, the name, Social Security Number (SSN), address, amount of debt or delinquent amount, basis of the debt, date debt arose, office referring debt, collection efforts, credit reports, debt collection letters and correspondence to or from the debtor relating to the debt. Correspondence with employing agencies of debtors or Office of Personnel Management or Department of Defense, as appropriate, requesting that action begin to collect the delinquent debt through voluntary or involuntary offset procedures against the employee's salary or compensation due a retiree. Authority for maintenance of the system: Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966 (Pub.L. 89&hyph;508), 31 U.S.C. Chapter 37, Subchapter I (General), and Subchapter II (Claims of the United States Government); Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub.L. 97&hyph;365); 5 U.S.C. 5514, Installment Deduction for Indebtedness (salary offset); section 206 of Executive Order 11222; Executive Order 9397; and 49 CFR part 92, Salary Offset (DOT). Purposes: For the administrative management and collection of all delinquent debts, including past due loan payments, overpayments, fines, penalties, fees, damages, interest, leases, sales of real or personal property, etc., due to the DOT and debts due to other Federal departments and agencies that may be referred to the DOT for collection to the extent DOT controls funds due the debtor. This system provides for the implementation of the salary offset provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5514, the administrative offset provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS). It applies to personal rather than contract debts. Guidance regarding contract debts is contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulation. Records in this record system are subject to use in authorized and approved computer matching programs regulated under the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, for debt collection purposes. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: a. To the U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO), Department of Justice, United States Attorney, or other Federal agencies for further collection action on any delinquent account when circumstances warrant. b. To a debt collection agency for the purpose of collection services to recover monies owed to the U.S. Government under certain programs or services administered by the DOT. c. Debtor's name, Social Security Number, the amount of debt, and the history of the debt may be disclosed to any Federal agency where the individual debtor is employed or receiving some form of remuneration for the purpose of enabling that agency to collect a debt owed the U.S. Government on DOT's behalf by counseling the debtor for voluntary repayment or by initiating administrative or salary offset procedures under the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub.L. 97&hyph;365). d. To the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) by computer matching to obtain the mailing address of a taxpayer for the purpose of locating such taxpayer to collect or to compromise a Federal claim by DOT against the taxpayer pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6103(m)(2) and in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711, 3217, and 3718.
