FR940524-2-00042 FR940524-2-00027 Evaluation Criteria (Total 100 Points Plus 10 Optional Points) Evaluation criteria are compared against specific information requested in the corresponding component of the ``Application Content'' section of the Program Announcement Number 426. A copy of the program announcement will be included in the application kit. Applications for Part I Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria for programs to enhance an existing statewide cancer registry: (Maximum 110 points). A. Resources and Needs Assessment: (25 Points_Allocated as Noted Below) The extent to which the applicant describes current activities and existing limitations of the State-level cancer registry, and addresses the following issues: a description of all existing and potential sources of cancer cases (5 points); a description of existing computerized cancer reporting systems in the State (2 points); a description of centralized cancer reporting in the State including assessment of data items, completeness, timeliness and quality, data processing and use of data (5 points); a description of cancer data currently collected (5 points); a review of ``enabling'' legislation and regulations (4 points); and, a description of existing computer hardware and software (4 points). B. Collaboration: (15 Points) The extent to which the applicant describes past, current, and proposed collaboration with the relevant organizations and agencies within the State; with other States or national organizations; with federally-funded health care programs such as the Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program, Department of Veterans Affairs, Military and Armed Forces Facilities, the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program, and Indian Health Service in States with Native American populations. C. Proposed Objectives: (20 Points) The extent to which objectives are specific, measurable, time-phased, and realistic; provide for outcome and process objectives which meet the requirements of Pub. L. 102&hyph;515; and are derived from needs identified in the resources and needs assessment. D. Proposed Implementation Schedule: (15 Points) The extent to which the major steps required for project implementation are described and the project timetable displays dates for the accomplishment of specific project activities. E. Data Utilization: (10 Points) The extent to which the applicant provides a relevant and realistic plan to use cancer registry data within the State for cancer control. F. Project Management and Staffing Plan: (15 Points) The extent to which proposed staffing, organizational structure, staff experience and background, identified training needs or plan, and job descriptions and curricula vitae for both proposed and current staff indicate ability to carry out the purposes of the program. G. Budget: (Not Scored) The extent to which the applicant provides a detailed budget and justification consistent with the stated objectives and program activities. H. (OPTIONAL) Operational Plan for Building Public Health Information Infrastructure: (10 Points_Scored Separately) The extent to which objectives and plans: 1. Increase the technical capacity in their State cancer registry to link databases; 2. Complete retrospective case ascertainment and data abstraction for diagnosis years 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993; or 3. Establish a statewide electronic network. (No penalty for NOT undertaking OPTIONAL activities).
