FR940104-1-00039 FR940104-1-00009 The May 1992 report describes tests conducted on eight light vehicles to evaluate how the ABS influenced vehicle stopping distance and lateral stability and control on various surfaces. This evaluation supplements the December 1991 program by testing different vehicles on more slippery test surfaces, although it only used straight line maneuvers. Among the report's findings were that (1) with one exception, the seven vehicles with all-wheel systems were under complete directional control during the tests with the ABS ``on,'' (2) the vehicle with a rear-wheel-only ABS generally provided improved, but not complete, lateral stability and control, (3) ABSs improved stopping performance on all surfaces, except that stopping distance worsened on dry gravel surfaces, and (4) no vehicle experienced problems in the high to low mu transition testing with the ABS operational. NHTSA has recently published two proposals related to the braking performance of medium and heavy vehicles (hereinafter referred to as ``heavy vehicles''). On February 23, 1993, the agency proposed reinstating stopping distance requirements for these vehicles. (58 FR 11003). In addition, on September 28, 1993, the agency published a proposal that would require heavy vehicles to be equipped with an ABS to improve the lateral stability and control of these vehicles during braking. (58 FR 50738). The ABS requirement would be supplemented by a 30 mph braking-in-a-curve ``check'' test conducted on a low coefficient of friction surface using a full, panic brake application. Some of the issues raised in these rulemakings, such as the test surface and the proposed definition of ``ABS,'' are relevant to this rulemaking. III. Issues for Possible Agency Action A. Overview of the issues This ANPRM discusses whether the agency should propose to require ABS for light vehicles, pursuant to the mandate in ISTEA. While manufacturers are equipping an increasingly large number of light vehicles with ABS, it appears that it would be quite a few years, if ever, before all light vehicles would voluntarily be equipped with such devices. Based on the agency's review of comments to this notice and its review of additional accident data and other information, NHTSA will determine whether it should propose to require that all light vehicles be equipped with ABSs. This ANPRM also makes a number of requests for data and information. The agency wishes to emphasize that since this is an ANPRM, no rule will be issued on this specific subject without first issuing an ANPRM to provide further opportunity to comment. In commenting on a particular matter on responding to a particular question, interested persons are requested to provide any relevant factual information to support their conclusions or opinions, including but not limited to, testing, statistical, and cost data, and the source of such information. The agency seeks comments about the following topics: (a) The anticipated safety benefits from requiring light vehicles to be equipped with ABSs; (b) Potential regulatory approaches to improve the lateral stability and control of light vehicles during braking, including a requirement for an ABS and any anticipated performance requirements and test procedures; (c) The types of light vehicles to which these requirements would apply and whether all vehicles should be required to be equipped with an all-wheel ABS; (d) A schedule for implementing the ABS requirements to maximize their benefits at reasonable costs; and (e) The costs of requiring light vehicles to be equipped with antilock braking systems that would comply with the anticipated requirements. For ease of reference, the questions below are numbered consecutively. The agency requests that commenters identify each answer they give by the number of each question being answered. B. Safety Need The threshold issue in deciding whether to amend an existing safety standard concerns the requirement's safety need. NHTSA is reviewing accident data, including information from the Fatal Accident Reporting System (FARS), NHTSA's General Estimates System (GES), the National Accident Sampling System (NASS), and State accident data files. This review focuses on the benefits achieved by equipping light vehicles with an ABS in a variety of different crash modes. Among the crash modes being studied are (1) single vehicle run-off-the-road crashes in which skidding or spinning was the vehicle's pre-crash stability condition, (2) multi-vehicle crashes resulting from a vehicle's loss-of-control or inability-to-stop-in-time, and (3) crashes in which a vehicle strikes pedestrians, animals, or road objects. Initial data from these sources indicate that braking induced loss-of-control crashes and inability-to-stop-in-time crashes are frequent types of crashes that warrant further study. Such crashes are especially prevalent on wet or slippery roads, a condition in which ABSs would be effective. Eleven percent of all fatal crashes in 1991 occurred on wet or slippery roads, and 18 percent of property-damage-only crashes occurred under such conditions. NHTSA's research test findings indicate that equipping light vehicles with an ABS would be beneficial to safety. The primary benefit with equipping light vehicles with an ABS is that a driver is better able to maintain vehicle stability and steering control during crash-threatening braking situations. A secondary, but still important benefit with an ABS, is that a vehicle's stopping ability is improved on some surfaces.
