FR940620-1-00051 FR940620-1-00009 (4) neither the pre- or post-award assertions made by the contractor nor the fact that certain assertions are identified in the Attachment to the contract, determine the respective rights of the parties. As provided at 227.403&hyph;13, the Government has the right to review, verify, challenge and validate restrictive markings. (5) Information provided by offerors in response to the solicitation provision may be used in the source selection process to evaluate the impact on evaluation factors that may be created by restrictions on the Government's ability to use or disclose technical data. However, offerors shall not be prohibited from offering products for which the offeror is entitled to provide the Government limited rights in the technical data pertaining to such products and offerors shall not be required, either as a condition or being responsive to a solicitation or as a condition for award, to sell or otherwise relinquish any greater rights in technical data when the offeror to entitled to provide the technical data with limited rights. (b) Contractor marking requirements. the clause at 252.227&hyph;7013, ``Rights in Technical Data_Noncommercial Items'' requires_ (1) A contractor who desires to restrict the Government's rights in technical data to place restrictive markings on the data, provides instructions for the placement of the restrictive markings, and authorizes the use of certain restrictive markings. (2) The contractor to deliver, furnish, or otherwise provide to the Government any technical data in which the Government has previously obtained rights with the Government's pre-existing rights in that data unless the parties have agreed otherwise or restrictions on the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, or disclose the data have expired. When restrictions are still applicable, the contractor is permitted to mark the data with the appropriate restrictive legend for which the data qualified. (c) Unmarked technical data. (1) Technical data delivered or otherwise provided under a contract without restrictive markings shall be presumed to have been delivered with unlimited rights and may be released or disclosed without restriction. To the extent practicable, if a contractor has requested permission (see 227.403&hyph;10(c)(2)) to correct an inadvertent omission of markings, do not release or disclose the technical data pending evaluation of the request. (2) A contractor may request permission to have appropriate legends placed on unmarked technical data at its expense. The request must be received by the contracting officer within 6 months following the furnishing or delivery of such data, or any extension of that time approved by the contracting officer. The person making the request must: (i) Identify the technical data that should have been marked; and, (ii) Demonstrate that the omission of the marking was inadvertent, the proposed marking is justified and conforms with the requirements for the marking of technical data contained in the ``Rights in Technical Data_Non-commercial Items'' clause at 252.227&hyph;7013; and, (iii) Acknowledge, in writing, that the Government has no liability with respect to any disclosure, reproduction, or use of the technical data made prior to the addition of the marking or resulting from the omission of the marking. (3) Contracting officers should grant permission to mark only if the technical data were not distributed outside the Government or were distributed outside the Government with restrictions on further use or disclosure.
