FR940314-1-00033 FR940314-1-00009 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 90-day Finding on a Petition To Delist Seven Texas Karst Invertebrates AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of petition finding. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 90-day finding on a petition to remove seven species of invertebrates that occur in karst topography in Travis and Williamson counties, Texas, from the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants. The Service determines that the petition does not present substantial scientific or commercial information indicating that delisting the Coffin Cave mold beetle ( Batrisodes texanus ), the Tooth Cave spider ( Neoleptoneta myopica ), the Tooth Cave ground beetle ( Rhadine persephone ), the Tooth Cave pseudoscorpion ( Tartarocreagris texana ), the Kretschmarr Cave mold beetle ( Texamaurops reddelli ), the Bee Creek Cave harvestman ( Texella reddelli ), and the Bone Cave harvestman ( Texella reyesi ) may be warranted. DATES: The finding announced in this notice was made on March 7, 1994. Comments and information related to this petition finding may be submitted until further notice. ADDRESSES: Information, comments, or questions may be submitted to the State Administrator, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ecological Services Field Office, 611 East 6th Street, room 407, Austin, Texas 78701. The petition, finding, supporting data, and comments will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ruth Stanford, Ecologist, at the above address (512/482&hyph;5436). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) (Act), requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information indicating that the petitioned action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of receipt of the petition, and the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . If the finding is positive, the Service is also required to promptly commence a status review of the species. Judge John C. Doerfler, representing the Williamson County Commissioners Court, submitted a petition to the Service to delist six species of endangered karst invertebrates in Travis and Williamson counties, Texas. The petition was dated June 7, 1993, and received by the Service on that date. On June 16, 1993, the Service received a letter from attorney J.B. Ruhl on behalf of the petitioners, clarifying the intent of the petition to incorporate recent taxonomic revisions and the taxonomic reevaluation of five listed karst invertebrate species as seven species. The final rule listing the Tooth Cave pseudoscorpion ( Microgreagris texana ), the Tooth Cave spider ( Leptoneta myopica ), the Bee Creek Cave harvestman ( Texella reddelli ), the Tooth Cave ground beetle ( Rhadine persephone ), and the Kretschmarr Cave mold beetle ( Texamaurops reddelli ) as endangered species was published in the Federal Register on September 16, 1988 (53 FR 36029) (final rule). Subsequent taxonomic revisions have formalized genus reassignments for M. texana and L. myopica and established that Texella reddelli and Texamaurops reddelli each actually comprise two species. Microcreagris texana has been reassigned to Tartarocreagris texana (Muchmore 1992). Leptoneta myopica has been formally reassigned to Neoleptoneta myopica following Brignoli (1977) and Platnick (1986). Texella reddelli has been found to comprise two species, Texella reddelli (Bee Creek Cave harvestman) and Texella reyesi (Bone Cave harvestman) (Ubick and Briggs 1992). Texamaurops reddelli has been found to comprise two species, Texamaurops reddelli (Kretschmarr Cave mold beetle) and Batrisodes texanus (Coffin Cave mold beetle) (Chandler 1992). A Federal Register notice announcing the latter two revisions was published on August 18, 1993 (58 FR 43818). Several caves in Travis County contain more than one of the endangered karst invertebrates. These include Tooth Cave, Amber Cave, Gallifer Cave, Kretschmarr Cave, and Kretschmarr Double Pit. These caves and others are protected under the stewardship of the Texas System of Natural Laboratories (TSNL). In addition, some other caves are in preserves regulated by the Cities of Austin and Georgetown. (For further discussion, see Factor D, ``The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms,'' below.) However, many of the caves containing endangered karst invertebrates currently have no protection other than that provided by the Act.
