FR941003-0-00098 FR941003-0-00016 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Joseph C. White, Air Traffic Rules Branch, ATP&hyph;230, Airspace Rules and Aeronautical Information Division, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, telephone (202) 267&hyph;8783. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On May 28, 1985, the National Association of Rocketry (NAR) and the Hobby Industry Association (HIA) filed a joint petition requesting that the FAA amend 14 CFR 101.1, by raising the upper weight limit on excepted model rockets from 16 ounces to 1,500 grams (approximately 53 ounces) and the allowable propellant mass from 4 ounces to 125 grams (approximately 4.4 ounces). At present, 14 CFR 101.1 exempts ``model'' rockets having no more than 4.0 ounces of propellant and weighing no more than 16 ounces, including the propellent. In response to the NAR/HIA joint petition, the FAA published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM), Notice 92&hyph;12, 57 FR 41628, Sep. 10, 1992. Notice 92&hyph;12 proposed to amend 14 CFR Part 101 by adding ยง101.22, Special provisions for larger model rockets, and by amending ยง101.25, Notice requirements, to accommodate larger model rockets. In summary, model rockets that use not more than 125 grams of propellant; that weigh not more than 1,500 grams, including the propellant; that are constructed principally of paper, wood, or breakable plastic, and continue to have no substantial metal parts; may be operated in a controlled airspace, within 5 miles of the boundary of any airport, within 1,500 feet of any person or property that is not associated with the operations or at night. These operations may be conducted, provided that persons operating these model rockets give prior notification of launch activities and other pertinent launch information to the FAA Air Traffic Control (ATC) facility nearest the place of intended operation between 24 and 48 hours prior to beginning the operation and the manager of any airport whose landing area or runway is within 5 miles of the model rocket launch site. Analysis of Comments Interested persons were invited to participate in this rulemaking effort by submitting written data, views, or arguments. All comments received during the comment period were considered before making a determination regarding this final rule. During the comment period, a total of 117 comments were received in response to Notice 92&hyph;12. Two comments were received from the NAR, and one comment each, from the Airline Pilots Association (ALPA), the Arizona Pilots Association, the Airport Transport Association (ATA), and the National Fire Protection Association. Ninety-one comments were received from individuals, eight from pilots, six from model rocket associations, three from teachers/professional educators, and one each from a scientist, an aerospace educational organization, and a model rocket manufacturer. A discussion of these comments follows: One commenter supports the NPRM as written. All other commenters oppose the NPRM and support, instead, either the original NAR petition or the development of regulatory action which proposes fewer model rocket notification requirements. Comments opposing the NPRM are summarized in the following categories, each of which is subsequently discussed more fully: 1. Approximately 95 commenters state there is no need for a separate category of ``Large Model Rockets''; they favor adoption of NAR's original petition for rulemaking. 2. Approximately 74 commenters believe the NPRM's proposed notification requirements are burdensome and unnecessary. 3. Approximately 8 commenters state the FAA needs to update its rules to reflect the current technology of model rocketry and to promote the inherent educational value of the hobby. 4. Approximately 3 commenters oppose both the NPRM and NAR's original petition for rulemaking. 5. Approximately 4 commenters suggest regulatory alternatives to the NPRM. A number of commenters oppose the proposal to establish a separate category of ``Large Model Rockets'' and instead support the NAR's original petition to broaden the exempt definition of model rockets. Based upon NAR and FAA studies, commenters argue that air traffic will not be adversely affected by the NAR's requested increase in the maximum, unregulated model rocket liftoff and propellant weight. The NAR reiterates that, ``not a single documented incident of model rockets interfering with aviation, hitting or harming aircraft on ascent or descent of the rocket, or impairing aircraft flight operations has occurred''. Commenters attribute this enviable safety record to rocketeers' voluntary compliance with the Model Rocket Safety Code. Accordingly, they consider the code and a rocketeer's own visual and aural check as sufficient launch safety measures. Moreover, several commenters assert that increasing model rocket weight may actually improve model rocket safety as heavier rockets are purported to have larger drag coefficients, achieve lower altitudes, have shorter flight duration, and be more easily seen by aircraft than lighter rockets. The FAA agrees that the model rocket industry has a long and distinguished record of safety. However, as noted in Notice 92&hyph;12, the FAA must acknowledge the remote, yet inherent increase in hazard potential that accompanies greater model rocket propellant/mass weight. This consideration is particularly relevant for general aviation aircraft and rotorcraft, which operate at a lower velocity and flight altitude, making them especially vulnerable to collision with larger, more powerful model rockets. In order to provide a maximum level of safety protection to aircraft passengers and crew members, the FAA has determined that operational safeguards, beyond the Model Rocket Safety Code and rocketeers' own diligence, are needed for larger rockets with greater propellant/mass weight. Therefore, a regulatory category that segregates larger rockets from smaller rockets is required.
