FR940527-0-00040 FR940527-0-00014 The special rules for contributions made by payroll deduction, like the underlying statutory provisions, do not require that the document prepared by the donee organization take any particular form. Similarly, although donors must obtain the document in time to meet the ``contemporaneous'' requirement of the statute (generally, by the time they file the relevant tax return), the rules do not require the donee organization to prepare the document at any particular time. Therefore, if a donee organization includes the statement contemplated by the rules on a pledge card prepared to solicit contributions in 1995, a donor who receives the card before timely filing the donor's 1994 tax return could use the card to substantiate contributions made in 1994. Contributions made by payroll deduction during 1994 can thus be substantiated under these rules even if the donee organization has used pledge cards for 1994 contributions that do not include the statement contemplated by the rules. As a result, the Service understands that donee organizations will be able to comply with the ``contemporaneous'' requirement for 1994 contributions. The Service invites comments, however, on whether transitional relief from the ``contemporaneous'' requirement is needed for 1994 contributions. The temporary regulations also provide that, for purposes of applying the $250 threshold provided in section 170(f)(8)(A) to contributions made by payroll deduction, the amount withheld from each paycheck is treated as a separate contribution. Thus, the substantiation requirement of section 170(f)(8) will not apply to contributions made by payroll deduction unless the employer deducts $250 or more from a single paycheck for the purpose of payment to a donee organization. This rule is consistent with the legislative history of section 170(f)(8). See H. Rep. No. 213, supra, at 565 n.29 (``In cases of contributions paid by withholding from wages, the deduction from each paycheck will be treated as a separate payment.''). Some charitable organizations solicit contributions in the form of payroll deductions or lump-sum payments for the purpose of distributing the amounts received to other charitable organizations. The temporary regulations provide that, in such cases, the distributing organization is treated as a donee organization for purposes of the substantiation requirement of section 170(f)(8). This rule applies regardless of whether the distributing organization distributes the contributed funds pursuant to the donor's instructions. The rule does not apply, however, if a distributee organization provides goods or services to the donor as part of a transaction structured with a view to avoid taking the goods or services into account in determining the amount of the deduction to which the donor is entitled under section 170. Special Analyses It has been determined that these temporary regulations are not a significant regulatory action as defined in Executive Order 12866. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, an initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, these regulations will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on their impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Joel S. Rutstein, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel (Income Tax & Accounting), Internal Revenue Service. However, other personnel from the Service and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 26 CFR Part 602 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR parts 1 and 602, are amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 is amended by adding an entry in numerical order to read as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣* §1.170A&hyph;13T also issued under 26 U.S.C. 170(f)(8)(E).
