FR940224-1-00058 FR940224-1-00011 (e) Issuance. After receiving a complete application, the FMD will issue a permit to an applicant eligible for a permit under this section. (f) Fees. A fee is charged for each application for a Hawaii longline limited entry permit (including initial permits, permit transfers and permit renewals). The amount of the fee is calculated in accordance with the procedures of the NOAA Finance Handbook for determining the administrative costs of each special product or service. The fee may not exceed such costs and is specified with each application form. The appropriate fee must accompany each application. Failure to pay the fee will preclude issuance of a limited entry permit. (g) Expiration. Permits issued under this section remain valid for the period specified on the permit unless transferred, revoked, suspended, or modified under 15 CFR part 904. (h) Renewal. An application for renewal of any permit issued under this section must be submitted to the Pacific Area Office in the same manner as described in paragraph (c) of this section. (i) Replacement. Replacement permits may be issued, without charge, to replace lost or mutilated permits. An application for a replacement permit is not considered a new application. (j) Transfer. (1) A permit is valid only for the vessel for which it is registered. A permit not registered for use with a particular vessel may not be used. (2) The owner of a Hawaii longline limited entry permit may apply to transfer the permit: (i) To a different person for registration for use with the same or another vessel; or (ii) For registration for use with another U.S. vessel under the same ownership. (3) An application for a permit transfer must be submitted to the Pacific Area Office in the same manner as described in paragraph (c) of this section. (k) A permit will not be registered for use with a vessel that has a length overall that is greater than the length overall of the vessel that had the greatest length overall and that landed Pacific pelagic management unit species under a limited entry permit during the moratorium. (l) Only a person who is eligible to own a documented vessel under the terms of 46 U.S.C. 12102(a) may be issued or may hold (by ownership or otherwise) a limited entry permit. 6. Section 685.13 is revised to read as follows: ยง685.13 Notification of landings and transshipments. The operator of a longline fishing vessel that is subject to the permit requirements of ยง685.9(a) of this part shall contact the Pacific Area Office by telephone, at a number provided to permit holders, within 12 hours of the vessel's arrival at any port in Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, or U.S. possessions in the Pacific Ocean area and report the name of the vessel, name of the vessel operator, and the date and time of each landing or transshipment of Pacific pelagic management unit species by the vessel since its previous report of landing and/or transshipment. 7. Section 685.15 is revised to read as follows: ยง685.15 Permit appeals. (a) Except as provided in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904, any applicant for a permit or any permit owner may appeal the granting, denial, conditioning, suspension, or transfer of a permit or requested permit to the Regional Director. In order to be considered by the Regional Director, the appeal must be in writing, must state the action(s) appealed, and the reasons therefor, and must be submitted within 30 days of the action(s) by the FMD. The appellant may request an informal hearing on the appeal. (b) Upon receipt of an appeal authorized by this section, the Regional Director may request additional information as will allow action on the appeal. Upon receipt of sufficient information, the Regional Director will decide the appeal in accordance with the criteria set forth in this part and the Fishery Management Plan for Pelagic Fisheries of the Western Pacific Region, as appropriate, based upon information relative to the application on file at NMFS and the Council and any additional information available, the summary record kept of any hearing and the hearing officer's recommended decision, if any, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, and such other considerations as deemed appropriate. The Regional Director will notify the appellant of the decision and the reasons therefor, in writing, normally within 30 days of the receipt of sufficient information, unless additional time is needed for a hearing. (c) If a hearing is requested, or if the Regional Director determines that one is appropriate, the Regional Director may grant an informal hearing before a hearing officer designated for that purpose. Such a hearing normally shall be held no later than 30 days following receipt of the appeal unless the hearing officer extends the time for reasons deemed equitable. The appellant and, at the discretion of the hearing officer, other interested persons, may appear personally or be represented by counsel at the hearing and submit information and present arguments as determined appropriate by the hearing officer. Within 30 days of the last day of the hearing, the hearing officer shall recommend, in writing, a decision to the Regional Director.
