FR940902-0-00092 FR940902-0-00010 A provision at §631.30(a)(8) requires the State to immediately (within 48 hours) notify the substate grantee of current or projected layoffs and closures in the local area for the purpose of continuing and expanding upon the services initiated by the rapid response team, as required in section 311(b)(3)(D) of the Act. Moreover, section 311(b)(12) of the Act stipulates that accountability for rapid response assistance resides in the dislocated worker unit (DWU), although the DWU may contract with other entities for the provision of these services. This is reflected in the provisions at §631.30(b). One commenter questioned whether 48 hours meant 48 working hours and what would happen if the information was made available on a Friday afternoon. The Department believes the Governor is responsible for the interpretation and application of the term ``48 hours.'' Another commenter indicated stronger language needed to be incorporated into the regulations to ensure that the State did not pass off its rapid response responsibilities to the substate grantees. After reviewing §631.30(b), the Department feels the language adequately addresses this concern. The regulatory provision remains unchanged. Allocation of Funds by the Governor In the Interim Final Regulations, a provision was added to §631.32(b)(2) to clarify that Governors must give consideration to each of the substate allocation formula factors required by section 302(d) of the Act unless the factor is not relevant to economic dislocation conditions of the State. A few commenters had questions regarding the formula for making substate allocations. One commenter indicated that §631.32(b)(3) should also allow a zero weight factor to be used where data are not adequate or not provided or funded by a Federal partner. Specifically, they mentioned that plant closing and mass layoff data are no longer funded and farmer-rancher economic hardship data have never been provided by the Department and the USDA. The Mass Layoff Statistics program was temporarily suspended by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The Department intends to resume the Mass Layoff Statistics Program early in 1995. During the interim period, however, States will have to develop their own data and proxies for mass layoffs. Similarly, States have been responsible for developing their own data and proxies for farmer-rancher economic hardship data. It is inconceivable that a State government would have no idea as to economic circumstances in its own State. If ``a review of the available data indicates that the factor is not relevant to determining the incidence of need for worker dislocation assistance within the State'', then a zero weight may be assigned (§631.32(b)(3)). However, current lack of data is not an adequate reason for invalidating a factor which is relevant to dislocation activity in the State. Another commenter wondered if the Governor had an obligation beyond the requirements of §627.463 (public access to records) to publicize the elements of the formula or describe the rationales for them. The Department requires each State Plan to include a description of the State's substate allocation formula methodology, including the data elements and allocation formula to be used. Moreover, pursuant to section 311(b)(9) of the Act, the Plan must be made available to the State job training coordinating council to review and comment on prior to its submittal to the Department. Therefore, through this process, both the State Council and the Department will have an opportunity to examine the within-State distribution formula. Substate Plan While no significant revisions were made to §631.50 of the regulations, one commenter stated that the interim final rule omits any requirement for SSG's to meet program goals, develop an oversight plan and build capacity and noted that comparable provisions for SDA's are at §628.420(b)(2), (3) and (c). As stated earlier, the proposed revisions to the regulations for part 631 were driven by changes to the legislative provisions contained in the Job Training Amendments of 1992 and the Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993. The Department has chosen not to regulate in areas unaffected by statutory change. Only those comments pertaining to the proposed regulatory revisions stemming from the legislative changes were considered for incorporation into the final rule. Therefore, §631.50 remains unchanged. Cost Limitations Section 631.62 of the interim final rule stipulated that the cost limitations under part A of title III will apply to projects operated under part B of title III, except when waived or altered by the application guidelines, or by the Grant Officer in the terms of the grant. In response to comments, the Department has modified this provision in the final rule. The Department still intends to use the title III&hyph;A cost limitations in cases where applicants for grants do not ask for a different allocation of costs among the cost categories, but the Department does not wish to discourage applicants from designing their programs in the manner that will best serve the affected population. The final rule is revised to make it clear that applicants for grants can propose costs and that the Grant Officer has the discretion to accept them. It is the Department's intent to provide grant applicants flexibility in designing the mix of services in their programs. However, the Department will agree to proposals with administrative cost in excess of 15% only in extraordinary circumstances. One commenter asked if this provision will apply to the Defense Conversion Adjustment (DCA) Program projects currently in operation or whether these projects will continue to operate under the regulations in effect at the time of award. Each discretionary project is subject to the grant agreement and modifications as approved by the Grant Officer. Modifications to an existing grant may be requested by the grantee and agreed to by the Grant Officer according to the provisions of this final rule. Finally, three commenters discussed the difficulty of applying the Act's section 315 cost limitations to Clean Air Employment Transition Assistance projects. As stated above, the cost limitations in the grant agreement control, however, modifications to existing grants may be requested. For future grants, applicants are free to apply for other cost limits that fit their programs. Reporting A provision was added at §631.63 of the interim final rule, setting forth the Federal reporting requirements for recipients of title III discretionary grants, consistent with section 322(a)(4) of the Act.
