FR940317-1-00074 FR940317-1-00013 (3) If an approval authority, inform the claimant that if he or she does not desire to accept the award, he or she should indicate in the reply the reasons for rejection. If a settlement authority, and the action is taken under subparts C or F, inform the claimant of the right to appeal. (See §536.63 and §536.103.) DA Pam 27&hyph;162 provides sample formats for letters notifying claimants of the actions taken on their claims. (Figure 5&hyph;10 is to be used by field approving and settlement authorities; figures 5&hyph;8 through 5&hyph;11 are to be used by claims authorities in conjunction with §536.37 of this part.) (d) Nonacceptance of reduced award. When a claimant rejects a partial award, the approval authority may reconsider the matter and, if justified, make further efforts to settle the claim. When further efforts to settle appear unwarranted, the claim and related file will be forwarded to the settlement authority having jurisdiction over the largest claim or potential claim arising out of the incident with a memorandum of opinion. The claimant should be advised of such referral. (e) Civil works claims. Engineer civil works claims settled under the provisions of the FTCA in an amount of $2,500 or less normally are paid out of funds controlled by the COE rather than claims appropriations. Unsettled claims in this category should, therefore, be forwarded to the Commander, USARCS. An information copy will be sent to the COE, ATTN: Chief Counsel, unless the latter waives that requirement. Civil works claims received outside engineer channels should be forwarded without further action to the district or division engineer in whose area the incident occurred, or to the COE, ATTN: Chief Counsel. (f) Settlement of property damage claims. All claims submitted for only property damage or for only personal injury should be evaluated for other potential claims. Under tort claims statutes, only one payment may be made to a claimant on all claims arising out of a single incident. Therefore, a property damage claim arising from an incident in which the claimant sustained injury should not be paid unless the claimant executes a release for any potential injury claim. Likewise, when a property damage claim is settled the claimant should be informed that subsequent claims for hidden damage or loss of use are precluded by the settlement. §536.31 Claims forwarded without settlement. (a) Claims beyond monetary jurisdiction. If the chief of a command claims service or the head of a claims office considers a claim meritorious in an amount exceeding their jurisdiction, they will forward the claim with a memorandum of opinion to the settlement authority having jurisdiction over the largest claim or potential claim arising out of the incident. The claimant should be informed of this referral. In most cases the claimant should not be informed of the amount of award recommended. However, for claims arising under the Foreign Claims Act notice of the amount recommended may be required in accordance with §536.156. (b) Claims recommended for disapproval. If a claim is forwarded to higher authority with a recommendation for denial, the claimant will be advised of this referral but not of the recommendation.
