FR940106-1-00115 FR940106-1-00013 In recent times, dams and diversions have increasingly prevented upstream access to large rivers, and the species is now restricted to a small portion of its former range (Moyle and Yoshiyama 1992). Splittail enter the lower reaches of the Feather (Jones and Stokes 1993) and American Rivers (Charles Hanson, State Water Contractors Association, in litt., 1993) on occasion; however, the species now largely is confined to the Delta, Suisun Bay, Suisun Marsh, and Napa Marsh. Splittail are relatively long-lived, frequently reaching 5 to 7 years of age. Females are highly fecund and produce over 100,000 eggs each year. Populations fluctuate annually depending on spawning success, which is highly correlated with freshwater outflow and the availability of shallow-water habitat with submerged vegetation (Daniels and Moyle 1983). Fish usually reach sexual maturity by the end of their second year. Some variability in the period of reproduction exists because older individuals reproduce first, followed by younger individuals (Caywood 1974). The onset of spawning is associated with rising temperature, and peak spawning occurs from the months of March through May, although records of spawning exist for late January to early July (Wang 1986). Spawning occurs over flooded vegetation in tidal freshwater and euryhaline habitats of estuarine marshes and sloughs and slow-moving reaches of large rivers. Larvae remain in shallow, weedy areas close to spawning sites and move into deeper water as they mature (Wang 1986). Splittail are benthic foragers that feed on opossum shrimp ( Neomysis mercedis ), although detrital material makes up a large percentage of their stomach content (Daniels and Moyle 1983). Earthworms, clams, insect larvae, and other invertebrates also are found in the diet. Predators include striped bass and other piscivores. Although primarily a freshwater species, the splittail can tolerate salinities as high as 10 to 18 parts per thousand (ppt) (Moyle 1976, Moyle and Yoshiyama 1992). In recent years, this fish has been found most often in slow-moving sections of rivers and sloughs and dead-end sloughs (Moyle et al. 1982, Daniels and Moyle 1983). Reports from the 1950s, however, mention Sacramento River spawning migrations and catches of splittail during fast tides in Suisun Bay (Caywood 1974). Because they require flooded vegetation for spawning and rearing, splittail are frequently found in areas subject to flooding, such as the major flood basins distributed throughout the Sacramento and San Joaquin Valleys. California Department of Fish and Game (CDFG) survey data from the last 15 years indicate that the highest catches occurred in shallow areas of Suisun and Grizzly Bays. The decline in splittail abundance has taken place during increased human-induced changes to seasonal estuary hydrology and freshwater exports and the accompanying changes in the temporal, spatial, and relative ratios of water diversions. These deleterious hydrological effects, coupled with severe drought years, introduced aquatic species, and loss of shallow-water habitat to reclamation, seem to have reduced the species' capacity to recover from natural seasonal fluctuations in hydrology for which it was adapted. Analyses of survey data collected since 1967 (Meng 1993) by Service, CDFG, and University of California, Davis, biologists from several different studies indicate the following: (1) On average, splittail have declined in abundance by 62 percent since 1984. Percent decline varied among studies, dependent upon location of sampling effort. The greatest declines (over 80 percent) were found from studies that sampled the shallow Suisun Bay area, the center of the species' range. A study that began in 1980 at the lower Estuary, the outermost edge of splittail range, found the lowest percent decline (34 percent). The number of splittail young taken at State and Federal pumping facilities (per acre-foot of water pumped) has declined 64 percent since 1984; (2) Successful reproduction in splittail is highly correlated with wet years, but within these wet years, young-of-the-year taken per unit effort has declined steadily from a high of 12.3 in 1978 to 0.3 in 1993; (3) A strong relationship exists between young-of-the-year abundance and outflow (i.e., river outflow into San Francisco Bay after water exports are removed). As outflow increases, annual abundance of splittail young increases. Changes in outflow explain 73 percent of the changes seen in splittail young abundance; (4) When young-of-the-year abundance is predicted using unimpaired outflow (i.e., river outflow without water exports removed), abundance is higher than expected in dry years, indicating that water exports affect young-of-the-year abundance in dry years. In dry years when river outflow is reduced, high proportions of outflow are diverted, resulting in lower than expected splittail young numbers; (5) Lower than expected numbers of splittail young persisted throughout the recent 6-year drought in California. This prolonged period of poor reproductive success may affect the stock's ability to recover; (6) Splittail are most abundant in shallow areas of Suisun and Grizzly Bays and are vulnerable to increased salinities. Salinities increase when, as a result of water exports and drought conditions, the entrapment zone (mixing zone at the freshwater-saltwater interface) is moved upstream. Concentration of splittail in shallow areas suggests that they are particularly vulnerable to reclamation activities, such as dredging and the diking and filling of wetlands; and (7) Splittail distribution has shifted upstream into the lower Sacramento River and South Delta since 1983. Ninety-one percent of the splittail captured in San Pablo and lower Suisun Bays from 1967 to 1993 were taken before 1983, and 77 percent of the splittail captured in the lower Sacramento River and South Delta were taken after 1983. Because State and Federal water project pumps are located near the lower Sacramento River and South Delta, this upstream shift in splittail distribution increases splittail mortality at the pumps. In 1993, the number of splittail young taken at the Federal pumping facility was four times higher than in previous years. A variety of factors affects the estuarine ecosystems and has led to the decline of Sacramento splittail. Principal among these factors specific to the Estuary are the altered hydraulics and reduced outflow of the Delta caused by export of freshwater from the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers through State and Federal water diversion projects. Additional threats to this species include: (1) Loss at pumping plants and in-Delta diversion sites, (2) Loss of spawning and nursery habitat as a consequence of draining and diking for agriculture,
