FR940414-0-00074 FR940414-0-00028 In ยง285.29, language was added to instruct bluefin dealers to mail required reporting forms at the dealer's expense. This is necessary because the U.S. Department of Commerce can no longer provide postage and fees for the delivery of Dealer Landing Report forms to the NMFS Gloucester office, because the post office no longer accepts the previously issued government postage-paid envelope. Also in ยง285.29, a clarification is made to define the biweekly reporting periods as the first day to the fourteenth day of each month and the fifteenth day to the last day of the month. At the request of NMFS enforcement staff, paragraph (a)(28) in ยง285.31 is amended to prohibit possession of school, large school, and small medium bluefin tuna taken by unauthorized gear. Also, a correction to the regulatory text at ยง285.31 is made to omit paragraph (c) relating to a prohibition on certain forms of at-sea processing of bluefin tuna. A prior rule change (see 58 FR 45286, August 27, 1993) affecting at-sea processing of tunas rendered this paragraph obsolete. Classification This interim final rule is published under the authority of the ATCA, 16 U.S.C. 971 et seq. The AA has determined that this rule is necessary to implement the recommendations of ICCAT and is necessary for management of the Atlantic tuna fisheries. The General Counsel of the Department of Commerce has certified to the Small Business Administration that this rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because the fishing category quotas proposed for 1994 will remain the same as current quotas. Also, the changes to the Incidental Catch category will alleviate some of the restrictions imposed on fishermen landing bluefin taken incidental to longlining for swordfish, sharks, and other tunas. These changes will facilitate enforcement of bluefin regulations, will have a modest positive economic impact for some longline fishing trips and will help prevent waste of bluefin tuna which would otherwise be discarded dead. Since the changes made to the proposed rule are not such as would significantly affect a substantial number of small entities, a regulatory flexibility analysis was not prepared. This interim final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866. This interim final rule involves a clarification of an existing collection-of-information requirement subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act that has been approved by OMB (control number 0648&hyph;0239). This change, in reference to the daily dealer report, clarifies the requirement to indicate the type of measurement recorded for bluefin tuna weights and lengths. Public reporting burden for this collection-of-information is estimated to average 3 minutes per response for completing the requirement and faxing to NMFS. The requirements for the bi-weekly dealer report are also restated. The reporting burden is estimated to average 33 minutes per response. Send any comments regarding these burden estimates or any other aspect of these requirements, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to NMFS and OMB (see ADDRESSES ). NMFS has determined that there is good cause to waive partially the 30-day delay in the effective date normally required by Section 553(d) of the Administrative Procedure Act because reducing Atlantic bluefin tuna mortality in the incidental longline southern area fishery is necessary for compliance with international obligations. Since this fishery is underway, early implementation of the new target species minimum catch will better ensure that bluefin tuna incidental mortality is minimized. Early implementation of the other measures is important because the bluefin fishery is underway and these measures are necessary for effective implementation of the ICCAT recommendations. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 285 Fisheries, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Treaties. Dated: April 8, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service.
