FR940707-2-00076 FR940707-2-00049 Response: The technical assistance component of the PNS program is a legislatively mandated activity targeted at supporting and improving the functions of the developmental disabilities program components (Councils, P&As, and UAPs). Contract awards for technical assistance to UAPs and P&As are in their last year of funding. A full and open competition for UAP and P&A technical assistance funds will be announced during the FY 1995 PNS funding cycle. Likewise, an announcement for a full and open competition for technical assistance funds for Councils has been made through the ACF procurement process. Technical assistance for information and referral systems will not be announced this fiscal year, but considered for future PNS funding announcements. Comment: ADD received two comments on funding projects through demonstrations as well as procurements that would ensure the integration and active participation of racial and ethnic groups into the ``mainstream'' of theservice delivery system. Both letters recommended that we offer an additional solicitation for a data collection and analysis project to establish a national multicultural database. Response: The FY 1994 PNS program budget is limited in providing funds for additional grants and contracts. Therefore, these recommendations will not be considered this fiscal year, but considered for future PNS announcements. Comment: ADD received fifteen general comments, the majority of which were supportive of what we proposed for our FY 1994 funding priorities. Several comments were received that commended us for the way in which we approached this year's priorities, but wanted to see changes in the focus of the priority areas. Response: We appreciate the input and commendations given for this year's priority areas. We believe the final priority areas reflect the input received from the public comment process and a sensitivity to the concerns expressed in each of the letters received. Part III. The Review Process A. Eligible Applicants Before applications are reviewed, each will be screened to determine that the applicant is eligible for funding, as specified under the selected priority area. Applications from organizations which do not meet the eligibility requirements for the priority area will not be considered or reviewed in the competition, and the applicant will be so informed. Only public or non-profit private entities, not individuals, are eligible to apply under any of the priority areas. On all applications developed jointly by more than one agency or organization, the applications must identify only one organization as the lead organization and official applicant. The other participating agencies and organizations can be included as co-participants, subgrantees or subcontractors. Any non-profit organization submitting an application must submit proof of its non-profit status in its application at the time of submission. One means of accomplishing this is by the non-profit agency providing a copy of the applicant's listing in the Internal Revenue Service's most recent list of tax-exempt organizations described in section 501(c)(3) of the IRS code or by providing a copy of the currently valid IRS tax exemption certificate. ADD cannot fund a non-profit applicant without acceptable proof of its non-profit status. B. Review Process and Funding Decisions Applications from eligible applicants that meet the deadline date requirements under Part V, Section C will be reviewed and scored competitively. Experts in the field, generally persons from outside of the Federal government, will use the appropriate evaluation criteria listed later in this part to review and score the applications. The results of this review are a primary factor in making funding decisions.
