FR940110-0-00002 FR940110-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Part 58 [DA&hyph;92&hyph;18] Grading and Inspection, General Specifications for Approved Plants and Standards for Grades of Dairy Products; United States Standards for Grades of Whipped Butter AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule promulgates new United States Standards for Grades of Whipped Butter. These standards establish quality criteria for grade determination and optional microbiological and keeping-quality tests for whipped butter. The Department has determined that the grading of butter sold in consumer-size packages bearing USDA official identification (grade-label) should be conducted when the product is in the final package. Previously, the quality of whipped butter was evaluated prior to the whipping process using the U.S. Standards for Grades of Butter. The U.S. Standards for Grades of Whipped Butter change this procedure. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 9, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Diane D. Lewis, Dairy Products Marketing Specialist, Dairy Standardization Branch, USDA/AMS/Dairy Division, room 2750&hyph;S, P.O. Box 96456, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456, (202) 720&hyph;7473. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This action is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule does not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. There are no administrative procedures which must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule. The final rule also has been reviewed in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. The Administrator, Agricultural Marketing Service, has determined that the final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because use of the standards is voluntary and this action will not increase costs to those utilizing the standards. The Department is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. In 1991, the Department evaluated the procedures used to assign U.S. grades to butter in consumer-size packages. The Department concluded that grading of the product should be conducted in the final package because the evaluation of whipped butter at that time is more accurate. Previously, the procedure for evaluating grade-label whipped butter was to either grade the butter in the bulk form prior to whipping or obtain a sample of fresh butter taken during the manufacturing process and evaluate it. These methods are changed by this action because of the Department's decision to conduct grading in the final package. The new standards have received general support from many of the manufacturers of whipped butter who utilize the USDA grade-label program, as well as from the American Butter Institute. In addition, the standards were field-tested by the Dairy Grading Branch and found to be satisfactory. In view of the need for new standards, the Department published on June 30, 1993 (58 FR 34937) proposed United States Standards for Whipped Butter. Except for minor format changes, the standards contained in this final rule are the same as those set forth in the proposal. The new standards establish the following. 1. Provide Quality Specifications for Whipped Butter at Two U.S. Grade Levels: U.S. Grade AA and U.S. Grade A Whipped butter is produced by uniformly incorporating air or inert gas into butter to improve its spreadability characteristics. The percent overrun, based on buyer or consumer preference, is usually between 50 and 100 percent. Market analysis conducted during the development of these standards supports the opinion that consumers prefer the higher quality products. Therefore, standards are established for quality designations at two levels: U.S. Grade AA and U.S. Grade A.
