FR940722-2-00068 FR940722-2-00045 Each State was also required to submit an application containing such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determined to be necessary to carry out this program, including an assurance that: •The public health agency that is administering the grant for the State will conduct public hearings concerning the proposed use and distribution of the Title II grant assistance; •The State will, to the maximum extent practicable, ensure that HIV-related health care and support services delivered with Title II assistance will be provided without regard to the ability of the individual to pay for such services and without regard to the current or past health condition of the individual; ensure that such services will be provided in a setting that is accessible to low-income individuals with HIV disease, and provide outreach to inform such individuals of the services available; and, in the case of a State that intends to use grant funds for the continuation of health insurance coverage, ensure that the State has established a program that assures that such amounts will be targeted to individuals who would not otherwise be able to afford health insurance coverage, that income, assets, and medical expense criteria will be established and applied by the State to identify those individuals who qualify for assistance, and that information concerning such criteria will be made available to the public; •The State will provide for periodic independent peer review to assess the quality and appropriateness of health and support services provided by entities that receive Title II funds from the State; •The State will permit and cooperate with any Federal investigations undertaken regarding programs conducted under Title II; •The State will maintain HIV-related activities at a level that is equal to not less than the level of such expenditures by the State for the 1-year period preceding the fiscal year for which the State applied to receive a grant under Title II; and •The State will ensure that grant funds are not utilized to make payments for any item or service to the extent that payment has been made, or can reasonably be expected to be made, with respect to that item or service (1) under any State compensation program, under an insurance policy, or under any Federal or State health benefits program, or (2) by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis. General Use of Grant Funds States may use the HIV Care Grant funds to: •Establish and operate HIV care consortia within areas most affected by HIV. The statute defines a consortium as an association of one or more public, and one or more nonprofit private health care and support service providers and community-based organizations operating within areas determined by the State to be most affected by HIV disease. •Provide home- and community-based care services for individuals with HIV disease. Funding priorities must be given to entities that provide assurances to the State that they will participate in HIV care consortia if such consortia exist within the State, and will utilize the funds for the provision of home- and community-based services to low-income individuals with HIV disease. •Provide assistance to assure the continuity of health insurance coverage for low-income (as defined by the State) individuals with HIV disease. The State must establish a program that assures that (1) funds will be targeted to individuals who would not otherwise be able to afford health insurance coverage, and (2) income, asset, and medical expense criteria will be established and applied by the State to identify those individuals who qualify for assistance, and information concerning such criteria shall be made available to the public. •Provide treatments that have been determined to prolong life or prevent serious deterioration of health for low-income individuals with HIV disease. A State must use at least 15 percent of its grant funds to provide health and support services to infants, children, women and families with HIV disease. At least 75 percent of the fiscal year 1994 Title II grant awarded to a State must be obligated to specific programs and projects and made available for expenditure within 120 days of the receipt of the grant by the State. Federal Smoke-Free Compliance The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Executive Order 12372 It has been determined that the Title II HIV Care Grant Program is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372 concerning inter-governmental review of Federal programs. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number is 93.917. Dated: July 18, 1994. Ciro V. Sumaya, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17840 Filed 7&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;P
