FR940922-2-00007 FR940922-2-00005 B. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, participation, either in the United States or abroad, shall include participation, directly or indirectly, in any manner or capacity: (i) As a party or as a representative of a party to any export license application submitted to the Department; (ii) In preparing or filing with the Department any export license application or request for reexport authorization, or any document to be submitted therewith; (iii) In obtaining from the Department or using any validated or general export license, reexport authorization, or other export control document; (iv) In carrying on negotiations with respect to, or in receiving, ordering, buying, selling, delivering, storing, using, or disposing of, in whole or in part, any commodities or technical data exported or to be exported from the United States and subject to the Regulations; and (v) In financing, forwarding, transporting, or other servicing of such commodities or technical data. C. After notice and opportunity for comment as provided in ยง788.3(c) of the Regulations, any person, firm, corporation, or business organization related to Giangrandi by affiliation, ownership, control, or position of responsibility in the conduct of trade or related services may also be made subject to the provisions of this Order. D. As provided by ยง787.12(a) of the Regulations, without prior disclosure of the facts to and specific authorization of the Office of Export Licensing, in consultation with the Office of Export Enforcement, no person may directly or indirectly, in any manner or capacity: (i) Apply for, obtain, or use any license, Shipper's Export Declaration, bill of lading, or other export control document relating to an export or reexport of commodities or technical data by, to, or for another person then subject to an order revoking or denying his export privileges or then excluded from practice before the Bureau of Export Administration; or (ii) Order, buy, receive, use, sell, deliver, store, dispose of, forward, transport, finance, or otherwise service of participate: (a) In any transaction which may involve any commodity or technical data exported or to be exported from the United States; (b) In any reexport thereof; or (c) In any other transaction which is subject to the Export Administration Regulations, if the person denied export privileges may obtain any benefit or have any interest in, directly or indirectly, any of these transactions. E. As authorized by ยง788.16(c) of the Regulations, the last five years of the denial period set forth above is hereby suspended for a period of five years beginning five years from the date of entry of this Order, and shall thereafter be waived, provided that Giangrandi has met any obligation he has with the U.S. Government and that, during the period of suspension, he has committed no violation of the Act or any regulation, order, or license issued under the Act. Second, that the proposed Charging Letter, the Consent Agreement and this Order shall be made available to the public. This Order is effective immediately. Entered this 15th day of September 1994. John Despres, Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23471 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DT&hyph;M
