FR940425-2-00013 FR940425-2-00012 Citrus Associates of the New York Cotton Exchange: Proposed Amendments Relating to the Locational Price Differentials for the Frozen Concentrated Orange Juice Futures Contract AGENCY: Commodity Futures Trading Commission. ACTION: Notice of proposed contract market rule change. SUMMARY: The Citrus Associates of the New York Cotton Exchange (CANYCE) has submitted proposed amendments to its frozen concentrated orange juice (FCOJ) futures contract. The proposed amendments will reduce the contract's existing discount for futures delivery at the California delivery points and eliminate the discount applicable to futures delivery at the contract's Northeastern U.S. delivery points. In accordance with section 5a(a)(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act and acting pursuant to the authority delegated by Commission Regulation 140.96, the Acting Director of the Division of Economic Analysis (Division) of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Commission) has determined, on behalf of the Commission, that the proposed amendments are of major economic significance. On behalf of the Commission, the Division is requesting comment on this proposal. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons should submit their views and comments to Jean A. Webb, Secretary, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20581. Reference should be made to the proposed changes in locational price differentials for the CANYCE frozen concentrated orange juice futures contract. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Frederick V. Linse, Division of Economic Analysis, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20581, telephone (202) 254&hyph;7303. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FCOJ futures contract currently calls for the delivery of frozen concentrated orange juice for manufacturing meeting the standards for U.S. Grade A, with a Brix value of not less than 62.5 degrees. 1 The contract unit currently is 15,000 pounds of orange solids. The contract's existing terms also specify that delivery of FCOJ may be made either by the transfer of a warehouse receipt representing FCOJ stored in 55-gallon steel drums in an CANYCE-licensed warehouse, or by the transfer of a shipping certificate representing FCOJ stored in an CANYCE-licensed tank storage facility. 1 Brix is a measure of the sugar content of oranges expressed as a percentage of the weight of orange solids. The futures contract's existing terms provide that delivery may be made at par at any CANYCE-approved delivery facility located in specified counties of the state of Florida. In addition, the contract currently provides that delivery may be made at CANYCE-approved delivery facilities located in Wilmington, Delaware; Port Elizabeth, New Jersey; and Newark, New Jersey at a discount of three cents per pound of orange solids, and in specified counties in the state of California at a discount of thirteen cents per pound of orange solids. 2 2 The futures contract currently specifies that delivery may be made at CANYCE-licensed delivery facilities located in the following California counties: Fresno, Kern, Los Angeles, Monterey, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, Santa Barbara, Santa Cruz, Tulare and Ventura. The proposed amendments will modify the locational price differentials for delivery at the above-noted nonpar delivery locations. Under the proposed amendments, the existing discount of three cents per pound for delivery at Wilmington, Delaware; Port Elizabeth, New Jersey; and Newark, New Jersey will be eliminated, with FCOJ at these locations henceforth being deliverable at par. The proposed amendments also will reduce to 10 cents from 13 cents per pound the discount for delivery in the specified counties of the state of California. The CANYCE intends to apply the proposed amendments to all currently listed futures contract months beginning with the May 1995 contract month and to all newly listed contract months following its receipt of notice of Commission approval. In this respect, the CANYCE, prior to listing the May 1995 and July 1995 contract months on April 18, 1994, issued a notice to all members and member firms of the CANYCE advising these entities that the proposed amendments will be applicable to the May and July 1995 contract months and to all subsequently listed contract months, subject to Commission approval of the proposed amendments. In support of the proposed amendments, the CANYCE stated that ``[t]he reasons for making the changes in the locational [price differentials] are: (1) The normal differential of basis trades for the northeast ranges from ^5 to +10 putting a differential of zero within the normal range; and (2) The cash market differential between California and Florida ranges from ^33 to +16.5 putting a differential of ^10 within the normal range.'' The Commission is requesting comments specifically with respect to the extent to which the proposed locational price differentials fall within the range of commonly observed commercial price differences between the contract's delivery points for FCOJ for manufacturing of the same quality. Copies of the proposed amendments will be available for inspection at the Office of the Secretariat, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, at the above address. Copies of the amended terms and conditions can be obtained through the Office of the Secretariat by mail at the same address or by telephone at (202) 254&hyph;6314. The materials submitted by the CANYCE in support of the proposed amendments may be available upon request pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and the Commission's regulations thereunder (17 CFR part 145 (1987)). Requests for copies of such materials should be made to the FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Act Compliance Staff of the Office of the Secretariat at the above address in accordance with CFR 145.7 and 145.8. Any person interested in submitting written data, views, or arguments on the proposed amendments should send such comments to Jean A. Webb, Secretary, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, at the above address by the specified date. Issued in Washington, DC on April 19, 1994. Blake Imel, Acting Director, Division of Economic Analysis. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9879 Filed 4&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6351&hyph;01&hyph;P
