FR940105-2-00036 FR940105-2-00017 c. All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and d. All claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 4. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of this proceeding. 5. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondents that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft of complaint, or that the facts alleged in the draft complaint other than the jurisdictional facts, are true. 6. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondents, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondents' address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order. 7. Proposed respondents have read the proposed complaint and order contemplated hereby. They understand that once the order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that they have fully complied with the order. Proposed respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final. Order For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply: ``Work Opportunity'' means any offer to a person to earn income by producing goods or providing services, where (1) the offeree must pay to the offeror, or a person identified by the offeror, any amount of money, whether in the form of a registration, application or other fee, a payment for initial inventory or supplies, or in any other form, as a condition of participating; and (2) the offeror represents that the offeree will or could be compensated in any manner by the offeror or by a person identified by the offeror. ``Participant'' means any person who pays the offeror of a work opportunity, or a person identified by such offeror, any amount of money, whether in the form of a registration, application or other fee, a payment for initial inventory or supplies, or in any other form, as a condition of participating in a work opportunity. ``Net Earnings or Profits'' means the compensation paid to a participant in a work opportunity, less the costs to a participant of materials, supplies and shipping. I It is Ordered That respondents Russell J. Osborn, individually, trading and doing business as The Hairbow Company, and as an officer of Rainbow Productions, Inc., and Rainbow Productions, Inc., a corporation, its successors and assigns, and respondents' agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division or other device, in connection with the marketing, advertising promotion, offering, or sale of any work opportunity, in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from: A. Making any material misrepresentation, including but not limited to: 1. Misrepresenting the past, present or potential future earnings or profits of participants in any work opportunity; or 2. Misrepresenting the marketplace demand for any product or service for which respondents are offering a work opportunity.
