FR940826-0-00054 FR940826-0-00014 (iv) The Federal awarding agency shall require recipients to submit the SF&hyph;269 or SF&hyph;269A (an original and no more than two copies) no later than 30 days after the end of each specified reporting period for quarterly and semi-annual reports, and 90 calendar days for annual and final reports. Extensions of reporting due dates may be approved by the Federal awarding agency upon request by the recipient. (2) SF&hyph;272, Report of Federal Cash Transactions. (i) When funds are advanced to recipients, the Federal awarding agency shall require each recipient to submit the SF&hyph;272 and, when necessary, its continuation sheet, SF&hyph;272a. The Federal awarding agency shall use this report to monitor cash advanced to recipients and to obtain disbursement information for each agreement with the recipients. (ii) Federal awarding agencies may require forecasts of Federal cash requirements in the ``Remarks'' section of the report. (iii) When practical and deemed necessary, Federal awarding agencies may require recipients to report in the ``Remarks'' section the amount of cash advances received in excess of three days. Recipients shall provide short narrative explanations of actions taken to reduce the excess balances. (iv) Recipients shall be required to submit not more than the original and two copies of the SF&hyph;272 15 calendar days following the end of each quarter. The Federal awarding agencies may require a monthly report from those recipients receiving advances totaling $1 million or more per year. (v) Federal awarding agencies may waive the requirement for submission of the SF&hyph;272 for any one of the following reasons: (A) When monthly advances do not exceed $25,000 per recipient, provided that the advances are monitored through other forms contained in this section; (B) If, in the Federal awarding agency's opinion, the recipient's accounting controls are adequate to minimize excessive Federal advances; or (C) When the electronic payment mechanisms provide adequate data. (b) When the Federal awarding agency needs additional information or more frequent reports, the following shall be observed. (1) When additional information is needed to comply with legislative requirements, Federal awarding agencies shall issue instructions to require recipients to submit such information under the ``Remarks'' section of the reports. (2) When a Federal awarding agency determines that a recipient's accounting system does not meet the standards in Section 12.921, additional pertinent information to further monitor awards may be upon written notice to the recipient until such time as the system is brought up to standard. The Federal awarding agency, in obtaining this information, shall comply with report clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320. (3) Federal awarding agencies are encouraged to shade out any line item or any report if not necessary. (4) Federal awarding agencies may accept the identical information from the recipients in machine readable format or computer printouts or electronic outputs in lieu of prescribed formats. (5) Federal awarding agencies may provide computer or electronic outputs to recipients when such expedites or contributes to the accuracy of reporting. ยง12.953 Retention and access requirements for records. (a) This section sets forth requirements for record retention and access to records for awards to recipients. Federal awarding agencies shall not impose any other record retention or access requirements upon recipients. (b) Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to an award shall be retained for a period of three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure report or, for awards that are renewed quarterly or annually, from the date of the submission of the quarterly or annual financial report. The only exceptions are the following: (1) If any litigation, claim, or audit is started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been resolved and final action taken.
