FR941110-0-00186 FR941110-0-00016 Response: The opportunity to waive the right to a hearing and consequently receive a 35 percent reduction in the amount of the civil money penalty does not permit the facility to deny the existence of deficiencies for any purpose, nor will waiver of the right to a hearing remove the deficiencies from the facility's record. When a facility waives its right to a hearing, it is in effect not contesting the deficiency. Comment: One commenter suggested replacing may with must as alternative language indicating that, ``HCFA or the State must reduce the civil money penalty.'' A few commenters stated that the language used in the preamble regarding proposed ยง488.230(e) renders the reduction in the penalty mandatory, and the language used in the regulation text is permissive. Response: We erred in the proposed text. We accept the suggestion and intended to require that, when a facility requests a waiver of a hearing in writing, within the 60 day timeframe, HCFA or the State reduces the civil money penalty amount by 35 percent, and we are revising the final rule accordingly. We are also adding a paragraph to specify that, if the facility does not waive its right to a hearing, in writing, within 60 days from the date of the notice of intent to impose the penalty, the civil money penalty is not reduced. We believe the specified timeframe gives the provider ample opportunity to decide whether or not to exercise its option to waive a hearing. Comment: One commenter stated that allowing a reduction in the amount of the civil money penalty will necessitate that States develop and implement complicated and costly accounting systems for recordkeeping and reporting purposes. Another commenter suggested that the collection of civil money penalties will be very confusing and they would rather have lower penalty amounts than the opportunity for a 35 percent reduction. Response: Less litigation as a result of the waiver of hearing provision more than compensates for the recordkeeping and reporting necessary to implement the 35 percent reductions in civil money penalties. We are striving not only to reduce litigation costs but also to reduce the considerable investment of time necessary to prepare for and participate in a hearing. Imposing lower fine amounts instead of allowing the 35 percent reduction for a waiver is not in keeping with the reasons, as stated above, for having this provision. Comment: A few commenters requested that the reduction of the civil money penalty amount when a facility waives its right to a hearing be 50 percent. Another suggestion was permitting a reduction of up to 35 percent. One commenter recommended the percent reduction be 10 percent and only available upon prompt payment. Response: We believe that 35 percent is reasonable and appropriate, based on our review of an existing State model, and it approximates the savings we believe are possible by not litigating these cases. Comment: One commenter suggested that the waiver of appeal rights submitted be written and that 50 percent of the civil money penalty be paid within 15 days from the date of notification. Response: We accept the suggestion that the waiver be in writing and have made this revision in the final rule. We do not accept the suggestion that 50 percent of the penalty be paid within 15 days from the date of the receipt of a request to waive appeal rights. If a facility waives its right to request a hearing in accordance with the provisions specified in ยง488.436, and subsequently receives a 35 percent reduction in the amount of the penalty owed, we do not believe it is necessary to also offer the facility the opportunity to pay only 50 percent of the civil money penalty at that time. To accept partial payments of a civil money penalty creates an unnecessary recordkeeping system and detracts from the financial incentive to motivate compliance which civil money penalties were intended to create. Also, we specified in the regulation that the entire penalty is payable on the due date, and that date would be 15 days after receipt of the waiver request if the facility has achieved substantial compliance with the requirements or the facility has been terminated. However, if the facility has not achieved substantial compliance or been terminated when the waiver request is received, the civil money penalty would continue to accrue until the facility achieves substantial compliance or is terminated. The due dates for civil money penalties are specified in ยง488.442.
