FR940513-2-00119 FR940513-2-00050 Notice of Intent (Notice) To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for Proposed U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Habitat Protection Activities in Selected Areas Within the Western Portions of Washington, Oregon, and Northern California AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: This Notice advises the public the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) intends to gather information necessary for the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS); ``U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Habitat Protection in Selected Areas of the Middle-Upper Pacific Coast.'' This Notice is being furnished pursuant to Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for Implementing National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Regulations (40 CFR 1508.022). WRITTEN COMMENTS INFORMATION: Interested agencies, organizations, and individuals are encouraged to provide written comments to the Service during the scoping period. Written comments should be received within 45 days after publication of this Notice. Address comments to the EIS Team Leader as shown below. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paul Benvenuti, EIS Team Leader, Planning Branch, Division of Realty, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 911 Northeast 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232&hyph;4181, (503) 231&hyph;2231. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The purpose of the proposed action is to identify and implement a strategy for Service habitat protection activities in support of the Pacific Coast Joint Venture (Joint Venture) though the year 2010. The Joint Venture is a nonfederal coalition of private groups and government agencies that strives to coordinate efforts to protect and maintain important wetlands and related habitats on the Pacific Coast of North America, from northern California to northern British Columbia. Its efforts are directed toward supporting the waterfowl management goals of the North American Plan, maintenance of biological diversity, protection of endangered and otherwise sensitive wildlife, and maintenance and enhancement of anadromous fish and other native fish and shellfish populations. The Service proposes to support the goals of the Joint Venture by ensuring increased habitat protection at selected target areas identified in the Pacific Coast Joint Venture Strategic Plan (Strategic Plan). Such protection could take the form of easements, leases, cooperative agreements, or fee title purchases from willing sellers. Loss and degradation of estuarine and freshwater and wetland habitats have contributed significantly to decline in populations of many of the region's wildlife species. In some areas, development has eliminated thousands of hectares of tidal wetlands. This EIS will explore a range of alternative methods for protecting wildlife habitat within the Joint Venture. Some of the possible alternatives could emphasize cooperative efforts in which most lands remain in private ownership, other alternatives may recommend fee title land acquisition from willing sellers and the establishment of new units of the National Wildlife Refuge System. The alternatives examined in the EIS will be limited to the habitat protection activities of the Service. The activities of other Joint Venture partners will not be considered, since they are not Federal actions or contain Federal actions (such as grants or permits) that cannot be controlled or adequately foreseen by the Service. The actions under consideration are limited to those areas identified in the Strategic Plan and do not consider possible actions beyond the year 2010. This EIS will focus on the methods of habitat protection. The scope and timing of possible future site specific operational planning efforts cannot be predicted at this time since it depends on which protection methods are used, the willingness of landowners to participate, and the availability of funding. Significant issues identified for review include: natural resource impacts, recreation and public use impacts, agricultural industry impacts, forest industry impacts, fishing industry impacts, and other socioeconomic impacts. The Service urges all interested parties to provide comments regarding this proposed scope for the EIS, the alternatives to be developed, and the potential significant environmental impacts which may occur from the implementation of alternative actions. The environmental review of this project will be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C., et seq.), Council for Environmental Quality Regulations for Implementing NEPA (40 CFR part 1500, et seq.), and other appropriate Federal regulations and Service policies for compliance with those regulations. Dated: May 6, 1994. Don Weathers, Acting Regional Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11634 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
