FR940104-2-00061 FR940104-2-00040 The applications substantially comply with the applicable regulations. 2 The application and exhibits are available for inspection in the Public Docket Room at the offices of the Interstate Commerce Commission in Washington, DC. In addition, they may be obtained upon request from applicant's representatives. 2 Although SP's application includes pro forma financial information for the first year of consummation of the transaction, it has failed to submit pro forma statements covering subsequent reporting period requirements under the Commission's consolidation procedures, 49 CFR 1180.9. Given the nature of the conditions that SP is requesting, the financial information omitted would appear to be of very limited relevance, at best, and unnecessary to a decision. Moreover, our regulations will change as of December 30, 1993, and the application would qualify as complete if it had been filed after that date. See R.R. Consolidation Proced. of Significant Transactions, 9 I.C.C.2d 1198 (1993). Consequently, we will waive the requirement on our own motion. These applications are consolidated for disposition with the primary application in Finance Docket No. 32133. Service of an initial decision will be waived, and determination of the merits of the applications will be made in the first instance by the entire Commission. 49 U.S.C. 11345(f). Interested persons may participate formally by submitting written comments regarding all or any of the responsive applications. Comments should indicate the exact proceeding designation, and should be filed with the correct number of copies and with the Commission offices specified above no later than February 28, 1994. Comments shall include the following: The person's position in support of or in opposition to the proposed transaction; any and all evidence, including verified statements, in support of or in opposition to the proposed transaction; and specific reasons why approval would or would not be in the public interest. See 49 CFR 1180.4(d)(1). Interested persons who do not intend to participate formally in the proceeding but who desire to comment may file statements, subject to the filing and service requirements specified below. Persons must state specifically whether they intend actively to participate in the proceeding or whether they wish only to be advised of all decisions issued by the Commission. Failure to state an intention to participate as an active party will result in the person being placed in the latter category. Written comments must be concurrently served by first class mail on the Secretary of the Department of Transportation, on the Attorney General of the United States, and on all other persons designated as active parties of record on the Commission's service list, including primary applicants' representatives. Rebuttal in support of these responsive applications must be filed by March 19, 1994. Because these applications contain proposed conditions to approval of the application in Finance Docket No. 32133, the Commission will entertain no requests for affirmative relief related to these proposals. Parties may only participate in direct support of or direct opposition to these applications as filed. This action will not significantly affect either the quality of the human environment or energy conservation. It is ordered: 1. To the extent that applicants failed to submit certain financial evidence in the application filed in Finance Docket No. 32133 (Sub-No. 2) as required by 49 CFR 1180.9, the requirements of that section are waived. 2. The applications in Finance Docket No. 32133 (Sub-Nos. 1, 2, and 3) are accepted for consideration. 3. The parties shall comply with all provisions as stated above. Decided: December 21, 1993. By the Commission, Chairman McDonald, Vice Chairman Simmons, Commissioners Phillips and Philbin. Sidney L. Strickland, Jr., Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;88 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
