FR940328-1-00055 FR940328-1-00023 Bannerman's turaco ( Tauraco bannermani )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a frugivorous parrot of the family Musophagidae, characterized by a generally greenish color and a conspicuous crest; known only from the Bamenda-Banso Highlands in western Cameroon. The montane forest habitat of this species is being rapidly cleared as a result of cultivation, overgrazing by domestic livestock, wood-cutting, and fires (A). Seychelles turtle dove ( Streptopelia picturata rostrata )._1980 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a member of the family Columbidae, somewhat smaller than the domestic pigeon ( Columba domestica ) and generally dark grayish purple in color (Goodwin 1977); formerly found throughout Seychelles, an island nation off eastern Africa. This subspecies declined through hybridization with the related and more adaptable S. p. picturata, which was introduced from Madagascar in the mid-19th century (E). S. p. rostrata had become very rare by 1965 and pure individuals may have nearly vanished by 1975 (King 1981). However, according to Dr. Mike Rands, who operates the ICBP Seychelles program, and Ms. Alison Stattersfield (letter of November 11, 1993), also of the ICBP and who recently visited Seychelles, the subspecies rostrata does survive and is morphologically distinctive, at least on Cousin Island, though some hybridization probably has occurred. Therefore, even if genetically pure populations of this turtle dove no longer exist_which itself is not yet known with certainty_there are groups that could potentially be salvageable for captive breeding experiments and eventual efforts at restoration of a wild population with the predominant original morphological, behavioral, and ecological characters of the subspecies. Pollen's vanga ( Xenopirostris polleni )._1980 petition, ICBP rare, proposed U.S. threatened; a predatory bird of the endemic Malagasy family Vangidae, somewhat similar to the shrikes; occurs in the rainforests of eastern Madagascar. Although still widely distributed, this species has declined and become rare as its forest habitat has been destroyed and modified by people (A). Van Dam's vanga ( Xenopirostris damii )._1980 petition, ICBP rare, proposed U.S. threatened; another member of the Vangidae; occurs in northwestern Madagascar. Because of deforestation this species appears to have become restricted to a single area of primary deciduous forest at Ankarafantsika (A). However, that area is currently protected and the bird reportedly is present there in fairly good numbers. Aldabra warbler ( Nesillas aldabranus )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a small song bird of the family Muscicapidae; restricted to a small part of Aldabra, one of the islands of Seychelles, a nation off the east coast of Africa. The ICBP refers to this warbler as the ``rarest, most restricted and most highly threatened species of bird in the world.'' Discovered only in 1967, it seems to have been confined to an area of approximately 25 acres (10 hectares) of coastal vegetation on Aldabra. This habitat is being destroyed by introduced goats and rats (A), and the latter also prey on nests (C). Banded wattle-eye ( Platysteira laticincta )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a small flycatcher of the family Muscicapidae, characterized by pale plumage and a wattle of bare red skin above the eye; known only from the Bamenda Highlands in western Cameroon. Although this species is considered reasonably common in the remnant montane forests on which it depends, such habitat is being rapidly cleared and fragmented as a result of cultivation, overgrazing by domestic livestock, wood-cutting, and fires (A). Clarke's weaver ( Ploceus golandi )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a member of the family Ploceidae; known only from a small forested area between Kilifi Creek and the Sabaki River on the southeastern coast of Kenya. Numbers have been estimated at 1,000 to 2,000 pairs, but are declining because of excessive logging (A). At present rates of destruction, all favorable habitat could be eliminated within about 15 years. Even though a portion of the habitat is legally protected, enforcement has not been effective (D). The decision to propose the addition of the above 30 kinds of African birds to the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife was based on an assessment of the best available scientific information, and of past, present, and probable future threats to these birds. All have suffered substantial losses in habitat and/or numbers in recent years and are vulnerable to human exploitation and disturbance. If conservation measures are not implemented, further declines are likely to occur, increasing the danger of extinction for these birds. Critical habitat is not being determined, as such designation is not applicable to foreign species. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened pursuant to the Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain practices. Recognition through listing encourages conservation measures by Federal, international, and private agencies, groups, and individuals.
