FR940303-1-00021 FR940303-1-00003 (a) Attorney for the government means the Attorney General; the Deputy Attorney General; the Associate Attorney General; the Solicitor General; the Assistant Attorneys General for, and any attorney employed in, the Antitrust Division, Civil Division, Civil Rights Division, Criminal Division, Environment and Natural Resources Division, or Tax Division; any United States Attorney; any Assistant United States Attorney; any Special Assistant to the Attorney General or Special Attorney duly appointed pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 515; any Special Assistant United States Attorney duly appointed pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 543 who is authorized to conduct criminal or civil law enforcement investigations or proceedings on behalf of the United States; or any other attorney employed by the Department of Justice who is authorized to conduct criminal or civil law enforcement proceedings on behalf of the United States. The term attorney for the government does not include any attorney employed by the Department of Justice as an investigator or other law enforcement agent who is not authorized to represent the United States in criminal or civil law enforcement litigation or to supervise such proceedings. (b) Person means any individual or organization. (c) Organization means any corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, union, trust, pension fund, unincorporated association, state or local government or political subdivision thereof, or non-profit organization. (d) Employee means any employee, officer, director, partner, member, or trustee. (e) Cooperating witness or individual means any person, other than a law enforcement agent, who is acting to assist the government in an undercover or confidential capacity. (f) Undercover investigation means any investigation undertaken in good faith to fulfill law enforcement objectives, in which a person communicates with a federal, state or local law enforcement agent or a cooperating witness or individual whose identity as an official of the government or a person acting at the behest thereof is concealed or is intended to be concealed. (g)(1) Civil law enforcement proceeding means a civil action or proceeding before any court or other tribunal brought by the Department of Justice under the police or regulatory powers of the United States to enforce federal laws, including, but not limited to, civil actions or proceedings brought to enforce the laws relating to: (i) Antitrust; (ii) Banking and financial institution regulation; (iii) Bribery, kickbacks, and corruption; (iv) Civil rights; (v) Consumer protection; (vi) Environment and natural resource protection; (vii) False claims against the United States; (viii) Food, drugs, and cosmetics regulation; (ix) Forfeiture of property; (x) Fraud; (xi) Internal revenue; (xii) Occupational safety and health; (xiii) Racketeering; or (xiv) Money-laundering. (2) The term civil law enforcement proceeding shall not include proceedings related to the enforcement of an administrative subpoena or summons or a civil investigative demand. An action or proceeding shall be considered ``brought by the United States'' only if it involves a claim asserted by the Department of Justice on behalf of the United States, whether the claim is asserted by complaint, counterclaim, cross-claim, or otherwise. (h) Civil law enforcement investigation means an investigation of possible civil violations of, or claims under, federal law that may form the basis for a civil law enforcement proceeding. ยง77.3 Represented party; represented person. (a) A person shall be considered a ``represented party'' within the meaning of this part only if all three of the following circumstances exist: (1) The person has retained counsel or accepted counsel by appointment or otherwise; (2) The representation is ongoing and concerns the subject matter in question; (3) The person has been arrested or charged in a federal criminal case or is a defendant in a civil law enforcement proceeding concerning the subject matter of the representation. (b) A person shall be considered a ``represented person'' within the meaning of this part if circumstances set forth in paragraphs a (1) and (2) of this section exist, but the circumstance set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section does not exist. ยง77.4 Constitutional and other limitations. Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, any communication that is prohibited by the Sixth Amendment right to counsel, by any other provision of the United States Constitution, by any federal statute, by the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure (18 U.S.C. App.) or by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. App.) shall be likewise prohibited under this part. ยง77.5 General rule for civil and criminal enforcement; represented parties. Except as provided in this part or as otherwise authorized by law, an attorney for the government may not communicate, or cause another to communicate, with a represented party who the attorney for the government knows is represented by an attorney concerning the subject matter of the representation without the consent of the lawyer representing such party. ยง77.6 Exceptions; represented parties. An attorney for the government may communicate, or cause another to communicate, with a represented party without the consent of the lawyer representing such party concerning the subject matter of the representation if one or more of the following circumstances exist: (a) Determination if representation exists. The communication is to determine if the person is in fact represented by counsel concerning the subject matter of the investigation or proceeding. (b) Discovery or judicial or administrative process. The communication is made pursuant to discovery procedures or judicial or administrative process, including, but not limited to, the service of a grand jury or trial subpoena, testimony before a grand jury, service of a summons and complaint, notice of deposition, taking of a deposition, administrative summons or subpoena or civil investigative demand. (c) Initiation of communication by represented party. The represented party initiates the communication directly with the attorney for the government or through an intermediary and: (1) Prior to the commencement of substantive discussions on the subject matter of the representation and after being advised by the attorney for the government of the client's right to speak through his or her attorney and/or to have the client's attorney present for the communication, manifests that his or her waiver of counsel for the communication is voluntary, knowing and informed and, if willing to do, signs a written statement to this effect; and (2) A federal district judge, magistrate judge or other court of competent jurisdiction has concluded that the represented party has:
