FR941230-1-00055 FR941230-1-00004 (6) Conservation. In the case of property to provide energy conservation, project means functionally related property that is located at a single site. (7) Replacement property. For purposes of this section, output property that replaces existing output property is treated as part of the same project as the replaced output property unless_ (i) The need to replace the property was unexpected or occurred more than 3 years in advance of the expected need to replace the property; and (ii) The bonds that financed (and refinanced) the replaced output property have a weighted average maturity that is not greater than the reasonably expected economic life of the replaced output property. (c) Examples. The application of the provisions of this section is illustrated by the following examples: Example 1. Power authority K, a political subdivision, intends to issue a single issue of tax-exempt bonds to finance the construction of an electric generating facility under a turnkey construction contract providing for a single payment of $500 million at the completion of construction. No portion of the facility will be used for a private business use except that L, an investor-owned utility, will purchase 10 percent of the output of the facility under a take contract and will pay 10 percent of the debt service on the bonds. The maximum amount of tax-exempt bonds that may be issued for the acquisition of the facility is $465 million (that is, $450 million for the 90 percent of the facility that is governmentally owned and used, and a maximum of $15 million for the privately used portion). Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1 except that the construction contract calls for milestone payments every 6 months beginning July 1, 1995. K intends to finance the facility with 4 separate issues of tax-exempt bonds. On July 1, 1995, K issues the first issue for $100 million and makes the first milestone payment. On January 1, 1996, K intends to issue the second issue for the facility for $150 million and use the proceeds of that issue to make the second milestone payment. As of January 1, 1996, no other amounts have been paid under the construction contract for the facility and none of the bonds issued on July 1, 1995, have been retired. The January 1, 1996, issue will consist of private activity bonds since the issue will have $15 million of private business use and private payments or security (10 percent of $150 million) and the maximum permitted private use portion for the second issue is only $5 million ($15 million less than $10 million private use portion of the first issue). For each subsequent issue for the facility and assuming that the January 1, 1996, issue consisted of tax-exempt bonds, K could not issue tax-exempt bonds to finance the portion of the facility used by L. ยง1.141&hyph;9 Unrelated or disproportionate use test. (a) General rules_ (1) Description of test. Under section 141(b)(3) (the unrelated or disproportionate use test ), an issue meets the private business tests if the amount of private business use and private security or payments attributable to unrelated or disproportionate private business use exceeds 5 percent of the proceeds of the issue. For this purpose, the private business use test is applied by taking into account only use that is not related to any government use of proceeds of the issue ( unrelated use ) and use that is related but disproportionate to any government use of those proceeds ( disproportionate use ). The private security or payment test is applied by taking into account the payments of the principal of, or the interest on, the proceeds of the issue that are (under the terms of the issue or any underlying arrangement) directly or indirectly_ (i) Secured by any interest in (A) property used or to be used for a private business use that is either unrelated use or disproportionate use, or (B) payments in respect of this property; or (ii) To be derived from payments (whether or not to the issuer) in respect of property, or borrowed money, used or to be used for a private business use that is either unrelated use or disproportionate use. (2) Application of unrelated and disproportionate use test_ (i) Order of application. The unrelated and disproportionate use test is applied by first determining whether a private business use is related to a government use. Next, private business use that relates to a goverment use is examined to determine whether it is disproportionate to that govenment use. (ii) Aggregation of unrelated and disproportionate use. All unrelated use and disproportionate use financed with the proceeds of an issue are aggregated to determine compliance with the unrelated or disproportionate use test. The amount of permissible unrelated and disproportionate private business use is not reduced by the amount of private business use financed with the proceeds of an issue that is neither unrelated use nor disproportionate use.
