FR940118-1-00046 FR940118-1-00008 Background and Purpose A notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) was published in the Federal Register on May 29, 1985 (50 FR 21878). Corrections to the NPRM were published in the Federal Register of June 18, 1985 (50 FR 25274). The comment period on that proposal ended on July 15, 1985. The NPRM proposed requirements for both hybrid PFD's and inflatable lifejackets. An interim final rule promulgating hybrid PFD requirements was published in the Federal Register on August 22, 1985 (50 FR 33923). Corrections to this rule were published on February 4, 1986 (51 FR 4349). Comments that addressed concerns relating to the hybrid PFD requirements were analyzed and discussed in the August 22, 1985 publication. Proposed Amendments This notice proposes changes to the requirements for approving hybrid inflatable PFD's and for the carriage of hybrid PFD's on commercial vessels. The requirements are self-explanatory and have been included in a list which cites each specific section number for ease of presentation. If adopted, the changes proposed by this SNPRM may be incorporated by reference in the regulation by citing an updated revision to Underwriters Laboratories Standard 1517, Hybrid Personal Flotation Devices. Discussion of Proposed Revisions General. Primarily these revisions are based on the U.S. Coast Guard's experience in evaluating for approval four models of hybrids by four different manufacturers. Also considered are the discussions and comments at the 1991 and 1992 meetings of the Industry Advisory Council (IAC) of Underwriters Laboratories (UL) and the November 11, 1991 National Boating Safety Advisory Council (NBSAC). This SNPRM proposes approval of hybrid inflatable PFD's for youths and small children. The rule changes would allow approval of recreational hybrid inflatable PFD's for weight ranges down to 14 kg (30 lb) and commercial hybrid inflatable PFDs's for persons weighing over 23 kg (50 lb). It is the Coast Guard's position that the required amount of inherent buoyancy and provision for automatic inflation mechanisms on all hybrids for small children, between 14&hyph;23 kg (30&hyph;50 lb), justifies approval of hybrids in these weight ranges. If the requirements in the SNPRM are adopted hybrid PFD's will be approved in ten recreational and four commercial Type and size categories. Several tables have been added to improve understanding of the various categories. Comments are requested on the clarity and reader comprehensibility of the proposed requirements for the various Types in this format. The comments/revisions are divided into seven areas as follows: Proposed Changes _Changes to make use of hybrids more attractive. _Changes to decrease repetitive testing. _Changes to improve reliability. _Changes made for clarification. _Reorganization. _Changes to 46 CFR subpart 25.25 Life Preservers and Other Lifesaving Equipment. _Changes to make editorial corrections. Changes To Make Use of Hybrids More Attractive A number of changes are proposed to make hybrid inflatable PFD's more attractive to recreational boaters and manufacturers. The intent of the interim final rule was to provide regulations which ensure introduction of hybrid PFD's with little or no increased risk due to failure of the inflation system. When placed into practice the rules proved too burdensome to attract many recreational boaters to buy the PFD's and for manufacturers to produce them. As a result production and use of hybrid PFD's is very limited. To date two manufacturers have actually obtained approval, another is pending approval, and only one is currently producing. Demand from consumers for hybrid PFD's has been minimal. A market analysis to determine what advantages or disadvantages consumers may see in hybird PFD's has not been conducted. Information which may provide insight into this specific area of concern is solicited by the Coast Guard and comments from interested parties are encouraged.
