FR940208-0-00102 FR940208-0-00031 Recovery Planning and Section 7 Consultation Recovery planning under section 4(f) of the Act is the ``umbrella'' that eventually guides all of the Act's activities and promotes a species' conservation and eventual delisting. Because critical habitat designation was based on recommendations provided in the Draft Recovery Plan, final critical habitat will be incorporated as part of the final recovery plan for the desert tortoise. The Service has worked closely with the Recovery Team and other efforts to ensure consistency and will reevaluate the need for critical habitat after completion and implementation of the recovery plan or at any time that new information indicates that changes may be warranted. The Service may also reassess critical habitat designation if other land management plans or conservation strategies, which may reduce the need for the additional protection provided by critical habitat designation, are developed and fully implemented. Although critical habitat is not intended as a management or conservation plan, association with the Draft Recovery Plan leaves the perception that critical habitat is a form of that plan. The Draft Recovery Plan, critical habitat, and other conservation processes are working with the same land base containing the same specific locations of desert tortoise populations within recovery units; it is therefore inevitable that these processes overlap. Critical habitat is based upon the recommendations of the Draft Recovery Plan because it lays out a framework for identifying and evaluating habitat that is founded on scientific principles. Designation of critical habitat does not offer specific direction for managing desert tortoise habitat. That type of direction, as well as any change in direction, will come through administration of other facets of the Act (e.g., section 7, section 10, and recovery planning) or through development of land management plans addressing the desert tortoise. The final DWMA boundaries will be determined by land management agencies, in consultation with the Service, through a planning process that is coordinated with local government and interested members of the public. The Service intends that critical habitat for the Mojave desert tortoise population conform to the DWMA boundaries determined through the recovery planning and implementation process. Because the agency planning process for determining the DWMA boundaries will not be completed until after critical habitat for the Mojave desert tortoise population is initially designated, adjustments to critical habitat may need to be made in subsequent rulemaking documents to make critical habitat correspond to the DWMAs. As soon as the agency planning process for delineating DWMA boundaries is completed, the Service will consider publishing a proposed rule to effect appropriate adjustments in the critical habitat boundaries for the affected recovery unit(s).
