FR941006-2-00117 FR941006-2-00084 SEEDS are intermediate-term, hybrid securities, the value of which is based, at least in part, on the value of another issuer's common stock, non-convertible preferred stock, or certain sponsored American Depositary Receipts (``ADRs''). SEEDS may pay periodic interest or may be issued as zero-coupon instruments with no payments to holders prior to maturity. SEEDS may be subject to a ``cap'' on the maximum principal amount to be repaid to holders upon maturity, and they may feature a ``floor'' on the minimum principal amount paid to holders upon maturity. A specific issue of SEEDS, for example, may provide holders with a fixed semi-annual interest payment, while capping the maximum amount to be repaid upon maturity at 135% of the issuance price, with no minimum floor guarantee on the principal to be repaid at maturity. Another issue of SEEDS might offer lower semi-annual payments based upon a floating interest rate 5 with a minimum floor for the repayment of principal of 75% of the issuance price. According to the NASD the flexibility available to an issuer of SEEDS permits the creation of securities which offer issuers and investors the opportunity to more precisely focus on a specific investment strategy. 5 The NASD will notify the Commission if an issue of SEEDS provides for periodic interest payments to holders based on a floating rate. The Commission, at that time, may require the NASD to submit a rule filing pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act prior to permitting Nasdaq to list SEEDS with such terms. The NASD generally believes that the level of risk involved in the purchase or sale of a SEEDS is similar to the risk involved in the purchase or sale of traditional common stock. Nevertheless, the unique nature and characteristics of SEEDS raises several concerns: (1) Investor protection concerns; (2) dependence on the creditworthiness of the issuer of a SEEDS to meet its obligations under the instruments; (3) systemic concerns regarding the position exposure of issues with partially hedged or dynamically hedged positions; and (4) the impact on the market for the underlying linked security. The NASD believes its proposal adequately addresses these concerns. Specifically, there are four components to the NASD's proposed listing standards for SEEDS: (1) Standards applicable to issuers of SEEDS; (2) standards applicable to the SEEDS offerings themselves; (3) standards applicable to the underlying linked security; and (4) limitations on the size of a particular SEEDS offering. Issuer Listing Standards The proposal provides that an issuer of a SEEDS must be a entity that is listed on Nasdaq or the NYSE, or an affiliate of a company listed on Nasdaq or the NYSE. 6 Each issuer of a SEEDS must also have a minimum net worth of $150 million. In addition, the market value of a SEEDS offering, when combined with the market value of all other SEEDS offerings previously completed by the issuer and traded through Nasdaq or on a national securities exchange, may not be greater that 25% of the issuer's net worth at the time of issuance. 6 For the numerical listing criteria for securities eligible to be listed as Nasdaq National Market securities, see Section 2 of Part III of Schedule D to the NASD By-Laws. For the numerical listing criteria for securities eligible to be listed on the NYSE see sections 102.01&hyph;102.03 and 103.01&hyph;103.05 of the NYSE's Listed Company Manual. Standard Applicable to SEEDS Offerings In order to ensure adequate liquidity in the markets for SEEDS each issuance of a SEEDS must have: (1) A minimum public distribution of one million SEEDS; (2) a minimum of 400 holders of the SEEDS; (3) a minimum market value of $4 million; and (4) a term of two to seven years (although a SEEDS on a sponsored ADR can not have a term longer than three years). Standards Applicable to the Underlying Linked Security In order to help ensure that SEEDS will not have a disruptive effect on the markets for the securities underlying the SEEDS, the NASD proposes that the securities underlying SEEDS must have sufficiently large market capitalizations and high trading volumes. Specifically, a security underlying a SEEDS must have: (1) A market capitalization of at least $3 billion and a trading volume in the United States of at least 2.5 million shares in the one-year period preceding the listing of the SEEDS; or (2) a market capitalization of at least $1.5 billion and a trading volume in the United States of at least 20 million shares in the one-year period preceding the listing of the SEEDS; or (3) a market capitalization of at least $500 million and a trading volume in the United States of at least 80 million shares in the one-year period preceding the listing of the SEEDS. In addition, if an issuer proposes to issue SEEDS on a security that does not meet the market capitalization and trading volume standards set forth above, the NASD, with the concurrence of the staff of the Commission, may evaluate the trading volume, public float, and market capitalization of that security, as well as other relevant factors, and determine on a case-by-case basis that it is appropriate to list SEEDS overlying that security. 7 7 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 1. Depending on the proposed facts, the Commission may require the NASD to submit a rule filing to the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act to address the regulatory issues raised by any proposed offering of SEEDS that does not satisfy the market capitalization and/or trading volume requirements discussed above. In this connection, the Commission notes that any proposal to list a SEEDS linked to a security with a market capitalization of less than $500 million would raise significant regulatory concerns for which a section 19(b) rule filing would be required.
