FR940706-0-00059 FR940706-0-00014 In effect, the FHWA is abdicating its responsibility to determine proper tiedown standards by allowing manufacturers to determine the WLL of their devices. It is the opinion of the CHP that this parameter is far too critical to leave to a manufacturer's discretion. Unless the WLL for each type of binder is defined in the regulation, there will always be some ambiguity as to the strength of the device. Further, from an enforcement perspective, the WLL method could result in a hardship since WLL, based only on a factor determined by each manufacturer, is a much harder concept for enforcement/prosecution personnel to explain in court as opposed to the SBS, a parameter which is nearly intuitively obvious. Variations from manufacturer to manufacturer will further complicate the issue. Great American Lines, Inc., stated: [T]he current regulations as written in []§393.102 [of the] FMCS[Rs] are more than sufficient. Properly trained drivers using the securement as specified in the current regulations will have no problem keeping the cargo on the trailer. Education is the key, not change. The changes as proposed can only confuse the drivers, carriers and enforcement officers and cause an extremely dangerous situation *␣*␣*. Changing to the C.V.S.A. guidelines can serve no good purpose and will confuse the people that it is meant to regulate. In the end the public will suffer. Don't change something that is working when properly applied. In its second docket submission, Great American Lines, Inc., stated that ``Neither the reasons presented in the text of the proposal nor at the congressional hearings preceding this notice of proposed rulemaking establish a problem with the regulation that warrant the changes being proposed.'' The TTMA's position on the issue was contingent upon the FHWA's clarification of the term ``tiedown assemblies.'' The TTMA stated: ``If the term `tiedown assemblies,' as used in []§393.102(b) includes trailer anchor points, then we object to changing `breaking strength' to `working load limit.''' It is true, as the CHP noted, that working load limits are based on each manufacturer's determination. That is also true for static breaking strength, however, and neither value can be tested during roadside enforcement. The FHWA notes that the terms ``static breaking strength'' and ``working load limit'' are defined in numerous technical dictionaries, manuals, and reference books. While each manufacturer makes a determination of the working load limits of its own products, the documents incorporated by reference, combined with certain other requirements in §393.102, eliminate the risk of voluntary or purely subjective standards. By incorporating by reference certain manufacturing standards, this rulemaking establishes specific minimum strength requirements for five categories of securement devices: steel strapping, chains, wire rope, cordage, and synthetic webbing. The FHWA does not believe that tiedown manufacturers will produce devices which fail to meet these minimum strength requirements. For those cases in which the manufacturing standards do not provide specific working load limits (e.g., the document lists breaking strength or a working load limit range), the final rule establishes the procedure for determining this information. In addition, the final rule includes a table of working load limits for some of the most commonly used types and sizes of tiedowns. The rule requires that the working load limits listed in the table be used when the tiedown material is not marked with its working load limit. The values listed in the table are based on the industry standards referenced in §393.102. Therefore, the uncertainty about the strength of a tiedown is limited to tiedowns which do not meet the manufacturing standards, and the rule prohibits the use of such tiedowns. As for the CHP's comments about possible difficulties in the enforcement of a working load limit requirement, it is clear that the CVSA, whose membership includes State officials charged with enforcement, considered this issue before petitioning the FHWA. Section 393.102 specifies the relationship between the strength rating of the tiedown devices and the weight of the article being secured. If the strength rating and weight of the article are known, and the relationship between the two is clearly stated in §393.102, the inspecting official should not have to provide an engineering discussion or justification of the strength rating requirement. Furthermore, as the CVSA indicated in its petition, and as several tiedown manufacturers, manufacturers' associations, and enforcement agencies have stated in their comments in response to the NPRM, a working load limit requirement would be easier to understand, use, and enforce because tiedown manufacturers prefer to label their products with the working load limit as opposed to the static breaking strength. The manufacturers believe the use of working load limits would decrease the likelihood of accidental misuse or overloading of the tiedowns. The FHWA agrees with Great American Lines' emphasis on training and education. However, the number of accidents involving inadequately secured cargo suggests that some motor carriers do not understand or observe the current regulations. It must be noted that static breaking strength has been in use for approximately 20 years. During this time, education and training have played a role in reducing the number of cargo securement-related accidents to a relatively low level. The final rule is intended to make the cargo securement regulations easier to understand, use, and enforce in order to further reduce the incidence of cargo securement-related accidents.
