FR940616-2-00007 FR940616-2-00004 0 ␣Hydrology. Flood-related impacts due to diversion of stream flows during construction; erosion and scour impacts due to pipeline rupture and oil contamination of streams; 0 ␣Land Use and Public Recreation. Construction effects on agricultural and recreational uses; disruptions to public services and access roads in residential areas; and potential for long-term safety risks to existing or planned uses in project vicinity. 0 ␣Noise. Construction effects on sensitive receptors. 0 ␣Paleonotology. Project impacts on the fossil evidence of inorganic plant and animal remains over 11,000 years old. 0 ␣Public Services. Effects of project construction and population growth. 0 ␣Public Utilities and Energy. Construction disruption to utilities due to collocation accident. 0 ␣Socioeconomics. Construction disruption to commercial sites; construction and operation effects on employment and population growth; and oil spill effects on local business, temporary housing and tourism. 0 ␣Soils. Effects of soil corrosivity on project design; effects of expansive soils on foundations of above-ground structures; and fugitive dust emissions. 0 ␣System Safety. Oil spill impacts from land-based oil spills, risk of oil spill ignition, and exposure to resulting fire. Impacts to creeks, riverbeds and native habitat; and effects of oil spills on sensitive receptors. 0 ␣Transportation and Traffic. Construction effects on project study area's transportation system, traffic congestion, pedestrian circulation and emergency access. 0 ␣Visual Resources. Construction and operation effects on visual resources resulting from presence of equipment, materials, workers, and above-ground facilities. 0 ␣Cumulative and Growth Inducing Impacts. Project Scoping Process The EIS/SEIR on the Proposed Pacific Pipeline Project will focus on significant environmental effects. The process of determining the focus and content of the EIS/SEIR is known as scoping (40 CFR 1501.7). Scoping helps to identify the range of actions, alternatives, environmental effects, and mitigation measures to be analyzed in depth, and eliminates from detailed study those issues that are not pertinent to the final decision on the Proposed Project. The USFS will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, and local agencies, the proponent and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in, or affected by the proposed action. Significant issues may be identified through public and agency comments. Scoping, however, is not conducted to resolve differences concerning the merits of the project or to anticipate the ultimate decision on the proposal. Rather, the purpose of scoping is to help ensure that a comprehensive and focused EIS/SEIR will be prepared that provides a firm basis for the decision-making process. The scoping process includes: 0 ␣Identifying potential issues. 0 ␣Identifying issues to be analyzed in depth. 0 ␣Eliminating insignificant issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis. 0 ␣Exploring additional alternatives. 0 ␣Identifying potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e., direct, indirect, and cumulative effects and connected actions). 0 ␣Determining potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. Public and agency scoping sessions will be held in the following areas: Vista Del Lago Visitor Center, Vista Del Lago Exit (ten miles north of Castaic Junction), Interstate 5, June 27, 1994, 7 p.m. Aragon Elementary School, 1118 Aragon Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90065, June 28, 1994, 7 p.m. Wilmington Boys and Girls Club, Multi-Purpose Room, 1444 West ``Q'' Street, Wilmington, CA 90744, June 29, 1994, 7 p.m. City of San Fernando, Council Chambers, 117 McNeil Street, San Fernando, CA 91340, June 30, 1994, 7 p.m. Agency Comments Notice has been sent to responsible Federal Agencies, the State, and the Federal Register . Also State responsible and trustee agencies and the State Clearinghouse have been notified. We need to know the views of your agency as to the scope and content of the environmental information which reflects your agency's statutory responsibilities in connection with the proposed project. Once again, responses should identify the issues to be considered in the Draft EIS/SEIR, including significant environmental issues, alternatives, mitigation measures, and whether the responding agency will be responsible State of Federal agency or a state trustee agency. Due to the time limits mandated by State and Federal Laws, your response must be sent at the earliest possible date but no later than 30 days after publication of this notice. Please send your response to: Richard Borden (ANF), c/o Aspen Environmental Group, 30423 Canwood Street, suite 218, Agoura Hills, CA 91301. For further information write to: Richard Borden, ANF, 701 North Santa Anita Avenue, Arcadia, CA 91006&hyph;2799, (818) 574&hyph;5255. Dated: June 8, 1994. Mike Wickman, District Ranger, Saugus Ranger District, Angeles National Forest. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14501 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
