FR940106-0-00097 FR940106-0-00021 (B) The employment of the aliens will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of registered nurses similarly employed. (C) The aliens employed by the facility will be paid the wage rate for registered nurses similarly employed by the facility. (D) Either_( 1 ) The facility has taken and is taking timely and significant steps designed to recruit and retain sufficient registered nurses who are United States citizens or immigrants who are authorized to perform nursing services, in order to remove as quickly as reasonably possible the dependence of the facility on nonimmigrant registered nurses, or ( 2 ) The facility is subject to an approved State plan for the recruitment and retention of nurses (described in section 212(m)(3) of the Act; 8 U.S.C. 1182(m)(3)). (E) There is not a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute, and the employment of such an alien is not intended or designed to influence an election for a bargaining representative for registered nurses of the facility. (F) At the time of the filing of the petition for registered nurses under section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(a) of the Act, notice of the filing has been provided by the facility to the bargaining representative of the registered nurses at the facility or, where there is no such bargaining representative, notice of the filing has been provided to registered nurses at the facility through posting in conspicuous locations. (ii) A facility is considered not to meet paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section (relating to an attestation of a substantial disruption in delivery of health care services) if the facility, within the previous year, has laid off registered nurses. A facility which lays off a registered nurse other than a staff nurse still meets the ``no layoff' requirement if, in its attestation, it attests that it will not replace the nurse with an H&hyph;1A nurse (either through promotion or otherwise) for a period of 1 year after the date of the layoff. Nothing in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(D) of this section shall be construed as requiring a facility to have taken significant steps described in such paragraph before December 18, 1989 ( i.e., the date of enactment of the Immigration Nursing Relief Act of 1989). (d) The first attestation element: substantial disruption. The facility shall attest that ``there would be substantial disruption through no fault of the facility in the delivery of health care services of the facility without the services of such an alien or aliens.'' This element shall be met if the facility provides the following information:
