FR941103-0-00117 FR941103-0-00016 (c) Shell design. Shell stresses resulting from static or dynamic loadings, or combinations thereof, are not uniform throughout the cargo tank motor vehicle. The vertical, longitudinal, and lateral normal operating loadings can occur simultaneously and must be combined. The vertical, longitudinal and lateral extreme dynamic loadings occur separately and need not be combined. (1) Normal operating loadings. The following procedure addresses stress in the tank shell resulting from normal operating loadings. The effective stress (the maximum principal stress at any point) must be determined by the following formula: S = 0.5(S y + S x ) # [0.25(S y ^S x )2 + S S 2 ] 0.5 Where: (i) S = effective stress at any given point under the combination of static and normal operating loadings that can occur at the same time, in psi. (ii) S y = circumferential stress generated by the MAWP and external pressure, when applicable, plus static head, in psi. (iii) S x = The following net longitudinal stress generated by the following static and normal operating loading conditions, in psi: (A) The longitudinal stresses resulting from the MAWP and external pressure, when applicable, plus static head, in combination with the bending stress generated by the static weight of the fully loaded cargo tank, all structural elements, equipment and appurtenances supported by the cargo tank wall; (B) The tensile or compressive stress resulting from normal operating longitudinal acceleration or deceleration. In each case, the forces applied must be 0.35 times the vertical reaction at the suspension assembly, applied at the road surface, and as transmitted to the cargo tank wall through the suspension assembly of a trailer during deceleration; or the horizontal pivot of the tractor or converter dolly fifth wheel, or the drawbar hinge on the fixed dolly during acceleration; or anchoring and support members of a truck during acceleration and deceleration, as applicable. The vertical reaction must be calculated based on the static weight of the fully loaded cargo tank, all structural elements, equipment and appurtenances supported by the cargo tank wall. The following loadings must be included: ( 1 ) The axial load generated by a decelerative force; ( 2 ) The bending moment generated by a decelerative force; ( 3 ) The axial load generated by an accelerative force; and ( 4 ) The bending moment generated by an accelerative force; and (C) The tensile or compressive stress generated by the bending moment resulting from normal operating vertical accelerative force equal to 0.35 times the vertical reaction at the suspension assembly of a trailer; or the horizontal pivot of the upper coupler (fifth wheel) or turntable; or anchoring and support members of a truck, as applicable. The vertical reaction must be calculated based on the static weight of the fully loaded cargo tank, all structural elements, equipment and appurtenances supported by the cargo tank wall. (iv) S S = The following shear stresses generated by the following static and normal operating loading conditions, in psi: (A) The static shear stress resulting from the vertical reaction at the suspension assembly of a trailer, and the horizontal pivot of the upper coupler (fifth wheel) or turntable; or anchoring and support members of a truck, as applicable. The vertical reaction must be calculated based on the static weight of the fully loaded cargo tank, all structural elements, equipment and appurtenances supported by the cargo tank wall;
