FR941222-0-00130 FR941222-0-00020 Thursday December 22, 1994 Part IX Department of Justice Bureau of Prisons 28 CFR Part 527 Designation and Transfer of D.C. Women Offenders; Rescission; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 245␣/␣Thursday, December 22, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Bureau of Prisons 28 CFR Part 527 [BOP&hyph;1024&hyph;F] Designation and Transfer of D.C. Women Offenders; Rescission AGENCY: Bureau of Prisons, Justice. ACTION: Final Rule. SUMMARY: In this document, the Bureau of Prisons is rescinding its regulations on Designation and Transfer of D.C. Women Offenders because it is no longer the routine policy of the District of Columbia Department of Corrections to place such inmates in the federal system. By joint agreement with the Bureau, the Department of Corrections is responsible for notifying D.C. women offenders being boarded in Bureau facilities of any applicable Department of Correction provisions previously contained in these regulations. Therefore, separate notification by Bureau regulations is no longer necessary. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons, HOLC Room 754, 320 First Street, NW., Washington, DC 20534. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Roy Nanovic, Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons, phone (202) 514&hyph;6655. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Bureau of Prisons is rescinding its regulations on Designation and Transfer of D.C. Women Offenders (28 CFR 527, subpart F). A final rule on this subject was published in the Federal Register October 21, 1983 (48 FR 48969). In accordance with E.O. 12866, the Bureau of Prisons is reviewing its regulations for the purpose of ensuring that it promulgates only such regulations as are required by law, are necessary to interpret the law, or are made necessary by compelling public need. The Bureau has determined that provisions for the designation and transfer of D.C. women offenders are adequately covered through joint agreement with the District of Columbia Department of Corrections. The text of the joint agreement has been incorporated in its entirety into the Bureau's internal instructions to staff, and the Bureau believes that there is no need to restate these provisions in regulations. In 1972, a civil suit ( Garnes v. Taylor ) was filed against the District of Columbia Department of Corrections seeking to have the court declare unconstitutional the practice of transferring female D.C. Code violators to federal facilities far from the District of Columbia. This suit was settled in 1975 by an agreement which established procedures for designating and transferring female D.C. Code violators to and from federal institutions. This agreement, known as the ``Garnes Decree'', became effective December 10, 1976. The Bureau of Prisons, recognizing that the District of Columbia Department of Corrections had no facilities for housing long-term female offenders, agreed to designate federal institutions for women with sentences of more than one year who are not within nine months of a parole eligibility, sentence expiration, or mandatory release date. The Bureau further agreed to refer to the District of Columbia, for further consideration, a District of Columbia woman confined within a Bureau institution provided that the inmate desires the referral and is within nine months of a parole eligibility, sentence expiration, or mandatory release date. Regulations on this subject were issued by the Bureau in 1983 as part of the general publication of Bureau rules relating to the control, custody, care, treatment, and instruction of inmates. Since 1983, the number of female offenders transferred from the District of Columbia Department of Corrections has declined to the point where only five cases remain in Bureau custody. Pursuant to a joint agreement with the Bureau, the Department of Corrections is responsible for notifying these inmates of the pertinent designation and transfer procedures. This is similar to procedures applicable to State inmates boarded in Bureau facilities. Because this rescission imposes no new restrictions on inmates, the Bureau finds good cause for exempting the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553) requiring notice of proposed rulemaking, the opportunity for public comment, and delay in effective date. Members of the public may submit comments concerning this rule by writing to the previously cited address. These comments will be considered but will receive no response in the Federal Register .
