FR940912-0-00034 FR940912-0-00006 7. Section 630.20(g)(3)(iv)_Interest Rate Sensitivity Section 630.20(g)(3)(iv) requires a general description of the System's risk management practices, including a brief discussion of derivative transactions. Due to the heightened interest of the public, financial institution regulators, and Congress in this area, the FCA solicited comments on whether disclosure requirements regarding derivative activities should be more detailed. The FCC suggested that, given the changing GAAP environment for derivative transactions, the FCA consider the approach to derivatives activity regulation used by other bank regulators. This approach requires regulated institutions to adopt policies in accordance with GAAP. The regulator provides any clarification of GAAP or additional guidance through Call Report instructions or other mechanisms. The FCA adopts §630.20(g)(3)(iv) as proposed, with a clarification to provide for a ``brief overview'' of the System's asset and liability management practices. The FCA believes that this approach to derivatives activities disclosure is consistent with the FCC's suggestion. In addition, along with other financial institution regulators, the FCA is monitoring the area of derivatives activities. The FCA will consider requiring more extensive disclosure based on its assessment of the level and significance of System derivatives activities and as the need for regulatory policy in this area becomes more clearly defined. 8. Section 630.20(g)(5)_Insurance Fund The FCC commented that §630.20(g)(5), which requires a discussion of the Insurance Fund in the Discussion and Analysis (D&A) section of the report to investors, is unnecessary and would duplicate the disclosure contained in the notes to the System's combined financial statements. Section 630.20(g)(5) requires a discussion of the purposes of the Insurance Fund, a schedule itemizing Insurance Fund assets that have been identified for specific purposes, and an explanation of how expenditures of Insurance Fund assets affect the assets and capital of the System. The FCA does not believe that the requirement of §630.20(g)(5) will result in duplication of information in the report. Section 630.3(e) provides that ``Information in any part of the report may be incorporated by reference *␣*␣* to any other item of the report. Information *␣*␣* may be presented in any order deemed suitable by the Funding Corporation.'' Accordingly, the Funding Corporation has the flexibility to determine where the D&A regarding the Insurance Fund is to be presented. The FCA has adopted §630.20(g)(5) as proposed. The FCA notes that the regulation does not require the D&A regarding the Insurance Fund to be audited. Pursuant to §630.3(e), the System could opt to include the required D&A in the notes to the Systemwide combined financial statements and incorporate the disclosure by reference into the D&A. In this situation, the required D&A regarding the Insurance Fund would be covered in the independent accountant's report on the Systemwide combined financial statements. 9. Section 630.20(g)(6)_Instructions for Discussion and Analysis Proposed §630.20(g)(6)(ii) requires that discussions required by proposed §630.20(g) cover the 3-year period covered by the financial statements. The FCC suggested that the words ``3-year'' be deleted. In recognition that the reporting period for the balance sheet is only 2 comparative years, the FCA agrees with the commenter and has amended §630.20(g)(6)(ii) of the final rule as suggested and revised the introductory paragraph of §630.20(g) accordingly. 10. Section 630.20(i)_Compensation of Directors and Senior Officers Section 630.20(i) requires the annual report to state that information on the compensation of directors and senior officers of System banks is contained in each bank's annual report to shareholders and that the annual report of each bank is available to investors upon request pursuant to §630.3(f). The FCC commented that this requirement provides no useful information to investors and is redundant.
