FR940203-1-00015 FR940203-1-00004 Since the issuance of that AD, the FAA has received additional reports of cracking in the upper row of countersunk fasteners in the lap splice in the area adjacent to the wing-to-body fairing intersection on Model 747 series airplanes. Additionally, several airplanes were found to have more than the necessary number of countersunk fasteners, which were installed during production at the upper row of the lap splice at stringer 34. These countersunk fasteners were found in the upper row of fasteners in the lap splice near the wing-to-body fairing and skin intersection between body station (BS) 768 and the circumferential skin joint at BS 741. Cracking in locations where countersunk fasteners were installed, if not corrected, could result in reduced structural integrity of the fuselage. The FAA has reviewed and approved Boeing Service Bulletin 747&hyph;53A2312, Revision 2, dated October 8, 1992, that describes procedures for visually inspecting to determine the number of countersunk fasteners in the upper row of the lap splice. If more than the necessary number of countersunk fasteners were installed during production, this service bulletin specifies conducting an external high frequency eddy current (HFEC) inspection to detect cracking in the skin lap splices at the wing-to-body fairing intersection where countersunk fasteners were found in the upper row of fasteners. If cracking is found, the service bulletin describes procedures for modifying the locations where countersunk fasteners were found by replacing the countersunk fasteners with oversized protruding head fasteners and repairing the skin. These actions were accomplished, prior to delivery, on airplanes having line numbers 815 through 919, inclusive. If the proper number of countersunk fasteners were installed during production, repetitive inspections are specified in the service bulletin until the locations where countersunk fasteners were installed have been modified. The service bulletin describes procedures for eventual modification of all airplanes at the location where countersunk fasteners were installed, and repetitive inspections following modification. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other products of this same type design, the proposed AD would supersede AD 90&hyph;01&hyph;07 to: 1. Continue to require inspections to detect cracking in certain lower lobe lap joints, and repair, if necessary; 2. Require visual inspections to determine if countersunk fasteners had been installed between body stations (BS) 741 and 1000 at Stringers (S&hyph;)34L, S&hyph;34R, S&hyph;39L, S&hyph;39R, and S&hyph;44L, S&hyph;44R, and between BS 1480 and 1741 at S&hyph;34L, S&hyph;34R, S&hyph;40L, and S&hyph;40R on airplanes having line numbers 201 through 814, inclusive; 3. Require HFEC inspections to detect cracking at all locations where countersunk fasteners were found in the upper row of the lap splice, and repair, if necessary; and 4. Require modification of all locations where countersunk fasteners were found. Although the actions and compliance times of this proposed AD would differ from the manufacturer's recommendations specified in the service bulletin, the actions themselves would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the procedures of the service bulletin described previously. There are approximately 723 Boeing Model 747 series airplanes of the affected design in the worldwide fleet. The FAA estimates that 183 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this AD. The inspections that were previously required by AD 90&hyph;01&hyph;07, and retained in this AD, take approximately 14 workhours per airplane to accomplish, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of these inspection requirements of this AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $140,910 or $770 per airplane, per inspection cycle. The additional new inspections that would be required by this AD would take approximately 82 work hours per airplane to accomplish, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of these inspection requirements of this AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $825,330, or $4,510 per airplane The modification required by this AD would take approximately 124 work hours per airplane to accomplish, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. Required parts would be nominal in cost. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the modification requirements of this AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $1,248,060, or $6,820 per airplane. Based on the above figures, the total cost impact of the inspection and modification requirements of this AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $2,214,300, or $11,407 per airplane. This total cost figure assumes that no operator has yet accomplished the proposed requirements of this AD action. The FAA recognizes that the proposed modification would require a large number of work hours to accomplish. However, the 20,000-flight cycle compliance time specified in paragraph (j) of this proposed AD should allow ample time for the modification of all locations where countersunk fasteners were found to be accomplished coincidentally with scheduled major airplane inspection and maintenance activities, thereby minimizing the costs associated with special airplane scheduling. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES .
