FR940125-2-00008 FR940125-2-00005 ORDER Definitions For purposes of this Order: 1. ``Substantially similar hair loss treatment product or service'' shall mean any product or service that is advertised or intended for sale over-the-counter to treat, cure or curtail hair loss and which contains or purportedly contains polysaccharides or any extract thereof. 2. ``Substantially similar facial treatment product or service'' shall mean any product or service that is advertised or intended for sale over-the-counter to remove facial wrinkles and that contains or purportedly contains albumin or any extract thereof. 3. ``Substantially similar skin treatment product or service'' shall mean any product or service that is advertised or intended for sale over-the-counter to treat or promote the healing of burns that would otherwise require skin grafting and that contains or purportedly contains aloe vera and/or avian collagen or any extract thereof. 4. ``Competent and reliable scientific evidence'' shall mean tests, analyses, research, studies, or other evidence based on the expertise of professionals in the relevant area, that has been conducted and evaluated in an objective manner by persons qualified to do so, using procedures generally accepted in the profession to yield accurate and reliable results. I It is ordered, That respondents Nu Skin, CJM, Inc., CST Management, Inc., and CK&C, Inc., corporations, their successors and assigns, and their officers; Clara McDermott, individuallly and as an officer and director of CJM, Inc.; Craig Tillotson, individually and as an officer and director of CST Management, Inc.; Craig Bryson, individually and as an officer and director of CK&C, Inc., and respondents' agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any partnerships, corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device, do forthwith cease and desist from: A. Representing, in any manner, directly by implication, in connection with the advertising, packaging, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale or distribution of Nutriol Hair Fitness Preparation (``Nutriol''), or any substantially similar hair loss treatment product or service in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, that: 1. The use of the product or service can or will stop, prevent, cure, relieve, reverse or reduce hair loss; 2. The use of the product or service can or will promote the growth of hair where hair has already been lost; 3. The product or service is as effective drug Minoxidil in the treatment of hair loss; or 4. Competent and reliable data show that the product or service is effective in stopping hair loss and promoting hair growth. B. Representing, in any manner, directly or by implication, in connection with the advertising, packaging, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale or distribution of any other product or service in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, that: 1. The use of the product or service can or will stop, prevent, cure, relieve, reverse or reduce hair loss; 2. The use of the product or service can or will promote the growth of hair when hair has already been lost; 3. The product or service is as effective as, or more effective than, any other product or service is the treatment of hair loss; or 4. Competent and reliable data show that the product or service is effective in stopping loss and promoting hair growth, unless such representation is true and, at the time of making such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. C. Advertising, packaging, labeling, promoting, offering for sale, selling, or distributing any product that is represented as promoting hair growth or preventing hair loss, unless the product is the subject of an approved new drug application for such purpose under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 301 et seq ., provided that, this subpart shall not limit the requirements of part I.A and B herein. II It is further ordered, That respondents Nu Skin, CJM, Inc., CST Management, Inc., and CK&C, Inc., corporations, their successors and assigns, and their officers; Clara McDermott, individually and as an officer and director of CJM, Inc.; Craig Tillotson, individually and as an officer and a director of CST Management, Inc.; Craig Bryson, individually and as an officer and director of CK&C, Inc., and respondents' agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any partnership, corporation, sudsidiary, division, or other device, do forthwith cease and desist from: A. Representing, in any manner, directly or by implication, in connection with the advertising, packaging, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale or distribution of Fact Lift with Activator (``Face Lift''), or any substantially similar facial treatment product or service in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, that:
