FR940921-0-00067 FR940921-0-00016 (ii) Separate exhaust emission deterioration factors, determined from tests of engines, subsystems or components conducted by the manufacturer, shall be supplied for each engine-system combination. For Otto-cycle engines, separate factors shall be established for transient HC, OMHCE or NMHC as appropriate, CO and NO X ; and idle CO, for those engines utilizing aftertreatment technology (e.g., catalytic converters). For diesel engines, separate factors shall be established for transient HC, OMHCE or NMHC as appropriate, CO, NO X and exhaust particulate. For diesel smoke testing, separate factors shall also be established for the acceleration mode (designated as ``A''), the lugging mode (designated as ``B''), and peak opacity (designated as ``C''). (iii)(A) *␣*␣*␣ ( 1 ) Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines not utilizing aftertreatment technology (e.g., catalytic converters). For transient HC, OMHCE or NMHC as appropriate, CO and NO X , the official exhaust emission results for each emission-data engine at the selected test point shall be adjusted by the addition of the appropriate deterioration factor. However, if the deterioration factor supplied by the manufacturer is less than zero, it shall be zero for the purposes of this paragraph. ( 2 ) Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines utilizing aftertreatment technology (e.g., catalytic converters). For transient HC, OMHCE or NMHC as appropriate, CO and NO X , and for idle CO, the official exhaust emission results for each emission-data engine at the selected test point shall be adjusted by multiplication by the appropriate deterioration factor. However, if the deterioration factor supplied by the manufacturer is less than one, it shall be one for the purposes of this paragraph. (B) *␣*␣*␣ ( 1 ) Diesel heavy-duty engines not utilizing aftertreatment technology (e.g., particulate traps). For transient HC, OMHCE or NMHC as appropriate, CO, NO X and exhaust particulate, the official exhaust emission results for each emission-data engine at the selected test point shall be adjusted by the addition of the appropriate deterioration factor. However, if the deterioration factor supplied by the manufacturer is less than zero, it shall be zero for the purposes of this paragraph. ( 2 ) Diesel heavy-duty engines utilizing aftertreatment technology (e.g., particulate traps). For transient HC, OMHCE or NMHC as appropriate, CO, NO X and exhaust particulate, the official exhaust emission results for each emission-data engine at the selected test point shall be adjusted by multiplication by the appropriate deterioration factor. However, if the deterioration factor supplied by the manufacturer is less than one, it shall be one for the purposes of this paragraph. * * * * * (d)(1) Paragraph (d) of this section applies to heavy-duty vehicles required to comply with evaporative emission standards. * * * * * 17. Section 86.092&hyph;1 of subpart A is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §86.092&hyph;1 General applicability. (a) The provisions of this subpart apply to 1992 and later model year new Otto-cycle and diesel light-duty vehicles, 1992 and later model year new Otto-cycle and diesel light-duty trucks, and 1992 and later model year new Otto-cycle and diesel heavy-duty engines. The provisions of this subpart are optional for vehicles fueled with either natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas for the 1994 through 1996 model years. The provisions of this subpart also apply to aftermarket conversions of all model year Otto-cycle and diesel light-duty vehicles, Otto-cycle and diesel light-duty trucks, and Otto-cycle and diesel heavy-duty engines certified under the provisions of 40 CFR Part 85, Subpart F. * * * * *
