FR940926-2-00084 FR940926-2-00071 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34688; International Series Release No. 716; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;31] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. Relating to Substituting Component Securities of the CBOE Mexico Index. September 20, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 notice is hereby given that on September 2, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). I. Self Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The CBOE seeks authority to replace one component security in the CBOE Mexico Index (``Mexico Index'' or ``Index''), with a closed-end country fund. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, CBOE, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The CBOE has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The Mexico Index, on which options are currently traded on the Exchange, is composed of stocks and American Depositary Receipts (``ADRs'') representing ten Mexican companies. 3 The Index meets the generic criteria for listing options set forth in CBOE Rule 24.2. The Exchange is not proposing that the Commission grant the Exchange the authority to replace a component security in the Index with the Mexico Fund, a closed-end fund consisting of Mexican securities, if the Exchange decides that such a substitution is necessary or desirable. The CBOE will not replace any component security with the Mexico Fund unless after such substitution the Index will continue to meet the initial listing and maintenance criteria specified in CBOE Rule 24.2. The purpose of such a substitution would be to make the Index more attractive to investors and to facilitate hedging of the Index by substituting a more liquid component. 3 The Mexico Index is a narrow-based, equal dollar-weighted index. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34241 (June 22, 1994) 59 FR 33557 (June 29, 1994). The Exchange expects that the substitution of the Mexico Fund for a component security in the Index could achieve these purposes for at least two reasons. First, the CBOE believes, the Index will become more representative of the Mexican economy because the Mexico Fund is composed of numerous Mexican securities representative of diverse sectors of the Mexican economy. Second, the Exchange believes, the substitution will enhance liquidity of the components of the Index to the extent that the Mexico Fund replaces a component security that maintains a lower monthly trading volume. Based on average monthly trading through August 31, 1994, the Exchange represents that the Mexico Fund has historically experienced a greater monthly trading volume than at least half of the component securities that currently comprise the Index. Although the Mexico Fund is not currently eligible for equity options, it meets all criteria that component securities of the Index are required to satisfy. First, the Mexico Fund had a market value of $1,187,567,000 as of August 1, 1994, which is far in excess of the initial listing and maintenance criterion requiring minimum market capitalization of at least $75,000,000. Also, the Mexico Fund had average monthly trading volume of 5.4 million shares for the six month period through July 1994. The monthly trading volume did not drop below 2.8 million shares during that period. The substitution of the Mexico Fund for a component security in the Index would also be consistent with the initial listing and maintenance criterion that no component security of the Index account for in excess of 25% of the weight of the Index. Even though the Mexico Fund may contain common stocks and ADRs that are also components of the Index, because the Index is equal dollar-weighted, the Mexico Fund will comprise 10% of the weight of the Index immediately following each quarterly rebalancing of the Index. As a result, even if it were possible for the Mexico Fund to consist entirely of another Index component security, that component security could at most constitute 20% of the weight of the Index immediately following each quarterly rebalancing of the Index, below the 25% specified in the initial listing and maintenance criteria for the Index. Finally, the Exchange will not substitute the Mexico Fund for a component security of the Index unless securities representing at least 90% of the Index by weight and 80% of the Index by number of components will continue to be eligible for the trading of equity options under CBOE Rule 5.3, as required by the initial listing and maintenance criteria for the Index. The Mexico Fund currently is not eligible for the trading of equity options. Because one component of the Mexico Fund, Grupo Financiero Serfin SA de CV (``Grupo Serfin'') also is not options eligible, in order to remain in compliance with the listing standards, the Exchange presently could substitute the Mexico Fund only for Grupo Serfin. If in the future, however, Grupo Serfin or the Mexico Fund become options eligible, the Exchange could substitute the Mexico Fund for another component security and remain in compliance with the maintenance standards for the Index.
