FR940325-0-00040 FR940325-0-00009 (i) Each of the three primary intended service classes for heavy-duty diesel engines, as defined in ยง86.090&hyph;2, constitute an averaging set. Averaging and trading among all diesel cycle engine families within the same primary service class is allowed. (ii) Urban buses are treated as members of the primary intended service class where they would otherwise fall. (e) Averaging sets for particulate emission credits. The averaging and trading of particulate emission credits will only be allowed between diesel cycle heavy-duty engine families in the same averaging set and in the same regional category. Engines produced for sale in California constitute a separate regional category than engines produced for sale in the other 49 states. Banking and trading are not applicable to engines sold in California. The averaging sets for the averaging and trading of particulate emission credits for diesel cycle heavy-duty engines are defined as follows: (1) Engines intended for use in urban buses constitute a separate averaging set from all other heavy-duty engines. Averaging and trading among all diesel cycle bus engine families is allowed. (2) For heavy-duty engines, exclusive of urban bus engines, each of the three primary intended service classes for heavy-duty diesel cycle engines, as defined in ยง86.090&hyph;2, constitute an averaging set. Averaging and trading between diesel cycle engine families within the same primary service class is allowed. (3) Otto-cycle engines may not participate in particulate averaging, trading, or banking. (f) Banking of NO X and particulate emission credits: (1) Credit deposits. (i) Under this phase of the banking program, emission credits may be banked from engine families produced during the three model years prior to the effective model year of the new HDE NO X or particulate emission standard. Credits may not be banked from engine families made during any other model years. (ii) Manufacturers may bank credits only after the end of the model year and after EPA has reviewed their end-of-year report. During the model year and before submittal of the end-of-year report, credits originally designated in the certification process for banking will be considered reserved and may be redesignated for trading or averaging. (2) Credit withdrawals. (i) After being generated, banked/reserved credits shall be available for use three model years prior to, through three model years immediately after the effective date of the new HDE NO X or particulate emission standard, as applicable. However, credits not used within the period specified above shall be forfeited. (ii) Manufacturers withdrawing banked emission credits shall indicate so during certification and in their credit reports, as described in ยง86.091&hyph;23. (3) Use of banked emission credits. The use of banked credits shall be within the averaging set and other restrictions described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, and only for the following purposes: (i) Banked credits may be used in averaging, trading, or in any combination thereof, during the certification period. Credits declared for banking from the previous model year but unreviewed by EPA may also be used. However, they may be revoked at a later time following EPA review of the end-of-year report or any subsequent audit actions. (ii) Banked credits may not be used for NO X or particulate averaging and trading to offset emissions that exceed an FEL. Banked credits may not be used to remedy an in-use nonconformity determined by a Selective Enforcement Audit or by recall testing. However, banked credits may be used for subsequent production of the engine family if the manufacturer elects to recertify to a higher FEL. (g) (1) For purposes of this paragraph (g), assume NO X and particulate nonconformance penalties (NCPs) will be available for the 1991 and later model year HDEs. (2) Engine families paying an NCP for noncompliance of any emission standard may not: (i) Participate in the averaging program, (ii) Generate emission credits for any pollutant under banking and trading, and (iii) Use emission credits for any pollutant from banking and trading. (3) If a manufacturer has any engine family to which application of NCPs and averaging, banking, and trading credits is desired, that family must be separated into two distinct families. One family, whose FEL equals the standard, must use NCPs only, while the other, whose FEL does not equal the standard, must use emission credits only.
