FR940712-1-00011 FR940712-1-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Part 46 RIN 0581&hyph;AB28 [Docket No. FV93&hyph;353] Regulations (Other Than Rules of Practice) Under the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, 1930 (PACA) AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service (USDA). ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would invite comments extending PACA coverage to include fresh and frozen fruits and vegetables that are oil-blanched, including frozen french fried potato products. Under previous regulations, suppliers of these commodities suffered considerable financial losses because oil-blanched products were excluded from the PACA. This proposed rule would grant dealers in frozen oil-blanched products the same rights afforded dealers whose frozen product is water blanched. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning this proposed rule should be addressed to USDA, AMS, F&V DIVISION, PACA BRANCH, Room 2095&hyph;S. Building, P.O. Box 96456, 14th & Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20090&hyph;6456. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: J.R. Frazier, Assistant Chief, PACA Branch, at 202&hyph;720&hyph;4180. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of Agriculture is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. It is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule will not preempt any State or local laws, regulation, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under Section 1650 of the Act, a person subject to the Plan may file a petition with the Secretary stating that the Plan or any provision of the Plan, or any obligation imposed in connection with the Plan, is not in accordance with law and requesting a modification of the Plan or an exemption from the Plan. The petitioner is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After such hearing, the Secretary will make a ruling on the petition. The Act provides that the district courts of the United States in any district in which a person who is a petitioner resides or carries on business are vested with jurisdiction to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, if a complaint for that purpose is filed within 20 days after the date of the entry of the ruling. Pursuant to requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this rule on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. The proposed rule would extend PACA coverage to include frozen fruits and vegetables that are oil-blanched, especially frozen french fried potato products. Under previous regulations, suppliers of these commodities suffered considerable financial losses because oil-blanched products were excluded from the PACA. This proposed rule would grant dealers in frozen oil-blanched products the same rights afforded dealers whose frozen product is water blanched. The PACA establishes a code of fair trading by prohibiting certain unfair practices in the marketing of fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables. The law requires that parties fulfill their contractual obligations, and provides a forum wherein persons who suffer damages can recover their losses. The PACA also impresses a statutory trust, for the benefit of unpaid sellers or suppliers, on all perishable agricultural commodities received by a commission merchant, dealer or broker and all inventories of food or other products derived from the sale of such commodities or products. Sellers who preserve their eligibility are entitled to payment ahead of other creditors, from trust assets of money owed on past due accounts. As indicated in documents submitted to this Agency by the Frozen Potato Products Institute, frozen potato products represent the largest single frozen commodity shipped in the United States. These documents further state that potatoes cannot be economically frozen and shipped long distances unless they first undergo oil blanching. To exclude such a substantial portion of the frozen food industry is inconsistent with the intent of the PACA to protect dealers in fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 46 Agricultural commodities, Brokers, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR Part 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 46_REGULATIONS (OTHER THAN RULES OF PRACTICE) UNDER THE PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930 1. The authority citation for Part 46 continues to read as follows: Authority: Sec. 15, 46 Stat. 537; 7 U.S.C. 499o. 2. Section 46.2, paragraph (u) is revised to read as follows: ยง46.2 Definitions. * * * * * (u) Fresh fruits and fresh vegetables include all produce in fresh form generally considered as perishable fruits and vegetables, whether or not packed in ice or held in common or cold storage, but do not include those perishable fruits and vegetables which have been manufactured into articles of food of a different kind or character. The effects of the following operations shall not be considered as changing a commodity into a food of a different kind or character: Water, steam, or oil blanching, chopping, color adding, curing, cutting, dicing, drying for the removal of surface moisture; fumigating, gassing, heating for insect control, ripening and coloring; removal of seeds, pits, stems, calyx, husk, pods, rind, skin, peel, et cetera; polishing, precooling, refrigerating, shredding, slicing, trimming, washing with or without chemicals; waxing, adding of sugar or other sweetening agents; adding ascorbic acid or other agents used to retard oxidation; mixing of several kinds of sliced, chopped, or diced fruits or vegetables for packaging in any type of containers; or comparable methods of preparation. * * * * * Dated: July 6, 1994. Eric M. Forman, Acting Director, Fruit and Vegetable Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16758 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
