FR941216-2-00073 FR941216-2-00043 The pH shall be monitored once every month by grab sample, or continuously with a recorder. (See item I.B.4). In accordance with FAC §62&hyph;302.500(1)(a-c), the discharge shall at all times be free from floating solids, visible foam, turbidity, or visible oil in such amounts as to form nuisances on surface waters. Samples taken in compliance with the monitoring requirements specified above shall be taken at the following location(s): nearest accessible point after final treatment but prior to actual discharge or mixing with the receiving waters. A. Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Requirements 3. During the period beginning on the effective date of the permit and lasting through the term of this permit, the permittee is authorized to discharge produced groundwater from any noncontaminated site activity which discharges by a point source to waters of the United States, only if the reported values for the parameters listed below do not exceed any of the screening values below. Before discharge of produced groundwater can occur from such sites, analytical tests on samples of the untreated proposed discharge water shall be performed to determine if contamination exists from other sources. The following are the minimum reporting requirements for all produced groundwater dischargers which have acceptable screening value results as described below: The effluent shall be sampled at the final effluent within thirty (30) days after commencement of discharge and once every six months for the life of the project to maintain continued coverage under this general permit. The effluent shall be sampled for the parameters listed below and the analytical results obtained shall be submitted to EPA at the address given in Part III.A. ␣ 1Parameter 1Daily maximum Total Organic Carbon Report, mg/l. pH Report, standard units Total Recoverable Mercury Report, m g/l. Total Recoverable Cadmium Report, m g/l. Total Recoverable Copper Report, m g/l. Total Recoverable Lead Report, m g/l. Total Recoverable Zinc Report, m g/l. Total Recoverable Chromium (Hex.) Report, m g/l. Benzene Report, m g/l. Naphthalene Report, m g/l. Reported analytical test results for the parameters listed above exceeding any of the screening values listed below shall be considered an indication of contamination from sources other than petroleum fuels: ␣ 1Indicator if discharge is into 1Parameter 2Fresh waters 2Marine waters Total Organic Carbon 10.0 mg/l 10.0 mg/l pH, SU's 6.0&hyph;8.5 6.5&hyph;8.5 Total Recoverable Mercury 0.012 m g/l 0.025 m g/l Total Recoverable Cadmium 9.3 m g/l 9.3 m g/l Total Recoverable Copper 2.9 m g/l 2.9 m g/l Total Recoverable Lead 0.03 mg/l 5.6 m g/l Total Recoverable Zinc 86.0 m g/l 86.0 m g/l Total Recoverable Chromium (Hexavalent) 11.0 m g/l 50.0 m g/l Benzene 1.0 m g/l 1.0 m g/l Naphthalene 100.0 m g/l 100.0 m g/l If at any time during discharge, the effluent exceeds these screening values, EPA may require the facility to cease discharge. If any of the analytical test results, (except TOC, benzene or naphthalene), exceed the above screening values, discharge is not authorized by this permit. See paragraph I.A.(3)(b) for further guidance. For excessive benzene or naphthalene concentrations, see Part A.(3)(a) below. For initial excessive TOC values that may be caused by naturally-occurring, high molecular weight organic compounds, the permittee may request to be exempted from the TOC requirement by submitting additional information with the NOI which describes the method used to exclude these naturally ocurring compounds. In accordance with FAC 62&hyph;302.500(1)(a-c), the discharge shall at all times be free from floating solids, visible foam, turbidity, or visible oil in such amounts as to form nuisances on surface waters.
