FR940822-1-00023 FR940822-1-00006 NRC held rulemaking workshops in Chicago, IL; San Francisco, CA; Boston, MA; Dallas, TX; Philadelphia, PA; Atlanta, GA; and Washington, DC between January and May 1993. The workshop comments have been summarized in NUREG/CR&hyph;6156, ``Summary of Comments Received from Workshops on Radiation Criteria for Decommissioning.'' This report summarizes 3,635 comments categorized from transcripts of the seven workshops and 1,677 comments from 100 NRC docketed letters from individuals and organizations. NUREG/CR&hyph;6156 merely catalogues the comments and viewpoints; no analysis or response to the comments is included. The comments reflect a broad spectrum of viewpoints on the issues related to radiological criteria for decommissioning and associated subjects. The comments show little evidence of general agreement on issues except that most parties appear to agree that (1) the rulemaking should proceed and (2) the Commission's activities in decommissioning should recognize that it is not reasonable to expect all nuclear facilities to be remediated to a level that permits termination of the license and release of the facility for unrestricted use. While a number of additional themes emerged from the workshops, these themes cannot be characterized as having the general agreement of all of the workshop and meeting participants. Transcripts of the workshops and scoping meetings and copies of related letters are available for inspection or copying for a fee in the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW (Lower Level), Washington, DC. The NRC also held public meetings on the scope of the GEIS during July 1993 in Washington, DC; San Francisco, CA; Oklahoma City, OK; and Cleveland, OH. Comments from these meetings were reviewed and comments which differed substantially from those from the workshops are also summarized in the body of NUREG/CR&hyph;6156. A summary of all of the comments from the GEIS scoping meetings is included as Appendix E to the GEIS. Summary and Discussion of Comments 1. Need For and Scope of Rule Comment. Almost all commenters supported the NRC's plans to develop radiological decommissioning standards and recommended that the rulemaking go forward expeditiously. Some commenters recommended that the NRC consider and possibly establish both radiological and chemical decommissioning standards. Most commenters stated that the NRC should establish standards for both unrestricted and restricted release of sites. Response. The NRC is proceeding with a rulemaking which will establish radiological criteria for decommissioning. NRC's schedule calls for issuance of a final rule by May 1995. NRC's authority is limited by law primarily to ensuring protection of the public health and safety from radiological and nuclear hazards associated with source, special nuclear, and byproduct material. NRC has refrained from extending its reach to address non-radiological hazards except where specifically authorized by Congress (e.g., uranium mill tailings) or where these hazards would not otherwise be adequately controlled because of a regulatory void. Consequently, NRC is not proposing to include provisions in the radiological criteria to address non-radiological hazards. Although the rule would not establish criteria for disposition of nonradioactive hazardous and other wastes, licensees are reminded that they must continue to meet applicable Federal, State, and local standards for disposition of these wastes. The proposed rule provides for both unrestricted release and restricted termination of the license. If a licensee cannot satisfy the conditions for license termination, the license will not be terminated. 2. Basis for Radiological Criteria Comment. Several commenters recommended that NRC decommissioning standards be based on and be consistent with the scientific information and advice of such organizations as the National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements (NCRP) and the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP). One commenter suggested that the NRC should determine whether the standards are to be technologically-based or politically-based; if the latter, do not waste time on technological input. Response. It should be noted that the NRC and its predecessor agency, the Atomic Energy Commission, have generally followed the basic radiation protection recommendations of the ICRP; its U.S. counterpart, the NCRP; and the EPA Draft Federal Radiation Protection Guidance for Exposure to the General public in formulating basic radiation protection standards. Recommendations of the ICRP and the NCRP were relied on in the revised ``Standards for Protection Against Radiation,'' which was published May 21, 1991 (56 FR 233360), and implemented by licensees on or before January 1, 1994. The proposed radiological criteria for decommissioning continues this practice but the proposed rule also recognizes the public's interest in and potential for contributing to the decommissioning process. The public's involvement through participating in the development of the criteria in this rulemaking, opportunities for review of decommissioning plans, as well as through participation on Site-Specific Advisory Boards as specified in this rule are expected to aid in the conduct of a decommissioning program that is understandable, technologically sound, and responsive to the concerns of affected parties. Comment. Several commenters recommended that the NRC consider adopting a risk limit standard equating to a radiation dose of 25 to 100 millirem per year. According to two commenters, a 100 millirem per year limit would increase the cancer risk in the population only slightly above its normal incidence rate. One commenter believes that radiation damage per unit of exposure may increase at smaller doses. Other commenters stated that there may be a threshold for radiation effects and that there may be no adverse health effects at low radiation levels. Response. In the Supplementary Information for the revised ``Standards for Protection Against Radiation,'' the NRC stated that the standards are based upon the assumptions that: (1) Within the range of exposure conditions usually encountered in radiation work, there is a linear relationship, without threshold, between dose and probability of occurrence of stochastic (random) health effects such as latent cancer and genetic effects; (2) The severity of each type of stochastic health effect is independent of dose; and (3) Nonstochastic (nonrandom) radiation-induced health effects can be prevented by limiting exposures so that doses are below the thresholds for their induction.
