FR940426-1-00059 FR940426-1-00006 Subpart E_Exclusion §6.151 Exclusion, in general. (a) Exclusion, in whole or in part occurs: (1) When a practice by an industry member, whether direct, indirect, or through an affiliate, places retailer independence at risk by means of a tie or link between the industry member and retailer or by any other means of industry member control over the retailer, and (2) Such practice results in the retailer purchasing less than it would have of a competitor's product. (b) Section 6.152 lists practices that create a tie or link that places retailer independence at risk. Section 6.153 lists the criteria used for determining whether other practices can put retailer independence at risk. §6.152 Practices which put retailer independence at risk. The practices specified in this section put retailer independence at risk. The practices specified here are examples and do not constitute a complete list of those practices that put retailer independence at risk. (a) The act by an industry member of resetting stock on a retailer's premises (other than stock offered for sale by the industry member). (b) The act by an industry member of purchasing or renting specific shelf space ( e.g., slotting allowance) where such purchase reduces the availability on other shelf space of the distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages of another industry member. (c) Ownership by an industry member of less than a 100 percent interest in a retailer. (d) The act by an industry member of requiring a retailer to purchase one alcoholic beverage product in order to be allowed to purchase another alcoholic beverage product at the same time. §6.153 Criteria for determining retailer independence. The criteria specified in this section are indications that a particular practice, other than those in §6.152, places retailer independence at risk. A practice need not meet all of the criteria specified in this section in order to place retailer independence at risk. (a) The practice restricts or hampers the free economic choice of a retailer to decide which products to purchase and the quantity in which to purchase them for sale to consumers. (b) The industry member obligates the retailer to participate in the promotion to obtain the industry member's product. (c) The retailer has a continuing obligation to purchase or otherwise promote the industry member's product. (d) The retailer has a commitment not to terminate its relationship with the industry member with respect to purchase of the industry member's products. (e) The practice involves the industry member in the day-to-day operations of the retailer. For example, the industry member controls the retailer's decisions on which brand of products to purchase, the pricing of products, or the manner in which the products will be displayed on the retailer's premises. (f) The practice is discriminatory in that it is not offered to all retailers in the local market on the same terms without business reasons present to justify the difference in treatment. PART 8_EXCLUSIVE OUTLETS Par. 42&hyph;43. The authority citation for part 8 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 49&hyph;50; 27 U.S.C. 202 and 205; 44 U.S.C. 3504(h). Par. 44. Section 8.1 is revised to read as follows: §8.1 General. The regulations in this part, issued pursuant to section 105 of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 205), specify arrangements which are exclusive outlets under section 105(a) and criteria for determining whether a practice is a violation of section 105(a). This part does not attempt to enumerate all of the practices prohibited by section 105(a) of the Act. Nothing in this part shall operate to exempt any person from the requirements of any State law or regulation. Par. 45. Section 8.5 is added to subpart A to read as follows: §8.5 Administrative provisions. (a) General. The Act makes applicable the provisions including penalties of sections 49 and 50 of Title 15, United States Code, to the jurisdiction, powers and duties of the Director under this Act, and to any person (whether or not a corporation) subject to the provisions of law administered by the Director under this Act. (b) Examination and subpoena. The Director or any authorized ATF officers shall at all reasonable times have access to, for the purpose of examination, and the right to copy any documentary evidence of any person, partnership, or corporation being investigated or proceeded against; and the Director shall have the power to require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of all such documentary evidence relating to any matter under investigation.
