FR941207-0-00009 FR941207-0-00002 Under the current regulations, it is often difficult to determine if donated food is used to produce meals for the appropriate recipient agency and if the value of the donated food is reflected in a reduction of the food service management companies' fees to the recipient agencies. Because these companies are exempt from the processing regulations, there is little the distributing agency or recipient agency can do to monitor commodity inventories. Based on the reasons set forth in the preamble to the proposed rule and the overwhelming response from commenters in favor of the proposal, the blanket exclusion of food service management companies from the State processing regulations is eliminated from the section 250.3 definition of ``processor'' and §250.30(a). Thirty-three comments were received regarding the proposed change to the definition of ``processor'' to exempt any commercial enterprises which handle, prepare and/or serve products or meals containing donated foods on-site solely for the individual recipient agency under contract. Thirty-two commenters were opposed to this change, primarily as it applied to recipient agencies. Of this number, twenty-five commenters believed that all recipient agencies providing meals to other recipient agencies, whether on-site or off-site, should be exempt from the processor requirements of Part 250. Several commenters stated that the use of commodities could be monitored satisfactorily through existing food distribution review standards. Another commenter stated that recipient agencies should be exempt from this requirement if they provide for accountability and value pass-through for the donated food. This commenter stated that this could be accomplished by ensuring that funds obtained from meals furnished to other recipient agencies are deposited into the recipient agency's food service account. Other commenters stated that the proposed rule defining a school food authority which provides meals to summer feeding programs, child and adult day care centers, senior citizens and others as a processor is not practical. One commenter stated that the definition could be corrected by adding a sentence to the definition that donated food recipient agencies which prepare their own meals on-site and prepare meals for other recipient agencies at the same location are also exempt from this definition. One commenter stated that schools and child care centers should not be classified as commercial food service management companies if they are eligible for participation as recipient agencies in child nutrition programs. The Department believes that many of the commenters' responses were based on the discussion in the preamble of the proposed rule which dealt with situations in which one recipient agency prepares meals for another recipient agency. A recipient agency which prepares meals for other recipient agencies is a food service management company under the definition in §250.3. The preamble stated that the Department believes that where a nonprofit recipient agency, such as a school food authority, prepares products or meals containing donated foods for more than one recipient agency under more than one contract in the same facility or prepares products or meals for any one recipient agency off-site, that recipient agency is operating as a commercial food service management company and must comply with the processing provisions of Part 250 pursuant to the proposed changes to the definition of ``processor'' in §250.3. The majority of the commenters stated that recipient agencies that prepare meals for other recipient agencies should be exempt from being defined as a processor. Based on the concerns raised by the commenters, however, the definition of ``processor'' in §250.3 of this final rule is amended to provide that recipient agencies which prepare products or meals containing donated foods for more than one recipient agency under more that one contract in the same facility or prepare products or meals for any one recipient agency off-site are excluded from the definition of ``processor'' if the recipient agency preparing products or meals can provide accountability for any donated foods received from another recipient agency in accordance with §250.16 of the Food Distribution Program regulations and any funds received as payment for preparing products or meals shall be deposited in the meal account of the recipient agency preparing the products or meals. Fee-for-Service Section 250.3 of the proposed rule would define the term ``fee-for-service'' and delete the obsolete definition of ``processing fee''. Sections 250.30 (d) and (e) of the proposed rule would be reorganized to clarify refund, discount, hybrid and alternate value pass-through systems and to incorporate procedures for billing fee-for-service end products. Additionally, under §250.30(c)(4)(viii)(D) of the proposed rule the processing contract would require those processors who wished to give credit for by-products via a reduction in the fee-for-service price to identify in the contract the specific dollar value amount reflected in the lowered price. Under §250.30(e)(3) of the proposed rule, end products containing meat or poultry, together with any other donated food, would be prohibited from being delivered and sold to recipient agencies through distributors under fee-for-service contracts. The proposed rule would allow end products containing meat or poultry and additional ingredients which are not donated foods, to be sold to recipient agencies through distributors under fee-for-service contracts. The proposed rule would also permit end products containing meat or poultry, together with other donated food sold directly to recipient agencies by the processor, to be sold under fee-for-service contracts. FCS was particularly interested in comments and recommendations regarding the impact this proposal would have on any products which were manufactured using a combination of meat and poultry and other donated food and sold through distributors and possible alternatives to the proposed rule on this point. A total of fifteen comments was received on the above proposals. Eight commenters responded to the proposed definition of ``fee-for-service.'' Four of these commenters agreed with the definition as it was proposed. The remaining four commenters stated that the definition needed to be expanded. Three of the commenters in favor of expansion stated that the fee-for-service price and the free on board (FOB) plant price are the same prices and this should be reflected in the final rule. They stated that the FOB price is the actual cost of producing the end product, and that this price should be the same for all States; the only difference in price would be the cost of transportation to deliver the finished end products back to each State. These same commenters said that this concept would mean that each processor would only have to prepare one end product data schedule for the entire nation. This action would make the idea of a clearinghouse for end product data schedules become a reality. The other commenter wanted the definition of fee-for-service expanded to clearly state that it is a method of payment for processing services and is an alternative to a value pass-through system, in addition to being the price representing the processor's cost of ingredients, packaging, and overhead.
