FR941207-2-00083 FR941207-2-00062 Chicago Match market makers will be paid 1/8 of a cent per share, per order, when they do not participate in a cross in their issue so long as the liquidity parameter entered by the Chicago Match market maker is within a pre-determined range. 34 This 1/8 of a cent per share fee will be paid by the Exchange out of the 1/2 cent or 2 cent user fee it will receive from users of the Chicago Match. The Exchange believes that this will provide the Chicago Match market maker with an incentive to provide guarantees. 35 34 This range will be determined by the CHX. The Chicago Match Rules provide that the CHX will pay the market maker responsible for the order with the highest priority liquidity fee or credit $.00125 per share for each order executed in Chicago Match, other than orders entered from the specialist's book and other than orders of other Chicago Match market makers. See proposed Rule 15(c) of Article XXXVII. 35 In the event that there is more than one market maker in an issue, that 1/8 of a cent per share fee will be paid to the Chicago Match market maker that enters the highest liquidity fee or lowest liquidity credit. If more than one Chicago Match market enters the same fee or credit, such fee will be pro-rated. An additional exchange fee will be imposed on all users equal to the liquidity fee to be paid with respect to a particular order, and an exchange credit will occur that is equal to the liquidity credit to be received. The clearing broker will collect all fees from institutions and submit the appropriate amounts to the MCC. In turn, MCC will pay the appropriate amounts to clearing brokers for forwarding to institutions. G. Reporting Those orders that have been executed in the cross will be transmitted in a timely manner by Chicago Match to the Exchange for recordation and reporting to the Consolidated Tape. The CHX will report trades to the Consolidated Tape or Nasdaq, with one trade report for each stock executed in the Chicago Match. That trade report will include the total number of shares executed in that stock and a price equal to the cross price plus (or minus) the volume weighted average of liquidity fees paid (or liquidity credit received) for that stock. Trades will then be cleared by the designated clearing firm. After receiving an execution report, users will be able to reallocate trades to different clearing brokers, if desired. Immediately after the cross, users will be notified if their orders have been executed. If an order was not executed, the user may receive a ``near match'' administrative message, described above. H. Trading Halts The Chicago Match rules provides that in the event of a halt in trading pursuant to CHX Article IX, Rule 10A (trading halts due to extraordinary market volatility), 36 the Exchange may delay the cross time until trading is permitted under that rule. 37 36 CHX Article IX, Rule 10A. 37 Trading in the Chicago Match will, under all circumstances, be halted in accordance with the provisions of CHX Article IX, Rule 10A. I. Short Sales In order to ensure that an order to sell short will have no market impact, no order to sell short will be permitted to be executed if it includes a liquidity fee. Liquidity credits, however, will be allowed. 38 38 Rules 3b-3 and 10a-1 under the Act govern short-sale activities. The CHX requested short-sale relief which was granted separately by the Division of Market Regulation by way of exemptive letter from Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to George T. Simon, dated November 30, 1994, (``Exemptive Letter''). J. Surveillance To protect against any potentially manipulative activity, the Exchange will, among other surveillance procedures, monitor quote changes prior to the match and shortly thereafter to identify unusual trading activity. In addition, by varying the cross time each day, the Chicago Match was designed to make it inherently more difficult to manipulate the Consolidated Best Bid and Offer in order to receive a more favorable execution. III. Comments and the CHX Response to Comments A. The NYSE's First Comment Letter The Commission received two comment letters on the proposal from the NYSE recommending that the Commission disapprove the creation of Chicago Match. The first NYSE comment letter, submitted before publication of the amendments to the CHX proposal, summarizes the Chicago Match, raises concerns about investors' orders, and discusses why the NYSE believes the CHX proposal is inconsistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act regarding the national market system's (``NMS'') disclosure and market integration requirements. 39 The NYSE asserts that the Chicago Match would be a facility of the CHX, a national securities exchange, and as such, the Commission cannot approve the proposal unless it concludes that the Chicago Match is consistent with Sections 6 and 11A of the Exchange Act. 40 The NYSE asserts that the Chicago Match is not a passive order crossing system but rather a private auction being conducted outside existing exchange facilities that are designed to protect investors. 39 Letter from James E. Buck, Senior Vice President and Secretary, NYSE, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, dated May 2, 1994 (``NYSE Letter No. 1''). 40 Section 6 of the Exchange Act governs the activities of national securities exchanges and it sets conditions for registration as a national securities exchange. Section 11A of the Exchange Act governs the national market system for securities and securities information processors. 15 U.S.C. ยง78(f) and (k) (1988). The NYSE also believes that the CHX is attempting to operate a form of ``proprietary trading system'' (``PTS'') or exempt exchange. The NYSE states that the Commission has limited the operation of PTSs and refused to allow national securities exchanges to operate them. The NYSE asserts that if the Commission decides to approve the Chicago Match and applies the standards applicable to exempt exchanges and PTSs, it should do so only after a formal review of its PTS policy. The NYSE further asserts that if such review results in a change of Commission policy, the Commission should announce that all national securities exchanges are free to offer private systems outside existing NMS regulations. The NYSE expressed concern that the Chicago Match's failure to report the true price to the Consolidated Tape Association (``CTA'') would mislead investors. The NYSE asserts that the true price of the executions includes liquidity charges. 41 The NYSE disputes the CHX's characterization of the liquidity charges as ``fees,'' asserting that when one investor's payment is simply passed through to the investor on the other side of the trade, the payment is actually a part of the price of the security purchased. Thus, the NYSE asserts that the liquidity charges should be included in the price of the transaction. 42 41 The NYSE's comment is based on the original CHX filing, which would have effected trades at a single price based on the current inside quotation. The CHX would have reported this price to the CTA for dissemination to the investing public. 42 The NYSE further asserts that the CHX has acknowledged that the liquidity charges or fees are actually a part of the price in its Chicago Match marketing material. The NYSE states that the proposal raises two transparency concerns. First, the NYSE asserts that Exchange Act Rule 11Aa3&hyph;1 43 requires all exchanges to file a transaction reporting plan for securities traded through its facilities. Such plan must provide for the collection and dissemination of ``transaction reports'' that contain, inter alia, the price associated with a transaction in a security. The NYSE essentially argues that the original proposal left open the possibility of liquidity fees not being reported as a part of the price, thus violating Rule 11Aa3&hyph;1. 43 17 CFR 240.11Aa3&hyph;1 (1994).
