FR940114-1-00083 FR940114-1-00018 Proposed Regulatory Changes Section 682.202␣Permissible Charges by Lenders to Borrowers The proposed regulations would implement the requirements of section 427A of the HEA. The changes in this section include the creation of variable interest rates for new Stafford loan borrowers and the return of excess interest to certain Stafford loan borrowers. The Secretary estimates that lenders collectively will need an additional 250,000 hours to comply with the requirement that excess interest be returned to certain Stafford loan borrowers. This requirement is taken directly from the HEA. Section 682.208␣Due Diligence in Servicing a Loan The proposed regulations would implement the requirements of section 428(b)(2)(F) of the HEA. Under the regulations, in cases where the holder of the loan remains the same, but there is a servicing change that results in a change in the identity of the party to whom the borrower must send payments or direct communications, the Secretary would apply the same borrower notification requirements that are required by current regulations at 34 CFR 682.208(e) when a loan is sold or transferred. The Secretary does not view this requirement as one that imposes any additional burden because lenders and servicers already notify borrowers, as a normal business practice, whenever there is a servicing change that results in a change in the identity of the party to whom the borrower must send payments or direct communications. This requirement is taken directly from the HEA. Section 682.402␣Death, Disability, Closed School, False Certification, and Bankruptcy Payments The proposed regulations would implement the requirements of section 437 of the HEA. The regulations reflect the new statutory provision for cancellation of a parent's PLUS loan if the student for whom the parent borrowed died. This was not a subject of controversy at the regional meetings or during the negotiations. The proposed regulations implement the requirements of the HEA with regard to the discharge of a borrower's liability on an FFEL Program loan if the student was unable to complete an educational program because of the closure of the school. In developing criteria to be used to determine a borrower's eligibility for a closed school loan discharge, the Secretary believes that a student who completed his or her educational program by transferring academic credits or hours earned at the closed school to another school, or who completed the program through a teach-out of the educational program at a different school, should not qualify for a loan cancellation. The Secretary believes that the closed school discharge was intended to benefit students who could not complete their education because their school closed, and does not believe that a student who was able to complete the educational program for which the loan paid should be able to avoid repaying that loan. The Secretary is particularly interested in receiving public comment as to the appropriate treatment of a borrower's loan obligations if the educational program for which the loan was obtained was a multi-year program and the student was able to complete one or more years of that program. The Secretary also believes, contrary to the majority sentiment expressed at the regional meetings and by the negotiators, that a borrower should submit to the holder a sworn statement that demonstrates that the borrower is eligible for a closed school discharge to assist the Secretary or the Secretary's designees in pursuing claims against the closed school, and to secure the borrower s written commitment to the representations on which he or she seeks relief. The Secretary believes that an affidavit or sworn statement is essential in protecting the interests of the federal taxpayer, and therefore proposes that one be obtained from the student as a condition of loan discharge. By virtue of Federal law (28 U.S.C. 1746), this affidavit or statement need not be notarized, but the borrower must state in the document that the borrower makes the statement under penalty of perjury.
