FR940628-0-00055 FR940628-0-00018 Requirement 1. Accessible building entrance on an accessible route. Requirement 2. Accessible common and public use areas. Requirement 3. Usable doors (usable by a person in a wheelchair). Requirement 4. Accessible route into and through the dwelling unit. Requirement 5. Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other environmental controls in accessible locations. Requirement 6. Reinforced walls for grab bars. Requirement 7. Usable kitchens and bathrooms. The design specifications presented in the Guidelines are recommended guidelines only. Builders and developers may choose to depart from these guidelines and seek alternate ways to demonstrate that they have met the requirements of the Fair Housing Act. The Fair Housing Act and the Department's implementing regulation provides, for example, for use of the appropriate requirements of the ANSI A117.1 standard. However, adherence to the Guidelines does constitute a safe harbor in the Department's administrative enforcement process for compliance with the Fair Housing Act's design and construction requirements. Since publication of the Guidelines, the Department has received many questions regarding applicability of the design specifications set forth in the Guidelines to certain types of new multifamily dwellings and to certain types of interior housing designs. The Department also has received several questions concerning the types of new multifamily dwellings that are subject to compliance with the design and construction requirements of the Fair Housing Act. Given the wide variety in the types of multifamily dwellings and the types of dwelling units, and the continual introduction into the housing market of new building and interior designs, it was not possible for the Department to prepare accessibility guidelines that would address every housing type or housing design. Although the Guidelines cannot address every housing design, it is the Department's intention to assist the public in complying with the design and construction requirements of the Fair Housing Act through workshops and seminars, telephone assistance, written replies to written inquiries, and through the publication of documents such as this one. The Department has contracted for the preparation of a design manual that will further explain and illustrate the Fair Housing Act Accessibility Guidelines. The questions and answers set forth in this notice address the issues most frequently raised by the public with respect to types of multifamily dwellings subject to the design and construction requirements of the Fair Housing Act, and the technical specifications contained in the Guidelines. The question and answer format is divided into two sections. Section 1, entitled ``Dwellings Subject to the New Construction Requirements of the Fair Housing Act'' addresses the issues raised in connection with the types of multifamily dwellings (including portions of such dwellings) constructed for first occupancy after March 13, 1991, that must comply with the Act's design and construction requirements. Section 2, entitled ``Accessibility Guidelines,'' addresses the issues raised in connection with the design and construction specifications set forth in the Guidelines. Dated: March 23, 1994. Roberta Achtenberg, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. Accordingly, the Department adds the ``Questions and Answers about the Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines'' as Appendix IV to 24 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter A to read as follows:
