FR940505-1-00153 FR940505-1-00012 With respect to the second and third possible control approaches, several additional issues have been identified if military aircraft operations are included within the scope of a bubble program. EPA requests comment on the following issues. If emissions from aircraft are included, a fee system based on an emission rate target (i.e., the third approach), consistent with the proposed strategy for commercial airlines, or a variation of the second approach but with a fee for emissions in excess of the cap, may be more equitable and desirable than an absolute emissions cap that applies uniquely to military aviation. Emissions that exceed the emissions target would be subject to emission fees instead of an enforcement-related fine or penalty. The emission target would apply to air emissions only during the ozone season in each FIP area. The method of determining the excess emissions and the resulting fee would be addressed in subsequent rulemaking. Another issue identified involves the method of allotting the emission caps or emission rate targets by the EPA. To be most effective, the DOD Working Group recommends that any caps on total emissions, targets for total emissions, or emission rate targets which include aircraft emissions be allocated to the individual Military Departments. Each Military Department will be responsible for attaining the target for installations under its control. This system is consistent with existing DOD command structure and can be readily implemented. Trading between Military Departments and between installations is proposed. Trading is applicable only to installations within the same FIP area. To reduce the potential impact on aircraft operations of an emissions cap or emission rate target which includes aircraft emissions, the DOD working group identified as essential the ability to trade excess emission reductions between stationary and mobile sources. Maximum flexibility and minimal operational impacts can be achieved by allowing trading between stationary and mobile sources, in addition to trading between all types of military installations within the same FIP area. In other words, major reductions or elimination of a stationary source may allow continued essential flight operations. EPA acknowledges this concern and supports such trading programs as created by State and local governments as discussed elsewhere in today's proposal. Of particular concern to the Navy with respect to the second and third options identified above is the inclusion of Naval Auxiliary Landing Field San Clemente Island (SCI) in the list of military air installations regulated by the FIP. SCI is an isolated and remote area, with few emissions sources, either mobile or stationary, other than aircraft. The impact on aircraft operations will be substantial, as almost the entire amount of required reductions will have to be a result of decreased aircraft operations. SCI is the primary training location for Navy pilots prior to carrier deployment. This training is vital and represents a significant military readiness issue. SCI is located 55 miles southwest of Long Beach. Meteorological data indicates that SCI emissions do not impact the South Coast Air Basin, and at best the contribution of air emissions from SCI to the South Coast air quality is not well defined. Consistent with EPA's request for comment on exempting Sacramento and Ventura areas from the FIP commercial airport requirements, EPA also requests comments on exempting emissions from on or near San Clemente Island from the FIP control strategy, if aircraft are ultimately included in the final rule. The proposed emission reduction requirements under a bubble concept for military air bases_regardless of whether it includes aircraft emissions_would be generally consistent with the emission cap requirements for stationary sources in the FIP areas. Although not firmly decided, the current stationary source control strategy for the South Coast requires that VOC and NO X emissions be reduced by 20&hyph;45 and 30&hyph;45 percent, respectively, from the 1990 baseline inventory by 2005, through a series of uniform annual reductions of baseline emissions of each pollutant: 4&hyph;9 percent per year for VOC and 6&hyph;9 percent per year for NO X , both starting in 2001. Stationary source requirements for the 2006&hyph;2010 period have not been established at this time. Until modified in a future rulemaking, the 2005 cap will apply through 2010. The requirements for Ventura from 2001&hyph;2005 are identical to that for the South Coast. For Sacramento, the strategy requires a VOC reduction of 20&hyph;45 percent, with uniform annual reduction of 4&hyph;9 percent. The timeframe for achieving this reduction is the same as for the South Coast and Ventura areas.
