FR940204-2-00132 FR940204-2-00095 [Rel No. IC&hyph;20039; 812&hyph;8652] The Griffin Funds, Inc., et al.; Notice of Application January 27, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: The Griffin Funds, Inc. (``Griffin''), Griffin Financial Investment Advisers (the ``Adviser''), Griffin Financial Services (the ``Distributor''), on behalf of Griffin and all other open-end management investment companies for which the Adviser acts in the future as investment adviser or the Distributor acts in the future as principal underwriter (collectively with Griffin, the ``Funds''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Exemption requested under section 6(c) from the provisions of sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 18(f), 18(g), 18(i), 22(c), and 22(d), and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order that would permit the Funds to issue an unlimited number of classes of shares representing interests in the same portfolio of securities, assess a contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') on certain redemptions of shares, and waive the CDSC in certain instances. FILING DATE: The application was filed on October 22, 1993, and amended on January 21, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on February 22, 1994 and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 10100 Pioneer Blvd., suite 1000, Santa Fe Springs, California 90670&hyph;3736. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Courtney S. Thornton, Senior Attorney, (202) 272&hyph;5287, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, (202) 272&hyph;3018 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Griffin is a Maryland corporation registered under the Act as an open-end management investment company. Griffin is a series company presently consisting of seven separate investment portfolios (the ``Portfolios''), each of which has separate investment objectives and policies. The Portfolios are sold primarily, but not exclusively, through offices of the Distributor, including locations in offices of Home Savings of America, FSB, a federally chartered savings association, which is affiliated with the Adviser and the Distributor. 2. The Adviser, an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, serves as investment adviser to the Portfolios. 3. The Distributor, a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, serves as the sponsor and distributor of the Portfolios. The Distributor has entered into a distribution agreement with Griffin, pursuant to which it has responsibility for distributing shares of the Portfolios. The Portfolios also have adopted distribution plans pursuant to rule 12b&hyph;1 under the Act. 4. Applicants propose to establish a multiple distribution system (the ``Multi-Class System''). Under the Multi-Class System, some or all of the Funds intend to offer three classes of shares: (a) a class offered in connection with a plan adopted pursuant to rule 12b&hyph;1 under the Act (the ``12b&hyph;1 Class''), (b) a class offered in connection with a non-rule 12b&hyph;1 services plan (the ``Non-12b&hyph;1 Class''), and (c) a trust class (the ``Trust Class''). In addition, the Funds may create additional 12b&hyph;1 Class, Non-12b&hyph;1 Class, and Trust Class shares that differ according to the characteristics described below. 5. The 12b&hyph;1 Class shares will be offered pursuant to a plan of distribution (the ``12b&hyph;1 Plan'') approved by the directors of a Fund in accordance with rule 12b&hyph;1 under the Act. Shares of the 12b&hyph;1 Class will be sold to investors purchasing directly from a Fund's distributor, or to clients of certain financial institutions that have entered into agreements with the Fund or the Fund's distributor to provide necessary distribution and administrative services with respect to the 12b&hyph;1 Class. Distribution activities financed in accordance with a 12b&hyph;1 Plan may include advertising and marketing expenses, printing costs for new prospectuses and sales literature, and payments to broker/dealers and others for distribution assistance. 6. The Non-12b&hyph;1 Class will be offered pursuant to a non-rule 12b&hyph;1 servicing plan (the ``Services Plan,'' and together with the 12b&hyph;1 Plans, the ``Plans'') approved by the board of directors of a Fund under which a Fund will enter into servicing agreements with qualified financial institutions (``Organizations'') to provide necessary administrative support services to customers of Organizations who are the beneficial owners of Non-12b&hyph;1 Class shares. Services provided pursuant to a Services Plan may include subaccounting; establishing and maintaining accounts and records; aggregating and processing purchase and redemption orders; investing customers' assets in shares of the Non-12b&hyph;1 Class; providing periodic statements; arranging for bank wires; processing dividend payments; answering routine inquiries; assisting customers in changing divided options, account designations, and addresses; forwarding shareholder communications; and other similar services.
