FR940706-0-00016 FR940706-0-00001 (c) Filing. The notice of appeal shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk in accordance with §283.22(b). (c) Content of the notice. (1) A notice of appeal, in order to be considered acceptable, must contain the following information: (i) A brief and clear statement that it is an appeal from a QC claim of $50,000 or more identifying the period the claim covers, the date and amount of the bill for collection, and the date of receipt of the bill for collection; (ii) Identification of the State agency as the appellant and FNS as the appellee; (iii) A statement that the notice of appeal is filed pursuant to section 14(a) of the Food Stamp Act; (iv) A copy of the bill for collection which constitutes the basis for the filing of the notice of appeal shall be attached to the notice. (2) Failure to file an acceptable notice of appeal may result in a challenge by FNS to the notice, dismissal of the notice by the ALJ and a waiver of the opportunity for further appeal or review by the Judicial Officer unless the State agency pursues the options as discussed in §§283.17(d) and 283.20. (e) Receipt of notice of appeal and assignment of docket number. Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Hearing Clerk shall assign the appeal a docket number. The Hearing Clerk shall: (1) Send the State agency a letter which shall include the following information: (i) Advice that the notice of appeal has been received and the date of receipt; (ii) The docket number assigned to the appeal and instructions that all future communications related to the appeal shall reference the docket number, and; (iii) Advice that the State agency must file and serve its appeal petition, as set forth in §283.22, not later than 60 days after receiving a notice of the claim. Failure to file a timely appeal petition may result in a waiver of further appeal rights. (2) Send FNS a copy of the notice of appeal and a copy of the letter to the State agency. (f) Stay of collection. The filing of a timely notice of appeal shall automatically stay the action of FNS to collect the QC claim asserted against the State agency until a decision is reached on the acceptability of the appeal, and in the case of an acceptable appeal, until a final administrative determination has been issued. However, interest will accrue on the outstanding claim amount during the stay as provided in section 13(a)(1) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2022(a)(1)). (g) Content of the appeal petition. The appeal petition shall include: (1) A brief statement of the allegations of fact and provisions of law that constitute the basis for the appeal including a statement as to whether a factual basis for good cause relief exists; (2) The nature of the relief sought, and; (3) A request for an oral hearing, if desired by the State agency. Failure to request an oral hearing will result in a forfeiture of the opportunity for such a hearing, except as provided in §283.15(a). (h) FNS answer. Upon service of the State agency appeal petition, FNS shall: (1) File an answer, in accordance with §283.6, not later than 60 days after the State agency submits its appeal petition and; (2) Advise the Hearing Clerk if FNS wishes to have an oral hearing. (i) Oral hearing not requested. If no oral hearing has been requested, the appeal shall proceed in accordance with the procedures set forth under subpart C of this part. §283.5 Motion to dismiss. (a) Filing of motion to dismiss. Prior to or at the same time as filing the answer, FNS may file a motion to dismiss. The appeal may be challenged on the basis that the notice of appeal was not filed within 10 days or as that time may have been extended by the ALJ, the appeal petition was not filed in accordance with §283.4, or that the appeal petition is substantially incomplete and could not be quickly and easily cured by amendment. The motion must be accompanied by clear and convincing proof of any of these factors alleged as grounds for dismissal. (b) Service of motion to dismiss. FNS shall serve the State agency with a copy of the motion to dismiss. The State agency will have 10 days from date of service to submit objections to the motion. (c) Ruling on a motion to dismiss. The ALJ will rule on the motion to dismiss before any further action proceeds on the basis of the merits of the appeal. The basis of the ruling will be clearly documented and will become part of the official record. If the ALJ denies the motion, FNS shall file its answer in accordance with §283.6 within 60 days of service of the ALJ's ruling, unless there is a motion for reconsideration filed pursuant to §283.17(d) or review by the Judicial Officer is sought pursuant to §283.20. (d) Dismissal of appeal. If the ALJ finds the basis for the motion to have merit, the appeal may be dismissed. The initial decision of the ALJ shall become final and effective 30 days after service in accordance with §283.17(c)(2) unless either party pursues the options as discussed in §§283.17(d) and 283.20. (e) Waiver. Failure to file for dismissal of the appeal by the time the answer is required to be filed will result in waiver of the right to request dismissal. §283.6 Answer.
