FR940106-1-00082 FR940106-1-00011 14. The Central Valley Project Improvement Act requires that measures be taken to double the production of anadromous fish species throughout the Central Valley watershed. EPA intends that its proposed criteria should support this goal in the waters of the Bay/Delta estuary. EPA appreciates any information on whether the proposed criteria provide the necessary protection to reach this goal. 15. Dr. Wim Kimmerer has developed a salmon population model for the Sacramento River Basin, CPOP, which includes a regression model for the Delta based on the same USFWS data used to develop EPA's proposed criteria (BioSystems Analysis, 1989). This model is not divided into reaches, and uses all coded wire tag data from both ocean and trawl recoveries. Significant independent variables include: proportion of flow remaining in Sacramento River, flow in the Sacramento River, the interaction between these two, and temperature at Freeport. Dr. Kimmerer compares his analysis with the USFWS analysis, and reports that his analysis outperforms the USFWS analysis and, in addition, that it better models temperature effects on mortality. However, this model uses only pre-1989 data. EPA appreciates any comments on the usefulness of this model in predicting Sacramento River smolt survival and setting criteria to protect Fish Migration as a designated use. 16. A number of species in the Bay/Delta estuary appear to rely on estuarine conditions during the months of July to January. These species include herring (primarily a Bay species), late fall-run salmon, and juvenile striped bass. EPA welcomes any information on habitat conditions necessary for protection of these species, and on possible revisions to the proposed criteria that could address these species. 17. EPA is concerned that changes in water project operations in response to the proposed criteria may have unforeseen environmental impacts. EPA welcomes comments as to whether there are any operational scenarios for the CVP, SWP, and/or other water users that would increase or decrease the ecological benefits of the proposed criteria. In addition, EPA notes that, under the CWA, the state will conduct triennial reviews of these and other water quality criteria to determine whether they are adequate to protect the designated uses. At those times, the state has the opportunity to adjust criteria that are shown to be over or under protective of the uses. EPA welcomes comments as to the kinds of information, such as biological resource monitoring data, that are or will be available to measure the effectiveness of fish and wildlife criteria in the Bay/Delta. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 131 Environmental protection, Water pollution control, Water quality standards, Water quality criteria. Dated: December 13, 1993. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
