FR940721-0-00059 FR940721-0-00014 NHTSA notes that valuation is based on where material is received because section 210(f)(13) provides, with respect to passenger motor vehicle equipment which is of U.S./Canadian origin, that ``(f)or both outside suppliers and allied suppliers the value used shall be the purchase price of the passenger motor vehicle equipment as paid at the final assembly point.'' The agency also notes that section 210(f)(10)(A) provides, with respect to the term ``value added in the United States and Canada,'' that costs incurred or profits made at the final vehicle assembly point and beyond *␣*␣* shall not be considered in such calculation.'' This implies that all costs up to delivery of the equipment to the final assembly point are included. NHTSA therefore believes, with respect to motor vehicle equipment that is delivered to the final assembly point, that the value of the equipment should be the price paid by the manufacturer for the equipment as delivered to the final assembly point. The agency believes that a specification that valuation be based on the price that exists in the financial records at the time the content is calculated would be too vague. It would be unclear, for example, whether the price in question was for the equipment as delivered to the final assembly point. Similarly, a specification that valuation be based on the established practices of the manufacturer would also be vague. To the extent that it is not possible to value equipment based on the price paid by the manufacturer for the equipment as delivered to the final assembly point, e.g., because the equipment is produced at the final assembly point or a transfer price methodology is used, the agency believes, for purposes of consistency among manufacturers, that value should be based on the price that the manufacturer would have paid for the equipment as delivered to the final assembly point. The final rule therefore provides that the value of each such item of equipment is the fair market price that a manufacturer of similar size and location would pay a supplier for such equipment. NHTSA is also setting forth essentially the same valuation procedures for equipment delivered to an allied supplier, except that valuation is based on the price paid for the equipment as delivered to the allied supplier. b. Determining the U.S./Canadian percentage of the value of items of equipment. APMA stated that if NHTSA does not adopt the AIAG model of content calculation, the regulation should specifically state how outside suppliers should calculate U.S./Canadian content. That organization stated that, in the NPRM, the agency relied on the definitions of value added and foreign content in the statute. APMA stated that value added is defined as the total purchase price (presumably paid by the customer) less the total purchase price (presumably paid by the supplier) of foreign content. APMA stated that foreign content is simply defined as equipment which is ``not determined to be U.S./Canadian origin.'' That organization stated that the statute and regulation give no direction as to how this determination is to be made. APMA also stated that while the agency noted that suppliers ``may need in some cases to arrange to obtain information from their supplier,'' it did not explain what that information is and how it is to be obtained. APMA stated that the absence of any specific regulatory direction on the way in which outside suppliers are to calculate ``valued added in the U.S./Canada'' is likely to lead to numerous interpretations and challenges. For example, can suppliers count all costs and profit or are some costs and profits excluded? How will a supplier know with certainty that an input qualifies as U.S./Canadian content? APMA stated that it believes that adoption of the AIAG content calculation is the best approach and would have minimal regulatory cost burden. That organization stated that if the agency does not follow that approach, it suggests adding the following additional definition: Value is added in the United States or Canada by an allied supplier or outside supplier to the extent that the supplier produces or assembles passenger motor vehicle equipment at a plant or factory located within the territorial boundaries of the United States or Canada. All costs incurred (other than the purchase price of foreign material received at such plant) and all profits made at such plant shall form part of the value added in the United States and Canada. Foreign material shall be limited to materials which have been produced or assembled outside of the territorial boundaries of the United States or Canada and which have not undergone any further production or other operation within the territorial boundaries of the United States or Canada before being received by such supplier or an affiliate of such supplier. Nippondenso America stated that the specified method for calculating U.S./Canadian content should state that value added in the U.S. and Canada includes profit and processing costs such as labor, depreciation, expenses, etc. (originating in the U.S. or Canada), to avoid any misunderstandings or confusion regarding determinations of the U.S./Canadian content. Nissan stated that the proposed regulation does not address how suppliers should treat duty. Nissan recommended that suppliers treat duty paid as domestic. It stated that this would be consistent with the treatment of duty under CAFE. NHTSA agrees with the commenters that it is appropriate to provide additional clarification in the regulation concerning how suppliers are to calculate value added in the U.S./Canada. The agency notes that only allied suppliers typically need to calculate actual value added in the U.S./Canada of their equipment. As a result of the roll-up, roll-down provision, outside suppliers only need to determine whether the value added in the U.S./Canada is at least 70 percent or not. In order to make this determination, of course, outside suppliers need to understand how value added in the U.S./Canada is calculated. Moreover, if the value added in the U.S./Canada of their equipment is close to 70 percent, outside suppliers will need to calculate actual value added. NHTSA believes that APMA's recommendation that the agency adopt the AIAG content calculation procedure as the best approach for calculating value added in the U.S./Canada is unclear. The AIAG, as an organization, represents an industry effort to, among other things, help suppliers comply with the Labeling Act. As pointed out by AAMA, however, ``due to the lack of regulatory guidance, complete process definition has not been established.'' The agency assumes that AIAG will continue its efforts to help suppliers once today's final rule is issued. Since the AIAG has not completed the process of establishing a content calculation procedure, NHTSA does not know what APMA means in recommending that the AIAG procedure be adopted.
