FR940404-0-00017 FR940404-0-00009 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Bureau of Export Administration 15 CFR Parts 771 and 774 [Docket No. 940392&hyph;4092] RIN 0694&hyph;AA97 Establishment of New General License for Shipments to Country Groups QWY and the People's Republic of China AGENCY: Bureau of Export Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM) has agreed to cease functioning on March 31, 1994. The current control lists will be retained by the member nations until a successor regime is established. To help make the transition, the United States is establishing a new General License GLX, which will allow certain shipments to civil end-users and end-uses in formerly proscribed destinations. This new general license will reduce paperwork and licensing delays for exporters, and will focus controls on exports that are of direct strategic concern. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule is effective April 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia Muldonian, Office of Technology and Policy Analysis, Bureau of Export Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Telephone: (202) 482&hyph;2440. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The international security environment has changed in the past few years. As a result, the United States and our COCOM partners are revamping approaches to export controls to deal with the new challenges of the Post-Cold War era. In this regard, the members of COCOM agreed to end the Cold War regime on March 31, 1994, and to work together to establish a new arrangement aimed at enhancing transparency and restraint in arms sales and transfer of sensitive technology to countries and regions of concern. As these discussions progress, the members of COCOM have agreed to retain the current COCOM Lists and the COCOM secretariat until a new successor regime with its own control list and institutional support is established. However, the members have also agreed to modify former COCOM export licensing procedures by making all licensing decisions subject to national discretion. Accordingly, the United States is establishing a new General License GLX for shipments to formerly COCOM proscribed destinations of many items that previously required an Individual Validated License. With certain important exceptions and additions noted in this regulation, the new GLX general license will be available for the items previously covered by Administrative Exception Notes in the Commerce Control List. Finally, General License GFW is revised to permit export to eligible countries of those commodities that can be shipped to QWY and the PRC under GLX but have not been eligible for GFW. The United States will continue to work with the other former COCOM member countries to coordinate transitional licensing policies and procedures and to establish the new arrangement. As these efforts progress, there will be additional modifications to U.S. export licensing requirements.
