FR940919-2-00088 FR940919-2-00046 Concerns about the Agency's business processes generally, and the quality of service in the disability claim process in particular, led SSA leadership to the conclusion that a disability process reengineering effort was critical to the SSA goal of providing world-class service to its customers. The National Performance Review, headed by the Vice President, directed improvement of the SSA disability process as a key service initiative for the Federal government. Leading private sector organizations have used process reengineering to identify and quickly put in place dramatic improvements in their operations. The objective of a reengineering review is to fundamentally rethink and radically redesign a business process from start to finish, so that it becomes many times more efficient and, as a result, significantly improves service to the organization's customers. By focusing on the disability claim process as a single business process, SSA hoped to cut across the organizational lines and multiple components that handle the many pieces of the disability process. Redesign Technique A project team composed of 18 Federal and State employees, under the direction of an SSA senior executive, assembled at SSA Headquarters in October 1993 to conduct the disability claim process reengineering review. With the guidance of an Executive Steering Committee the Team was challenged to fundamentally rethink the way SSA processes disability claims. The Team's initial findings and proposal, issued in March 1994, for a redesigned disability claim process were widely shared during a 60-day public comment period. Based on the comments received, the Team presented a revised proposal to the Commissioner of Social Security on June 30, 1994. After extensive consultation with individuals and organizations in the internal and external disability community, the Commissioner accepted the Team's recommendations for a redesigned disability process. A summary of the methodology used to redesign the disability claim process is included in Appendix I. New Process Goals and Expectations The Commissioner established five primary objectives against which SSA will measure the success of a redesigned disability claim process: _The process is user friendly for claimants and those who assist them; _The right decision is made the first time; _Decisions are made and effectuated quickly; _The process is efficient; and _Employees find the work satisfying.
