FR940407-0-00083 FR940407-0-00014 2. Offsets The EPA received a number of comments specifically dealing with NSR offset issues. These covered a range of issues, but focused primarily on offsets banking. Such issues are beyond the scope of this EIP rulemaking, but the EPA intends to address them in the near future in guidance on ERC banking currently being developed. In the interim, the EPA intends to work with States who want to develop offset banking programs. 3. ECO Programs The EPA received a number of comments dealing with ECO programs which are beyond the scope of this EIP rulemaking. The EPA has previously issued guidance on ECO programs and anticipates the development of additional guidance. Final action with respect to ECO programs will occur when the EPA acts on SIP revisions concerning ECO programs. C. Program Baseline The proposed rules were based on the premise that a State can only take credit in attainment and RFP demonstrations for emissions reductions from EIP's that are surplus to what is otherwise required and credited to other elements of a federally-approved SIP. This restriction is necessary to ensure that a State does not double count emissions reductions in SIP demonstrations. The general requirements for program baselines are intended to ensure that such double counting does not occur, while still providing as much flexibility as possible. The proposal solicited comments on the conditions under which States should have the flexibility to use an ``allowable'' baseline. In particular, comments were solicited on the proposed approach to accept an ``allowable'' baseline in an EIP submitted in conjunction with the submission of an applicable progress plan (e.g., 15 percent RFP plan and/or subsequent 3 percent-per-year plans), prior to the submission of an attainment demonstration. Further, comments were solicited on approaches for achieving consistency between EIP's with ``allowable'' program baselines and statutory RACT, RFP, and attainment requirements.
