FR940722-1-00015 FR940722-1-00006 If the trustee furnishes the name and TIN of the grantor or other person and the address of the trust to all payors, the trustee is not required to file any type of return with the IRS. If the trustee furnishes the name, TIN, and address of the trust to all payors, the trustee must file with the IRS appropriate Forms 1099 which: (1) report each type of income and each item of gross proceeds paid to the trust; (2) show the trust as the payor; and (3) show each grantor or other person treated as an owner of the trust as the payee. Under all of the alternative methods of reporting, unless the trustee or co-trustee is also the only grantor or other person treated as an owner of the trust, the trustee must furnish each grantor or other person with a statement that: (1) shows all items of income, deduction, and credit of the trust attributable to the grantor or other person for the taxable year; (2) provides the grantor or other person with the information necessary to take the items into account in computing the grantor's or other person's taxable income; and (3) states that all items of income or gross proceeds that are required to be reported to the IRS have been included on the statement. The statement furnished by the trustee is not subject to the requirements set forth in Internal Revenue Service Publication 1179 (Specifications for Paper Document Reporting and Paper Substitutes for Forms 1096, 1098, 1099 Series, 5498, and W&hyph;2G) for furnishing substitute statements to form recipients. When these proposed regulations are issued as final, a conforming change will be made to Publication 1179. Regardless of which TIN the trustee furnishes to payors, the payors will furnish statements to recipients to the trustee of the trust, and not to the grantors or other persons. Conforming changes to the current regulations under sections 6012 and 6109 of the Code are also proposed. Effective Date and Transition Rule The proposed regulations are effective for taxable years beginning on or after the first day of the first calendar year after the date of publication of the final regulations in the Federal Register , subject to a requirement that certain trustees file a final Form 1041 before adopting one of the alternative methods of reporting. In addition, the proposed regulations provide that, for taxable years beginning prior to the effective date of the proposed regulations, the IRS will not challenge the manner of reporting of certain trustees of trusts all of which are treated as owned by one or more grantors or other persons who did not report in accordance with ยง1.671&hyph;4(a) of the current regulations. Special Analysis It has been determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, these regulations will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on their impact on small businesses. Comments and Public Hearing Before these proposed regulations are adopted as final regulations, consideration will be given to any written comments (preferably a signed original and eight (8) copies) that are submitted timely to the IRS. All comments will be available for public inspection and copying. A public hearing has been scheduled for Wednesday, September 21, 1994, at 1 p.m., in the IRS Auditorium, 7th floor, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC. Because of access restrictions, visitors will not be admitted beyond the Internal Revenue Building lobby more than 15 minutes before the hearing starts.
