FR940819-1-00021 FR940819-1-00007 40 CFR Part 63 [AD-FRL&hyph;5054&hyph;2] National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Distribution (Stage I) AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Announcement of the availability of supplemental information, and reopening of public comment period on the supplemental information. SUMMARY: On February 8, 1994 (59 FR 5868), the EPA proposed standards (the proposal or proposed standards) to limit emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP's) from existing and new bulk gasoline terminals and pipeline breakout stations under section 112 of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 (Act). The public comment period on the proposed rule ended April 11, 1994. This action announces the availability of supplemental information and the reopening of the comment period for comment on only the supplemental information. This supplemental information was provided during the comment period on the proposal and pertains to the level of control and test procedures for tank truck leakage. The EPA plans to consider comments received on this action, along with the comments received on the proposal, and take final action on the rule on November 23, 1994 as required under consent decree. Due to this short schedule, only a 30-day comment period is being provided and no public hearing will be held. DATES: Comments must be received on or before September 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments. Comments should be submitted (in duplicate, if possible) to: Air Docket Section (6102), ATTN: Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;38, Room M1500, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, and Mr. Stephen Shedd, address shown in FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT section of this notice. Docket. Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;38, containing supporting information used in developing the proposed standards, public comments received on the proposal, and the test procedures and methods discussed in today's notice, is available for public inspection and copying between 8:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, at the EPA's Air Docket Section, Waterside Mall, Room 1500, 1st Floor, 401 M Street, SW, Washington, DC 20460. A reasonable fee may be charged for copying. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For information concerning today's notice, contact Mr. Stephen Shedd at (919) 541&hyph;5397, Chemicals and Petroleum Branch, Emission Standards Division (MD&hyph;13), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On February 8, 1994 (59 FR 5868), the EPA proposed standards to limit emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP's) from existing and new bulk gasoline terminals and pipeline breakout stations under section 112 of the Act. Two comment letters presented information on California standards for tank truck leaks at existing facilities that are more stringent than those standards proposed by the EPA. The EPA proposed that tank trucks and railcars annually pass a pressure and vacuum test before loading gasoline at existing and new major source facilities. The California standards have a more stringent requirement for the annual test, an additional annual test for internal vapor valves, and a year-round leak rate requirement and test procedures. Additionally, the EPA proposed for new facilities the use of a loading rack vacuum assist system, in addition to the proposed annual pressure and vacuum test, to further control leakage from tank trucks and railcars. The EPA did not analyze nor fully discuss these California standards during development of the proposal or at proposal. The purpose of this notice is to announce and discuss the consideration of these additional standards. Below is a discussion of the California standard for tank truck leakage and the EPA's consideration of that information. As noted in the ADDRESSES section of today's notice, the docket (Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;38) contains the California test procedures and methods discussed below. The California Air Resources Board (ARB) and the California air pollution control districts have been implementing tank truck leakage standards since the late 1970's. Currently all tank trucks transporting gasoline in California, including tank trucks from neighboring States that operate in California, must meet the California standards. In summary they include three major standards, an annual certification and a year-round standard for the tank and its vapor piping and hoses and a year-round pressure standard for the tank truck's internal vapor valve. The annual certification standards include initially pressurizing and later evacuating the tank and associated vapor piping and hoses, to 18 inches of water and to 6 inches of water, respectively. In 5 minutes the allowable pressure change can be no more than the values shown in Table 1. The EPA's Control Techniques Guideline (CTG) document and New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) (40 CFR part 60, subpart XX) contain annual pressure and vacuum test levels of initial pressures and test duration which are the same as California's. However, a less stringent pressure change of 3 inches of water column is allowed for all tank trucks under the NSPS, CTG, and proposal.
