FR941220-0-00079 FR941220-0-00013 Form 20&hyph;F Item 17. Financial Statements * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (viii) Issuers that prepare financial statements on a basis of accounting other than U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and which basis conforms with the guidance in International Accounting Standards No. 22, as amended in 1993, with respect to the period of amortization of goodwill and negative goodwill may omit the disclosures specified by paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(iii) of this Item regarding the effects of differences attributable solely to the period of amortization. Goodwill and negative goodwill that is subject to the amortization period under IAS 22 is based on the amount determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Instructions * * * * * (6)(a) A business combination which would be deemed a uniting of interests under International Accounting Standards No. 22, as amended in 1993 (``IAS 22''), and was accounted for using that method in the primary financial statements may be deemed to be, for purposes of the reconciliation to U.S. GAAP, a pooling of interests. A business combination which would be deemed an acquisition under IAS 22 and was accounted for using that method in the primary financial statements may be deemed to be, for purposes of the reconciliation to U.S. GAAP, a purchase. This paragraph is not applicable for promoter transactions, leveraged buyouts, mergers of entities under common control, reverse acquisitions and other transactions not addressed by IAS 22. Once the method of accounting is determined, the reconciliation to U.S. GAAP should quantify differences between the balances in the primary financial statements and the amounts determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as required by this Item. (b) To obtain relief from the reconciliation requirement regarding the method of accounting, or the amortization period of goodwill or negative goodwill, the primary financial statements should apply the respective provisions of IAS 22 to all business combinations consummated on or after January 1, 1995. issuers can either retroactively adopt IAS 22 in the primary financial statements for all business combinations consummated prior to January 1, 1995, or provide a full reconciliation to U.S. GAAP for such prior business combinations. (c) If the method of accounting for a business combination and/or the provisions for amortization of goodwill or negative goodwill complies with IAS 22, a statement to that effect must be included in the financial statements. The reconciliation shall state that the amounts presented comply with Item 17 of Form 20&hyph;F and are different from that required by U.S. GAAP. Item 18. Financial Statements * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (viii) Issuers that prepare financial statements on a basis of accounting other than U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and which basis conforms with the guidance in International Accounting Standards No. 22, as amended in 1993, with respect to the period of amortization of goodwill and negative goodwill may omit the disclosures specified by paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(iii) of this Item regarding the effects of differences attributable solely to the period of amortization. Goodwill and negative goodwill that is subject to the amortization period under IAS 22 is based on the amount determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. * * * * * Instructions * * * * * (5)(a) A business combination which would be deemed a uniting of interests under International Accounting Standards No. 22, as amended in 1993 (``IAS 22''), and was accounted for using that method in the primary financial statements may be deemed to be, for purposes of the reconciliation to U.S. GAAP, a pooling of interests. A business combination which would be deemed an acquisition under IAS 22 and was accounted for using that method in the primary financial statements may be deemed to be, for purposes of the reconciliation to U.S. GAAP, a purchase. This paragraph is not applicable for promoter transactions, leveraged buyouts, mergers of entities under common control, reverse acquisitions and other transactions not addressed by IAS 22. Once the method of accounting is determined, the reconciliation to U.S. GAAP should quantify differences between the balances in the primary financial statements and the amounts determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP as required by this item. (b) To obtain relief from the reconciliation requirement regarding the method of accounting, or the amortization period of goodwill or negative goodwill, the primary financial statements should apply the respective provisions of IAS 22 to all business combinations consummated on or after January 1, 1995. Issuers can either retroactively adopt IAS 22 in the primary financial statements for all business combinations consummated prior to January 1, 1995, or provide a full reconciliation to U.S. GAAP for such prior business combinations. (c) If the method of accounting for a business combination and/or the provisions for amortization of goodwill or negative goodwill complies with IAS 22, a statement to that effect must be included in the financial statements. The reconciliation shall state that the amounts presented comply with Item 18 of Form 20&hyph;F and are different from that required by U.S. GAAP. By the Commission. Dated: December 13, 1994. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31037 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;P&hyph;M
