FR940817-0-00016 FR940817-0-00008 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 28 CFR Part 0 [Directive No. 81A] Redelegation of Authority of Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, To Act as Central Authority or Competent Authority Under Treaties and Executive Agreements on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, Justice. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: Section 0.64&hyph;1 of Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, authorizes the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division to act as the Central or Competent Authority under treaties and executive agreements between the United States and other countries on mutual assistance in criminal matters. Section 0.64&hyph;1, as amended, also authorizes the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division to redelegate this authority to her Deputy Assistant Attorneys General and to the Director and Deputy Directors of the Office of International Affairs. This final rule amends the Appendix to Subpart K of Part 0. The purpose is to effectuate 28 CFR 0.64&hyph;1, as amended, by formally redelegating the authority of the Assistant Attorney General under both treaties and executive agreements on mutual assistance in criminal matters to designated individuals within the Criminal Division. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 17, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: George W. Proctor, Director, Office of International Affairs, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530; 202&hyph;514&hyph;0000. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In Directive No. 81 in the Appendix to Subpart K of Part 0, as currently written, the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division has redelegated her authority to act as the Central or Competent Authority under treaties on mutual assistance in criminal matters to her Deputy Assistant Attorneys General and to the Director of the Office of International Affairs. This final rule extends the redelegation of such authority to each of the Deputy Directors of the Office of International Affairs, Criminal Division. This final rule also expands the scope of that redelegation to match the scope of 28 CFR 0.64&hyph;1, which encompasses executive agreements, as well as treaties, on mutual assistance in criminal matters. This rule is a matter of internal Department management. It has been drafted and reviewed in accordance with section 1(b) of Executive Order 12866. The Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division has determined that this rule is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and accordingly this rule has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. In accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), the Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division has reviewed this rule, and by approving it certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This rule will not have substantial direct effects on the states, on the relationship between the national government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. List of Subjects in 28 CFR Part 0 Authority delegations (Government agencies), Government employees, International agreements, Organization and functions (Government agencies), Treaties, Whistleblowing. For the reasons stated in the preamble, Title 28, Chapter I, Part 0, of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as set forth below. PART 0_ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 1. The authority citation for Part 0 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, 515&hyph;519. 2. Appendix to Subpart K is amended by removing Directive No. 81 and adding Directive No. 81A, which reads as follows: Appendix to Subpart K_Criminal Division * * * * * [Directive No. 81A] Redelegation of Authority to Deputy Assistant Attorneys General and Director and Deputy Directors of the Office of International Affairs Regarding Authority To Act as Central Authority or Competent Authority Under Treaties and Executive Agreements on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters By virtue of the authority vested in me by ยง0.64&hyph;1 of title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the Authority delegated to me by that section to exercise all of the power and authority vested in the Attorney General under treaties and executive agreements on mutual assistance in criminal matters is hereby redelegated to each of the Deputy Assistant Attorneys General, to the Director of the Office of International Affairs and to each of the Deputy Directors of the Office of International Affairs, Criminal Division. Dated: August 5, 1994. Jo Ann Harris, Assistant Attorney General. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19820 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
