FR940831-2-00068 FR940831-2-00050 Final Project Requirements and Review Criteria for Grants for Chiropractic Demonstration Projects for Fiscal Year 1994 The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) announces the final project requirements and review criteria for fiscal year (FY) 1994 grants for Chiropractic Demonstration Projects under the authority of section 782, title VII of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by the Health Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992, Pub. L. 102&hyph;408, dated October 13, 1992. Purpose Section 782 of the Public Health Service Act authorizes the Secretary to carry out demonstration projects in which chiropractors and physicians collaborate to identify and provide effective treatment for spinal and lower-back conditions. A notice was published in the Federal Register at 59 FR 28872 on June 3, 1994 to announce the grant cycle and to propose project requirements and review criteria for this program. No comments were received within the 30 day comment period. Therefore, the project requirements and review criteria remain as proposed. Final Project Requirements 1. The project must address the identification and treatment of spinal and/or lower-back conditions. 2. The project must represent collaborative efforts between schools of chiropractic and schools of allopathic or osteopathic medicine. 3. Each project must include a strong research protocol which will result in a significant expansion of documented research in the area addressed and which is suitable for publication in refereed health professions journals, including research-oriented publications. 4. The project must include an explicit strategy for case-finding and a strategy for making direct comparisons to other forms of treatment. The results must be generalizable to patients cared for in clinical practices addressing spinal and/or lower-back conditions. 5. Whenever feasible, minorities and women should be included in study populations so that research findings can be of benefit to all persons at risk of the disease, disorder, or condition under study. Final Review Criteria The review of applications will take into consideration the following criteria and the quality of the supporting documentation for: (1) The strength of the rationale for the project; (2) The quality and clarity of the objectives to be achieved in relation to the stated statutory purposes of the program and the potential of the project for meeting them; (3) The strength of the applicant's institutional background in chiropractic training and research; (4) The competency of all faculty, both chiropractic and allopathic or osteopathic medicine, to be involved in the project, including past experience in chiropractic and/or chiropractic research and allopathic or osteopathic research; (5) The proposed methodology to be used in carrying out the goals and objectives of the project, including those pertaining to research and its outcomes; (6) The appropriateness of timelines to be used in achieving the project's goals and objectives; (7) The strength of the proposed evaluation methodology to be used in evaluating the accomplishments of the project, including those pertinent to research; (8) The strength of the evidence of the applicant institution's commitment, including letters of support, to carrying out the project successfully and the institutional commitment of the allopathic or osteopathic school of medicine collaborating in the project; (9) The suitability and availability of all proposed facilities and resources to be used in carrying out the project; (10) The appropriateness of the proposed budget and fiscal plan for carrying out the project and the administrative and management capability of the applicant to implement the project in a cost-effective manner; and (11) The documentation, terms, and specificity of a formal agreement with a school of allopathic or osteopathic medicine for its collaboration in carrying out the goals, objectives, and evaluation of the project. The peer review group which reviews applications for this program will include no fewer than two, and no more than three, chiropractors. Additional Information If additional programmatic information is needed, please contact: Dr. Marcia Brand, Program Officer, Associated Health Professions Branch, Division of Associated, Dental and Public Health Professions, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 8C&hyph;02, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, Telephone : (301) 443&hyph;6763 FAX: (301) 443&hyph;1164. This program, Chiropractic Demonstration Projects, is listed at 93.212 in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. It is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs (as implemented through 45 CFR part 100). This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Dated: August 25, 1994. Ciro V. Sumaya, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21476 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;P
