FR940727-0-00023 FR940727-0-00009 13 CFR Part 121 Small Business Size Standards; Waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for office copiers. SUMMARY: The Small Business Administration (SBA) is establishing a waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for office copiers. The basis for a waiver for office copiers is that there are no small business manufacturers or processors available to supply them to the Federal Government. The effect of this waiver is to allow otherwise qualified regular dealers to supply the products of any domestic manufacturer on a Federal contract set aside for small businesses or awarded through the SBA 8(a) Program for office copiers. EFFECTIVE DATES: July 27, 1994. This class waiver applies to all solicitations dated on or after July 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James Parker, Procurement Analyst, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, Tel: (202) 205&hyph;6465. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Public Law 100&hyph;656, enacted on November 15, 1988, incorporated into the Small Business Act the previously existing regulation that recipients of Federal contracts set aside for small businesses or the SBA 8(a) Program must provide the products of a small business manufacturer or processor, if the recipient is other than the actual manufacturer or processor. This requirement is commonly referred to as the Nonmanufacturer Rule. The SBA regulations which implement this requirement are found at 13 CFR 121.906(b) and 121.1106(b). Section 8(a)(17)(B)(vi)(II) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 637(a)(17)(B)(iv)(II), provides for waiver of this requirement by SBA for any ``class of products'' for which there are no small business manufacturers or processors available to participate in the Federal procurement market. To be considered available to participate in the Federal procurement market on these classes of products, a small business manufacturer must have submitted a proposal for a contract solicitation or received a contract from the Federal Government within the last 24 months. The SBA defines ``class of products'' based on two coding systems. The first is the Office of Management and Budget Standard Industrial Classification Manual, and the second is the Product and Service Code established by the Federal Procurement Data System. The SBA was originally asked to process a request for a class waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for copiers. After discussions with the General Services Administration's Office of Scientific Equipment Commodity Center, this was modified to be copiers/duplicating equipment. The SBA then searched the Procurement Automated Source System (PASS) and Thomas Register and published a notice seeking potential sources in the Commerce Business Daily. In addition, SBA published a notice of intent to grant a class waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule in the March 15, 1994, Federal Register , 59 FR 11938 (1994). After a 15-day comment period, two comments were received. Both comments regarded the existence of a small business manufacturer of duplicators. The comment from a Federal agency informed SBA of the existence of a small business which manufactures office duplicators. The second comment was from a small business manufacturer of spirit duplicators and stencil/mimeograph duplicators, which they routinely provide to the Federal Government. Their duplicators use liquid ink and spirit fluid to produce duplicates, and when compared with office copiers, their duplicators are slow and labor intensive. Due to their speed and labor intensive nature, these duplicators tend to be marketed primarily to churches and schools, and are intended for relatively low volume work. The firm's marketing representative informed SBA that these duplicators are not in direct competition with office copiers. After reviewing the marketing information for these duplicators, it became apparent that these products are in a different category than office copiers. For these reasons, the class of products which is being waived from the Nonmanufacturer Rule is more narrowly defined to include only office copiers. All types of duplicating equipment are excluded from this class waiver. Based on the above information, SBA is establishing a waiver for office copiers (SIC code 3579, PSC code 3610) pursuant to Section 8(a)(17)(B)(iv)(II) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 636(a)(17)(B)(iv)(II). The effect of this class waiver is to allow otherwise qualified regular dealers to supply the products of any domestic manufacturer on a Federal contract set aside for small businesses or awarded through the SBA 8(a) Program for office copiers. This waiver will be in effect indefinitely, but is subject to periodic review by the SBA. Dated: July 19, 1994. Thomas A. Dumaresq, Associate Administrator for Government Contracting. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18068 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8025&hyph;01&hyph;M
