FR940516-2-00069 FR940516-2-00049 Office of Administration [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3767] Submission of Proposed Information Collection to OMB AGENCY: Office of Administration, HUD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The proposed information collection requirement described below has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for expedited review, as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act. The Department is soliciting public comments on the subject proposal. DATES: Comments due date: May 23, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments regarding this proposal. Comments must be received within seven (7) working days from the date of this Notice. Comments should refer to the proposal by name and should be sent to: Josephe F. Lackey, Jr., OMB Desk Officer, Office of Management and Budget, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kay F. Weaver, Reports Management Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410, telephone no. (202) 708&hyph;0050. This is not a toll-free number. Copies of the proposed forms and other available documents submitted to OMB may be obtained from Ms. Weaver. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This Notice informs the public that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has submitted to OMB, for expedited processing, and information collection package with respect to the Public Housing Residents Anti-crime Survey. HUD is requesting a 7-day OMB review of this information collection. HUD is currently implementing Operation Safe Home, a joint anti-crime effort with the U.S. Departments of Justice, Treasury, and the Office of National Drug Control, to eliminate criminal activity in public housing. A key component of Safe Home is coordinated strikes by Federal agencies against drug-related crime in public housing. Predatory violent crime in public housing also has been targeted for action. In an effort to make Operation Safe Home as effective as possible and to guide HUD's policy and legislative agenda, the Secretary wants to survey public housing residents on their opinions regarding crime and associated problems. These survey data will be used directly by the Office of Public and Indian Housing to strengthen HUD's crime prevention activities in public housing and by the Office of Policy Development and Research to enhance HUD's policy and legislative initiatives for crime prevention in a broad range of other settings as well. The Department has submitted the proposal for the collection of information, as described below, to OMB for review, as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. chapter 35): (1) The title of the information collection proposal; (2) The office of the agency to collect the information; (3) The description of the need for the information and its proposed use; (4) The agency form number, if applicable; (5) What members of the public will be affected by the proposal; (6) How frequently information submission will be required; (7) An estimate of the total number of hours needed to prepare the information submission including numbers of respondents, frequency of response, and hours of response; (8) Whether the proposal is new or an extension, reinstatement, or revision of an information collection requirement; and (9) The names and telephone numbers of an agency official familiar with the proposal and of the OMB Desk Officer for the Department. Authority: Section 3507 of the paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3507; Section 7(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). Dated: May 3, 1994. Michael A. Stegman, Assistant Secretary, Office of Policy Development and Research.
