FR940405-1-00012 FR940405-1-00004 In regulating rapid growth, the rapid growth rule in part overlaps both the FDIC's brokered deposit regulation, 12 CFR 337.6, and its prompt corrective action regulation, 12 CFR 308.200 ff. and 325.101 ff. Should the rapid growth rule be rescinded, the brokered deposit and prompt corrective action regulations will be the principal means by which rapid growth will be regulated. For this reason, in deciding whether to rescind the rapid growth rule, the FDIC examined the rationale and history behind all three regulations, to see if the FDIC's safety-and-soundness concerns will be met even if the rapid growth rule is rescinded. The rapid growth rule, adopted in 1990, replaced a regulation that called for the reporting of fully insured brokered deposits and fully insured deposits placed directly by other depository institutions. In the preamble to the proposed rapid growth rule, the FDIC stated that its intention was to broaden the prior regulation's focus from brokered deposits to all kinds of rapid growth, including brokered deposits: Since a bank may obtain its funding from a variety of sources in addition to brokered deposits, the FDIC believes that any effort to monitor and control rapid growth in insured banks should not focus solely or even principally on brokered deposits. Instead, the focus should be on rapid growth per se as an indication of the need for close monitoring and supervisory oversight. 54 FR 13693, April 5, 1989. The proposed rapid growth rule stated that: an insured bank may not undertake any special funding plan or arrangement designed to increase its assets by more than nine percent during any consecutive three-month period without first notifying the appropriate FDIC regional director for supervision in writing at least 30 days in advance of the implementation of the special funding plan or arrangement. For purposes of this requirement, a special funding plan or arrangement is any effort to rapidly increase the assets of the bank by any means. Id. at 13695. The final rule changed the nine percent to 7.5 percent, making the rule more stringent in that respect, but it narrowed the scope of the rule by making the notice necessary only if there was 7.5 percent growth resulting from one or more of the following activities: (1) The solicitation and acceptance of fully insured deposits obtained from or through the mediation of brokers or affiliates (that is, insured brokered deposits); (2) the solicitation of fully insured deposits outside a bank's normal trade area (this category would include insured brokered deposits); or (3) secured borrowings, including repurchase agreements. Thus, while it is not the sole aim of the rapid growth rule to curb the rapid growth that may result from the acceptance of brokered deposits, controlling a bank's acceptance of brokered deposits is one of the primary aims of that rule.
