FR940304-0-00126 FR940304-0-00021 (C) Using oil mist collectors to remove droplets of used oil from in-plant air to make plant air suitable for continued recirculation. As clarified under today's rule, the act of removing used oil from ambient air in the workplace is not subject to the used oil processor standards. At manufacturing facilities, droplets of used oil from machining operations are often dispersed into in-plant air. Oil mist collectors physically remove the small droplets of oil present in the ambient air. This activity is not subject to the used oil processing standards because it is intended primarily to make plant air suitable for continued recirculation and not to produce products from used oil or to make it more amenable for the production of used oil derived products. However, the oil removed from oil mist collectors is subject to the used oil generator standards. (D) Removing used oil from materials containing or otherwise contaminated with used oil in order to remove excessive oil. Under ยง279.10(c) of the used oil standards, materials containing or otherwise contaminated with used oil from which the used oil has been properly drained or removed to the extent possible such that no visible signs of free-flowing oil remain in or on the material are not used oil except when burned for energy recovery. Today's rule clarifies that the Agency does not consider the removal of used oil from materials containing or contaminated with used oil in order to remove excess oil in accordance with ยง279.10(c) to be used oil processing. The production of used oil derived products is clearly not the primary reason for removing used oil from materials containing or contaminated with used oil. Instead, the activity is conducted primarily to clean the materials (e.g., machine tools, scrap metal, etc.) prior to reuse, recycling, or disposal and is therefore not subject to the used oil processing standards as clarified by today's rule. However, in removing the used oil from the materials, the owner or operator becomes a used oil generator subject to the Subpart C used oil generator standards. (E) Filtering, separating, or otherwise reconditioning used oil before burning it in a space heater. Under ยง279.23 of the used oil standards, used oil may be burned in a used oil-fired space heater under specified conditions, and provided that the space heater burns only used oil that the owner or operator generates and/or used oil obtained from household DIY oil changers. Prior to burning, the used oil must often be filtered to remove impurities. Today's rule clarifies that filtering of used oil for the purpose of removing contaminants prior to burning the used oil in a space heater is not considered processing of used oil.
