FR941028-2-00225 FR941028-2-00110 Friday October 28, 1994 Part V Department of Education Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education Program; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 208␣/␣Friday, October 28, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education Program AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of proposed priorities. SUMMARY: The Secretary proposes absolute priorities and a competitive preference priority under the Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education Program. The Secretary takes this action to focus Federal financial assistance on specific approaches to identifying and serving gifted and talented students and to developing ways in which the programs and services developed for gifted and talented students can be used to benefit all children. The priorities bring special attention to programs and services for students (including economically disadvantaged individuals, individuals of limited-English proficiency, and individuals with disabilities) who may not be identified and served through traditional gifted and talented programs. The priorities also encourage programs and projects to develop and improve the capability of schools in an entire State or region of the Nation through cooperative efforts and participation of State and local educational agencies, institutions of higher education, and other public and private agencies and organizations, such as business, industry, and labor, to plan, conduct, and improve programs in schools using, where appropriate, methods and materials developed in gifted and talented programs to improve the educational opportunities for all children. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed priorities should be addressed to Pat O'Connell Ross, U.S. Department of Education, 555 New Jersey Avenue NW., Room 504, Washington, D.C. 20208&hyph;5572. Comments may also be sent through the internet to ``Javits X Grant@ed.gov.'' FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Pat O'Connell Ross or Pat Knight. Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;2187 or (202) 219&hyph;1768. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education Program is designed to build nationwide capability in gifted and talented education and encourage rich and challenging curricula for all children. The Secretary seeks to improve the education of gifted and talented children, and to use the strategies developed in gifted and talented education programs to improve the education of all children in a school. The Secretary believes that this is an integral part of the National Education Goals, which require that every student attain higher standards of academic excellence. Gifted and talented education programs can contribute to systemic reform by modeling a coordinated system of high standards, assessments, challenging curricula, and teacher preparation to improve education. In addition, the Secretary believes that the educational needs of gifted and talented students from populations historically underserved by gifted and talented education programs must be addressed. In order to carry out these improvements, the Secretary proposes a priority that would support the development of model demonstration programs that focus on economically disadvantaged children, children with limited English proficiency or children with disabilities. The projects will be required to involve a school or schools that serve at least 50 percent low-income children and to incorporate professional development of staff and training of parents into their programs. In addition, the Secretary proposes a second priority that encourages cooperative efforts of technical assistance and information dissemination throughout a State or region that focuses on how programs and methods for teaching gifted and talented students, where appropriate, could be adapted to improve instruction for all students in schools. In both proposed priorities, the projects must be based on challenging content and performance standards in one or more of the core subject areas, and include comprehensive improvement plans for the school or schools involved in the projects. These priorities focus on projects that incorporate challenging content and performance standards in the core subjects because the Secretary believes that this is the most promising way to raise students' achievement.
