FR941117-2-00162 FR941117-2-00108 DATES: Deadline for proposals: Completed applications must be received at the appropriate office (listed below) by 5 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, on Tuesday, January 31, 1995. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on January 31, 1995, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the above deadline. ADDRESSES: The original and three copies of the proposal should be submitted by the deadline and addressed as follows: For Degree Programs in Business Administration and for Two-Year Degree Programs in Public Administration: The Edmund S. Muskie Fellowship Program, c/o ACTR/ACCELS, 1776 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Suite 700, Washington, DC 20036. For Degree, Non-Degree and Certificate Programs in Economics: The Edmund S. Muskie Program, c/o IREX, 1616 H Street, NW, Washington, DC 20006. For Degree Programs in Law and for One-Year Programs in Public Administration: The Edmund S. Muskie Fellowship Program, c/o The Soros Foundations/The Consortium for Academic Partnerships, 888 Seventh Avenue, 31st Floor, New York, NY 10106. For Professional Development Programs in Business Administration, Economics, Law, or Public Administration: The Edmund S. Muskie Fellowship Program, c/o The Institute of International Education, 809 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017&hyph;3580, Attn: Martha Loerke. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Interested U.S. institutions should write ACTR/ACCELS, IIE, IREX or the Soros Foundations to request application packets, which include guidelines and award criteria. Interested applicants should read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the organizations noted above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Edmund S. Muskie Program is administered by USIA through cooperative agreements to the following organizations: The American Council of Teachers of Russian/American Council for Collaboration in Education and Language Study (ACTR/ACCELS), the Institute of International Education (IIE), the International Research & Exchanges Board (IREX), and the Soros Foundations. Under these agreements ACTR/ACCELS, IIE, IREX, and the Soros Foundation are responsible for the recruitment, selection, academic placement, and monitoring of Fellows. Please Note: The Edmund S. Muskie Fellowship Program is not intended as a precursor to doctoral studies in the United States. At the end of their designated academic and internship programs, Fellows are required to return to their home countries to fulfill the two-year home residency requirement as specified in the Exchange Visitor (J-Visa) regulations. ACTR, IREX, Soros, and IIE will not approve the transfer of visa sponsorship to universities or the extension of visas for the purpose of Ph.D. programs or other additional academic study. Overall authority for this program is contained in the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended Public Law 87&hyph;256 (Fulbright-Hays Act). The purpose of the Act is ``to enable the Government of the United States to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and people of other countries by means of educational and cultural exchange, to strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations *␣*␣* and thus assist in the development of friendly, sympathetic, and peaceful relations between the United States and other countries of the world.'' Pursuant to the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs authorizing legislation, programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of the American political, social and cultural life. Programs shall also ``maintain their scholarly integrity and shall meet the highest standards of academic excellence or artistic achivement.'' Program Overview The Edmund S. Muskie Program was established in Fiscal Year 1992 to promote democratic and economic development in Armenia, Azerbaijan,* Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzia, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. It is an academic program providing graduate level instruction at the master's level in business administration, economics, law, and public administration along with exposure to the concepts of market economics and democratic principles. A professional affiliation experience and networking opportunities are major program components.
