FR941117-2-00055 FR941117-2-00040 (3) Division of Beneficiary and Insurance Issues (FKA53) •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on entitlement to Medicare hospital insurance and supplementary medical insurance, premium amounts and collection, general requirements for payment of claims, beneficiary rights and protections, limitation on liability, hearings and appeals, technical exclusions, and other technical issues. •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on Medicare as secondary payer, coordination of other payers' benefits with Medicare, and Medicare supplemental insurance (Medigap). •Develops, evaluates, and reviews regulations, guidelines, and instructions required for the dissemination of policies to Medicare contractors, social security offices, and the health care field. •Maintains liaison with other Federal agencies such as the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Office of Personnel Management to coordinate policies in areas of mutual concern. (4) Division of Durable Medical Equipment and Devices (FKA54) •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on the coverage of and payment methods for durable medical equipment, orthotics, prosthetics, braces, splints, and other supplies and devices. •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards concerning restrictions on referrals by physicians to entities in which they have an ownership interest. •Provides administrative support and management for Levels 2 and 3 of the Health Care Financing Administration's Common Procedure Coding System. •Develops, evaluates, and reviews regulations, guidelines, and instructions required for the dissemination of policies to Medicare contractors and the health care field. Dated: November 1, 1994. Bruce C. Vladeck, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28398 Filed 11&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
