FR941202-1-00017 FR941202-1-00002 (i) In all transactions other than a single-advance, single-payment transaction, the unit-period shall be that common period, not to exceed one year, that occurs most frequently in the transaction, except that: (A) If two or more common periods occur with equal frequency, the smaller of such common periods shall be the unit-period; or (B) If there is no common period in the transaction, the unit-period shall be that period which is the average of all periods rounded to the nearest whole standard interval of time. If the average is equally near two standard intervals of time, the lower shall be the unit-period. (ii) In a single-advance, single-payment transaction, the unit-period shall be the term of the transaction, but shall not exceed one year. (5) Number of unit-periods between two given dates. (i) The number of days between two dates shall be the number of 24-hour intervals between any point in time on the first date to the same point in time on the second date. (ii) If the unit-period is a month, the number of full unit-periods between two dates shall be the number of months. If the unit-period is a month, the number of unit-periods per year shall be 12. (iii) If the unit-period is a semimonth or a multiple of a month not exceeding 11 months, the number of days between two dates shall be 30 times the number of full months. The number of full unit-periods shall be determined by dividing the number of days by 15 in the case of a semimonthly unit-period or by the appropriate multiple of 30 in the case of a multimonthly unit-period. If the unit-period is a semimonth, the number of unit-periods per year shall be 24. If the number of unit-periods is a multiple of a month, the number of unit-periods per year shall be 12 divided by the number of months per unit-period. (iv) If the unit-period is a day, a week, or a multiple of a week, the number of full unit-periods shall be determined by dividing the number of days between the two given dates by the number of days per unit-period. If the unit-period is a day, the number of unit-periods per year shall be 365. If the unit-period is a week or a multiple of a week, the number of unit-periods per year shall be 52 divided by the number of weeks per unit-period. (v) If the unit-period is a year, the number of full unit-periods between two dates shall be the number of full years (each equal to 12 months). (6) Symbols. The symbols used to express the terms of a transaction in the equation set forth in paragraph (b)(8) of this appendix are defined as follows: A j = The amount of each periodic or lump-sum advance to the consumer under the reverse mortgage transaction. i = Percentage rate of the total loan cost per unit-period, expressed as a decimal equivalent. j = The number of unit-periods until the jth advance. n = The number of unit-periods between consummation and repayment of the debt. P n = Min (Bal n , Val n ). This is the maximum amount that the creditor can be repaid at the specified loan term. Bal n = Loan balance at time of repayment, including all costs and fees incurred by the consumer (including any shared appreciation or shared equity amount) compounded to time n at the creditor's contract rate of interest. Val n = Val 0 (1 + s ) y , where Val 0 is the property value at consummation, is the assumed annual rate of appreciation for the dwelling, and y is the number of years in the assumed term. Val n must be reduced by the amount of any equity reserved for the consumer by agreement between the parties, or by 7 percent (or the amount or percentage specified in the credit agreement), if the amount required to be repaid is limited to the net proceeds of sale. S = The summation operator. Symbols used in the examples shown in this appendix are defined as follows: FV x␣␣ i = The future value of 1 per unit-period for x unit periods, first advance due immediately (at time = 0, which is consummation). E:GRAPHICSEP02DE94.013 I = wi x 100 = the nominal total annual loan cost rate. (7) General equation. The total annual loan cost rate for a reverse mortgage transaction must be determined by first solving the following formula, which sets forth the relationship between the advances to the consumer and the amount owed to the creditor under the terms of the reverse mortgage agreement for the loan cost rate per unit-period (the loan cost rate per unit-period is then multiplied by the number of unit-periods per year to obtain the total annual loan cost rate I; that is I = wi): E:GRAPHICSEP02DE94.014 (8) Solution of general equation by iteration process. (i) The general equation in paragraph (b)(7) of this appendix, when applied to a simple transaction for a reverse mortgage loan of equal monthly advances of $350 each, and with a total amount owed of $14,313.08 at an assumed repayment period of two years, takes the special form: E:GRAPHICSEP02DE94.015 Using the iteration procedures found in steps 1 through 4 of (b)(9)(i) of Appendix J of this part, the total annual loan cost rate, correct to two decimals, is 48.53%. (ii) In using these iteration procedures, it is expected that calculators or computers will be programmed to carry all available decimals throughout the calculation and that enough iterations will be performed to make virtually certain that the total annual loan cost rate obtained, when rounded to two decimals, is correct. Total annual loan cost rates in the examples below were obtained by using a 10-digit programmable calculator and the iteration procedure described in Appendix J to this part.
