FR940506-2-00020 FR940506-2-00009 International Trade Administration, Commerce Export Trade Certificate of Review ACTION: Notice of application. SUMMARY: The Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce, has received an application for an Export Trade Certificate of Review. This notice summarizes the application and requests comments relevant to whether the Certificate should be issued. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, 202&hyph;482&hyph;5131. This is not a toll-free number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title III of the Export Trading Company Act of 1982 (15 U.S.C. 4001&hyph;21) authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to issue Export Trade Certificates of Review. A Certificate of Review protects the holder and the members identified in the Certificate from state and federal government antitrust actions and from private, treble damage antitrust actions for the export conduct specified in the Certificate and carried out in compliance with its terms and conditions. Section 302(b)(1) of the Act and 15 CFR 325.6(a) require the Secretary to publish a notice in the Federal Register identifying the applicant and summarizing its proposed export conduct. Request for Public Comments Interested parties may submit written comments relevant to the determination whether a Certificate should be issued. An original and five (5) copies should be submitted no later than 20 days after the date of this notice to: Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce, room 1800H, Washington, DC 20230. Information submitted by any person is exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). Comments should refer to this application as ``Export Trade Certificate of Review, application number 94&hyph;00004.'' A summary of the application follows. Summary of the Application Applicant: Allegheny Highland Hardwoods, Inc., 6495 Webster Road, Portland, New York 14769, Contact: Jerry R. Miller, Telephone: 716&hyph;792&hyph;9482. Application No.: 94&hyph;00004. Date Deemed Submitted: April 22, 1994. Members (in addition to applicant): Pomeroy Lumber, Inc., Nineveh, NY; Wright's Hardwood Inc., Fredonia, NY; J.A. Yansick Lumber Co., Inc., Arcade, NY; C.A. Elliott Lumber Co., Inc., Roulette PA; Lewis and Hockenberry, Inc., Emporium, PA; Whitesville Wood Products Co., Inc., Whitesville, NY; Aurora Woodworks, Ltd., Buffalo, NY; and Peter DeVivi Productions, Inc., Waterloo, NY. Allegheny Highland Hardwoods, Inc. (``AHH'') seeks a Certificate to cover the following specific Export Trade, Export Markets, and Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operations. Export Trade 1. Products Forest products, including but not limited to, hardwood lumber, S4S Dimension, solid squares, laminated squares, furniture blanks, moulding, flooring, dowels, and panels, but excluding paper, cardboard, containerboard, and similar products. 2. Export Trade Facilitation Services (as They Relate to the Export of Products and Services) Export Trade Facilitation Services including professional services in the areas of government relations, foreign trade and business protocol, marketing, marketing research, negotiations, shipping, export management, documentation, insurance and financing. Export Markets The Export Markets include all parts of the world except the United States (the fifty states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands). Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation To engage in Export Trade in the Export Markets, as an Export Intermediary, AHH, Inc. and/or its Members may: 1. Enter into exclusive or non-exclusive agreements wherein AHH agrees to act as the Members' Export Intermediary. Exclusive agreements are those wherein AHH agrees not to represent entities other than the Members in the sale of Products and provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services in any Export Market. 2. Meet to negotiate and agree on the terms of participation in each bid, invitation, or request to bid, or other sales opportunity in any Export Market, including, but not limited to, the price at which a Member will sell its Products for export, and the quantity of Products each Member will commit to the foreign sale or bid opportunity.
