FR940920-1-00100 FR940920-1-00008 Based on review of analytical procedures used with multimetal train samples collected during several other EPA-sponsored test programs, the EPA believes the potential loss of Hg in precipitated MnO 2 during these tests was less than 3 percent (during these tests, the KMnO 4 /H 2 SO 4 impingers were shaken prior to removal of a representative analytical sample and, thus, a portion of any precipitated MnO 2 was likely to have been included in the analytical sample). Because the analytical filter only makes a negligible difference in the Hg test results for MWC's and because it is desirable to use a uniform Hg test method for all source categories, the EPA is proposing that the full Method 29 test procedures (including the analytical filter analysis) be used for measuring Hg emissions from MWC's. Overall, the proposed guidelines would require that CEMS be used as the compliance test method for those pollutants for which CEMS are available (i.e., SO 2 , NO X , CO, CO 2 (or O 2 ), opacity, MWC load level, and air pollution control device temperature). For those pollutants for which CEMS are not available (i.e., HCl, Hg, Cd, Pb, PM, and dioxins/furans), the proposed guidelines would require that stack test methods be used on an annual basis to determine compliance. Progress continues to be made on the development of new and improved CEMS. The EPA requests comment on the availability of CEMS to replace stack testing for any of the pollutants listed above. The EPA specifically requests comment on the availability, precision, accuracy, and cost of CEMS for HCl and Hg. Based on the information received, the EPA will reconsider CEMS requirements and may increase the number of pollutants monitored by CEMS. I. Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Compliance Schedule Requirements The proposed emission guidelines would require owners and operators of all designated facilities to submit notifications of the anticipated date of startup and initial performance test and performance evaluation of the CEMS (where applicable). The February 11, 1991 emission guidelines for MWC's established reporting and recordkeeping requirements for MWC acid gases, MWC organics (dioxins/furans), MWC metals (PM and opacity), and MWC operating practices. These reporting and recordkeeping requirements are summarized in the previous Federal Register notice promulgating the February 11, 1991 emission guidelines (56 FR 5514). These same reporting and recordkeeping requirements would be adopted under today's proposed guidelines with the following exceptions: (1) Dioxin/furan emissions would be recorded and reported either in terms of dioxin/furan TEQ or as total mass of dioxins/furans; (2) if MWC's at small plants have met the criteria allowing them to conduct compliance tests for PM, HCl, or dioxins/furans every third year (see section IV.H of this preamble), they would submit a simplified annual report for years where testing for those pollutants was not required; and (3) both small and large MWC plants would be required to report the results of annual EPA Reference Method 9 opacity tests. Recordkeeping and reporting requirements are being proposed in today's emission guidelines for NO X , Cd, Pb, and Hg emissions. The reporting and recordkeeping requirements for NO X are described in the NSPS promulgated on February 11, 1991 (56 FR 5488). Under today's proposed emission guidelines, these reporting and recordkeeping requirements would apply only to MWC's at large plants. After an initial performance test has been completed, the proposed emission guidelines would additionally require the submission of annual compliance reports for Cd, Pb, and Hg. However, if MWC's at small plants have met the criteria allowing them to conduct compliance tests for Cd, Pb, or Hg every third year (see section IV.H of this preamble), they would submit a simplified annual report for years where testing for those pollutants was not required. The proposed emission guidelines would require that certain types of records be maintained. If an activated carbon injection system is used for Hg control, MWC plants would be required to keep records of the quantity of activated carbon used for each 8-hour period of MWC operation. These records would provide documentation that these systems continue to be operated properly between compliance tests. Initial and annual compliance reports for fly ash/bottom ash fugitive emissions testing would be required for MWC's at both small and large MWC plants. The proposed guidelines would also require that records be kept regarding the training and certification status of individuals involved in the operation of the MWC. The proposed guidelines would specify that all training and certification requirements be met within 1 year after the date of promulgation of the guidelines. The proposed emission guidelines include revised compliance scheduling requirements. The proposed guidelines require State plans to require both small and large MWC plants to meet one of the following two compliance schedules: (1) Full compliance with the State plan by no later than 1 year after the approval of the State plan; or (2) full compliance with the State plan by no later than 3 years following issuance of a revised construction or operation permit, if a permit modification is required, or within 3 years following approval of the State plan, if a permit modification is not required, provided the State plan includes measurable and enforceable incremental steps of progress toward compliance with the State plan. Suggested items for specification in the State plan would be as follows: (1) Date for obtaining the services of an architectural and engineering firm; (2) Date for obtaining design drawings of the pollution control device(s);
