FR941116-2-00005 FR941116-2-00002 Wilderness Goals Preserve the Hells Canyon Wilderness for the use and enjoyment of the American people in such a manner as will leave it unimpaired for future use and enjoyment as a wilderness, and so as to provide for its protection and preservation of its natural conditions and unique character. Manage those historic sites that typify the economic and social history of the region and the American West for preservation and/or restoration. Objectives Development a wilderness management plan. Standards and Guidelines Reference proposed changes under Management Area Direction. Heritage Resources Goals Manage heritage resources on the HCNRA for their protection from damage or destruction. Manager heritage resources for scientific research, public education, and enjoyment to the extent consistent with protection. Consult with the Nez Perce Tribe of Idaho to ensure tribal concerns are addressed and treaty rights are protected. Objectives Establish management direction for the various categories of heritage resources, i.e. pre-historic and historic. Standards and Guidelines Develop S&Gs to establish heritage resource limits of acceptable change for facilities development and management. Develop S&Gs to establish limits of acceptable change for recreational impacts, defining when impacting activity must be mitigated and/or be curtailed. Scientific Goals Provide research opportunities designed to optimize the discovery of useful information for management and for the advancement of scientific knowledge. Manage research natural areas (RNA) to preserve the significant natural ecosystems for comparison with those influenced by man; for provision of ecological and environmental studies; and preservation of gene pools for threatened and endangered plants and animals. Objectives Develop a schedule for research natural area establishment reports. Standards and Guidelines Refine existing S&Gs for scientific research to meet HCNRA-wide management goals and objectives. HCRNA Act Section 7 (3) preservation, especially in the area generally known as Hells Canyon, of all features and peculiarities believed to be biologically unique including, but not limited to rare and endemic plant species, rare combinations of aquatic, terrestrial, and atmospheric habitats, and the rare combinations of outstanding and diverse ecosystems and parts of ecosystems associated therewith. On a landscape scale ensure the sustainability of ecosystem function. Manage the HCNRA ecosystem to ensure that: (1) Living organisms interacting with each other and their physical environment are well represented: (2) population viability is maintained; (3) ecosystem processes are sustained; and (4) the system displays resilience to short and long term disturbance effects. Vegetation Goals Manage forest and rangeland vegetation to maintain viable and healthy ecosystems that: Ensure the protection and enhancement of fish and wildlife habitats; conservation of scenic, wilderness, and scientific values; preservation of biologically unique habitats and rare combinations of outstanding ecosystems; protection and enhancement of a wild and scenic river's outstandingly remarkable values; and compatible public outdoor recreation. Provide for restoration of ecosystem function in a manner compatible with the primary objectives of the HCNRA Act. Manage insects and diseases to function in a natural healthy ecosystem. Maintain insect and disease levels within a range of historic variability, consistent with the Section 7 objectives of the HCNRA Act. Objectives Identify vegetation patterns, fish and wildlife habitat and function outside the natural range of variability. Develop vegetation restoration/improvement needs. Develop an allotment management planning schedule. Adjust allotment boundaries in corporating vacant allotments. Standards and Guidelines Develop S&Gs that define vegetation desired conditions (rangeland and forested) and appropriate vegetation management techniques for the use of forested stand manipulation by commercial or non-commercial practices, grazing (domestic and big game), and fire (prescribed fire and prescribed natural fire) to maintain a viable and healthy ecosystem.
