FR940524-1-00078 FR940524-1-00010 (d) Mouthpieces shall be equipped with noseclips which are securely attached to the mouthpiece or respirator and provide an airtight seal. (e) Facepieces, hoods, and helmets shall be designed to prevent eyepiece fogging. (f) Half-mask facepieces shall not interfere with the fit of common industrial safety corrective spectacles, as determined by the Institute's facepiece tests in §§84.181 and 84.182. §84.176 Facepieces, hoods, and helmets; eyepieces; minimum requirements. Facepieces, hoods, and helmets shall be designed and constructed to provide adequate vision which is not distorted by the eyepieces. §84.177 Inhalation and exhalation valves; minimum requirements. (a) Inhalation and exhalation valves shall be protected against distortion. (b) Inhalation valves shall be designed and constructed and provided where necessary to prevent excessive exhaled air from adversely affecting filters, except where filters are specifically designed to resist moisture. (c) Exhalation valves shall be: (1) Provided where necessary; (2) Protected against damage and external influence; and (3) Designed and constructed to prevent inward leakage of contaminated air. §84.178 Head harnesses; minimum requirements. (a) All facepieces shall be equipped with head harnesses designed and constructed to provide adequate tension during use and an even distribution of pressure over the entire area in contact with the face. (b) Facepiece head harnesses, except those employed on single-use respirators, shall be adjustable and replaceable. (c) Mouthpieces shall be equipped, where applicable, with adjustable and replaceable harnesses, designed and constructed to hold the mouthpiece in place. §84.179 Air velocity and noise levels; hoods and helmets; minimum requirements. Noise levels generated by the respirator will be measured inside the hood or helmet at maximum airflow obtainable and shall not exceed 80 dBA. §84.180 Particulate respirators; filter type identification. (a) The respirator manufacturer, as part of the application for certification, shall specify the filter-efficiency/particulate-type classification (i.e., "95, "99, or "99.97 percent efficiency against solid or both liquid and solid particulates) for which certification is being sought. (b) Filters shall be prominently labeled as follows: (1) Type A (99.97% efficiency) filters intended for use against only solid particulates shall be labeled ``Type A/S Particulate Filter'' and shall be a color other than magenta. (2) Type A (99.97% efficiency) filters intended for use against both liquid and solid particulates shall be labeled ``Type A/L&S Particulate Filter'' and shall be color coded magenta. (3) Type B (99% efficiency) filters intended for use against only solid particulates shall be labeled ``Type B/S Particulate Filter'' and shall be a color other than magenta. (4) Type B (99% efficiency) filters intended for use against both liquid and solid particulates shall be labeled ``Type B/L&S Particulate Filter'' and shall be a color other that magenta. (5) Type C (95% efficiency) filters intended for use against only solid particulates shall be labeled as ``Type C/S Particulate Filter'' and shall be a color other that magenta. (6) Type C (95% efficiency) filters intended for use against both liquid and solid particulates shall be labeled as ``Type C/L&S Particulate Filter'' and shall be a color other than magenta. §84.181 Isoamyl acetate tightness test; particulate respirators with filters not intended to be replaced. (a) The respirator will be modified in such a manner that all of the air that normally would be inhaled through the inhalation port(s) is drawn through an efficient activated charcoal-filled canister, or cartridge(s), without interference with the face-contacting portion of the facepiece. (b) The modified respirator will be worn by persons for at least 2 minutes each in a test chamber containing 100 parts (by volume) of isoamyl-acetate vapor per million parts of air. (c) The odor of isoamyl-acetate shall not be detected by the wearers of the modified respirator while in the test atmosphere.
