FR940705-0-00028 FR940705-0-00002 ␣ 1Unit No. 1Binder color 1 Blue. 2 Orange. 3 Green. 4 Brown. 5 Slate. 6 White. 7 Red. 8 Black. 9 Yellow. 10 Violet. 11 Rose. 12 Aqua. 13 Blue-Black. 14 Orange-Black. 15 Green-Black. 16 Brown-Black. 17 Slate-Black. 18 White-Black. 19 Red-Black. 20 Black-Black-Yellow. 21 Yellow-Yellow-Black. 22 Violet-Black. 23 Rose-Black. 24 Aqua-Black. (g) Filling compound. (1) To prevent the ingress of water into the core, a filling compound must be applied into the interior of the loose fiber tubes and into the interstices of the core. When a core wrap is used, the filling compound must also be applied to the core wrap, over the core wrap and between the core wrap and inner jacket when required. (2) The materials must be homogeneous and uniformly mixed; free from dirt, metallic particles and other foreign matter; easily removed; nontoxic and present no dermal hazards. (3) The individual cable manufacturer must satisfy REA that the filling compound selected for use is suitable for its intended application. The filling compound must be compatible with the cable components when tested in accordance with ASTM D 4568&hyph;86 at a temperature of 80 ○ C. (h) Core wrap (optional). (1) At the option of the manufacturer, one or more layers of nonhygroscopic and nonwicking dielectric material may be applied over the core. (2) The core wrap(s) can be used to provide a heat barrier to prevent deformation or adhesion between the fiber tubes or can be used to contain the core. (3) When core wraps are used, sufficient filling compound must be applied to the core wraps so that voids or air spaces existing between the core wraps and between the core the inner side of the core wrap are minimized. (i) Inner jacket. (1) Inner jackets may be applied directly over the core or over the strength members. (i) For armored cable an inner jacket is optional but recommended. The inner jacket may absorb stresses in the cable core that may be introduced by armor application or by armored cable installation. (ii) For unarmored cable an inner jacket is optional. (2) The inner jacket material and test requirements must be as for the outer jacket material per paragraphs (m)(3) introductory text through (m)(3)(v) of this section, except that either black or natural polyethylene may be used. In the case of natural polyethylene, the requirements for absorption coefficient and the inclusion of furnace black are waived. (j) Flooding compound. (1) Sufficient flooding compound must be applied between the inner jacket and armor and between the armor and outer jacket so that voids and air spaces in these areas are minimized. The use of floodant between the armor and outer jacket is not required when uniform bonding, per paragraph (k)(10) of this section, is achieved between the plastic-clad armor and the outer jacket. (2) The flooding compound must be compatible with the jacket when tested in accordance with ASTM D 4568&hyph;86 at a temperature of 80 ○ C. The floodant must exhibit adhesive properties sufficient to prevent jacket slip when tested in accordance with the requirements of Appendix A, paragraph (III)(3), of this section. (3) The individual cable manufacturer must satisfy REA that the flooding compound selected for use is acceptable for the application. (4) In lieu of a flooding compound, water blocking tapes may be applied between the inner jacket and armor and between the armor and outer jacket to prevent water migration. The use of the water blocking tape between the armor and outer jacket is not required when uniform bonding, per paragraph (k)(10) of this section, is achieved between the plastic-clad armor and the outer jacket. (k) Armor. (1) A steel armor, plastic coated on both sides, is required for direct buried cable manufactured under the provisions of this section. An armor is optional for duct and aerial cable as required by the purchaser. The plastic coated steel armor must be applied longitudinally directly over the core wrap or the intermediate jacket and have a minimum overlap of 3.0 millimeters. (2) The uncoated steel tape must be electrolytic chrome coated steel (ECCS) with a thickness of 0.155 # 0.015 millimeters. (3) The reduction in thickness of the armoring material due to the corrugating or to the application process must be kept to a minimum and must not exceed 10 percent at any spot. (4) The armor of each length of cable must be electrically continuous with no more than one joint or splice allowed per kilometer of cable. This requirement does not apply to a joint or splice made in the raw material by the raw material manufacturer. (5) The breaking strength of any section of an armor tape, containing a factory splice joint, must not be less than 80 percent of the breaking strength of an adjacent section of the armor of equal length without a joint. (6) For cables containing no floodant over the armor, the overlap portions of the armor tape must be bonded in cables having a flat, noncorrugated armor to meet the requirements of paragraphs (q)(1) through (q)(7)(ii) of this section. If the tape is corrugated, the overlap portions of the armor tape must be sufficiently bonded and the corrugations must be sufficiently in register to meet the requirements of paragraphs (q)(1) through (q)(7)(ii) of this section.
