FR940616-2-00155 FR940616-2-00101 The proposed project under the National Workplace Literacy Program must contribute to the strategic plan of the Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community and be made an integral component of the Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community activities. In providing workplace literacy services, partnerships must develop curricula related to work or use or modify curricula developed by successful workplace literacy partnerships. For competitions under this absolute priority, the Secretary will waive the selection criterion ``Evaluation Plan'' in 34 CFR 472.22(f) and the evaluation requirements in 34 CFR 472.31 and, in their place, conduct a national evaluation of projects serving Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities. The purpose of the waiver is to allow Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community projects to focus maximum resources on the provision of quality services and to further a Federal evaluation study that particularly can benefit other distressed areas. Additional Factor the Secretary Considers After evaluating each application according to the proposed selection criteria, the Secretary may select for funding one or more applications of high quality, other than the most highly rated applications, if the Secretary concludes that this selection would improve the distribution of grants among applicants serving urban and rural areas. Executive Order 12866 This notice of proposed priority has been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the notice of proposed priority are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of this notice of proposed priority, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the proposed priority justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. To assist the Department in complying with the specific requirements of Executive Order 12866, the Secretary invites comment on whether there may be further opportunities to reduce any potential costs or increase potential benefits resulting from this proposed priority without impeding the effective and efficient administration of the program. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding this proposed priority. All comments submitted in response to this notice will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in room 4428, Switzer Building, 330 C Street, SW., Washington, DC, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week, except Federal holidays. Applicable Program Regulations: 34 CFR Part 472. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.198B National Workplace Literacy Program) Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1211(a). Dated: June 2, 1994. Augusta Souza Kappner, Assistant Secretary, Office of Vocational and Adult Education. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14591 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;M
