FR940425-2-00059 FR940425-2-00046 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Agency for Health Care Policy and Research Process for Determining Need for Updates of Clinical Practice Guidelines The Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR) announces a process for determining when updates are needed of AHCPR-supported clinical practice guidelines. The process consists of obtaining information about new scientific evidence or new technologies, soliciting opinions from the public, and convening a public meeting to receive relevant information. Comments on the process are invited. Background The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;239) added a new Title IX to the Public Health Service Act (the Act), which established the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR) to enhance the quality, appropriateness, and effectiveness of health care services, and access to such services. (See 42 U.S.C. 299&hyph;299c&hyph;6 and 1320b&hyph;12.) The Agency for Health Care Policy and Research Reauthorization Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;410), enacted on October 13, 1992, extended the authorization of AHCPR and amended certain provisions related to the development of clinical practice guidelines. In keeping with its legislative mandates, AHCPR, through the Office of the Forum for Quality and Effectiveness in Health Care (Forum), arranges for the development, periodic review, and updating of clinically relevant guidelines that may be used by physicians, other health care practitioners, educators, and consumers to assist in determining how diseases, disorders, and other health conditions can most effectively and appropriately be prevented, diagnosed, treated, and clinically managed. The AHCPR also supports development, periodic review, and updating of medical review criteria, standards of quality, and performance measures, based on the guidelines. Section 912 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 299b&hyph;1(b)), as amended by Public Law 102&hyph;410, requires that the guidelines: 1. Be based on the best available research and professional judgment; 2. Be presented in formats appropriate for use by physicians, other health care practitioners, medical educators, medical review organizations, and consumers; 3. Be presented in treatment-specific or condition specific forms appropriate for use in clinical practice, educational programs, and reviewing quality and appropriateness of medical care; 4. Include information on the risks and benefits of alternative strategies for prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and management of the particular health condition(s); and 5. Include information on the costs of alternative strategies for prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and management of the particular health condition(s), where cost information is available and reliable. Section 913 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 299b&hyph;2) describes two mechanisms through which AHCPR may arrange for development of guidelines: 1. Panels of qualified private sector experts and health care consumers may be established; and 2. Contracts may be awarded to public and private nonprofit organizations. Guideline contractors are assisted by panels of private sector experts and health care consumers approved by AHCPR. Section 914(a) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 299b&hyph;3(a)), as amended by Public Law 102&hyph;410, identifies factors to be considered in establishing priorities for guideline topics, including the extent to which the guidelines would:
