FR940722-0-00147 FR940722-0-00019 §24.803 Authorization required. No person shall use or operate any device for the transmission of energy or communications by radio in the services authorized by this part except as provided in this part. §24.804 Eligibility. (a) General. Authorizations will be granted upon proper application if: (1) The applicant is qualified under all applicable laws and Commission regulations, policies and decisions; (2) There are frequencies available to provide satisfactory service; and (3) The public interest, convenience or necessity would be served by a grant. (b) Alien ownership. A broadband PCS authorization to provide Commercial Mobile Radio Service may not be granted to or held by: (1) Any alien or the representative of any alien. (2) Any corporation organized under the laws of any foreign government. (3) Any corporation of which any officer or director is an alien or of which more than one-fifth of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens or their representatives or by a foreign government or representative thereof or any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. (4) Any corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any other corporation of which any officer or more than one-fourth of the directors are aliens, or of which more than one-fourth of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens, their representatives, or by a foreign government or representative thereof, or by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country, if the Commission finds that the public interest will be served by the refusal or revocation of such license. (c) A broadband PCS authorization to provide Private Mobile Radio Service may not be granted to or held by a foreign government or a representative thereof. §24.805 Formal and informal applications. (a) Except for an authorization under any of the conditions stated in Section 308(a) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. §308(a)), the Commission may grant the following authorizations only upon written application received by it: station licenses; modifications of licenses; renewals of licenses; transfers and assignments of station licenses, or any right thereunder. (b) Except as may be otherwise permitted by this part, a separate written application shall be filed for each instrument of authorization requested. Applications may be: (1) ``Formal applications'' where the Commission has prescribed in this Part a standard form; or (2) ``Informal applications'' (normally in letter form) where the Commission has not prescribed a standard form. (c) An informal application will be accepted for filing only if: (1) A standard form is not prescribed or clearly applicable to the authorization requested; (2) It is a document submitted, in duplicate, with a caption which indicates clearly the nature of the request, radio service involved, location of the station, and the application file number (if known); and (3) It contains all the technical details and informational showings required by the rules and states clearly and completely the facts involved and authorization desired. §24.806 Filing of broadband PCS applications; Fees; Numbers of copies. (a) As prescribed by §§24.705, 24.707 and 24.809, standard formal application forms applicable to broadband PCS may be obtained from either: (1) Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554; or (2) By calling the Commission's Forms Distribution Center, (202) 632&hyph;3676. (b) Applications to participate in competitive bidding for broadband PCS service must be filed on FCC Form 175 in accordance with the rules in §24.705 and Part 1, Subpart Q of this Chapter. In the event of mutual exclusivity between applicants filing FCC Form 175, only auction winners will be eligible to file subsequent long-form applications on FCC Form 401 to provide broadband PCS service. Mutually exclusive applications filed on FCC Form 175 are subject to competitive bidding under those rules. Broadband PCS applicants filing FCC Form 401 need not complete Schedule B. (c) All applications for broadband PCS licenses (other than applications to participate in competitive bidding filed on FCC Form 175) shall be submitted for filing to: Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554, Attention: Broadband PCS Processing Section. Applications requiring fees as set forth at Part 1, Subpart G of this chapter must be filed in accordance with §0.401(b) of this Chapter.
