FR940429-0-00252 FR940429-0-00015 (B) The applicable liability described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is currently being repaid in accordance with a written agreement with the Secretary; or (C) The institution demonstrates why_ ( 1 ) The person who exercises substantial control over the institution should nevertheless be considered to lack that control; or ( 2 ) The person who exercises substantial control over the institution and each member of that person's family nevertheless does not or did not exercise substantial control over the institution or servicer that owes the liability. (e) Documentation of financial responsibility. (1) The Secretary determines whether an institution is financially responsible under this section by evaluating documents submitted by the institution and information obtained from other sources, including outside sources of credit information. To enable the Secretary to make this determination, the institution shall submit to the Secretary for its two latest complete fiscal years, a set of financial statements of the institution, prepared on an accrual basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and audited by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. The Secretary may also require the institution to submit or otherwise make available, the accountant's work papers. If an institution submits audited consolidated financial statements of its parent corporation for the Secretary to use in determining the institution's level of financial responsibility, the consolidated financial statements must be supplemented with consolidating schedules showing the consolidation of each of the parent corporation's subsidiaries and divisions (each separate institution participating in the Title IV, HEA programs must be shown separately), intercompany eliminating entries, and derived consolidated totals. The Secretary may also require the institution to submit additional substantive information. (2) An institution shall submit the documents required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section annually within four months after the end of the institution's fiscal year, unless the Secretary requests a more frequent submission. Upon a showing of good cause, the Secretary may grant a filing extension to an institution. (3) The Secretary considers the audit submission requirement of this section to be satisfied by an audit conducted in accordance with_ (i) The Single Audit Act (Chapter 75 of title 31, United States Code); or (ii) Office of Management and Budget Circular A&hyph;133, ``Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Organizations.'' (f) Definitions and terms. For the purposes of this section_ (1)(i) An ``ownership interest'' is a share of the legal or beneficial ownership or control of, or a right to share in the proceeds of the operation of, an institution, institution's parent corporation, a third-party servicer, or a third-party servicer's parent corporation. (ii) The term ``ownership interest'' includes, but is not limited to_ (A) An interest as tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entireties; (B) A partnership; and (C) An interest in a trust. (iii) The term ``ownership interest'' does not include any share of the ownership or control of, or any right to share in the proceeds of the operation of_ (A) A mutual fund that is regularly and publicly traded; (B) An institutional investor; or (C) A profit-sharing plan, provided that all employees are covered by the plan; (2) The Secretary generally considers a person to exercise substantial control over an institution or third-party servicer, if the person_ (i) Directly or indirectly holds at least a 25 percent ownership interest in the institution or servicer; (ii) Holds, together with other members of his or her family, at least a 25 percent ownership interest in the institution or servicer; (iii) Represents, either alone or together with other persons, under a voting trust, power of attorney, proxy, or similar agreement one or more persons who hold, either individually or in combination with the other persons represented or the person representing them, at least a 25 percent ownership in the institution or servicer; or (iv) Is a member of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, or other executive officer of_ (A) The institution or servicer; or (B) An entity that holds at least a 25 percent ownership interest in the institution or servicer; and (3) The Secretary considers a member of a person's family to be a parent, sibling, spouse, child, spouse's parent or sibling, or sibling's or child's spouse. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094 and 1099c and Section 4 of Pub. L. 95&hyph;452, 92 Stat. 1101&hyph;1109) 13. Newly redesignated ยง668.16 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.16 Standards of administrative capability. To begin and to continue to participate in any Title IV, HEA program, an institution shall demonstrate to the Secretary that the institution is capable of adequately administering that program under each of the standards established in this section. The Secretary considers an institution to have that administrative capability if the institution_ (a) Administers the Title IV, HEA programs in accordance with all statutory provisions of or applicable to Title IV of the HEA, all applicable regulatory provisions prescribed under that statutory authority, and all applicable special arrangements, agreements, and limitations entered into under the authority of statutes applicable to Title IV of the HEA; (b)(1) Designates a capable individual to be responsible for administering all the Title IV, HEA programs in which it participates and for coordinating those programs with the institution's other Federal and non-Federal programs of student financial assistance. The Secretary considers an individual to be ``capable'' under this paragraph if the individual is certified by the State in which the institution is located, if the State requires certification of financial aid administrators. The Secretary may consider other factors in determining whether an individual is capable, including, but not limited to, the individual's successful completion of Title IV, HEA program training provided or approved by the Secretary, and previous experience and documented success in administering the Title IV, HEA programs properly; (2) Uses an adequate number of qualified persons to administer the Title IV, HEA programs in which the institution participates. The Secretary considers the following factors to determine whether an institution uses an adequate number of qualified persons_
