FR941121-2-00011 FR941121-2-00008 Preliminary Results of the Review As a result of our review, we preliminarily determine that the margin for Allatt is 11.04 percent for the period September 1, 1990 through August 31, 1991. Parties to the proceeding may request disclosure and interested parties may request a hearing not later than ten days after publication of this notice. Interested parties may submit written arguments in case briefs on these preliminary results within 30 days of the date of publication. Rebuttal briefs, limited to arguments raised in case briefs, may be submitted seven days after the time limit for filing the case brief. Any hearing, if requested, will be held seven days after the scheduled date for submission of rebuttal briefs. Copies of case briefs and rebuttal briefs must be served on interested parties in accordance with 19 CFR 353.38(e). Representatives of parties to the proceeding may request disclosure of proprietary information under administrative protective order no later than 10 days after the representative's client or employer becomes a party to the proceeding, but in no event later than the date the case briefs are due. The Department will publish the final results of the administrative review, including the results of its analysis of issues raised in any case or rebuttal brief or at a hearing. The Department shall determine, and the Customs Service shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries. Individual differences between United States price and foreign market value may vary from the percentages stated above. The Department will issue appraisement instructions directly to the Customs Service. Furthermore, the following deposit requirements will be effective upon publication of the final results of this administrative review for all shipments of the subject merchandise from Canada entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the publication date, as provided by section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act: (1) The cash deposit rate for the reviewed company will be that established in the final results of this administrative review; (2) for merchandise exported by manufacturers or exporters not covered in this review but covered in previous reviews or the original less-than-fair-value investigation, the cash deposit rate will continue to be the company-specific rate published in the final determination covering the most recent period; (3) if the exporter is not a firm covered in this review, previous reviews, or the original investigation, but the manufacturer is, the cash deposit rate will be that established for the manufacturer of the merchandise in the final results of this review, or if not covered in this review, the most recent review period or the original investigation; and (4) the ``all other'' rate will be 20.12 percent. On May 25, 1993, the CIT in Floral Trade Council v. United States, 822 F. Supp. 766 (CIT 1993), and Federal Mongul Corporation and the Torrington Company v. United States, 839 F. Supp. 864 (CIT 1993), decided that once an ``all other'' rate is established, it can only be changed through an administrative review. The Department has determined that in order to implement these decisions it is appropriate to reinstate the original ``all others'' rate from the original investigation (or that rate as amended for correction of clerical errors or as a result of litigation) in proceedings governed by antidumping duty orders as the ``all others'' rate for cash deposits in all current and future administrative reviews. In proceedings governed by antidumping findings, unless we are able to ascertain the ``all others'' rate from the Treasury less-than-fair-value investigation, the Department has determined that it is appropriate to adopt the ``new shipper'' rate established in the first final results of administrative review published by the Department (or that rate as amended for correction of clerical errors or as a result of litigation) as the ``all others'' rate for the purposes of establishing cash deposits in all current and future administrative reviews. Because this proceeding is governed by an antidumping finding, and we are unable to ascertain the ``all others'' rate from the Treasury less-than-fair-value investigation, the Department has determined that it is appropriate to adopt the ``new shipper'' rate of 20.12 percent established in the first final results published by the Department in the Federal Register on February 16, 1982 (47 FR 6681). These deposit requirements, when imposed, shall remain in effect until publication of the final results of the next administrative review. This notice serves as a preliminary reminder to importers of their responsibility under 19 CFR 353.26 to file a certificate regarding the reimbursement of antidumping duties prior to liquidation of the relevant entries during this review period. Failure to comply with this requirement will result in the Secretary's presumption that reimbursement of antidumping duties occurred and the subsequent assessment of double antidumping duties. This administrative review and notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)) and 19 CFR 353.22. Dated: November 11, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28693 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
