FR941110-0-00189 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: One commenter stated that there is no provision in the regulation which would prohibit daily penalties from mounting. This commenter added that this is not reflective of the Congressional intent behind sections 1819(h)(3) and 1919(h)(4) of the Act, which says that a finding to deny payment terminates when the State or Secretary finds that the facility is in substantial compliance with the requirements of subsections (b), (c), and (d). Response: A facility can always stop the accrual of a civil money penalty by correcting the situation that caused the noncompliance. With regard to all remedies, we received many comments recommending that the standard of substantial compliance with sections 1819(b), (c), and (d) and 1919(b), (c), and (d) of the Act be incorporated into the rule as an acceptable measure of compliance. As discussed previously in this preamble, we accept this comment and we will lift remedies imposed for noncompliance when a facility is in substantial compliance with sections 1819(b), (c), and (d) and 1919(b), (c), and (d) of the Act. Comment: A few commenters requested we add, at proposed ยง488.230(f), that interest accrues on all penalties not settled, at the credit card rate, from the date of citation. Response: We do not accept this comment. Redesignated ยง488.438 discusses the base amount of the civil money penalties. We do not think it is appropriate to incorporate the interest rate in this section. A discussion of interest follows in redesignated ยง488.442. Comment: One commenter suggested that when noncompliance could financially benefit a facility, the amount of the penalty should never be less than twice what the State or HCFA can reasonably assume to have been the savings to the facility, as a facility should never believe it is in its financial self-interest to violate the law. This commenter also said that HCFA and the State should have access to any data (employee salaries, fees, supply costs, etc.) that will provide necessary information to determine the amount of the penalty. Response: We do not agree. First, it would be beyond the scope of this rule to require the State to determine or for HCFA to try to determine when noncompliance would financially benefit a facility. Moreover, to provide that civil money penalties be twice the presumed savings incurred by the facility would be to establish an arbitrary requirement that would unnecessarily complicate using civil money penalties as an enforcement option. A facility that perceives it is in its financial self interest to violate the law commits a grave error as it could face termination of its provider agreement for noncompliance. Comment: A few commenters recommended that all minimum penalty amounts specified at proposed ยง488.230(f) and the ``per day'' modifiers in the regulation be deleted to permit the Secretary or the State more discretion when imposing civil money penalty amounts. Response: We do not accept these comments. The minimum penalty amount is set at $50 because we believe that any lesser amount would not be a remedy for any provider. The $50 minimum penalty amount also corresponds to the imposition of civil money penalties in increments of $50; this process was designed for purposes of simplicity of implementation. The Act specifies that a civil money penalty may be imposed for each day of noncompliance. We believe that removing references to ``per day'' alters the clear instructions specified in the Act. Furthermore, the Secretary and the State always have discretion to impose or not to impose a civil money penalty, since the law states that a civil money penalty may be imposed for each day of noncompliance. Comment: Many commenters responded that the factors used to determine the amount of the civil money penalty are too broad and will promote inconsistency. A commenter posed that these factors are subjective, not uniform, and therefore, are challengeable in a court of law. A few commenters suggested removing the factors used to determine the amount of the civil money penalty from the final regulation while a few said that HCFA and the State should be required to give due consideration to the information provided by the facility.
