FR941021-0-00089 FR941021-0-00017 This final rule also changes all references to Florida's ``Department of Natural Resources'' to the ``Department of Environmental Protection'' to conform to the new/current name; eliminates unnecessary language in the citations for rules in the Florida Administrative Code; corrects the specific paragraphs in some of those citations; corrects the address of the Regional Director, NMFS; and adds a prohibition on making a false statement to an authorized officer concerning the taking, catching, harvesting, landing, purchase, sale, possession, or transfer of a spiny lobster. The added prohibition is necessary for effective enforcement and conforms the regulations to other fisheries regulations of the Southeast Region, NMFS. Classification This final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. This final rule involves, but does not materially change, a collection-of-information requirement subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act, namely, applications for commercial vessel and tail-separation permits. This collection of information was previously approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 0648&hyph;0205. This requirement has a public reporting burden estimated to average 15 minutes per response. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of the collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to Edward E. Burgess, NMFS, 9721 Executive Center Drive N. St. Petersburg, FL 33702 and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, Washington, DC 20503 (Attention: NOAA Desk Officer). The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA), pursuant to section 553(b)(B) of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), finds (1) for good cause, namely, that the conditions specified in the regulatory amendment for eliminating the Federal vessel permit requirement clearly have been met and a delay in removing this requirement would impose an unnecessary expense on participants in the fishery, notice and advance opportunity to comment on the elimination of the requirement for a Federal vessel permit would serve no useful purpose and thus is unnecessary and by imposing an unnecessary expense would be contrary to the public interest; (2) it is unnecessary to provide notice and advance opportunity to comment on the technical corrections and revisions to the regulations because no useful purpose would be served; and (3) it is unnecessary and would be contrary to the public interest to provide notice and advance opportunity to comment on the prohibition against making false statements to authorized officers because no useful purpose would be served and the associated delay could impede enforcement. Under section 553(d)(1) of the APA, the provisions of the rule which remove the requirement for a Federal vessel permit may be and are being made immediately effective because they relieve a restriction. With respect to the provisions of the rule which make technical corrections and revisions, the AA pursuant to section 553(d)(3) delay for 30 days their effectiveness because they do not affect compliance. With respect to the provisions of this rule which add a prohibition against making false statements to authorized officers, the AA pursuant to section 553(d)(3) of the APA, finds that it would be contrary to the public interest to delay for 30 days its effectiveness because it could impede enforcement of the regulations. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 640 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: October 17, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Deputy Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 640 is amended as follows: PART 640_SPINY LOBSTER FISHERY OF THE GULF OF MEXICO AND SOUTH ATLANTIC 1. The authority citation for part 640 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.
