FR940525-2-00124 FR940525-2-00064 Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below, indicating that the proposed changes would: 1a. Not involve a significance increase in the probability of an accident previously evaluated because no accident initiators, conditions or assumptions are significantly affected by the proposed changes. The proposed changes would increase the required boration flowrate in the event the required SHUTDOWN MARGIN is not met, increase the minimum required volume for the Boric Acid Addition System (BAAS) and increase the minimum required boron concentration for the Borated Water Storage Tank (BWST) and the Core Flooding Tanks (CFT). The proposed changes would also revise the Technical Specification (TS) Action Statements for the BWST and the CFT, revise the TS Surveillance Requirement relating to boron concentration sampling of the CFT, and would revise the TS Surveillance Requirements involving trisodium phosphate chemistry. In addition, various administrative and editorial changes, including changes to the TS Bases, are proposed. As stated above, none of these proposed changes involve accident initiators, conditions, or assumptions. 1b. Not involve a significant increase in the consequences of an accident previously evaluated because no accident conditions or assumptions are affected by the proposed changes. The proposed changes for the minimum required boron concentrations and volumes for the BAAS, BWST, and CPT comply with existing requirements to maintain a 1% delta k/k shutdown margin (SDM) at all times, and are consistent with reload and LOCA analysis. Therefore, the accident condition assumption of 1% delta k/k SDM at the initiation of an accident will still be met and the radiological consequences will be as previously evaluated. The proposed changes do not alter the source term, containment isolation, or allowable releases. The proposed changes, therefore, will not increase the radiological consequences of a previously evaluated accident. 2a. Not create the possibility of a new kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated because no new accident initiators or assumptions are introduced by the proposed changes. As stated in 1a, the proposed changes do not affect any accident initiators and are not initiators themselves. The proposed changes do not alter any accident scenarios. 2b. Not create the possibility of a different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated because the proposed changes only affect existing components, systems, and functions and do not introduce any new requirements that cannot be met with the existing components, systems, and functions. The proposed changes do not alter any accident scenarios. 3. Not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes to the minimum required boron concentration and volumes for the BAAS, BWST, and CFT would ensure the margin of safety for reactor subcriticality is maintained at all times for anticipated future core designs. The proposed change to the TS Action statement to increase the required boration flowrate in the event the SHUTDOWN MARGIN requirement is not met, would ensure that the boration rate is adequate for restoring the required SHUTDOWN MARGIN for anticipated future core design. The proposed changes to the TS Action statements for the BWST and the CFT ensure that the plant is maneuvered in a timely and conservative manner, without challenging any plant systems, while minimizing the time the plant would be exposed to a LOCA with assumptions not being met. The proposed changes to the TS Surveillance Requirements associated with trisodium phosphate chemistry would clarify the requirements, make it easier to perform testing, minimize radwaste generation, and reduce the consequences of a potential radioactive spill. The proposed changes would also make the requirements consistent with the DBNPS Updated Safety Analysis Report. The proposed change to the TS Surveillance Requirement associated with the boron concentration sampling of the CFT would eliminate an unnecessary requirement and make the Surveillance Requirement consistent with NUREG&hyph;1430. None of these changes would adversely affect the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: University of Toledo Library, Documents Department, 2801 Bancroft Avenue, Toledo, Ohio 43606.
