FR940617-2-00157 FR940617-2-00093 B. Secondary Offerings 1. Public Offerings Public offerings are the traditional means of selling a large number of shares of a listed company on the market. Public offerings are regulated both by the general rules of the CBV (title 7) and by the rules of the COB 89.03, chapter III. Public offerings are at a price different from the market price. sellers, however, generally offer the shares at a price which is close to the market. price Privatizations, which are a particular kind of public offerings, because of the nature of the seller (the State) and of the volume of capital involved (up to several dozen billion francs per transaction), can be carried out with a substantial discount from the last quoted market price (e.g. , 10 to 15%). Public offerings require the following: _approval of the CBV; _the clearance of the prospectus by the COB; _The centralization of subscription orders by the Société des Bourses Françaises; In addition, public tender offers are market transactions which require a high level of disclosure. In a public offering, all financial institutions, such as banks (but also other financial intermediaries such as the French National Post Office and brokerage houses), can receive orders from the public. Such orders are transmitted to the SBF where they are centralized. None of the financial institutions has any influence over the allocation of the shares. A public offering may be underwritten on a stand-by basis. Historically, most public offerings, and in particular those relating to privatizations, are oversubscribed (about 2 to 4 times). 2. Underwritten Offerings Whenever an offering is sufficiently large, an underwritten offering can take place in France and/or on an international market. This is particularly the case in the context of privatization transactions. Such transactions, which use the book-billing method, provide the banks leading the syndicate greater flexibility when allocating shares to investors. In the context of an underwritten offering, the price for the offering is set based upon indications of interest received from potential investors; however, the final price determined by the lead managers cannot be less than the price in the public tender offer. During the first privatization which used this technique (Rhône-Poulenc, November 1993), the institutional investors who purchased shares in the underwritten offering paid a price 8% higher than that paid by individuals who purchased shares in the public offering. 3. Bought Deals The ``bought deal'' permits the placement of a certain amount (usually large) of securities with certain institutional investors. This type of offering, different from a public offering, can only occur when it involves shares of a listed company being offered at the market price or by techniques explicitly provided for in the general rules of the CBV: _By ``applications'' (title 4, chapter III of the general rules of the CBV), the price in this case must be between the best purchase offer and the best sale offer existing at the time of the application (article 4&hyph;7&hyph;3); _By option contracts (title 7, chapter II of the general rules of the CBV): these contracts permit the sale or purchase of a given amount of securities at a price quoted on a stock market the day of the contract or the day of its term or at the average of the quoted prices between those two dates. The seller of securities places the securities through a bank or banks with institutional investors of such seller's choice. Accordingly, the seller transfers the securities first to the bank or banks which have committed to sell them to such institutional investors in France or abroad. The COB carefully reviews this type of placement in order to ensure that it is not used to advantage unfairly any existing shareholder of the company. C. Market Activities of Underwriters During Offerings In France, the banks are the underwriters of securities. The vast majority of French banks provide a full range of banking and securities services such as brokerage, underwriting and investment advisory services including managing on a discretionary basis the portfolios of bank customers. However, banks may not be direct members of the Paris Bourse and have to set up separate subsidiaries which will be members of the Bourse. The French banks acting as underwriters typically continue to engage in a range of trading activities during a distribution. The underwriters may be active in trading all kinds of securities of the issuer or derivative instruments related to such securities both in the cash market and in the options market. In these markets, the underwriters trade securities in the ordinary course for their own account. In addition, the underwriters continue to make investment decisions for the accounts they manage and their mutual fund management company affiliates continue to make investment decisions on behalf of the mutual funds they manage. However, pursuant to legal and regulatory requirements to which they are subject and pursuant to their own respective internal policies and conduct of business rules, banks maintain ``Chinese wall'' procedures to separate certain divisions within their respective organizations. The main purpose of these Chinese walls is to ensure that confidential information held within parts of the respective companies or divisions does not spread inadvertently to other parts of those companies or to affiliated entities. In addition, under French law, companies are prohibited from purchasing their own shares either directly or through a financial intermediary acting on behalf of the company except in limited circumstances. These circumstances are set forth in article 217&hyph;1 and 217&hyph;2 of the Companies Act of July 24, 1966, and in COB Regulations No. 90.04. They include purchases made for the purpose of offering shares to employees of the corporation and, for listed companies, purchases made for the purpose of market stabilization. These purchases are limited to 10% of the share capital of the corporation. The company may not own more than 10% of any class of its outstanding shares in capital at any time. Under COB Regulation No 90.04, such purchases may be only to ensure the liquidity of the shares or to control excessive fluctuations in their price. The company is required to file a copy of the shareholder's resolution authorizing such transactions with the COB prior to engaging in such transactions, as well as a monthly copy of the register of purchases and sales thereafter.
