FR940513-1-00040 FR940513-1-00010 (a) This part is published by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93&hyph;579, 5 U.S.C. 552a) which requires each Federal agency to promulgate rules to establish procedures for notification and disclosure to an individual of agency records pertaining to that person, and for review of such records. (b) The records covered by this part include: (1) Personnel and employment records maintained by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation not covered by §§293.101 through 293.108 of the regulations of the Office of Personnel Management (5 CFR 293.101 through 293.108); and (2) Other records contained in record systems maintained by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation. (c) This part does not apply to any records maintained by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation in its capacity as a receiver or conservator. §1403.2 Definitions. For the purposes of this part: (a) Agency means the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation. It does not include the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation when it is acting as a receiver or a conservator; (b) Individual means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence; (c) Maintain includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate; (d) Record means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency including, but not limited to, that person's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history, and that contains that person's name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or photograph; (e) Routine use means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose that is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected; (f) Statistical record means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8; (g) System of records means a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. §1403.3 Procedures for requests pertaining to individual records in a record system. (a) Any present or former employee of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation seeking access to that person's official civil service records maintained by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation shall submit a request in such manner as is prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management. (b) Individuals shall submit their requests in writing to the Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, when seeking to obtain the following information from the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation: (1) Notification of whether the agency maintains a record pertaining to that person in a system of records; (2) Notification of whether the agency has disclosed a record for which an accounting of disclosure is required to be maintained and made available to that person; (3) A copy of a record pertaining to that person or the accounting of its disclosure; or (4) The review of a record pertaining to that person or the accounting of its disclosure. The request shall state the full name and address of the individual, and identify the system or systems of records believed to contain the information or record sought. §1403.4 Times, places, and requirements for identification of individuals making requests.
