FR940831-2-00164 FR940831-2-00106 6.3␣Miscellaneous Expense Data Collection Procedures Medical care items were surveyed consistent with the approach used in the Goods & Services component. For quality-control purposes, Runzheimer used its in-house research staff to conduct much of this survey. The following medical-care items were priced in each allowance area and in the Washington, D.C., area: •nonprescription pain reliever •prescription drugs •vision check •dental service •doctor visit •hospital room •health insurance Runzheimer computed a Medical Care subcategory price index for each item in each allowance area by comparing each local average price with the Washington, D.C., area average prices. These indexes were combined using weights derived from the CES to compute a Medical Care subcategory index for each allowance area. 6.4␣Miscellaneous Expense Survey Results Appendix 12 contains the results of our data collection and index calculations. As the appendix shows, the relative costs of the majority of the items in the Miscellaneous Expense Component are based on surveyed prices. Therefore, the Miscellaneous Component index reflects living-cost differences among areas. The cost of only two items_life insurance/pensions and contributions_does not differ among areas. Although these two items together have a significant weight, one should keep in mind that the Miscellaneous Component has the smallest weight of the four components. Section 2.2 describes how the Miscellaneous Expense component indexes are combined with the other component indexes to derive the final index for each area. 7. Final Results 7.1␣Total Comparative Cost Indexes The total comparative cost indexes appear below. Appendix 14 shows how each index was derived from the component indexes. Final Cost Comparison Indexes 1Allowance area 1Local pricing 1Commissary & exchange Anchorage, Alaska 103.94 101.32 Fairbanks, Alaska 106.03 103.41 Juneau, Alaska 108.10 NA Other Areas in Alaska* 127.56 NA *As represented by Nome, AK. NA = Not Applicable. 7.2␣General Comments Runzheimer's primary goal throughout its work on each study has been to bring fairness and accuracy to the results. The scope of this multi-year engagement has become more comprehensive by virtue of special research projects, seasonal pricings, expanded marketbasket pricings and other efforts. Runzheimer believes that living-cost research is a dynamic process, not a static one, and that fresh research and analysis will enhance further the quality of the survey and the findings. Moreover, we believe that planned, ongoing interaction with OPM will aid the process and improve accuracy. 7.3␣Recommendations As noted earlier in this report, Runzheimer and OPM are researching the issue of including income taxes in the living-cost surveys and analyses. We believe that the research will show that income taxes represent a significant portion of living expenses_a portion that varies from one area to the next. As also noted in the report, Runzheimer recognizes that it applied the same salary levels and CES data this year as it did in the 1990 surveys. We commend OPM for introducing new federal employment weights and urge OPM to continue with its plans to introduce gradually new CES data and salary levels in future surveys.
