FR940603-1-00217 FR940603-1-00009 TM&hyph;14 (1). This unit is identical with TM&hyph;14 except the full width of the right-of-way to be cleared shall be XXXX ( XXXX ) feet wide (See Detail D, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). TM&hyph;15. The unit is 1,000 feet in length and XXXX feet in width (to be measured XXXX ( XXXX ) feet on one side of the right-of-way center line) of actual clearing of the right-of-way. Trees and underbrush should be cleared from ground up within 10 feet of any structure location. The Engineer will mark the trees and brush to be cleared to provide a ``feathered'' appearance in the right-of-way. Low growing trees and brush are to be left in the right-of-way to the extent it will not be hazardous to the line or will not interfere with the service road. The length of actual clearing shall be measured in a straight line parallel to the horizontal line between poles or center line of structures and across the maximum dimension of foliage cleared projected to ground line (See Detail B, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). All trees and underbrush cleared across the right-of-way shall be considered to be grouped together as a single length in measuring the total length of clearing (See Detail C, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). Spaces along the right-of-way in which no trees are to be removed or trimmed or underbrush cleared shall be omitted from the total measurement. TM&hyph;15 (1). This unit is identical to TM&hyph;15 except the full width of the right-of-way, to be cleared shall be XXXX ( XXXX ) feet wide (See Detail D, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). Additional Requirements. (When specifying TM units denote type of disposal A or B). A. Trees, brush, branches and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Engineer will direct (Engineer to strike out methods not to be used). 1. Burned 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (Describe) XXXX B. Trees that are felled shall be cut to commercial wood lengths, stacked neatly, and left on the right-of-way for the landowner. Commercial wood length means the length designated by the Engineer but in no case shall it be required to be less than XXXX ( XXXX ) feet. Brush, branches and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Engineer will direct (Engineer to strike out methods not to be used). 1. Burned 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (Describe) XXXX Transmission Right-of-Way Unit 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_Labor and materials ␣ Total Section 7_ XXXX Section 8_Substation Assembly Units Description of Construction Units. Each Construction Unit consists of a complete installation of the designated portion of a substation as specified on the drawings, together with connections to associated equipment. Each Construction Unit represents all labor and material including necessary accessories completely installed and tested in satisfactory operation. Full identification of each Construction Unit and all necessary specifications of the installation is shown on the drawings. Items of material in each Construction Unit shall be of the designated size, rating, type, voltage, or other specification in accordance with the drawings. The bill of material drawing for each substation shows the identification of the Construction Units under which the material is to be installed and shows which items of material may be partly or entirely found in the lists of owner-furnished materials. All items of equipment, unless otherwise specified, are mounted on a structure which shall be a Construction Unit of Group A. Each Construction Unit is designated by the letter of the Group to which it belongs and an identifying number. The same item of equipment carries the same Construction Unit designation in all the substations. Items of equipment designated by the same Construction Unit in one substation are of only one kind as to voltage, type and other specifications. The tabulation of construction units for each substation is separate and contains all units necessary for construction of that substation.
