FR940907-2-00067 FR940907-2-00044 VI. Regional Home Health Intermediaries (RHHIs) Criterion The following standards are mandated for the Regional Home Health Intermediaries criterion: Standard 1 _95% of clean electronically submitted non-PIP HHA/hospice bills paid within statutorily specified time frames. Specifically, clean, non-PIP electronic claims can be paid as early as the 14th day (13 days after the date of receipt) and must be paid by the 31st day (30 days after the date of receipt). Standard 2 _95% of clean paper non-PIP HHA/hospice bills paid within specified time frames. Specifically, clean, non-PIP paper claims can be paid as early as the 27th day (26 days after the date of receipt) and must be paid by the 31st day (30 days after the date of receipt). Standard 3 _75% of HHA/hospice reconsiderations are processed within 60 days and 90% are processed within 90 days. We may use this criterion to review a RHHI's performance with respect to handling the HHA/hospice workload. This includes processing HHA/hospice bills timely and accurately, properly paying and settling HHA cost reports, and timely and accurately processing reconsiderations from beneficiaries, HHAs, and hospices. VII. Action Based on Performance Evaluations A contractor's performance is evaluated against applicable program requirements for each criterion. Each contractor must certify that all information submitted to HCFA relating to contractor management process, including without limitation all records, reports, files, papers and other information, whether in written, electronic, or other form, is accurate and complete to the best of the contractor's knowledge and belief. A contractor will also be required to certify that its files, records, documents, and data have not been manipulated or falsified in an effort to receive a more favorable performance evaluation. A contractor must further certify that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the contractor has submitted, without withholding any relevant information, all information required to be submitted with respect to the contractor management process under the authority of applicable law(s), regulation(s), contracts, or HCFA manual provision(s). Any contractor that makes a false, fictitious, or fraudulent certification may be subject to criminal and/or civil prosecution, as well as appropriate administrative action. Such administrative action may include debarment or suspension of the contractor, as well as the termination or nonrenewal of a contract.
