FR941216-1-00068 FR941216-1-00012 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary 32 CFR Part 184 [DoD 4145.26&hyph;M] Contractors' Safety for Ammunition and Explosives AGENCY: Office of the Secretary of Defense, DoD. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Department of Defense (DoD) proposes to codify its revised explosives safety standards for ammunition and explosives (A&E) work performed under DoD contracts. This proposed rule is necessary to minimize the potential for mishaps that could interrupt DoD operations, delay project completion dates, adversely impact DoD production base or capability, damage or destroy DoD-owned material/equipment, cause injury to DoD personnel, or endanger the general public. DATES: Comments are requested by February 14, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send inquiries, data, views, and arguments concerning the proposed standards to: Chairman, Department of Defense Explosives Safety Board, (DDESB), 2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22331&hyph;0600. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ray B. Sawyer, Director, Technical Programs Division, DDESB, telephone (703) 325&hyph;8624. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the authority vested in the Secretary of Defense in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 172, DoD Directive 6055.9 established the Department of Defense Explosives Safety Board as a joint activity of the Department of Defense subject to the direction, authority and control of the Secretary of Defense. The majority of the standards impacting upon the public were adopted prior to the enactment of the Administrative Procedure Act. This proposed rule is intended to ensure public awareness of the extent of the explosives safety standards as well as offer the public an opportunity to comment on the standards. Written comments may be submitted to the addressee above. All comments will be available for examination upon request. Subpart Q is under development. When complete, it will provide information only_no requirements. The information will address the HCSDS sometimes furnished with solicitations or contracts to provide an insight into potentially hazardous characteristics of the materials involved in the production of the item addressed in the solicitation. Contractors retain the ultimate responsibility for assuring the safety of their personnel and establishment. Information provided by the HCSDS is derived from other sources. Verification of such data as shipping and storage hazard division and storage compatibility group information must be done through the DoD Joint Hazard Classification System (JHCS) or Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations. As stated in ยง184.47(d) to Subpart E, these classifications pertain to A&E packaged for transportation or storage. Such hazard classification information may not be valid when applied to the hazards associated with manufacturing or loading processes, For such processes, the materials and processes must be analyzed on a case-by-case basis. Sources of information to support this analysis are available from service research and development organizations through contract channels and other sources. The methodologies described in ยง184.199(d) to Subpart P for propellants is an example of an acceptable approach. Subpart H, ยง184.73 through ยง184.81 provides examples of processes requiring analysis to determine the hazards. The benefits of this proposed rule in terms of the protection of the public and ensuring contract performance are expected to balance its potential cost or administrative impacts. Only provisions related to conventional A&E operations have been included in this proposed rule. No attempt was made to encompass general industrial safety, occupational health concerns, chemical warfare agents, radiation, or over-the-road transportation requirements, because these are either the responsibility of other regulatory agencies (for example, DOT, DOL/OSHA, or NRC) or may be addressed elsewhere in the contract by the procuring activity. Budgetary effects of this proposed rule are minimal since existing DoD Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement coverage already requires compliance with safety requirements in A&E solicitations and contracts. Finally, because this proposed rule is needed to minimize the potential for A&E mishaps that could adversely impact DoD and the public, timely publication in the Federal Register is important.
