FR940512-2-00131 FR940512-2-00065 The single failure criterion requires that any single failure within a safety-related system not prevent proper protective action of the overall system when the system is required to function. The Leak Detection System design is such that a failure of one division will not prevent the system from performing its safety function. Common mode failure protection provisions have been addressed in the NUMAC LDM design. The comprehensive General Electric software V&V and configuration management control programs minimize, although they cannot entirely eliminate, the likelihood of a common mode NUMAC instrument failure due to software problems. The hardware (firmware) and software for the PNPP NUMAC Leak Detection Monitors will undergo a formal software verification and validation (V&V) process by General Electric, that is to be completed by the end of the year, equivalent to the one reviewed and approved by the NRC for the safety-related Wide Range Neutron Monitor. The NUMAC instruments are designed to minimize both their susceptibility to, and generation of, electromagnetic and radio- frequency interference (EMI/RFI) to prevent spurious operations and allow their use in safety-related systems. As part of a broader plan by GE to improve the testing has been performed by GE on the Leak Detection Monitor configuration in order to both expand the overall qualification region, and to obtain test data specific to this application. This testing ensures the qualification of the Thermocouple Input Unit (TCIU), a NUMAC circuit board which is unique to the LDM application, and also extends the NUMAC EMI/RFI qualification region to include both higher and lower frequencies than previously tested. The NUMAC instrument design concept has undergone review by the NRC, and the initial instruments of the NUMAC product line (the Logarithmic Radiation Monitor and Wide Range Neutron Monitoring System) have received NRC approval via Safety Evaluation of the associated GE Licensing Topical Reports. The various types of NUMAC equipment in operation at other nuclear power plants have components and software modules which are similar to and in some instance identical to the NUMAC LDMs. Therefore, based on the NRC reviewed and approved NUMAC software and hardware control programs instituted by GE, the design features to minimize software/hardware (or their interface) problems, design features to minimize susceptibility to EMI/RFI, and testing to demonstrate resistance to EMI/RFI, installation of NUMAC Leak Detection Monitors at the PNPP does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. 3. The proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The replacement of the analog Riley temperature modules with the microcomputer based NUMAC Leak Detection Monitors will not affect any design conditions or impact the margins of safety for the various Leak Detection System monitored parameters in the Technical Specification Table 3.3.2&hyph;2 will not be changed or affected by this modification. Only the CHANNEL FUNCTIONAL test interval is being extended. The NUMAC Leak Detection Monitor design, with the attention paid towards minimizing the potential for, and the effect of, software/hardware and/or EMI/RFI related problem or common mode failures and resulting operational experience has demonstrated that replacement of the existing Riley temperature modules with NUMAC Leak Detection Monitors would not result in a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Perry Public Library, 3753 Main Street, Perry, Ohio 44081. Attorney for licensee: Jay Silberg, Esq., Shaw, Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge, 2300 N Street NW., Washington, DC 20037. NRC Project Director: John N. Hannon. Washington Public Power Supply System, Docket No. 50&hyph;397, Nuclear Project No. 2, Benton County, Washington Date of amendment request: February 8, 1994, as supplemented March 25, 1994. Description of amendment request: The amendment would revise the WNP&hyph;2 Technical Specifications. Specifically, the amendment would increase the stroke time, as specified in Table 3.6.3&hyph;1, for reactor core isolation cooling (RCIC) valve RCIC&hyph;V&hyph;8, from 13 seconds to 26 seconds and the note (j) reference would be deleted from RCIC&hyph;V&hyph;8 and RCIC&hyph;V&hyph;63. The note (j) indicates that the stroke time specified in the Table reflects the requirement for containment isolation only. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. This proposed action does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. RCIC&hyph;V&hyph;8 and V&hyph;63 are containment isolation valves and are normally open. Failure of the valves to open or close cannot cause an accident. The mitigating capability of RCIC&hyph;V&hyph;8 and V&hyph;63 is not changed in that the valves will continue to be closed within the established time limits. This ensures protection of the safety related equipment necessary for continued compliance with the requirements of General Design Criterion 4. In those accidents which involve a source term and potential adverse dose release consequences, no credit is taken for the closing of the valves; therefore the increase in the allowable time for closing does not increase the consequences of those accidents. 2. This proposed action does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The requested Technical Specifications change does not represent a change in modes of operation. It does not, in itself, require physical modification to the plant, although it will be used to allow a gear change in RCIC&hyph;MO&hyph;8. The new gears represent a standard configuration for Limitorque motor operators and will require a routine design change. The required Technical Specification change maintains the licensing basis for the plant as discussed in response to question 1. Hence, no new or different kind of accident is possible as a result of implementing this change. 3. This proposed action does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The increase in stroke time will increase the peak temperature in the HELB profiles and thereby decrease the margin available from the equipment qualification limits. However, sufficient margin remains to assure the equipment operability is maintained and there is no reduction in the margin of safety. Additionally, there is no reduction in the margin of safety because increasing the stroke time will not change the postulated radiological releases.
