FR941205-1-00056 FR941205-1-00014 2. Carrier B (a) etc. 3. etc. B. Second leading commodity 1. Carrier A (a) etc. II. Sub-trade B A. First leading commodity 1. etc. Part VIII Port Service For each port within the entire geographic scope of the agreement, state the number of port calls by each of the parties over the same time period used in responding to Parts V, VI and VII. The information should be provided in the format below: Time Period [Same as that used in responding to Part V] 1␣ 1Port 1Port 1Port 1Port 1Port Carrier A ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ Carrier B ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ Carrier C ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ Etc. ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ Also, for each port within the entire geographic scope of the agreement, indicate any change in the nature or type of service to be effected immediately by the agreement, including base port designation and frequency of vessel calls. Part IX Capacity Management or Regulation (if Applicable) For each party that served the geographic service area to be covered by the capacity management or capacity regulation program during all or any part of the 12-month period used in responding to Parts V, VI, VII and VIII, provide the information indicated in the format below: Time Period [Same as that used in responding to Part V] 1␣ 1Total TEU capacity provided in the geographic service area 1Total TEUs utilized 1Initial TEU capacity commitment/allocation Carrier A ␣ ␣ ␣ Carrier B ␣ ␣ ␣ Carrier C ␣ ␣ ␣ Etc. ␣ ␣ ␣ In addition, provide copies of any reports or analyses dealing with cargo space utilization, cargo level forecasts or new ship buildings, which were prepared during the 12 months prior to the filing of the agreement and circulated among at least two parties. Part X (A) Identification of Person(s) to Contact Regarding the Information Form (1) Name (2) Title (3) Firm Name and Business (4) Business Telephone Number (5) Cable Address (B) Identification of an Individual Located in the United States Designated for the Limited Purpose of Receiving Notice of an Issuance of a Request for Additional Information or Documents (see 46 CFR 572.606). (1) Name (2) Title (3) Address (4) Telephone (5) Cable Address (C) Certification This Information Form, together with any and all appendices and attachments thereto, was prepared and assembled in accordance with instructions issued by the Federal Maritime Commission. The information is, to the best of my knowledge, true, correct, and complete. Name (please print or type) Title Relationship with parties to agreement Signature Date §572.504 Information form for Class C agreements. This section sets forth the Information Form for Class C agreements, with accompanying instructions that are intended to facilitate the completion of the Form. The explanation and instructions should be read in conjunction with the Shipping Act of 1984 and 46 CFR part 572. Information Form for Class C Agreements Instructions All agreements between or among ocean common carriers that are Class C agreements as defined in 46 CFR 572.502(b) must be accompanied by a completed Information Form for such agreements. A complete response must be supplied to the Form. Where the filing party is unable to supply a complete response, that party shall provide either estimated data (with an explanation of why precise data are not available) or a detailed statement of reasons for noncompliance and the efforts made to obtain the required information. All sources must be identified. Part I Part I requires the filing party to state the full name of the agreement as also provided under 46 CFR 572.403.
