FR940217-1-00071 FR940217-1-00014 Regional Meeting Comments In connection with these regulations, one issue was identified during the August meeting for discussion at the regional meetings: The requirement under section 487(c)(1)(C)(i) of the HEA for an audit of a third-party servicer's administration of an institution's, lender's, or guaranty agency's Title IV, HEA program. During the regional meetings, participants were asked for their recommendations on formulating the compliance standards against which a third-party servicer would be measured in these proposed regulations. Recommendations from the regional meetings varied. Participants involved in the New York meeting suggested that the compliance standards for third-party servicers contracting with institutions should parallel institutional compliance standards. Participants in San Francisco recommended that compliance standards for third-party servicers should be developed by an independent accounting firm but that the Department of Education should specify servicer activities that would need to be included in the annual compliance audit report. Participants at this meeting further suggested separate standards for different types of third-party servicers. Participants meeting in Atlanta suggested that compliance audits of third-party servicers be limited to the area of their specific function; for example, with respect to loan servicers, the default rate of Title IV, HEA program loans should be an indicator of compliance with Title IV, HEA program requirements. Participants also recommended that a third-party servicer, and not the institution with which the servicer contracts, should be cited for any violation of an audit standard by that servicer. One participant recommended that the standards developed by the Association of Independent Certified Public Accountants should be used in the Department of Education's audit guide. Participants attending the Kansas City regional meeting suggested that in devising audit standards for third-party servicers, the Secretary first should review the audit check list currently in use by the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Education for auditing third-party servicers. Participants did not consider consultants or software providers used by an institution to be included in the definition of third-party servicer. Participants suggested that the Department of Education devise a process for grading and validating software. Regulatory Changes The Secretary submitted a draft of the proposed regulatory language governing third-party servicers along with the issue described above for discussion at the negotiated rulemaking sessions. Consensus was reached on all major issues except where noted below.
