FR940825-1-00105 FR940825-1-00009 II. Jurisdictional Issues A. Delegation or Grant of CAA Authority to Tribes It is a settled point of law that Congress may, by statute, expressly delegate Federal authority to a Tribe. United States v. Mazurie, 419 U.S. 544, 554 (1975). See also South Dakota v. Bourland, 113 S. Ct. 2309, 2319&hyph;20 (1993); Brendale v. Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation, 492 U.S. 408, 426&hyph;28 (1989) (White, J., for four Justice plurality). Such a delegation or grant of authority can provide a Federal statutory source of Tribal authority over designated areas, whether or not the Tribe's inherent authority would extend to all such areas. It is EPA's proposed interpretation of the CAA that the Act grants, to Tribes approved by EPA to administer CAA programs in the same manner as States, authority over all air resources within the exterior boundaries of a reservation for such programs. This grant of authority by Congress would enable such Tribes to address conduct on all lands, including non-Indian owned fee lands, within the exterior boundaries of a reservation. Thus, this proposed interpretation relates to the potential scope of regulatory jurisdiction that may be exercised by eligible Tribes under EPA-approved Tribal Clean Air Act programs (hereafter ``approved'' Tribes). 3 3 As indicated in Part III.B.4, in some instances qualifying Tribes may have a role in CAA implementation without having to make an entire program submittal. The Agency recognizes that a Tribe will generally have inherent sovereign authority over air resources within the exterior boundaries of its reservation. As stated in Mazurie, the sovereign authority of Indian Tribes extends ``over both their members and their territory.'' 419 U.S. at 557. Thus, Tribes generally have extensive authority to regulate activities on lands that are held by the United States in trust for the Tribe. See Montana v. United States, 450 U.S. 544, 557 (1981). Furthermore, a Tribe ``may *␣*␣* retain inherent power to exercise civil authority over the conduct of non-Indians on fee lands within its reservation when that conduct threatens or has some direct effect on the *␣*␣* health or welfare of the tribe.'' Montana , 450 U.S. at 566. However, a Tribe's inherent authority must be determined on a case-by-case basis, considering whether the conduct being regulated has a direct effect on the health or welfare of the Tribe substantial enough to support the Tribe's jurisdiction over non-Indians. See Brendale , 492 U.S. 408; see also 56 FR 64876 at 64877&hyph;64879 (Dec. 12, 1991). 4 Such a determination is not necessary with a direct grant of statutory authority. 5 4 In proposing to interpret the CAA as granting approved Tribes authority over all air resources within the exterior boundaries of a reservation, EPA recognizes that its approach under some of the other statutes it administers relies on a Tribe's inherent authority. 5 Even without this proposed direct grant of authority, Indian Tribes would very likely have inherent authority over all activities within reservation boundaries that are subject to CAA regulation. The high mobility of air pollutants, resulting area-wide effects, and the seriousness of such impacts, would all tend to support Tribal inherent authority; as noted below, these factors also underscore the desirability of cohesive air quality management of all air pollution sources within reservation boundaries including those air pollution-related activities on fee lands within reservation boundaries. See, e.g. , Bourland , 113 S. Ct. at 2320 (reaffirming the Montana ``exceptions to `the general proposition that the inherent sovereign powers of an Indian tribe do not extend to the activities of nonmembers of the tribe''') (citation omitted) (1993); see also, e.g. , CAA section 101(a)(2), 42 U.S.C. section 7401(a)(2); H.R. Rep. No. 490, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. (1990); S. Rep. No. 228, 101st Cong., 1st Sess. (1989). EPA's proposed position that the CAA constitutes a statutory grant of jurisdictional authority to Tribes is consistent with the language of the Act, which authorizes EPA to treat a Tribe as a State for the regulation of ``air resources within the exterior boundaries of the reservation or other areas within the tribe's jurisdiction.'' 6 Section 301(d)(2)(B) (emphasis added). EPA believes that this statutory provision, viewed within the overall framework of the CAA, reflects a territorial view of Tribal jurisdiction and authorizes a Tribal role for all air resources within the exterior boundaries of Indian reservations without distinguishing among various categories of on-reservation land. EPA believes a territorial approach to air quality regulation best advances rational, sound air quality management. Air pollutants disperse over areas several and sometimes even hundreds of miles from their source of origin, as dictated by the physical and chemical properties of the pollutants at issue and the prevailing winds and other meteorological conditions. The high mobility of air pollutants, resulting areawide effects and the seriousness of such impacts, underscores the undesirability of fragmented air quality management within reservations. 6 As indicated above, EPA interprets the second clause of this provision as meaning that Tribes may also assert jurisdiction over air resources that are not within the boundaries of their reservations. However, EPA has not interpreted this clause as a direct grant of jurisdictional authority to Tribes with respect to such off-reservation air resources. Rather, where a Tribe submits a program asserting jurisdiction over air resources outside the boundaries of a reservation, EPA will require a demonstration of the factual and legal basis for the Tribe's inherent authority over such resources, consistent with relevant principles of Federal Indian law.
