FR940921-0-00045 FR940921-0-00016 C. Refueling Emission Standards 1. Natural Gas Summary of the proposal: In the NPRM the Agency proposed that, in the case of natural gas refueling facilities, no refueling hoses which need to be vented down prior to disconnect shall be vented to the atmosphere. Rather, as is the case with many current natural gas refueling facilities, EPA expects that such vent-down gases should be routed back to the compressor inlet rather than being vented to the atmosphere. The timing of this requirement was not explicit in the NPRM preamble. However, the regulatory text stated that the provisions would take effect with the 1994 model year. Summary of the comments: In general, the comments received in response to the issue of natural gas refueling hose venting opposed, to some degree, the proposed prohibition on venting emissions. Some commenters suggested that this requirement is not needed at all given the extremely small contribution to total methane emissions that vent-down gases represent. Several commenters pointed out that the upcoming ANSI/AGA NGV1 standard would address EPA's concerns about refueling emissions from natural gas refueling stations. One commenter pointed out that this proposed requirement could be interpreted as a zero-emission standard and questioned the feasibility of such an approach. Some commenters suggested that more leadtime was needed than was proposed. Several commenters pointed out that the cost of controlling these emissions varied quite a bit depending on the inlet pressure of the compressor. In cases where the natural gas supply line is at fairly low pressure ( i.e., 15 psi or less) the gas could be routed directly into the compressor inlet at low cost. However, in cases where the gas supply pressure is higher, additional compression equipment would be needed to compress the vent-down gas in order to route it back into the compressor, raising costs substantially. Also, the cost of such controls would be much higher for existing installations than for new stations because existing stations would likely require excavation for the return line plumbing. Finally, some commenters stated that EPA should not control natural gas refueling emissions since they are primarily methane, and the Agency only proposed NMHC standards for tailpipe emissions. EPA response to comments: In the NPRM the Agency mentioned that the natural gas industry was moving toward the establishment of standard refueling equipment specifications. That effort, known as the ANSI/AGA NGV1 standard, was recently adopted by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) as the standard for natural gas vehicle fueling connection devices. While in its various draft forms, this standard contained a provision limiting the amount of natural gas that can be vented due to nozzle disconnect. This provision was based on the proposed onboard refueling vapor recovery (ORVR) standard for gasoline-fueled vehicles of 0.05 grams per gallon of dispensed gasoline. 15 As indicated in the draft ANSI standard contained in the public docket for this rule, the venting provision was deleted from the final ANSI standard since, at the time of final balloting on the standard, the ORVR rule had not yet been promulgated. The ORVR final rule was recently promulgated and included a gasoline-fueled vehicle refueling emission standard of 0.20 grams per gallon of dispensed gasoline. 16 15 52 FR 31162, August 19, 1987. 16 59 FR 16262, April 6, 1994. The Agency agrees that a zero-emission standard for natural gas vehicles is not reasonable and believes that, in its draft form, the NGV1 standard addressed EPA's concerns with natural gas vehicle refueling emissions. Thus, the Agency is using the methodology in draft NGV1 standard to apply the 0.20 gram per gallon refueling standard to natural gas vehicles. Using this approach, natural gas refueling stations will be allowed to vent no more than 1.2 grams of natural gas due to nozzle disconnect. This standard is based on the ORVR standard of 0.20 grams per gallon of fuel dispensed and a nominal fuel tank capacity of six gallons gasoline equivalent natural gas, as was assumed in the draft NGV1 standard. For a more complete discussion of how this standard was derived please consult the summary and analysis of comments document for this rule. This requirement will take effect January 1, 1998 for high volume stations, with a two year extension until January 1, 2000 for small volume stations (those which dispense less than the energy equivalent of 10,000 gallons of gasoline per month based on the AMFA fuel equivalency factor).
