FR940805-2-00109 FR940805-2-00056 Post Agreement Activities Guidelines for Termination of a Section 274b Agreement I. Introduction This procedure provides the guidelines that will be followed by NRC when considering whether or not to terminate an agreement pursuant to the authority contained in Section 274j(1) of the Atomic Energy Act. This procedure will describe the method for processing the termination whether initiated at the request of the State or at the initiative of the NRC. II. Objectives The objectives of these procedures are to: A. Provide guidelines for timely action on termination of an agreement at the State's request or at the initiation by the NRC staff and B. Provide an orderly transition in the discontinuance of certain regulatory authority by the State and assumption thereof by the NRC. III. Background Section 274j of the Atomic Energy Act gives the Commission authority to terminate its agreement with a State if such termination is required to protect the public health and safety, or if the State has not complied with one or more of the requirements of the Act (e.g. is found to be not compatible with the Commission's program). Section 274j(1) also provides that an agreement may be terminated at the request of the Governor of a State. When the Commission finds that program deficiencies are such that the State can no longer protect the public health and safety, the Commission will institute proceedings to terminate the agreement with the State. Procedures to address emergency situations to temporarily suspend all or part of an agreement with a State can be found in Procedure XXX . In cases where a State has failed to respond in an acceptable manner during the probationary or suspension period, and there is no prospect for improvement, the Commission may also institute formal proceedings to terminate the agreement. Before reaching a final decision on termination, the Commission will notify the State and provide the State the opportunity for a hearing on the proposed termination as discussed in Part VI. Notice of the proposed termination will also be published in the Federal Register . IV. Minimum Criteria for Termination A. At the request of the Governor, NRC may terminate all or part of its agreement with a State and reassert its authority. The letter should be addressed to the Chairman, NRC, from the Governor (Appendix A). B. The Commission, on its own initiative, will institute formal procedures to terminate an agreement under the following circumstances: 1. The State radiation control program is found to be inadequate to protect public health and safety, and no compensating program has been implemented, 2. The State has been on probation for a period of time during which it failed to respond to NRC concerns regarding the States ability to carry out a program to protect public health and safety, and 3. The State radiation control program is not compatible with the NRC program and the State has refused or is unable to address those areas previously identified as compatibility concerns and the non-compatibility is disruptive to the national program for the regulation of Atomic Energy Act material.
