FR941116-0-00199 FR941116-0-00023 7. Section 51&hyph;2.7 is revised to read as follows: ยง51&hyph;2.7 Fair market price. The Committee is responsible for determining the fair market prices, and changes thereto, for commodities and services on the Procurement List. The Committee establishes the initial fair market price at the time a commodity or service is added to the Procurement List. In cases where initial prices are not based on competitive bids, the Committee considers recommendations from contracting activities and the central nonprofit agency concerned. Prices are revised in accordance with changing market conditions as reflected primarily by economic indices and changes in nonprofit agency costs, as provided in Committee pricing procedures. Recommendations for fair market prices or changes thereto shall be submitted by the nonprofit agencies to the appropriate central nonprofit agency. The central nonprofit agency shall analyze the data and submit a recommended fair market price to the Committee accompanied by the information required by the Committee's pricing procedures to support the recommended price. PART 51&hyph;3_CENTRAL NONPROFIT AGENCIES 8. Section 51&hyph;3.2 is amended by revising paragraph (d), redesignating paragraphs (e) through (m) as paragraphs (f) through (n), and adding a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: ยง51&hyph;3.2 Responsibilities under the JWOD Program. * * * * * (d) Recommend to the Committee, with the supporting information required by Committee procedures, suitable commodities or services for procurement from its nonprofit agencies. (e) Recommend to the Committee, with the supporting information required by Committee procedures, initial fair market prices for commodities or services proposed for addition to the Procurement List. * * * * * 9. Section 51&hyph;3.3 is revised to read as follows: ยง51&hyph;3.3 Assignment of commodity or service. (a) The central nonprofit agencies shall determine by mutual agreement the assignment to one of them of a commodity or service for the purpose of evaluating its potential for possible future addition to the Procurement List, except that the Committee shall initially assign a commodity to National Industries for the Blind when NISH has expressed an interest in the commodity and National Industries for the Blind has exercised the blind priority.
