FR940304-1-00126 FR940304-1-00014 In response, the Department notes that the Act requires DOE to consider, in this rulemaking, more stringent fluorescent ballast standards and the concomitant energy savings therefrom. The Department considered such programs as alternatives to standards in the Regulatory Impact Analysis found in Section V of today's notice. 9. Television Sets Classes . The Natural Resources Defense Council, Rocky Mountain Institute, and Thomson commented on television set class delineations. The Natural Resources Defense Council stated that separate classes may be needed for stereo sound, remote control, and other features. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No 13 at 24). Also, the Rocky Mountain Institute stated that it might make sense to differentiate on the basis of features like remote control, electronic tuning, and stereo sound. (Rocky Mountain Institute, No. 15 at 2). Thomson stated that the large number of necessary variables or items used to classify television receivers, including, for example, feature content and screen size, would greatly complicate any attempt to categorize television receivers in order to establish meaningful energy usage guidelines. Thomson also said that many customer-preferred performance qualities, such as high picture brightness and high-quality stereo sound consume correspondingly higher levels of power than television sets that do not exhibit those qualities. There are other desirable, if not necessary, features, such as remote control and on-screen function displays, and federally mandated features, such as closed caption decoding, that may increase energy use. (Thomson, No. 49 at 3, 5). The Electronic Industries Association stated that in 1989, 83 percent of color television sets sold to dealers reportedly included a remote control feature and that virtually all television sets use electronic tuning. (Electronic Industries Association, No. 30 at 3, 4). In response to these comments, the Department established one class for color television sets with electronic tuning and remote control. However, the Department believes that the energy used to illuminate the screen is strongly affected by screen size and, therefore, has proposed standards for television sets that are a function of screen size. Furthermore, DOE believes that there is no need to separate classes according to stereo sound because the sound is not on during the efficiency test and therefore sound energy does not affect test procedure measurements. The standard level analysis is based primarily on manufacturers' data for 19/20 ’ ’ color television sets because recent manufacturer cost and energy use data for other screen sizes were very limited. The results of the analysis, based on the 19/20 ’ ’ color television sets and the limited data available for other screen sizes ranging from 13.5 ’ ’ to 33 ’ ’, were then used to derive the proposed standards as a function of screen size. Additionally, the Department did not consider standards for black and white television sets since their share of the market is rapidly decreasing and over 50 percent of those sold are designed for battery or battery-AC operation and are thus designed to minimize energy use. Design options . Among the comments on television set design options, the Rocky Mountain Institute proposed that DOE consider all reasonable options for reducing standby power as well as operating power. One option would be to require a clearly labeled switch that would give consumers the choice of turning the set to standby or completely off. (Rocky Mountain Institute, No. 15 at 5). The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy suggested that DOE analyze use of a step down transformer rather than a resistance circuit for electronic tuning and new transformer materials with low core loss (amorphous alloys). The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy also urged DOE to look at television sets in other countries, particularly Germany. (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 3&hyph;4). The Natural Resources Defense Council proposed that DOE consider power supply efficiency improvement. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 38).
