FR940527-1-00055 FR940527-1-00014 • Exceptions Process _Most of the commenters agreed that some type of exceptions process would be needed regardless of which system for defining hospital labor market areas is developed. Several commenters stressed the need for an exceptions process to address geographic anomalies; cases in which air miles are not equivalent to road miles; and cases in which a hospital is grouped with unlike hospitals, such as a rural referral center (RRC) grouped with much smaller primary care hospitals or a tertiary care hospital in a single hospital MSA that is grouped with much smaller rural hospitals. Another commenter supported giving a hospital the right to appeal to add or delete hospitals from its labor market area if the target hospital can demonstrate substantial labor market competition (or a lack of it) with a specific hospital. Some commenters supported special exception criteria for RRCs. One group believes that the nearest neighbors proposal should be modified to accommodate RRCs that otherwise would have been reclassified, that have only other rural hospitals in their nearest neighbors group, or that would be significantly harmed by the proposal. Another group believes that RRCs should be excluded from a nearest neighbors wage index and that they should be allowed to use either their own hospital-specific wage index or be allowed to reclassify into the nearest MSA using the existing MGCRB rules. • Multi-campus hospitals _We received a wide range of comments concerning multi-campus hospitals. Some commenters suggested that the hospital's location should be its main address listed on the cost report. Other commenters suggested that the facility with the largest concentration of employees be defined as the hospital's location, or that a hospital should be allowed to pick which campus would be considered its location for labor market area purposes. • Hospital Location Verification _Some commenters suggested that we publish each hospital's longitude and latitude and require them to submit documentation to verify any requests for corrections to this data. Others suggested that we use the Global Positioning System to verify location. Some commenters suggested that the hospital's emergency room entrance should be used as the hospital's location, others suggested the main employee entrance, and still others suggested that a hospital be allowed to designate any point on its campus as its location. • State Boundaries _Some commenters stated that labor market areas should not be constructed across State lines because cost of living and labor costs can vary greatly from State to State due to differences in State tax structures, costs of health insurance and other employee benefit programs dependent on State law. • Blend/Floor _Some commenters suggested that a nearest neighbors wage index should not be adopted unless a hospital's own wage data were weighted more heavily than those of its neighbors. Other commenters suggested that we institute a floor below which a hospital's wage index could not fall or that we blend the current wage index with any index based on revised labor market definitions. 3. Analysis of Alternative Labor Market Areas We agree with commenters, and with ProPAC, that improvements to the current labor market system should be explored. Below, we discuss the feasibility of several alternative methodologies for establishing labor markets, including revised versions of the current MSA-based system, various hospital-specific methodologies, as well as an alternative that combines the hospital-specific and MSA-based methodologies. In evaluating each of the alternatives presented, we considered the major issues raised by commenters, ProPAC's recommendations, as well as our own internal research and analysis. ProPAC's data on air-mile distances between hospitals were used to develop wage indexes based on hospital-specific systems. We note that in our May 26, 1993 proposed rule (58 FR 30244), we indicated that we would hold a meeting with a working group consisting of hospital industry representatives to review potential revisions to labor market areas, and other issues related to the wage index. On November 19, 1993, HCFA staff met with 17 representatives of State and national hospital associations to discuss options for redefining hospital labor market areas and other issues related to the current wage index. A ProPAC representative also attended and presented information on the status of the Commission's current research. HCFA staff presented information on each of the options under consideration. The group expressed no preference for any of the hospital-specific or MSA-based options with the possible exception of a hospital-specific wage index based in large part on the hospital's own wages. The group was extremely concerned about the redistribution of dollars that would occur if nearest neighbors labor market areas were adopted in the current budgetary climate. It was also concerned about how an exceptions process would function under any revised labor market scheme, fearing that it would be too subjective and that it would be impossible to predict how many hospitals would be reclassified. a. MSA-based and Hospital-Specific Alternatives. In our labor market research, we reviewed a large number of options: nine hospital-specific wage indexes based on the nearest neighbor and fixed radius approaches and seven MSA-based indexes involving ways of subdividing MSAs or statewide rural areas. Following is a description of the options we reviewed. We have assigned each option a name to facilitate discussion and for use in tables that follow later in this section.
