FR940613-0-00140 FR940613-0-00017 (c) Costs of assessment teams. The Secretary may use amounts appropriated for activities under this subpart for any travel, administrative, and other necessary expenses of assessment teams under §968.410. (d) Determination of assistance amounts. (1) Whether a PHA is to receive assistance, and the amount of any assistance, under this subpart will be determined through a process to be described in detail for each round of funding in Notices of Funding Availability to be published in the Federal Register . A portion of a PHA's plan, rather than the entire plan, may be funded, and the Secretary may establish reasonable limits on the funding that will be available under a NOFA for any category of eligible activities or for any PHA. (2) Prior to determining the amount of any assistance to be awarded to a PHA, HUD will review the PHA's plan and the extent to which it is consistent with the assessment of the PHA, and any other factors that the Secretary finds to be appropriate. (e) Revisions. Funding is expected to be spent to carry out the vacancy reduction activities funded under this program. Should a change in circumstances make a revision necessary, HUD approval is required. The grantee must submit a report that substantiates a need for the revision, along with an account of how the revision affects the funded plan. §968.416 Fund requisitions. To request funds against the total approved vacancy reduction program budget, a PHA must submit a request to HUD in accordance with HUD requirements. §968.419 Grantee's oversight responsibilities. Each grantee shall provide, by contract or otherwise, adequate and competent supervisory and inspection personnel to assure work quality and progress during modernization, whether work is performed by contract or force account labor and with or without the services of an architect/engineer. §968.422 Progress reports and completion schedule. (a) Reports required. Until completion of the activities funded under the vacancy reduction program, the grantee shall submit to HUD, in a form and at a time prescribed by HUD, the following: (1) A report on modernization fund expenditures; (2) A narrative report that includes an accounting of the grantee's progress against the milestones established in its vacancy reduction plan. The report shall include the number of both funded and regular turn-over units that have been made ready for occupancy; and (3) Any additional information as HUD may require. (b) Completion schedule. HUD expects that most work items funded under this program will be completed within one year. Work items must be completed within two years from the date of funding, or by some other time as may be specified in the Notice of Funding Availability, unless prior approval is obtained from HUD. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577&hyph;0181) §968.425 HUD review of grantee performance. (a) Performance reviews. HUD shall carry out such reviews of the performance of each funded PHA as may be necessary or appropriate to determine compliance with the PHA's vacancy reduction plan and related HUD requirements. In these reviews HUD will determine whether the PHA has: (1) Carried out its vacancy reduction activities in a timely manner and in accordance with its vacancy reduction plan; (2) Completed, or made reasonable progress toward completing, the physical items funded under the vacancy reduction plan, and whether the work items being carried out conform with the modernization and energy standards in §968.115 of this chapter; (3) Implemented, or made reasonable progress toward implementing, the management improvements funded under the vacancy reduction program; and (4) Made reasonable progress in meeting the goals established in its vacancy reduction plan. (b) Notice of deficiency. If HUD finds any deficiency in a review of a grantee's performance under this part, HUD may issue to the grantee a notice of deficiency stating the specific program requirements that the grantee has violated and requesting the grantee to take corrective action. (c) Corrective action order. (1) Issuance. If HUD finds any of the deficiencies listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section in its review of the grantee's performance, HUD may issue to the grantee a corrective action order, whether or not a notice of deficiency has previously been issued on the specific deficiency. The corrective action order shall notify the grantee of the specific program requirements that the grantee has violated and shall specify the corrective action. (2) Consultation with grantee. Before ordering corrective action, HUD will give the grantee an opportunity to consult with HUD regarding the proposed action. (3) Bases for corrective action. HUD may order a grantee to take corrective action only if HUD determines: (i) The grantee has not submitted a performance report as required by HUD; (ii) The grantee has not carried out activities under its vacancy reduction program in a timely manner and in accordance with HUD requirements; (iii) The grantee does not have continuing capacity to carry out activities in its vacancy reduction plan; or (iv) An audit conducted in accordance with 24 CFR part 44, or pursuant to other HUD reviews, reveals deficiencies that HUD reasonably believes require corrective action.
