FR940706-0-00065 FR940706-0-00014 Ruelmaking Analysis and Notices Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This final rule amends the requirements for the strength ratings for cargo securement devices. The FHWA has determined that this is not a significant regulatory action within the meaning of Executive Order 12866 or significant within the meaning of the Department of Transportation policies and procedures. It is anticipated that the economic impact of this rulemaking will be minimal. The final rule requires that the aggregate working load limits of the tiedown assemblies used to secure cargo be at least 1/2 times the weight of the article being secured. The total number of tiedown assemblies required by the rule would generally be the same as or slightly more than the number required using the previous breaking strength terminology. It is anticipated that the economic impact of this rulemaking will be minimal. Therefore, a full regulatory evaluation is not required. Regulatory Flexibility Act In compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612), the agency has evaluated the effects of this rulemaking on small entities. As previously stated, the final rule amends ยง393.102(b) of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations by requiring that the aggregate working load limits of the tiedown assemblies used to secure cargo be at least 1/2 times the weight of the article being secured. The total number of tiedown assemblies required by the rule would generally be the same as or slightly more than the number required prior to this amendment. Based on the evaluation, the FHWA certifies that this rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism Assessment) This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this rulemaking does not have sufficient Federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism assessment. Nothing in this document directly preempts any State law or regulation. Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review) Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.217, Motor Carrier Safety. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program. Paperwork Reduction Act This document does not contain information collection requirements [44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ]. National Environmental Policy Act The agency has analyzed this rulemaking for the purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq .) and has determined that this action would not have any effect on the quality of the environment. Regulation Identification Number A regulation identification number (RIN) is assigned to each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations. The Regulatory Information Service Center publishes the Unified Agenda in April and October of each year. The RIN contained in the heading of this document can be used to cross reference this action with the Unified Agenda. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 393 Highway safety, Incorporation by reference, Motor carriers, Motor vehicle safety. Issued on: June 23, 1994. Rodney E. Slater, Federal Highway Administrator.
