FR940826-2-00137 FR940826-2-00070 [Release No. 34&hyph;34553; International Series Release No. 701; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;20] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment No. 1 to the Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. Relating to the Listing and Trading Options on the CBOE Emerging Asian Markets Index August 19, 1994 Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 notice is hereby given that on June 30, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the CBOE. On August 18, 1994, the Exchange filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 3 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). 3 In Amendment No. 1, the Exchange proposes to treat the CBOE Emerging Asian Markets Index as a narrow-based index for purposes of margin and position limit treatment. Pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.4A, the position limits for the CBOE Emerging Asian Markets Index would initially be set at 10,500 contracts. See Letter from Eileen Smith, Director, Product Development, Research Department CBOE, to Brad Ritter, Attorney, Office of Market Supervision, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, dated August 18, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change As provided in Exchange Rule 24.2, ``Designation of the index,'' 4 the CBOE proposes to list for trading options on the CBOE Emerging Asian Markets Index (``Emerging Asian Markets Index'' of ``Index''). The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, CBOE, and at the Commission. 4 Exchange Rule 24.2 provides, in part, that the Commission must approve a particular index upon which options are traded. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The CBOE has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to permit the Exchange to list and trade cash-settled, European-style 5 index options on the Emerging Asian Markets Index. The Index will initially consist of 16 closed-end funds which invest in the stocks of firms in the emerging Asian economies. According to the Exchange, no proxy for the performance of these emerging economies is currently available in the U.S. derivatives markets. The Exchange believes, therefore, that options on the Index will provide investors with a low-cost means of participating in the performance of these markets and/or hedging against the risk of investing in the Asian emerging markets. 5 European-style options can only be exercised during a specified period before the options expire. Index Design The Emerging Asian Markets Index will initially consist of 16 closed-end funds. 6 All of the closed-end fund components of the Index currently trade on the New York Stock Exchange. 6 The components of the Index are the: Asia Pacific Fund; Asia Tigers Fund Inc.; China Fund Inc.; Greater China Fund Inc.; Jardine Fleming China Region Fund Inc.; Morgan Stanley India Fund; Indonesia Fund Inc.; Jarkarta Growth Fund Inc.; Korea Fund Inc.; Korea Equity Fund Inc.; Malaysia Fund Inc.; First Philippine Fund Inc.; Singapore Fund Inc.; ROC Taiwan Fund; Taiwan Fund Inc.; and Thai Fund Inc. As of June 15, 1994, the closed-end funds comprising the Index ranged in market capitalization from a low of $49.4 million to a high of $589.4 million. The average capitalization as of that date was $214.5 million. The closed-end fund accounting for the largest percentage of the total weighting of the Index on that date was the Thai Fund Inc. (10.60%), while the smallest was the Jakarta Growth Fund Inc. (3.52%). Calculation The Index is price-weighted and reflects changes in the prices of the components relative to the base date of December 31, 1991. The Index value is calculated by summing the prices of the component securities and then dividing by a divisor that yielded an index value of 100.00 as of that date. The value of the Index at the close on June 15, 1994, was 155.07. The Index will be calculated by CBOE or its designee on a real-time basis using last-sale prices and will be disseminated every 15 seconds by the Exchange. If a component closed-end fund is not currently being traded, the most recent price at which the closed-end fund traded will be used in the Index calculation. Maintenance The Index will be maintained by the Exchange. To maintain continuity in the Index following an adjustment to a component security, the divisor will be adjusted. Changes which may result in divisor changes include, but are not limited to, certain rights issuances. The Exchange states that the index will be reviewed on approximately a monthly basis by the CBOE staff. The Exchange may change the composition of the Index at any time or from time to time to reflect the changes affecting the components of the Index or the emerging Asian markets generally. If it becomes necessary to remove a component from the Index, every effort will be made to add a closed-end fund that preserves the character of the Index. In such circumstances, the CBOE will take into account the capitalization, liquidity, volatility, and name recognition of the proposed replacement closed-end fund. The Exchange will most likely maintain 16 closed-end funds in the Index at all times.
