FR940114-0-00065 FR940114-0-00020 10. Section 3280.404 is amended by revising paragraphs (b) and (e) and by adding a new paragraph (f), to read as follows: §3280.404 Standard for egress windows and devices for use in manufactured homes. * * * * * (b) Performance. By January 17, 1995, egress windows including auxiliary frame and seals, if any, shall meet all requirements of AAMA Standard 1701.2&hyph;1985, Primary Window and Sliding Glass Door Voluntary Standard for Utilization in Manufactured Housing and AAMA Standard 1704&hyph;1985, Voluntary Standard Egress Window Systems for Utilization in Manufactured Housing, except as otherwise indicated in §3280.403(b). * * * * * (e) Certification of egress windows and devices. Except as otherwise indicated by paragraph (b) of this section, by January 17, 1995, egress windows and devices shall be listed in accordance with the procedures and requirements of AAMA Standard 1704&hyph;1985 and design wind pressures specified in §3280.305. (f) Protection of egress window openings in high wind areas. For homes designed to be located in Wind Zones II and III, manufacturers shall design exterior walls surrounding the egress window openings to allow for the installation of shutters or other protective covers, such as plywood, to cover these openings. Although not required, the Department encourages manufacturers to provide the shutters or protective covers and to install receiving devices, sleeves, or anchors for fasteners to be used to secure the shutters or protective covers to the exterior walls. If the manufacturer does not provide shutters or other protective covers to cover these openings, the manufacturer must provide to the homeowner instructions for at least one method of protecting egress window openings. This method must be capable of resisting the design wind pressures specified in §3280.305 without taking the home out of conformance with the standards in this part. These instructions must be included in the printed instructions that accompany each manufactured home. The instructions shall also indicate whether receiving devices, sleeves, or anchors, for fasteners to be used to secure the shutters or protective covers to the exterior walls, have been installed or provided by the manufacturer. 11. Section 3280.405 is amended by adding paragraph (f), to read as follows: §3280.405 Standard for swinging exterior passage doors for use in manufactured homes. * * * * * (f) Protection of exterior doors in high wind areas. For homes designed to be located in Wind Zones II and III, manufacturers shall design exterior walls surrounding the exterior door openings to allow for the installation of shutters or other protective covers, such as plywood, to cover these openings. Although not required, the Department encourages manufacturers to provide the shutters or protective covers and to install receiving devices, sleeves, or anchors for fasteners to be used to secure the shutters or protective covers to the exterior walls. If the manufacturer does not provide shutters or other protective covers to cover these openings, the manufacturer must provide to the homeowner instructions for at least one method of protecting exterior door openings. This method must be capable of resisting the design wind pressures specified in §3280.305 without taking the home out of conformance with the standards in this part. These instructions must be included in the printed instructions that accompany each manufactured home. The instructions shall also indicate whether receiving devices, sleeves, or anchors, for fasteners to be used to secure the shutters or protective covers to the exterior walls, have been installed or provided by the manufacturer.
