FR940527-1-00220 FR940527-1-00014 The stability of the HCFA vintage-weighted CIPI compared to annual changes in capital purchase prices is portrayed graphically in Figures 1 and 2. As we have discussed in connection with previous versions of the CIPI, stability is an important criterion for evaluating such an index. This is because excessive volatility in a price index deprives the index of predictability, and thus inhibits the ability of institutions to plan for changes in capital payments resulting from changes in the CIPI. E:GRAPHICSEP27MY94.000 BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;M ProPAC recommends a capital input price index based on annual changes in current capital purchase prices excluding consideration of weighted historical capital purchase prices. We previously argued that the ProPAC index was not logically consistent with the operating input index that is currently used to assist updating DRG payment rates. We would add that the volatility in annual purchase prices shown in Figures 1 and 2 would introduce an unacceptable degree of volatility in prospective capital payments. D. Revisions to the Interest Price Component of the CIPI Another commenter on a previous version of the CIPI recommended that data from Securities Data Inc. be incorporated into the CIPI interest computations. This source provides information on hospital issuances of municipal and commercial bonds. From this data base, we incorporated information that shows that the average expected life of hospital bond debt instruments (that is, the time interval between the issue date and the maturation date) was about 13 years for municipal serial bonds and about 25 years for municipal term bonds. The weighted average life for the 2 types of bonds was 22 years. The relative nominal capital purchases within various 22-year periods provided appropriate annual weights for annual changes in interest rates. Not all capital purchases are funded by debt. Medicare cost reports suggest that about 80 percent of new capital acquisitions are financed by debt and about 20 percent by equity financing. However, if the proportion of total purchases financed by debt does not change substantially from year to year, then it is irrelevant whether we use the full amount or a constant proportion of the full amount of nominal capital acquisitions as weights for relative amounts of the debt instruments still active in the current period. Relative interest weights derived from our procedure are shown in Table 1. When combined with percent changes in annual interest rates from Table 2, the weights provide a current year estimates of interest rate changes in the CIPI in Table 3. Thus, for example, the interest rate component change of ^3.2 percent in Table 3 for FY 1995 represents the average of the previous 22 years in the interest rate proxy (Combined Muni/AAA) in Table 2, weighted by the interest weights listed in Table 1. We use a percent change in a combined municipal and AAA commercial bond interest rate (shown in Table 2 as Combined Muni/AAA), giving the municipal rate an 85 percent weight and the AAA rate a 15 percent weight, reflecting the relative hospital debts of the government/non-profit hospital sector and the for-profit sector.
