FR940802-1-00003 FR940802-1-00001 The Commission's staff has recommended revisions to the current ASTM warning labels, including a warning label to tell consumers to block stairway openings, rather than to tell them never to use walkers near stairs. The staff also suggested that the stair warning label be redesigned according to the ANSI Z535.4&hyph;1991 Standard for Product Safety Signs and Labels. In addition, the staff suggested that the ASTM baby walker standard state specifically several options of where the stair warning label should be placed to assure that it is conspicuous. As the Commission's staff continued to monitor data submitted from hospital emergency rooms through the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (``NEISS''), it became apparent that falls down stairs were a major cause of injuries associated with baby walkers. While the staff was considering what action to recommend for this hazard, the Commission was petitioned, in August of 1992, to ban wheeled baby walkers. The petitioners were the Consumer Federation of America (``CFA''), the American Academy of Pediatrics, the Washington Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics, the National Safe Kids Campaign, and Consumers Union. The petition asked that the Commission declare baby walkers to be a mechanical hazard under the FHSA. As discussed in section G of this notice, such a declaration would ban the product. After considering the available information on deaths and injuries associated with walkers, and other available information, the Commission unanimously voted to deny the petition on April 15, 1993. 2 The petition was denied because the available information did not establish a reasonable probability that the Commission would be able to make the necessary statutory findings if a rulemaking proceeding were commenced at that time. It appeared that several potential design modifications to existing baby walkers were feasible to address the major hazard scenario with walkers_that of falls down stairs. These modifications included a device without wheels with a treadmill to simulate walking, a walker with a ``wheel-stop'' mechanism (which would resist motion of the walker if a wheel or feeler went over the edge of a step), or a walker that is too wide to fit through most door openings at the top of stairs. Given these possible alternatives to a total ban, the Commission could not conclude that it would likely be able to make the requisite statutory finding that the requested total ban was the least burdensome alternative that would adequately reduce the risks from baby walkers. In addition, not enough was known about the costs and benefits of a total ban to conclude that the Commission would likely be able to make the statutory findings that the ban was reasonably necessary to reduce an unreasonable risk of injury and that the benefits of the ban would bear a reasonable relationship to its costs. 2 At that time, the Commission consisted of Chairman Jacqueline Jones-Smith, Commissioner Mary Sheila Gall, and Commissioner Carol Dawson. Although the Commission denied the petition for a total ban, at the same time it directed the staff to develop a proposed project that would produce recommendations to address the hazards associated with baby walkers. 3 Shortly thereafter, the Commission approved a project to determine the feasibility of developing a standard to effectively reduce the risk of injury associated with baby walkers, particularly the risk of falling down stairs. The project included a special study of emergency-room-treated injuries related to walkers that were reported through NEISS. This data-gathering activity is discussed in section D of this notice. 3 The Commission voted 2&hyph;1 to develop this project, with Commissioner Carol Dawson dissenting. During fiscal year 1993, the Commission's Office of Compliance and Enforcement conducted a field program to assess the compliance level of certain juvenile products with the mandatory small parts regulations (Juvenile Products Small Parts Compliance Survey, FPC 93&hyph;010). Baby walkers were one of the products included in the survey. As part of the survey, baby walkers were also screened for compliance with the mandatory requirements regarding scissoring, shearing, and pinching (16 CFR 1500.86(a)(4)), and for conformance with the warning label requirements in the voluntary standard (ASTM F977&hyph;89). The survey covered 74 major juvenile product manufacturers or importers that were randomly selected for inspection. Eleven of these firms manufactured or imported baby walkers. Thirty-four styles of baby walkers were screened. All walkers complied with the mandatory requirements regarding scissoring, shearing, and pinching, and all but two styles of one manufacturer conformed with the voluntary labeling requirements. This manufacturer agreed to label its current inventory and future production. A status report on the baby walker project was submitted to the Commission in June 1994. After considering the status report, the Commission decided to commence a rulemaking proceeding by publishing this ANPR. B. The Product The products that are the subject of this proceeding are baby walkers, as described in section A of this notice. The Commission's staff does not expect this proceeding to result in additional features to prevent falls down stairs for stationary walkers and other walkers which a young child cannot move. However, performance requirements may have to be developed to determine which walkers have the requisite degree of immobility. Most traditional walkers range in price from $25 to $60, with the average price about $32. The Commission's staff estimates that there were approximately 4 million new and used walkers in use in the U.S. in 1991. Consumers spend about $115 million per year on baby walkers. This represents sales of at least 3 million units. Staff has conducted a number of interviews of caregivers in connection with the ongoing baby walker project. Caregivers were asked to evaluate the most useful functions of walkers. Caregivers believed most often that the walker, ``Keeps the child happy or quiet,'' ``Helps the child exercise,'' ``Gives the child freedom and independence,'' and ``Is a place to put the child while the caregiver is occupied.''
