FR941028-2-00002 FR941028-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Food and Nutrition Service The Emergency Food Assistance Program and Soup Kitchens Availability of Commodities for Fiscal Year 1995 AGENCY: Food and Nutrition Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice announces: (1) the surplus and purchased commodities that will be available for donation to households under the Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP); and (2) the purchased commodities that will be available to soup kitchens and food banks. The commodities made available under this notice shall be directed to needy persons, including unemployed and homeless persons. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Philip K. Cohen, Chief, Program Administration Branch, Food Distribution Division, Food and Nutrition Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Virginia 22302&hyph;1594 or telephone (703) 305&hyph;2662. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background and Need for Action Surplus Commodities Donations of commodities to needy households were initiated in 1981 as part of efforts to reduce stockpiles of government-owned commodities. These donations responded to concern over the costs to taxpayers of storing vast quantities of foods, while at the same time there were persons in need of food assistance. The Emergency Food Assistance Program was codified in Title II of Public Law 98&hyph;8, the Emergency Food Assistance Act (EFAA) of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 612c note). Surplus foods made available for distribution under the EFAA are limited to amounts determined by the Secretary to be in excess of the quantities needed to carry out other programs, including Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) sales obligations and domestic food assistance programs. The Secretary of Agriculture anticipates that 72 million pounds of surplus butter will be acquired by the CCC under its price-support activities and made available for distribution through TEFAP during Fiscal Year 1995. Although butter is the only surplus commodity expected to be available for TEFAP, the Department may offer additional commodities, or a different amount of butter, depending on agricultural production, market conditions and the distribution of donated foods to other domestic outlets. Purchased Commodities In recent years, the supply of available surplus commodities has been drastically reduced. These reductions are the result of changes in the agricultural price-support programs which have brought supply and demand into better balance, and accelerated donations and sales. Congress responded to the reduced availability of surplus commodities with section 104 of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988, Public Law 100&hyph;435, which added sections 213 and 214 to the EFAA. Those sections require the Secretary to annually purchase, process, and distribute commodities for household consumption in addition to those surplus commodities otherwise provided under TEFAP. In section 110 of the Hunger Prevention Act, Congress also requires the Secretary to purchase, process and distribute commodities for soup kitchens and food banks. USDA purchases commodities for these programs based in part on annual reports completed by distributing agencies. For Fiscal Year 1995, $25 million has been appropriated for purchasing, processing and distributing additional commodities for household use. The Department anticipates purchasing for distribution to households through TEFAP during Fiscal Year 1995 peanut butter, rice, dehydrated potatoes, and the following canned foods: green beans, peaches, pears and tomatoes. The amounts of each item purchased will depend on the prices USDA must pay, as well as the quantity of each item requested by the States. For Fiscal Year 1995, $40 million has been appropriated to purchase, process, and distribute commodities for further distribution to soup kitchens and food banks. For such outlets, the Department anticipates the purchase of dehydrated potatoes, frozen ground beef, frozen cut-up chicken, turkey roasts, and the following canned foods: green beans, peaches, pears, tomatoes, and beef. The amounts of each item purchased will depend on the prices USDA must pay. Dated: October 21, 1994. Amanda Manning, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26768 Filed 10&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;30&hyph;U
