FR940712-2-00065 FR940712-2-00045 Health Care Financing Administration Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority; Reorganization of the Medicaid Bureau Part F of the Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority for the Department of Health and Human Services, Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), Federal Register , Vol. 59, No. 60, pp. 14629 and 14633, dated March 29, 1994, is amended to reflect a reorganization within the Medicaid Bureau. The Medicaid Bureau's Medicaid Special Program Initiatives Staff (MSPIS) is abolished and replaced with a new Office of Planning and Special Initiatives (OPSI). OPSI will assume the duties previously performed in MSPIS to serve as the focal point for all HCFA Medicaid activities in the area of maternal and infant health care, children preventive care services, and Acquired Immune Deficiency-infected recipients. In addition, OPSI will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the Bureau's activities involving States' health reform initiatives. The specific amendments to Part F are described below: Section F.10., Health Care Financing Administration (Organization), paragraph A.5.b., Medicaid Special Program Initiatives Staff (FAB&hyph;2) is deleted and replaced by a new paragraph A.5.b., Office of Planning and Special Initiatives (FAB3). Section F.20., Health Care Financing Administration (Functions), paragraph A.5.b., Medicaid Special Program Initiatives Staff (FAB&hyph;2) is deleted and replaced by the following new paragraph A.5.b., Office of Planning and Special Initiatives (FAB3). The new functional statement reads as follows: b. Office of Planning and Special Initiatives (FAB3) •Promotes and supports States' development of Medicaid program transitions to health system reform. •Represents the Medicaid Bureau in coordinating activities related to the impact on the Medicaid program of State-initiated interim health system reforms accomplished through Statewide Section 1115 projects. •Serves as clearinghouse for information on the nature, scope, and status of State Medicaid initiatives. •Identifies States' needs and coordinates initiatives for technical assistance, information exchange, and capacity building to further States' progress toward program improvements and reforms. •Develops multi-faceted initiatives focused on priority program areas and the special needs of subpopulations of Medicaid beneficiaries. •Collaborates with federal and State agencies and private organizations to improve health services for Medicaid beneficiaries. •Supports management of Medicaid strategic planning through analysis of data, trends and external forces, assessment of program activities in light of planned objectives, and coordination of Medicaid planning activities with other agencies and organizations. •Serves as the Medicaid Bureau focal point for data applications relevant to Medicaid program interests and populations. Dated: June 28, 1994. Bruce C. Vladeck, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16821 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
