FR940114-2-00150 FR940114-2-00093 Environmental Impact Statement; Miller County, AR AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement will be prepared for a proposed highway project in Miller County, Arkansas. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wendall L. Meyer, Environmental and Design Specialist, Federal Highway Administration, 3128 Federal Office Building, Little Rock, Arkansas 72201&hyph;3298, telephone: (501) 324&hyph;6430; or Reid Beckel, Consultant Coordinator, Chief Engineer, Arkansas State Highway and Transportation Department, P.O. Box 2261, Little Rock, Arkansas 72203, Telephone: (501) 569&hyph;2163. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the Arkansas State Highway and Transportation Department and Louisiana Department of Transportation, will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on a proposal to construct a four-lane, divided, fully controlled access highway facility located on new alignment. The proposed project along U.S. 71, from Texarkana, Arkansas-Texas south to the Louisiana State Line, includes several alternatives based on new location corridors and varying termini. The approximate length of the project is 53.1 kilometers (33.0 miles). The proposed improvements would improve the capacity of the existing route and increase regional mobility along a proposed ultimate route extending from Kansas City, Missouri to Shreveport, Louisiana. This project is one of several projects identified as ``high priority corridors'' on the National Highway System that would provide a transportation corridor of national significance from Kansas City to Shreveport. The proposed improvements will draw new traffic through southwest Arkansas, northwest Louisiana, and northeast Texas and serve as both a short-term and long-term economic stimulus, promoting development in this currently rural area. Major metropolitan areas lying along this ``high priority corridor'' include Kansas City, Kansas-Missouri; Joplin, Missouri; Fayetteville, Arkansas, Fort Smith, Arkansas; Texarkana, Arkansas-Texas; and Shreveport, Louisiana. The northern terminus of the proposed improvements will connect to the proposed Loop 151/245 in Texarkana, Arkansas-Texas. Loop 151/245 is currently being designed and/or constructed around the south side of Texarkana, Arkansas-Texas. The southern terminus will be at the Louisiana state line, and its location determined based on existing and new location U.S. 71 corridors. Alternatives to be considered are: (1) The ``Do-Nothing'' Alternative, where roads are constructed according to the regional plan with the exception of the proposed facility; (2) The ``Reconstruction'' Alternative, where existing U.S. 71 and roads on the regional plan are upgraded to handle traffic forecast for the proposed facility, but with less than full control of access; and (3) The ``New Location'' Alternative, considering several different alignments and full control of access. Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, state, and local agencies and to private organizations, including conservation groups and groups of individuals who have expressed interest in the project in the past, and to major Arkansas, Louisiana and northeast Texas newspapers. A series of public involvement sessions will be held in the areas to be affected. In addition, a formal public hearing will be held. Public notice will be given of the time and place of the public involvement sessions and the public hearing. The draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) will be available for public and agency review and comment prior to the public hearing. An agency scoping meeting was held on December 7, 1993 at the Arkansas State Highway and Transportation Department offices in Little Rock, Arkansas. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation of Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on: January 3, 1994. Wendall L. Meyer, Environmental and Design Specialist, FHWA, Little Rock, Arkansas. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;983 Filed 1&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
