FR940707-2-00193 FR940707-2-00099 The NASD and commenters have presented evidence, albeit anecdotal, of continuing problems of short selling in the OTC market. In addition, the Commission recognizes that without a short sale rule for Nasdaq, the NASD is competitively disadvantaged. The exchange markets can and do attract issuers and investors with claims that their markets protect against potential short selling abuse. In 1975, Congress specifically found that the interests of the public, the protection of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets are furthered by fair competition between the exchange markets and the OTC market. 57 Thus, recognizing the potential for problems associated with short selling, the changing expectations of Nasdaq market participants and the competitive disparity between the exchange markets and the OTC market, the Commission believes that regulation of short selling of Nasdaq National Market securities is consistent with the Act. 57 15 U.S.C. 78k&hyph;1(a)(1)(C)(ii). 2. The Design of the Proposed Restrictions Having determined that some regulation of short selling of Nasdaq National Market securities is consistent with the Act, the Commission must determine whether the proposed design of that regulation is consistent with the Act. The Commission's tick-test restricts short selling based on the most recent sale price in the particular security. This is a logical approach in the auction market environment where, generally, transactions in a given security are executed at one location and, consequently, are typically reported sequentially. Notwithstanding the advances over the past fifteen years in trade reporting of Nasdaq securities, the NASD is not convinced that a tick-test would be appropriate for Nasdaq short sale regulation. In Nasdaq, the average security has more than ten market makers. With many trades occurring over the telephone and transaction reporting occurring up to ninety seconds after execution, the sequence in which trades are reported may not always reflect the sequence in which the trades occurred. Thus, the NASD believes that differences between trade reporting in the auction markets and the competing dealer market warrant consideration of a different, although analogous, approach to short sale regulation. The NASD's rule also differs from the Commission's short sale rule by providing, under certain circumstances, a market maker exemption; under the Commission's rule, which generally applies only to the auction markets, specialists do not enjoy an exemption. The NASD believes that a market maker exemption is justified, considering the inherent differences between its competing dealer market and the auction markets. In particular, unlike competing market makers, specialists have a monopoly over the securities in which they trade and are able to call trading halts in response to excessive volatility or order imbalances. The Commission believes that the NASD's short sale bid-test, including the market maker exemptions, is a reasonable approach to short sale regulation of Nasdaq National Market securities and reflects the realities of its market structure. The Commission believes, however, that experience with the NASD's bid-test may raise issues that require reconsideration of some or all elements of the proposal. The Commission is sensitive to commenters' concerns about efficiency and liquidity in the market. The Commission acknowledges, based in large part on the arguments raised by commenters, that there will be opportunities for market makers to control short selling by moving their bids. 58 The Commission is also concerned that the bid-test may restrict non-abusive short-selling for lengthy periods of time when the bid is stable after a down-bid. 59 58 We note, however, that the rule includes a provision (conditioning market maker exemption on at least 50% of quote updates being accompanied by executions) that could discourage market makers from lowering their bids to limit short selling. 59 The Commission notes that facilities for exposure of customer limit orders in Nasdaq would alleviate the restrictiveness of the rule by increasing opportunities for customers to trade between the quotes. Increased transparency would also limit the ability of market makers to restrict short selling by lowering their bids. In this regard, the Commission's Division of Market Regulation recently recommended that the NASD encourage the display of limit orders in Nasdaq stocks that are better than the best Nasdaq quote. See Division of Market Regulation, Market 2000: An Examination of Current Equity Market Developments at IV&hyph;6 (January 1994) (`` Market 2000 Report ''). In addition, questions remain about whether market maker exemptions from these restrictions are necessary on an ongoing basis. It is worth noting that specialists and other market makers do not enjoy similar exemptions from the Commission's short sale rule for listed securities under Rule 10a&hyph;1. With respect to the market maker exemption, commenters have raised concerns about one of the conditions of the proposed exemption, which requires that at least 50% of a market maker's quote updates be accompanied by an execution. The Commission acknowledges that this requirement may decrease pricing efficiency by discouraging market makers from updating their quotes in response to external events. Moreover, the Commission is concerned that this requirement could discourage market makers from exposing customer orders in their quotes. The Commission has long encouraged the display of customer orders with prices better than the interdealer quotes, 60 and will scrutinize the effects of this requirement on transparency for customer orders. 60 See e.g., Market 2000 Report, at IV&hyph;6 (the NASD should ``consider encouraging the display of limit orders in Nasdaq stocks that are better than the best Nasdaq quote *␣*␣*'').
