FR940328-1-00035 FR940328-1-00016 Therefore, it is proposed that 48 CFR part 45 be amended as set forth below: PART 45_GOVERNMENT PROPERTY 1. The authority citation for 48 CFR part 45 continues to read as follows: Authority: 40 U.S.C. 486(c); 10 U.S.C. chapter 137; and 42 U.S.C. 2473(c). 2. Section 45.302&hyph;1 is revised to read as follows: 45.302&hyph;1 Policy. (a) Contractors shall provide all facilities required for performing Government contracts except that agencies may provide facilities_ (1) For use in a Government-owned, contractor-operated industrial plant operated on a cost-plus-fee basis; (2) For support of industrial preparedness programs; (3) For use in performing a contract on a Government installation; (4) As components of special tooling or special test equipment acquired or fabricated at Government expense subsequent to approval by the contracting officer; (5) When the facilities are only available from Government sources; (6) As otherwise authorized by law; or (7) When the agency head or designee issues a Determination and Finding (see subpart 1.7) that the contract cannot be fulfilled by any other practical means or that it is in the public interest to provide the facilities. (i) Mere assertion by a contractor that it is unable to provide facilities is not, in itself, sufficient to justify approval. The determination shall include findings that the contractor sought private financing of the facilities but it was not available or that private financing is determined not advantageous to the Government. If the contractor's inability to provide facilities is due to insufficient lead time, the Government may furnish existing facilities until the contractor's facilities can be installed. (ii) The original determination and the contractor's written statement asserting inability to obtain nongovernment facilities, if applicable, shall be included in the contract file. (iii) Government facilities with a unit cost of less than $10,000 shall not be provided to contractors under the exception in subparagraph (a)(7) unless the contractor is a nonprofit institution of higher education or other nonprofit organization whose primary purpose is the conduct of scientific research. (b) Even when one of the exceptions in subparagraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section applies, agencies shall not_ (1) Provide new facilities to contractors unless existing Government-owned facilities are either inadequate or cannot be economically furnished; (2) Use research and development funds to provide contractors with new construction or improvements of general utility, unless authorized by law; or (3) Provide facilities to contractors solely for nongovernment use, unless authorized by law. (c) The applicability of the exceptions in subparagraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section shall be documented in the contract file by a Determination and Findings signed by the contracting officer. (d) Government facilities provided to contractors shall be individually identified in the solicitation and the contract. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6897 Filed 3&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;34&hyph;M
