FR940413-1-00005 FR940413-1-00001 (3) ASCS could implement an ``identity preservation'' system_an end-use certificate system that preserves the identity and origin of the commodity as it moves through each step of the marketing chain by requiring separate handling and storage. Only the end-user, such as a flour miller, would be allowed to commingle U.S. and imported commodities. Of course, if the flour were being purchased by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) for use in a Government-assisted program, domestic origin requirements would prevail subjecting the miller to compliance reviews by ASCS. This alternative would give a high level of assurance that Canadian grain was not entering the U.S. Government-assisted programs and provide large amounts of information on quantity and quality of Canadian grain entering the U.S. V. Current ASCS Rules and Policies Any end-use certificate system should be designed to supplement or broaden the use of current ASCS rules and policies used to procure commodities for donation or sale under the Food for Progress, Pub. L. 480 Titles II and III, and section 416(b) foreign food assistance programs, as well as for domestic food assistance programs. Under these programs, the physical commingling of U.S. origin grain with non-U.S. origin grain is allowed provided that at the time of delivery to CCC the grain merchant has a sufficient quantity and quality of U.S. origin grain available at the location where loading occurred to account for the grain sold to CCC. The grain merchant's accounting records and supporting documents must demonstrate such availability and reduction in the stocks of U.S. origin grain. ASCS monitors the compliance of CCC's contractors through the selection and review of a number of contracts each quarter. The domestic origin reviews are performed by the Kansas City Commodity Office, ASCS. It is the responsibility of the CCC contractor to adequately maintain documents to establish the origin of the commodity. Failure of CCC's contractors to establish or otherwise maintain adequate records which verify the U.S. origin of the commodity or product delivered to CCC may be cause for suspension or debarment from bidding on future CCC contracts. VI. Compliance Costs It is ASCS' intent that costs associated with verifying end-use certificate compliance will be borne by entities importing the grain. Such costs will likely be assessed at the time of issuance of each end-use certificate. VII. Summary Many variations of the aforementioned alternatives are possible. ASCS invites interested persons to submit written comments and supporting data with regard to the establishment of an end-use certificate system for the U.S. Comments are specifically invited on the following issues: A. General Issue What type of end-use certificate system will best accomplish the objective of helping ensure that foreign agricultural commodities are not used in U.S. Government-assisted export programs while still maintaining compatibility with the grain merchandising system of the U.S.? B. Operational Issues 1. What information should be collected on an end-use certificate? 2. How can ASCS minimize paperwork and reporting requirements associated with end-use certificates? 3. How should ASCS enforce requirements under an end-use certificate system? 4. Should all imported grain be covered by certificates or should some types of grain_such as wheat and barley used for livestock feed_be exempted? 5. Should imported grain be stored separately from domestically-produced grain (i.e., identity preserved)? C. Economic Impacts (a) General 1. Will end-use certificates under the different alternatives significantly change U.S. import levels for wheat and barley, or will they mainly increase reporting, handling, and/or storage requirements? 2. What modifications, if any, of current procedures of the grain merchandising system will be required under the alternative end-use certificate systems, and what economic impacts_costs or benefits_will any such modifications have? (b) Specific 1. What are the potential economic impacts_positive or negative_of imports and the alternative end-use certificate systems on costs, income, and employment of: a. Local elevators; b. Other local businesses and rural communities; c. Importers, merchandisers, regional and other warehouses; d. Millers, bakers, and processors; e. Feedlots and the livestock sector; f. U.S. grain and livestock producers; and g. U.S. consumers? 2. What are the potential impacts_positive or negative_of imports and the alternative end-use certificate systems on U.S. Government programs and outlays? 3. What are the potential impacts on others, if any, not listed above? Signed at Washington, DC on April 7, 1994. Bruce R. Weber, Acting Administrator, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8801 Filed 4&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;05&hyph;P
