FR940713-1-00012 FR940713-1-00001 FSIS recognizes that the technologies now available for reducing bacterial contamination on raw poultry carcasses are limited. There are currently no approved antimicrobial agents for use pre-chill listed in the poultry inspection regulations, although several compounds appear promising. Described below are a few alternative treatment methods available to the poultry industry for use or further development. Trisodium phosphate is approved by FDA for use as a processing aid on raw poultry. It is listed in the FDA regulations as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) for multiple purpose use in accordance with good manufacturing practice (21 CFR 182.1778). FSIS has granted approval for testing of trisodium phosphate at pre-chill and post-chill locations and has begun rulemaking procedures to include this compound and its use conditions in the table of substances in 9 CFR 381.147(f)(4). Trisodium phosphate has been shown to reduce microbial contamination on poultry carcasses when applied by spraying or dipping carcasses for up to 30 seconds in an 8- to 12-percent solution. Industry studies show a one to one and one-half logarithm reduction in the number of Salmonella and other bacteria on carcass surfaces when carcasses are dipped in or sprayed with trisodium phosphate. 7 7 Study conducted by the Rhone-Poulenc Company. The study is available for review at the Hearing Clerk's Office. Several organic acid compounds, including lactic acid and acetic acid, have antimicrobial effects and are listed in the FDA regulations as GRAS. Although listed in 21 CFR, conditions-of-use have not been established for use of these compounds on poultry products. Researchers have obtained varying degrees of microbial reductions when treating carcasses with organic acid compounds. Early studies indicated changes in carcass skin color when carcasses were treated with organic acid compounds. More recent studies provide data supporting the effectiveness of organic acid compounds at concentrations that do not compromise the sensory properties of the meat. 8 8 ``Natural Lactic acid: a natural solution.'' J. Bacus. 1987. The National Provisioner. June 13, 1987. Pages 19&hyph;21. This document is available for review in the FSIS Hearing Clerk's office. The washing of carcasses with chlorinated water to reduce the numbers of spoilage and pathogenic bacteria on carcasses is a longtime practice in the poultry industry. As early as 1951, researchers noted the effectiveness of in-plant chlorination in lowering bacteria counts on product, increasing shelf life, reducing odors in the establishment, and reducing slime on equipment. 9 Chlorine is used now in most poultry establishments, primarily in chill water, to prevent bacterial cross-contamination and as an effective sanitizing agent on facilities and equipment usually at levels of 20 to 50 parts per million available chlorine. 10 A 1992 FSIS study showed significant microbial reductions on raw chicken carcasses and giblets immersed in chlorinated chill water. 11 9 ``In-Plant Chlorination Does a 3-Way Job.'' H. Gorseline. 1951. U.S. Egg and Poultry Magazine. April. Pages 12, 13, 29&hyph;31. This document is available for review in the Hearing Clerk's office. 10 ``List of Proprietary Substances and Nonfood Compounds,'' USDA, FSIS, Miscellaneous Publication No. 1419, January 1, 1994. Page II&hyph;vi. This document is available for review in the FSIS Hearing Clerk's office. 11 ``Effects of chlorination of chill water on the bacteriologic profile of raw chicken carcasses and giblets.'' 1992. W. James et al. Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association. Vol. 200, No. 1, pages 60&hyph;63. Manufacturers of chlorine dioxide have petitioned FDA to permit the use of this compound to disinfect waters contacting fresh meat, fresh poultry, processed meat, and processed poultry. 12 Studies have shown that chlorine dioxide used at lower concentrations is as effective as chlorine in reducing bacterial levels on poultry.'' 13 12 ``Rio Linda Chemical Co., Inc.; Filing of Food Additive Petition.'' Notice was published in the Federal Register, Vol. 59, No. 22, by FDA on February 2, 1994. A copy is available for review in the FSIS Hearing Clerk's office. 13 ``Effect on Broiler Carcasses and Water of Treating Chiller Water with Chlorine or Chlorine Dioxide.'' H.S. Lillard. 1980. Poultry Science, Vol. 59, pagess 1761&hyph;1766. A copy is available for review in the FSIS Hearing Clerk's office.
