FR940324-1-00006 FR940324-1-00003 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;234&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Saab Model SF340A and SAAB 340B Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Saab Model SF340A and SAAB 340B series airplanes. This proposal would require inspections to detect discrepancies of certain main landing gear (MLG) retract actuator bracket retaining bolts; replacement of discrepant parts; installation of washers, if necessary; and eventual replacement of certain MLG retract actuator bracket retaining bolts and certain nose landing gear (NLG) trunnion pin cross bolts. This proposal is prompted by reports of extension and retraction problems on the MLG, due to loose retract actuator brackets on the MLG shock struts. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent a loose retract actuator bracket from interfering with the MLG shock strut trunnion support, which could result in the inability of the MLG to extend or retract. DATES: Comments must be received by May 17, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;234&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Saab Aircraft AB, Product Support, S581.88, Linkö-ping, Sweden. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Quam, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2145; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 93&hyph;NM&hyph;234&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;234&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion The Luftfartsverket, which is the airworthiness authority for Sweden, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain Saab Model SF340A and SAAB 340B series airplanes. The Luftfartsverket advises that several operators have reported extension and retraction problems on the main landing gear (MLG) due to loose retract actuator brackets on the MLG shock struts. These difficulties were caused by the shearing at the head of one of the two bracket retaining bolts. Laboratory investigations have revealed that the fracture of the retaining bolt has been attributed to fatigue or hydrogen embrittlement (corrosion). There have also been some cases where the retaining bolt for the bonding strap had not been installed with a proper amount of washers. This can reduce pre-tension of the bolt and allow the bracket to move and apply excessive load on the retaining bolts, and can lead to fatigue fracture of the retract actuator bracket retaining bolt. A loose retract actuator bracket, if not detected and corrected in a timely manner, could interfere with the MLG shock strut trunnion support, and subsequently result in the inability of the MLG to extend or retract. Saab has issued Service Bulletin 340&hyph;32&hyph;094, dated October 29, 1993, that describes procedures for a one-time visual inspection to detect corrosion, cracking, or damage of certain MLG retract actuator bracket retaining bolts and to determine if the nut is bottoming the threads of certain other bolts; replacement of any corroded, cracked, or damaged bolt; and the installation of washers, if any nut is found bottoming the threads. The service bulletin also describes procedures for a one-time visual and magnaflux inspection during MLG overhaul to detect any scored, cracked, or out-of-tolerance condition of certain MLG retract actuator bracket retainer bolts; replacement of any discrepant bolt; and eventual replacement of certain MLG retract actuator bracket retaining bolts and certain nose landing gear (NLG) trunnion pin cross bolts. The Luftfartsverket classified this service bulletin as mandatory and issued Swedish Airworthiness Directive (SAD) No. 1&hyph;061, dated November 15, 1993, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Sweden. This airplane model is manufactured in Sweden and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of §21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, the Luftfartsverket has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of the Luftfartsverket, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, the proposed AD would require a one-time visual inspection to detect corrosion, cracking, or damage of certain MLG retract actuator bracket retaining bolts and to determine if the nut is bottoming the threads of certain other bolts; replacement of any discrepant bolt; and the installation of washers, if any nut is found bottoming the threads. The proposed AD would also require a one-time visual and magnaflux inspection during MLG overhaul to detect any scored, cracked, or out-of-tolerance condition of certain MLG retract actuator bracket retainer bolts; replacement of any discrepant bolt; and eventual replacement of certain MLG retract actuator bracket retaining bolts and certain NLG trunnion pin cross bolts. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously.
