FR940817-1-00052 FR940817-1-00013 (a) After 30 days after the date the applicant failed the test; or (b) Before the 30 days have expired if the applicant presents a signed statement from an airman holding the certificate and rating sought by the applicant, certifying that the airman has given the applicant additional instruction in each of the subjects failed and that the airman considers the applicant ready for retesting. §66.20 Applications, certificates, logbooks, reports, and records: Falsification, reproduction, or alteration. (a) No person may make or cause to be made: (1) Any fraudulent or intentionally false statement on any application for a certificate or rating under this part; (2) Any fraudulent or intentionally false entry in any logbook, record, or report that is required to be kept, made, or used, to show compliance with any requirement for any certificate or rating under this part; (3) Any reproduction, for fraudulent purposes, of any certificate or rating under this part; or (4) Any alteration of any certificate or rating under this part. (b) The commission by any person of an act prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section is a basis for suspending or revoking any airman certificate or rating held by that person. §66.21 Change of address. Within 30 days after any change of permanent mailing address, the holder of a certificate issued under this part shall notify the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Airman Certification Branch, Post Office Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125, in writing, of the new address. §66.23 Refusal to submit to a drug test. (a) This section applies to: (1) An employee who performs a function listed in Appendix I to part 121 of this chapter for a part 121 certificate holder or a part 135 certificate holder; (2) An employee who performs a function listed in Appendix I to part 121 of this chapter for an operator as defined in §135.1(c) of this chapter. An employee of a person conducting operations of foreign civil aircraft navigated within the United States pursuant to part 375 or emergency mail service operations pursuant to section 405(h) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 is excluded from the requirements of this section. (b) Refusal by the holder of a certificate issued under this part to take a test for a drug specified in Appendix I to part 121 of this chapter, when requested by an employer as defined in that appendix or an operator as defined in §135.1(c) of this chapter, under the circumstances specified in that appendix is grounds for: (1) Denial of an application for any certificate or rating issued under this part for a period of up to 1 year after the date of that refusal; and (2) Suspension or revocation of any certificate or rating issued under this part. Subpart B_Aviation Maintenance Technicians §66.71 Eligibility requirements: General. (a) To be eligible for an aviation maintenance technician certificate and associated ratings, a person must: (1) Be at least 18 years of age; (2) Demonstrate the ability to read, write, speak, and understand the English language by reading and explaining appropriate maintenance publications and by writing defect and repair statements; (3) Have passed all of the prescribed tests within a period of 24 months; and (4) Comply with the sections of this subpart that apply to the rating the applicant seeks. (b) A certificated aviation maintenance technician who applies for an additional rating must meet the requirements of §66.77 and, within a period of 24 months, pass the tests prescribed by §§66.75 and 66.79 for the additional rating sought. §66.73 Ratings. (a) The following ratings are issued under this subpart: (1) Airframe. (2) Powerplant. (b) A mechanic certificate with an aircraft or aircraft engine rating or both, or with an airframe or powerplant rating or both, that was issued before, and was valid on, [effective date of final rule], is equal to an aviation maintenance technician certificate with an airframe or powerplant rating, or both, as the case may be, and may be exchanged for such a corresponding certificate and rating or ratings. §66.75 Knowledge requirements. (a) Each applicant for an aviation maintenance technician certificate or rating must, after meeting the applicable requirements of §66.77, pass a written test covering the construction and maintenance of aircraft appropriate to the rating sought, the regulations in this subpart, and the applicable provisions of this chapter. The basic principles covering the installation and maintenance of propellers are included in the powerplant test. (b) The applicant must pass all sections of the written test before applying for the oral and practical tests prescribed by §66.79. A report of the written test will be made available to the applicant. §66.77 Experience requirements. Each applicant for an aviation maintenance technician certificate or rating must present either an appropriate graduation certificate or a certificate of completion from a certificated aviation maintenance technician school or documentary evidence, acceptable to the Administrator, of_ (a) At least 3,000 hours of practical experience with the procedures, practices, materials, tools, machine tools, and equipment generally used in constructing, maintaining, or altering airframes, or powerplants appropriate to the rating sought; or
