FR940202-2-00110 FR940202-2-00071 In hospitals where the heated-water system has been identified as the source of the organism, the system has been decontaminated by pulse (one-time) thermal disinfection or superheating (i.e., flushing for at least 5 minutes each distal outlet of the hot-water system with water at "65 ○C) and hyperchlorination (flushing all outlets of the hot-water system with water containing "10 mg/L free residual chlorine). 403,408&hyph;410 Following either of these procedures, most hospitals maintain heated-water at "50 ○C or <20 ○C at the tap or chlorinate heated water to achieve 1&hyph;2 mg/L free residual chlorine at the tap. 338,383,393,400&hyph;403 Additional measures, such as physical cleaning or replacement of hot-water storage tanks, water-heaters, faucets, and showerheads, may be required because scale and sediment that provide organisms protection from the biocidal effects of heat and chlorine, may accumulate in them. 346,403 Alternative methods for control and eradication of legionellae in water systems, such as treatment of water with ozone, ultraviolet light, or heavy metal ions, have limited the growth of legionellae under laboratory, 344,411,412 or, in the case of ultraviolet light, operating conditions. 413 However, further data are needed regarding the efficacy of these methods when used in hospital water systems 414 before they can be considered standard. In hospitals where the cooling towers are contaminated, measures for decontamination have been previously published. 415 For highly immunocompromised patients, other preventive measures have been used. At one hospital, immunosuppressed patients were restricted from taking showers, and, for these patients, only sterile water was used for drinking or flushing nasogastric tubes; 384 In another hospital, a combined approach, consisting of continuous heating, particulate filtration, ultraviolet treatment, and monthly pulse hyperchlorination of the water supply of the bone-marrow transplant unit, was used to decrease the incidence of Legionnaires' disease. 413 In view of the high cost of an environmental investigation and of instituting control measures to eradicate Legionella spp. from sources in the hospital 416,417 and the differential risk, based on host factors, for acquiring nosocomial legionellosis and of having severe and fatal infection with the microorganism, the decision to search for and the choice of procedures to eradicate hospital environmental sources of Legionella spp. should take into account the type of patient population served by the hospital. ASPERGILLOSIS I. Epidemiology Aspergillus spp. are ubiquitous fungi, commonly occurring in soil, water, and decaying vegetation. Aspergillus spp. have been cultured from unfiltered air, ventilation systems, contaminated dust dislodged during hospital renovation and construction, horizontal surfaces, food, and ornamental plants. 418 A. fumigatus and A. flavus are the most frequently isolated Aspergillus spp. in patients with proven aspergillosis. 419 Nosocomial aspergillosis has been recognized increasingly as a cause of severe illness and mortality in highly immunocompromised patients, e.g., patients undergoing chemotherapy and/or organ transplantation, including bone-marrow transplantation for hematologic and other malignant neoplasms. 420&hyph;423 The most important nosocomial infection due to Aspergillus spp. is pneumonia. 424 Hospital outbreaks of pulmonary aspergillosis have occurred mainly in granulocytopenic patients, especially in bone-marrow transplant units. 424&hyph;430 Although invasive aspergillosis has been reported in recipients of solid-organ transplants (e.g., heart or kidney), 431&hyph;435 the incidence of Aspergillus spp. infections in these patients has been lower than in recipients of bone-marrow transplants, probably because of the recent decrease in the use of corticosteroids and the introduction of cyclosporine. 433,436 In solid-organ transplant recipients, the efficacy of infection control measures, such as provision of protected environments and prophylaxis with antifungal agents, in preventing aspergillosis has not been well evaluated. 433,434,437&hyph;439 In one study of heart-transplant recipients, protective isolation of patients alone failed to prevent fungal infections. 440 The reported attributable mortality from invasive pulmonary aspergillosis has varied, depending on the patient population studied. Rates have been as high as 95% in recipients of allogeneic bone-marrow transplants and patients with aplastic anemia, compared with rates of 13&hyph;80% in leukemic patients. 441&hyph;443 II. Pathogenesis In contrast to most bacterial pneumonias, the primary route of acquiring Aspergillus sp. infection is by inhalation of the fungal spores. In severely immunocompromised patients, primary Aspergillus spp. pneumonia results from local lung tissue invasion. 419,444,445 Subsequently, the fungus may disseminate via the bloodstream to involve multiple other deep organs. 419,445,446 A role for nasopharyngeal colonization with Aspergillus spp., as an intermediate step before invasive pulmonary disease, has been proposed, but remains to be elucidated. 438,447,448 On the other hand, colonization of the lower respiratory tract by Aspergillus spp., especially in patients with preexisting lung disease such as chronic obstructive lung disease, cystic fibrosis, or inactive tuberculosis, has predisposed patients to invasive pulmonary and/or disseminated infection. 419,445,449
