FR940426-1-00146 FR940426-1-00018 (4) Failure to correct deficiencies brought to the recipient's attention in writing as a result of monitoring activities, reviews, assessments, etc. (5) Failure to submit correct grant closeout documents within 90 days after expiration of the grant, unless an extension has been requested and granted. (6) Failure to return outstanding cash advances within 90 days of the expiration date of the grant, unless an extension has been requested and granted, or the funds have been authorized to be retained for use on other grants. (7) Failure to submit correct required reports by established due dates. (8) Failure to properly report and dispose of government property as instructed by DOL. (9) Failure to have maintained cost controls resulting in excess cash on hand. (10) Failure to timely comply with the audit requirements of 29 CFR part 96. (11) Final disallowed costs in excess of five percent of the grant award. §641.206 Grant application review. (a) The Department shall review each grant application submitted timely by an eligible organization. (b) In reviewing and considering an application, the Department shall determine the following: (1) The availability of funds for the proposed grant; (2) The preparation of the application in accordance with the Department's instructions; (3) The compliance of the application with the requirements of the Act and this part; (4) The evaluation of the application as to whether it offers the best prospect of serving appropriate geographic areas; and (c) Whether the application demonstrates the effective use of funds. §641.207 Negotiation. (a) The Department may negotiate with an eligible organization to arrive at a grant agreement if the application generally meets requirements set forth in this part. (b) The subjects of negotiation may include, but are not limited to the following: (1) Project components, including planned occupational categories of SCSEP employment assignments and geographic locations of authorized positions; (2) Subproject(s), if any; (3) Funding level, including all budget line items; and (4) Performance goals. §641.208 Rejection of grant application or project components. (a) The Department may reject any proposed project component if it is determined that the component will not serve the purposes of the Act; or the Department may, if negotiation does not produce a mutually acceptable conclusion, reject a grant application. (b) If the Department rejects an application, as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the Department may solicit applications from other eligible organizations in order to arrive at a grant agreement. (c) When an application is not approved, the Department shall notify the applicant within a reasonable time in writing and state the reason(s) for rejection. (d) Rejection of a proposal or application is a final Departmental action which is not subject to further administrative review. Rejection will not affect future consideration of the applicant for other projects as long as the organization meets the eligibility criteria. §641.209 Award of funds. When the applicant is a unit of State government or a public or private non-profit organization, the award of funds to a recipient shall be accomplished through the execution of a grant agreement prepared by the Department. When the applicant is a unit of the Federal Government, other than the Department, the award of funds shall be accomplished through an interagency agreement. Subpart C_Grant Operations §641.301 General. (a) This subpart establishes basic grant operation standards and procedures to be followed by all organizations receiving title V funds for the purpose of operating SCSEP grant agreements and projects. (b) The primary purposes of an SCSEP project are to provide useful part-time community service employment assignments for persons with low incomes who are 55 years old or older and to provide useful community services while promoting transition to unsubsidized employment. Recipients and subrecipients shall develop work assignments for eligible individuals which will result in the provision of community services as defined in sections 502(b) and 507(2) of the Act. §641.302 Recipient responsibilities. The recipient shall provide to eligible individuals: wages, skill acquisition or skill enhancement opportunities, periodic physical examinations, personal and employment-related counseling, assistance in transition to unsubsidized employment where feasible, and other benefits as approved by the Department. (a) Recipients are responsible for: (1) Following and enforcing the requirements set forth in the Act and this part;
