FR940118-2-00122 FR940118-2-00075 Tuesday January 18, 1994 Part II Environmental Protection Agency Sediment Quality Criteria; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 11␣/␣Tuesday, January 18, 1994␣/␣Notices ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [OW&hyph;FRL&hyph;4827&hyph;2] Sediment Quality Criteria AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of Availability and Request for Comment on Sediment Quality Criteria and Support Documents. SUMMARY: Pursuant to section 304(a)(1) of the Clean Water Act, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has developed, and is requesting public comments on, documents presenting proposed Sediment Quality Criteria for the Protection of Benthic Organisms for five priority pollutant (section 307(a)) chemicals, guidelines for deriving these criteria on a site-specific basis, and the technical basis for deriving the criteria. The criteria documents present data and criteria for acenaphthene, dieldrin, endrin, fluoranthene and phenanthrene, which were selected for their known toxicity, hydrophobicity, and persistence. EPA intends to publish each of the documents in final form after considering public comments, while the general regulatory role Sediment Quality Criteria play will be outlined in the Contaminated Sediment Management Strategy (CSMS) which will be available for public comment in the near future. The Agency is specifically soliciting comments on the scientific soundness of the criteria development methodology and the criteria themselves as opposed to their application. Comments received in response to this notice on the intended uses and implementation of the criteria will be taken into account in preparing the proposed CSMS and other guidance materials. An exception to this is the potential for the Sediment Quality Criteria to be used as Applicable and Relevant or Appropriate Requirements (ARARs) under CERCLA. The EPA particularly welcomes comment and discussion on the applicability and appropriateness of using the criteria as ARARs. DATES: Written comments must be postmarked or submitted by hand on or before April 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed or delivered to: Sediment Quality Clerk, Water Docket MC&hyph;4101, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., room L102 Washington, DC 20460. Commenters are requested to submit any references cited in their comments. Commenters are also requested to submit an original and 3 copies of their written comments and enclosures. Commenters who want receipt of their comments acknowledged should include a self-addressed, stamped envelope. No facsimiles (faxes) will be accepted. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary C. Reiley, Sediment Quality Criteria Program, Office of Science and Technology, Mail Code 4304, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460, phone: 202&hyph;260&hyph;0658. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Availability of Documents This notice announces the availability for public review and comment of draft documents proposing sediment quality criteria for the protection of benthic organisms for five priority pollutant chemicals, the methodology used to derive the criteria, and guidelines for modifying the criteria on a site-specific basis. The seven documents for which public comment is requested are:
