FR941003-2-00177 FR941003-2-00063 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20573; No. 812&hyph;9112] Great-West Life & Annuity Insurance Company, et al. September 26, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for an Order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: Great-West Life & Annuity Insurance Company (``Great-West Life''), Maxim Series Account (``Separate Account''), and The Great West Life Assurance Company (``Great West Assurance''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act granting exemptions from the provisions of Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order permitting the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of: (a) The Separate Account in connection with the offer and sale of certain flexible premium payment variable annuity contracts (``Contracts''); (b) the Separate Account in connection with the issuance of variable annuity contracts that are substantially similar in all material respects to the Contracts (``Future Contracts''); and (c) any other separate account established in the future by Great-West Life in connection with the issuance of Future Contracts. FILING DATE: The application was filed on July 15, 1994, and amended and restated on September 20, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF Hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request at hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on October 21, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, c/o Beverly A. Byrne, Esq., The Great-West Life Assurance Company, 8515 East Orchard Road, Englewood, Colorado 80111. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Yvonne Hunold, Senior Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products (Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application; the complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representatives; 1. Great-West Life is a stock file insurance company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Great-West Assurance. Great-West Assurance is a subsidiary of Great-West Lifeco, Inc. (``Great-West Lifeco''), an insurance holding company and a subsidiary of Power Financial Corporation of Canada, a financial services company. Great-West Life is principally engaged in offering insurance and annuity contracts, and is admitted to do business in the District of Columbia and in all states, except New York. 2. The Separate Account is a separate investment account established by Great-West Life for the purpose of investing purchase payments received under the Contracts. The Separate Account is registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust and the Contracts are registered as securities under the Securities Act of 1933. The Separate Account currently has nine investment divisions (``Divisions''). Seven Divisions invest solely in corresponding portfolios of the Maxim Series Fund Inc. (``Maxim Fund''), and two Divisions invest solely in corresponding Portfolios of TCI Portfolios Inc. (``TCI Fund'') (collective, ``Funds''). Each Division is subdivided into six subaccounts (``Subaccounts''), two of which are used for allocations under the Contracts. The remaining four Subaccounts are used for allocations under other variable annuity contracts previously offer by Great-West life. Additional Divisions may be established in the future to invest in other portfolios of Maxim Fund or TCI Fund, or in other investments. Great-West Life may, in the future, issue through the Separate Account, and through other separate accounts that it may establish in the future, other variable annuity contracts that are substantially similar in all material respects to the Contracts (collectively, ``Future Contracts''). 3. Maxim Fund and TCI Fund are registered open-end, diversified investment companies under the 1940 Act, each consisting of one or more investment series or portfolios (collectively, ``Portfolios'') with different investment objectives and policies. Great-West Life purchases and redeems Portfolio shares for the corresponding Divisions at net asset value. Shares of the Funds also are offered to other affiliated or unaffiliated separate accounts of insurance companies offering variable annuity or variable life insurance contracts. 4. Great-West Assurance will serve as the principal underwriter of the Contracts. Great-West Assurance is a subsidiary of Great-West Lifeco and is an affiliate of Great-West Life. Great-West Assurance is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a broker-dealer and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
