FR940505-1-00305 FR940505-1-00012 (C) If the organic material or solvent is in a mixture made up of only organic material compounds, the vapor pressure shall be determined by ASTM Method D2879&hyph;86 (incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section) or by the above equation. (xi) Vapor Pressure of Volatile Organic Compounds. (A) If the VOC consists of only a single compound, the vapor pressure shall be determined by ASTM Method D2879&hyph;86 (incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section) or the vapor pressure may be obtained from a published source such as: Boublik, T., V. Fried and E. Hala, ``The Vapor Pressure of Pure Substances,'' Elsevier Scientific Publishing Co., New York (1973), Perry's Chemical Engineer's Handbook, McGraw-Hill Book Company (1984), CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, Chemical Rubber Publishing Company (1986&hyph;87), and Lange's Handbook of Chemistry, John A. Dean, editor, McGraw-Hill Book Company (1985). (B) If the VOC is in a mixture made up of both VOC compounds and compounds which are not VOC, the vapor pressure shall be determined by the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05my94.062 where: P voc = Total vapor pressure of the portion of the mixture which is composed of VOC, n = Number of VOC components in the mixture, i = Subscript denoting an individual component, P i = Vapor pressure of a VOC component determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(xi)(A) of this section, and X i = Mole fraction of the VOC component of the total mixture. (C) If the VOC is in a mixture made up of only VOC compounds, the vapor pressure shall be determined by ASTM Method D2879&hyph;86 (incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section) or by the above equation. (xii) Baseline Emissions. Unless otherwise specified in paragraph (b) of this section, baseline VOC emissions shall be calculated for each emissions source in accordance with one of the procedures specified below: (A) If daily emissions records which are consistent with the emission inventory data submitted by the State for the control area on November 15, 1992 are available for the calendar years 1989 and 1990, baseline emissions shall be based on the median value of daily emissions recorded for the two-year period. (B) If daily emissions records are not available for the calendar years 1989 and 1990 or are inconsistent with the emission inventory data submitted by the State for the control area on November 15, 1992 or were not submitted, baseline emissions shall be based on the average daily emissions value calculated for the two-year period. The average daily emissions value shall be calculated by dividing emissions for the two-year period by the operating or usage time for the two-year period. If solvent or coating usage data are not available, emissions associated with solvent or coating usage may be estimated from purchase-order records. The operating or usage time for the two-year period shall be based on one of the criteria specified as follows: ( 1 ) The number of days specified in a federally enforceable permit if the emissions source operated under the conditions of a federally enforceable permit which restricted operating times during the two-year period, ( 2 ) The average number of days that the emissions source was operated or used over the two-year period if documentation is available to support the number, or ( 3 ) 730 days if documentation of the number of days that the emissions source was operated or used over the two-year period is not available. (xiii) Implementation Year Monthly Baseline Emissions. Baseline emissions as defined in paragraph (a)(4)(xii) of this section shall be adjusted prior to the implementation year (2001) of the FIP cap program in the control area as follows: (A) The reductions that are projected to occur as a result of both SIP and FIP measures between 1990 and 2001 shall be subtracted from the baseline emissions. This value shall be defined as the reduced daily baseline emissions and is denoted in pounds of VOC/day.
