FR940324-2-00087 FR940324-2-00044 CSAP recommends that vigorous recruitment and innovative strategies for retaining participants be an integral part of the proposed project. Applicants are requested to discuss how they will accomplish this in their applications. Youth at high risk for AOD use may also be at risk for HIV/AIDS. As appropriate and feasible, applicants are urged to consider this ancillary problem of substance use in designing their interventions. Award Criterion: Consistent with HHS policy, in addition to the award criteria listed in part IV of this Federal Register Notice, CSAP will give consideration to applications from Historically Black Colleges and Universities in making funding decisions under this priority area. Contact for Additional Information: Rose C. Kittrell, M.S.W., Division of Demonstrations for High Risk Populations, Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, Rockwall II, room 9B&hyph;03, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, (301) 443&hyph;0353. Module D: Replications of Model Programs for the Prevention of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Other Drug Use Among High Risk Youth (Cooperative Agreements) Introduction: CSAP announces the availability of Cooperative Agreement Awards to support projects that demonstrate and evaluate strategies to replicate one of twelve identified models of High Risk Youth Substance Abuse Prevention. Utilizing Cooperative Agreement Awards to support replication projects will ensure coordination of a national effort to increase knowledge about the mechanics of demonstration project replication. Through extensive technical assistance and consultation, this mechanism will facilitate efforts to standardize and integrate information forwarded to, and derived from ongoing program efforts. Definition of Replication: All projects identified in this Announcement as ready for replication (referred to as ``replicant'' projects) are CSAP funded High Risk Youth projects that have demonstrated promising strategies in altering the behaviors and attitudes toward and preventing and/or reducing the use of alcohol and other drugs (AOD) among youth at high risk for such behaviors. The identified replicant projects are a representative sample of the most promising projects that were chosen based on specific criteria. Criteria for choosing these projects is described in this module under ``Recommended Approach.'' This replication effort is a pilot project to determine whether, and to what extent, the identified promising models may be: Part A. Replicated by entities other than the original developers of the demonstration; or Part B. Replicated by the original developers of the demonstration. Although CSAP has stressed the importance of demonstrating project replicability, until now it has not provided funding specifically for a replication initiative. This replication is a pilot project and, as such, is limited by the scope and range of identified projects. Subject to the results of this effort, CSAP expects that future replication initiatives may be more inclusive with respect to expanding the identified replicant population as well as with other aspects, such as introducing a wider range of variables that may be incorporated into the replication. CSAP recognizes the difficulty inherent in reproducing an existing project regardless of who developed it and would prefer to define replication in a broad enough sense to give applicants some flexibility in their approach to this effort. For purposes of this announcement, replicability may be defined as reproducing original projects as closely as possible in all aspects, or as reproducing an identified project and adapting it in some respects to meet particular needs of an applicant. For example, the applicant might wish to determine if an urban-developed project could, with appropriate alterations in interventions, be successfully reproduced in a suburban or rural area. In making the choice to alter a project for replication purposes, the applicant should carefully examine the circumstances, resources, evaluation, etc., of the chosen project, and be able to present a logical case for linking the final choice of the project being replicated to expected outcomes.
