FR940722-0-00152 FR940722-0-00019 §24.828 Dismissal and return of applications. (a) Except as provided under §24.829, any application may be dismissed without prejudice as a matter of right if the applicant requests its dismissal prior to designation for hearing or, in the case of applications filed on Forms 175 and 175&hyph;S, prior to auction. An applicant's request for the return of his application after it has been accepted for filing will be considered to be a request for dismissal without prejudice. Applicants requesting dismissal of their applications may be subject to penalties contained in §1.2104 of this Chapter. Requests for dismissal shall comply with the provisions of §24.829 as appropriate. (b) A request to dismiss an application without prejudice will be considered after designation for hearing only if: (1) A written petition is submitted to the Commission and is properly served upon all parties of record, and (2) The petition complies with the provisions of §24.829 (whenever applicable) and demonstrates good cause. (c) The Commission will dismiss an application for failure to prosecute or for failure to respond substantially within a specified time period to official correspondence or requests for additional information. Dismissal shall be without prejudice if made prior to designation for hearing or prior to auction, but dismissal may be made with prejudice for unsatisfactory compliance with §24.829 or after designation for hearing or after the applicant is notified that it is the winning bidder under the auction process. §24.829 Ownership changes and agreements to amend or to dismiss applications or pleadings. (a) Applicability. Subject to the provisions of §1.2105 of this Chapter (Bidding Application and Certification Procedures; Prohibition of Collusion), this section applies to applicants and all other parties interested in pending applications who wish to resolve contested matters among themselves with a formal or an informal agreement or understanding. This section applies only when the agreement or understanding will result in: (1) A major change in the ownership of an applicant to which §§24.823(c) and 24.823(g) apply or which would cause the applicant to lose its status as a designated entity under §24.709, or (2) The individual or mutual withdrawal, amendment or dismissal of any pending application amendment, petition or other pleading. (b) Policy. Parties to contested proceedings are encouraged to settle their disputes among themselves. Parties that, under a settlement agreement, apply to the Commission for ownership changes or for the amendment or dismissal of either pleadings or applications shall at the time of filing notify the Commission that such filing is the result of an agreement or understanding. (c) The provisions of §22.927 of the Commission's Rules will apply in the event of the filing of petitions to deny or other pleadings or informal objections filed against broadband PCS applications. The provisions of §22.928 of the Commission's Rules will apply in the event of dismissal of broadband PCS applications. The provisions of §22.929 of the Commission's Rules will apply in the event of threats to file petitions to deny or other pleadings or informal objections against broadband PCS applications. §24.830 Opposition to applications. (a) Petitions to deny (including petitions for other forms of relief) and responsive pleadings for Commission consideration must comply with §1.2108 of this Chapter and must: (1) Identify the application or applications (including applicant's name, station location, Commission file numbers and radio service involved) with which it is concerned; (2) Be filed in accordance with the pleading limitations, filing periods, and other applicable provisions of §§1.41 through 1.52 of this Chapter except where otherwise provided in §1.2108 of this Chapter; (3) Contain specific allegations of fact which, except for facts of which official notice may be taken, shall be supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof, and which shall be sufficient to demonstrate that the petitioner (or respondent) is a party in interest and that a grant of, or other Commission action regarding, the application would be prima facie inconsistent with the public interest; (4) Be filed within thirty (30) days after the date of public notice announcing the acceptance for filing of any such application or major amendment thereto (unless the Commission otherwise extends the filing deadline); and (5) Contain a certificate of service showing that it has been mailed to the applicant no later than the date of filing thereof with the Commission. (b) A petition to deny a major amendment to a previously-filed application may only raise matters directly related to the amendment which could not have been raised in connection with the underlying previously-filed application. This subsection does not apply, however, to petitioners who gain standing because of the major amendment. §24.831 Mutually exclusive applications. (a) The Commission will consider applications for broadband PCS licenses to be mutually exclusive if they relate to the same geographical boundaries (MTA or BTA) and are timely filed for the same frequency block. (b) Mutually exclusive applications filed on Form 175 for the initial provision of broadband PCS are subject to competitive bidding in accordance with the procedures in Subpart H of this part and in Part 1, Subpart Q of this Chapter. (c) An application will be entitled to comparative consideration with one or more conflicting applications only if the Commission determines that such comparative consideration will serve the public interest. (d)&hyph;(j) [Reserved]
