FR941107-2-00012 FR941107-2-00005 From July to October 1994, the Department received responses to sections A and D from Concern Chlorvinyl, which indicated that it had made no sales of the subject merchandise directly to the United States during the POI. Zaporozhye responded to section A but did not reply to subsequent deficiency letters. During September and October 1994, the Department also requested clarifications of the information submitted by Concern Chlorvinyl, Gerald Metals, MG Metals, and Alusuisse-Lonza. Alusuisse-Lonza did not respond to the supplemental request. Because of the deadlines established for responses to these supplemental requests, certain information submitted by Gerald Metals and MG Metals was not considered for this preliminary determination. Postponement of Final Determination Pursuant to section 735(a)(2)(A) of the Act, on October 24, 1994, Gerald Metals, a reseller accounting for a significant proportion of the merchandise in this proceeding, requested that, in the event of an affirmative preliminary determination in this investigation, the Department postpone the final determination to 135 days after the date of publication of the affirmative preliminary determination in the Federal Register . Concern Chlorvinyl, a producer accounting for a significant proportion of merchandise in this proceeding, made a similar request on October 26, 1994. Therefore, we are postponing the final determination until the 135th day after the publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Scope of Investigation The product covered by this investigation is pure primary magnesium, regardless of chemistry, form or size, unless expressly excluded from the scope of this investigation. Primary magnesium is a metal or alloy containing by weight primarily the element magnesium and produced by decomposing raw materials into magnesium metal. Pure primary magnesium encompasses all products that contain at least 99.95% primary magnesium, by weight (generally referred to as ``ultra-pure'' magnesium), as well as products containing less than 99.95% but not less than 99.8% primary magnesium, by weight (generally referred to as ``pure'' magnesium). Products that have the aforementioned primary magnesium content, but that do not conform to ASTM specifications or other industry or customer-specific specifications, are included in the scope of this investigation. Pure primary magnesium is cast and sold in various physical forms and sizes, including ingots, slabs, rounds, billets and other shapes. Excluded from the scope of this investigation are primary magnesium anodes, granular primary magnesium (including turnings and powder), and secondary magnesium. Granular magnesium, turnings, and powder are currently classifiable under Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheading 8104.30.00. Magnesium granules and turnings (also referred to as chips) are produced by grinding and/or crushing primary magnesium and thus have the same chemistry as primary magnesium. Although not susceptible to precise measurement because of their irregular shapes, turnings or chips are typically produced in coarse shapes and have maximum length of less than 1 inch. Although sometimes produced in larger sizes, granules are more regularly shaped than turnings or chips, and have a typical size of 2 mm in diameter or smaller. Powders are also produced from grinding and/or crushing primary magnesium and have the same chemistry as primary magnesium, but are even smaller than granules or turnings. Powders are defined by the Section Notes to Section XV, the section of the HTSUS in which subheading 8104.30.00 appears, as products of which 90 percent or more by weight will pass through a sieve having a mesh aperture of 1 mm. (See HTSUS, Section XV, Base Metals and Articles of Base Metals, Note 6(b).) Accordingly, the exclusion of magnesium turnings, granules and powder from the scope includes products having a maximum physical dimension ( i.e., length or diameter) of 1 inch or less.
