FR941205-2-00162 FR941205-2-00074 Comments: Two commenters expressed concern that the priority will discourage academic and certificate training, and one commenter suggested that academic-type training be included under the priority. Discussion: The focus of this priority is on the provision of ongoing post-employment training in community rehabilitation programs. The Secretary believes that the training proposed is appropriate to meet these needs. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters recommended that the priority emphasize human resource development principles. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the provision of quality post-employment training that will maintain or upgrade the skills of persons engaged in community rehabilitation programs is career enhancing and reflective of human resource development principles. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters suggested that programs funded under this priority provide technical assistance and demonstrate institutional collaboration. Discussion: These activities may be carried out by projects funded under this priority. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter expressed concern that the priority will not provide training opportunities for professional persons, such as vocational evaluators and work adjustment personnel, who are employed by community rehabilitation programs. Discussion: The Secretary notes that the priority addresses the need for ongoing post-employment training for all personnel employed by community rehabilitation programs. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter suggested that the priority be more responsive to individuals with disabilities by requiring the projects funded under this priority to promote cooperation with local partnerships funded by the School-to-Work Opportunities Act and with employment centers, and to include training in the evaluation of occupational and skill attainment. Discussion: The Secretary believes that these activities are encouraged under the priority as projects are required to coordinate their efforts with employment agencies and school-to-work projects, as well as to provide training to meet recurrent and common training needs, which could include the evaluation of occupational and skill attainment. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter expressed concern that the term ``community rehabilitation programs'' may be perceived in many parts of the country to include organizations serving mentally ill individuals, and in other parts of the country it may be more narrowly defined to include only facilities or sheltered workshops.
