FR940406-0-00057 FR940406-0-00004 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Customs Service 19 CFR Parts 101 and 122 [T.D. 94&hyph;34] Customs Service Field Organization; Santa Teresa, NM AGENCY: U.S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This document amends the Customs Regulations governing the Customs field organization by establishing Santa Teresa, New Mexico, as a port of entry. The document also establishes the Santa Teresa Airport, which is within the boundaries of the port of entry, as a designated airport for the purposes of report of arrival and Customs clearance. Currently, Santa Teresa is a temporary Customs station, and Santa Teresa Airport is operating as a landing rights airport. Because of the traffic in the area which already exists, and the anticipated growth in that traffic, Customs has determined that a need exists to create a port of entry at Santa Teresa. Through this change, the general public and importers will be served better and Customs personnel and resources will be more efficiently utilized. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Brad Lund, Office of Workforce Effectiveness and Development, Office of Inspection and Control, U.S. Customs Service, (202) 927&hyph;0192. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background As part of its continuing program to obtain more efficient use of its personnel, facilities and resources, and to provide better service to carriers, importers and the public, Customs is amending ยง101.3, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 101.3), by establishing a port of entry at Santa Teresa, New Mexico and is amending ยง122.24(b) by adding the Santa Teresa Airport to the list of airports designated as airports at which private aircraft arriving in the Continental U.S. via the U.S. - Mexican border from a foreign place in the Western Hemisphere south of the U.S. can land. Customs published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in the Federal Register (57 FR 33462) on July 29, 1992, proposing these actions and inviting the public to comment. No comments were received in response to the proposal. After further review, Customs has determined to amend the regulations as proposed. Until this amendment becomes effective, the only port of entry along the New Mexico-Mexico border is located in the far western portion of the state. Because the amount of traffic in the Santa Teresa area has increased recently, Customs has established, as an interim measure, a temporary Customs station at Santa Teresa under the authority of ยง101.4(d), Customs Regulations. The airport at Santa Teresa, which recently lost its status as a user fee airport by operation of law, is now operating as a landing rights airport. Establishing Santa Teresa as a Port of Entry The criteria for determining whether a port of entry should be established by Customs was initially identified in T.D. 82&hyph;37 on March 9, 1982 (47 FR 10137). The criteria in that T.D. were subsequently revised by T.D. 86&hyph;14 (February 5, 1986, 51 FR 4559) and T.D. 87&hyph;65 (May 4, 1987, 52 FR 16328). The criteria used by Customs in determining whether a port of entry shall be established are whether the community requesting creation of the port can: (1) Demonstrate that the benefits to be derived justify the Federal Government expense involved; (2) be serviced by at least two major modes of transportation (rail, air, water, or highway); and (3) has a minimum population of 300,000 within the immediate service area (approximately a 70-mile radius). In addition, T.D. 82&hyph;37 provides that the actual or potential Customs workload (minimum number of transactions per year) must meet one of several alternate criteria, one of which is 2,500 consumption entries (each valued over $1000.00) of which no more than half can be attributed to one private party. Finally, T.D. 82&hyph;37 provides that the facilities at the location must include adequate warehousing space for secure storage of imported cargo pending final Customs inspection and release, and administrative office space, inspection areas, storage areas and other space necessary for regular Customs operations. The Regional Commissioner of the Southwest Region has reported to Customs Headquarters that the Santa Teresa area is well served by air, rail, and highway modes of transportation. The population within a 70-mile radius of the port is contained in a variety of jurisdictional units and communities. Both El Paso, Texas and Juarez, Mexico are within that radius, as are several smaller communities. The 1990 El Paso County estimated population was over 606,000, while Dona Ana County, New Mexico added another 15,000. The estimated 1990 population of Juarez, Mexico is 1.2 million. All these figures are expected to grow significantly in the coming years. Creation of a port of entry at Santa Teresa will more evenly distribute the vehicular traffic which is currently forced to pass through El Paso, Texas. There is significant construction taking place in and around the vicinity of Santa Teresa to build inspection booths and stations, administration buildings and other support facilities to allow Customs to perform its mission in a safe and efficient manner. The Mexican Government was instrumental in assisting construction of a new paved road to the border from Mexico which was completed in early October 1993. Customs has received commitments from several corporate importers that they will utilize Santa Teresa as a port of entry once it becomes operational. Studies conducted by several sources have indicated that, once the port becomes operational, over 25,000 commercial vehicles will use the port per year, and approximately 6,000 consumption entries will be filed per year at the land border port. The local Chamber of Commerce reports that several corporations have expressed interest in locating in the area in anticipation of Santa Teresa's being designated a port of entry by Customs. Economic benefits, in the form of additional employment, are already being felt in the community.
