FR940407-0-00064 FR940407-0-00014 II. Summary of Rules and Guidance A. Applicability The rules promulgated in today's notice apply to any statutory EIP submitted to the EPA as a SIP revision to comply with sections 182(g)(3), 182(g)(5), 187(d)(3), or 187(g) of the Act, which either may or must be adopted by States upon the failure of a State either to meet or to submit an adequate showing that an applicable RFP or a specific emissions reductions milestone has been met (in serious, severe, and extreme O 3 nonattainment areas, and serious CO nonattainment areas), or upon the failure of a serious CO nonattainment area to attain the NAAQS for CO. The provisions contained in these rules, except as explicitly exempted, also serve as the Agency's policy guidance on any discretionary EIP's submitted as SIP revisions. B. Definitions The term ``EIP'' is defined to include State established emission fees, marketable permits, State fees on the sale or manufacture of products the use of which contributes to O 3 formation, TCM's, or any combination of such measures. C. State Program Election and Submittal Under today's rules, statutory EIP's submitted as SIP revisions, when applicable, must be sufficient, in combination with other elements of the plan, to achieve the next applicable milestone (for serious, severe, and extreme O 3 nonattainment areas), or to reduce the total tonnage of emissions of CO in the area by at least 5 percent per year until attainment is achieved (for serious CO nonattainment areas). Discretionary EIP's must not interfere with any applicable requirement concerning attainment and RFP, or any other applicable requirement of the Act (section 110(l)). D. State Program Requirements Today's rules and guidance establish as a goal for all EIP's that they be designed to benefit both the environment and the regulated entities. In addition, EIP's must be State and federally enforceable, nondiscriminatory (with respect to interstate commerce), and consistent with the timely attainment and maintenance of NAAQS, all applicable RFP and visibility requirements, applicable prevention of significant deterioration (PSD) increments, and all other applicable requirements of the Act. Programs in nonattainment areas for which credit is taken in attainment and RFP demonstrations shall be designed to ensure that the effects of the program are quantifiable, and that the credit taken is limited to that which is surplus to other SIP-credited requirements. Statutory EIP's must be designed to result in quantifiable, significant reductions in actual emissions. A number of program elements are outlined in the rules which must be included, as applicable, as part of any EIP design. These elements are required to delineate program scope, to specify credible, workable, replicable emission quantification procedures and all affected source requirements, to project program results, to specify audit and, if appropriate, reconciliation procedures (to evaluate program implementation, track results, and, as appropriate, trigger corrective or contingency measures), and to define an implementation schedule, administrative procedures, and effective enforcement mechanisms. E. Use of Program Revenues The rules incorporate statutory restrictions on the use of revenues generated by statutory EIP's. Specifically, any such revenues may be used by a State for providing incentives for achieving emissions reductions, providing assistance (up to 75 percent of the costs) for the development of innovative technologies for the control of O 3 air pollution and for the development of lower-polluting solvents and surface coatings, and funding (with up to 50 percent of the revenues) administrative costs of State programs under this Act. These restrictions on the use of revenues do not apply to discretionary EIP's. III. Discussion of Rules and Guidance This portion of the notice provides more detail on the provisions of the final rules and guidance. A. Applicability The rules published in today's notice apply to any statutory EIP submitted to the EPA as a SIP revision to comply with sections 182(g)(3), 182(g)(5), 187(d)(3), or 187(g) of the Act, which either may or must be adopted by States upon the failure of a State either to meet or to submit an adequate showing that an applicable RFP or a specific emissions reductions milestone has been met (in serious, severe, and extreme O 3 nonattainment areas, and serious CO nonattainment areas), or upon the failure of a serious CO nonattainment area to attain the NAAQS for CO. The provisions contained in these rules, except as explicitly exempted, also serve as the Agency's policy guidance on any discretionary EIP's submitted as SIP revisions. Further, the EPA will use the provisions contained in these rules as guidance in preparing EIP's, when appropriate, for FIP's necessitated by State failures and for other Federal measures.
