FR941122-2-00017 FR941122-2-00010 (4) Institutional Control Alternative Under this alternative, DOE would complete and operate DARHT, but would limit use of the facility to exclude any applications involving experiments with plutonium. (5) Single-Axis Alternative Under this alternative DOE would complete construction of the Hydrodynamic Firing Site but would operate only a single axis of DARHT with one accelerator. This alternative would provide an improved technical capability over present accelerators with a single view (i.e., the Pulsed High Energy Radiation Machine Emitting X-Rays and Flash X-Ray). (6) Upgrade Alternative Under this alternative DOE would upgrade the present Pulsed High Energy Radiation Machine Emitting X-Rays capability with the new technology developed for DARHT. DOE does not intend, in this EIS, to analyze alternatives or issues beyond the construction and operation of DARHT that relate to the nation's nuclear weapons policies, the DOE mission of stockpile stewardship and management, the need for hydrodynamic testing or dynamic testing that are part of the stockpile stewardship and management program, the mission of LANL, or continued operation of other facilities at LANL. To the extent that these matters are under the purview of DOE, they will be considered in the Programmatic EIS on Stockpile Stewardship and Management or the LANL Sitewide EIS, as discussed below in the section on related NEPA reviews. Proposed Issues The EIS will identify and analyze the direct, indirect and cumulative effects resulting from the completion and operation of DARHT. DOE has tentatively identified the following environmental and socioeconomic issues for consideration in the EIS and seeks public comment on the adequacy and inclusiveness of these issues: •Natural ecosystems, including air quality, surface and groundwater quality, and plants and animals. •Cultural resources, including archeological sites, historic resources, other facilities and infrastructure at LANL, and actual and potential uses of the site including Native American cultural, traditional and religious uses; DOE has previously identified Native American archeological sites in the vicinity of DARHT and has conducted mitigating activities. •Economic impacts, including those from constructing, equipping and operating DARHT. •Socioeconomic impacts, including any disproportionately high and adverse impacts on minority and low income populations. •Health and safety impacts to on-site workers, other LANL personnel, local communities and tribes, and the general population of northern New Mexico. •Other construction and operational impacts, such as transportation of people and materials. •Waste management considerations, including the eventual decontamination and decommissioning of the facility after the end of its useful life (approximately 30 years). •Health and safety, environmental, and other impacts related to the transport, storage and use of hazardous and radioactive materials and generation of X-ray radiation. •Other relevant issues identified by DOE or the State, tribes, other agencies, or the public through this scoping process. Related NEPA Reviews The Department is currently preparing to undertake two related NEPA reviews. The planned LANL Sitewide EIS (59 FR 40889, August 10, 1994) will consider the cumulative impacts of operations and planned activities foreseen within the next 5 to 10 years. The planned Stockpile Stewardship and Management Programmatic EIS (59 FR 54175, October 28, 1994) will evaluate activities required to maintain a high level of confidence in the safety, reliability, and performance of nuclear weapons in the absence of nuclear testing, and to be prepared to test weapons if so directed by the President. Classified Material The Department will review classified material while preparing this EIS. Within the limits of classification, DOE will provide to the public as much information as possible. If DOE needs to generate classified material to explain the purpose and need, use, materials, or impacts from this project, that material will be segregated into a classified appendix.
