FR940414-1-00085 FR940414-1-00010 1. Subcategory C Facilities EPA defines a small entity based on the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) standards. The SBA has established standards based on employment at firms (including all affiliates and divisions) for each SIC group. For SIC 2879 (``establishments primarily engaged in the formulation and preparation of ready-to-use agricultural and household pest control chemicals'') the SBA defines a small business as one employing less than 500 people. Employment data for firms that own sample PFPR facilities were obtained largely from the Section 308 Survey and from Dun and Bradstreet's Million Dollar Directory. Based on this information, 75 percent of the firms owning PFPR facilities which use water are classified as small. Given this high percentage of small entities, the Agency is concerned with the potential burden of this rule on small businesses. EPA therefore focused the consideration of alternative regulations on small entities that were the most significantly burdened by the regulation and whose effluent was in low quantities and had low toxicity. a. Severity of impacts. Consistent with the other components of the EIA, significant impacts were defined as facility closures, product line conversions, or a cost-to-revenue ratio of greater than five percent. EPA evaluated the impacts on small entities under Option 3_the option that was initially considered for proposal. The option resulted in a significant number of moderate impacts on facilities owned by small entities. EPA has determined that Option 3 is economically achievable. The impacts, while considered significant, are not severe. Only one facility is expected to close. Most of the estimated impacts are related to line conversions. Even if all the lines close instead of converting to other formulating/packaging activities, job losses would not exceed 451 employees nationally. b. Differential impacts. EPA subsequently conducted a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis. The Agency evaluated whether small business impacts were concentrated in a particular market. As Table 17 shows, impacted facilities owned by small entities usually obtain less than 25 percent of their revenue from pesticides and are most heavily concentrated in the institutional/commercial market. Further, as shown previously in Table 5, the frequency of impacted facilities in this market is much heavier than for the remainder of the PFPR industry. The Agency also evaluated the PAIs most frequently used by the impacted facilities owned by small businesses. The PAI most frequently used by these facilities is PAI # 56, Hyamine 3500. As previously discussed, PAI # 56 is classified in cluster R&hyph;4, ``Sanitizers for use in dairies, food processing, restaurants and air treatment''.
