FR940114-2-00166 FR940114-2-00102 In establishing the arsenic limit, the ``Amendments to the Water Quality Standards Regulation; Compliance with CWA section 303(c)(2)(B); Final Rule'' (57 FR 6084, Tuesday, December 22, 1992) are used. This rulemaking promulgated the chemical-specific numeric criteria for priority toxic pollutants necessary to bring all States into compliance with the requirements of the CWA section 303(c)(2)(B). The primary focus of the rule is the inclusion of the federal water quality criteria for pollutant(s) in State standards as necessary to support water quality-based control programs (e.g. NPDES permits). The federal standard of 0.18 μg/l total recoverable arsenic is applicable to Alaska and this number has been used to derive the end-of-pipe limitation for the draft permits. Mixing zones are allowed under the Alaska standards for some pollutant discharges. However, 18 AAC 70.032(a) states *␣*␣* ``In applying the water quality criteria set out in this chapter, the department will, upon application and in its discretion, prescribe in its permits or certifications a volume of dilution for an effluent or substance within a receiving water unless pollutants discharged could bioaccumulate; concentrate or persist in the environment; cause carcinogenic, mutagenic, or teratogenic effects; or otherwise present a risk to human health *␣*␣*'' Arsenic is a carcinogen. In a letter, dated March 24, 1992, from the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation Commissioner, John Sandor, to EPA Water Division Director, Charles Findley, the State has interpreted this to mean that ``*␣*␣* a mixing zone may be prescribed where there is no reasonable expectation of an adverse effect on human health or aquatic life, based on site-specific, chemical, physical and biological characteristics.'' EPA is not proposing a mixing zone for arsenic but would include a method for determining a mixing zone in the permit if the Department determines that such a mixing zone is appropriate and is in compliance with WQS. Two options are given to the permittee to determine the arsenic limit. If the ``natural'' background is not measured, the effluent limit is set according to federal standard at 0.18 μg/l. The other option depends on the ``natural'' background levels of arsenic present in the receiving water. The ``natural'' background is defined as the total recoverable arsenic level upstream from all mining and other man-made disturbances. The WQS, 18 AC 70.010(a), states that ``[n]o person may conduct an operation that *␣*␣* contributes to a violation of the water quality standards *␣*␣*'' If the ``natural'' background levels are already above the federal standard, any discharge at or below the ``natural'' background level will not elevate the existing concentrations in the stream thus not contributing further to a violation of WQS. The ``natural'' background data must be provided with the annual Discharge Monitoring Report (DMR). Because the effluent limitation of 0.18 μg/L is not quantifiable using the EPA approved analytical method (206.2), EPA has set a reporting threshold to measure the highest acceptable quantification level for this parameter. When results cannot be quantified, values below the method detection level (1 μg/L) shall be report as zero and values above the method detection level but below the minimum level (4 μg/L) reported at 1/2 the minimum level or 2 μg/L. This reporting threshold does not authorize the discharge of this parameter in excess of the effluent limitation. 3. Sediment. The sediment standard (18 ACC 70.020) is a narrative standard which reads, ``No increase in concentration of sediment, including settleable solids, above natural conditions.'' The method indicated for measuring sediments is the use of an Imhoff cone. The detection limit, the lowest measurable value, of an Imhoff cone is 0.2 ml/l. Therefore the maximum limit for sediment will be 0.2 ml/l measured as settleable solids for operations utilizing hydraulic removal of overburden. IV. Basis for Monitoring and Reporting Requirements A. Monitoring: All self-monitoring requirements considered the remoteness of the mining operations, the magnitude of the pollutants discharged, and the practicability of maintaining a valid quality assurance program. 1. The measurement of settleable solids is an indication of overall treatment efficiency. The permit requires monitoring for settleable solids once per day during periods of discharge. If there is a discharge to waters of the United States, permittees are required to sample for settleable solids on a daily basis, even if sluicing does not occur. This is required because the operator is responsible at all times for the condition of the wastewater entering the receiving stream. Also, the results from settleable solids sampling can give the operator an immediate indication of the overall effectiveness of the treatment system and thus allow advanced planning for treatment system maintenance. 2. EPA has concluded that the monitoring frequency for turbidity and arsenic will be once per season. Monitoring for these pollutants have been established at less frequent intervals because sampling and analysis for these parameters are more difficult and costly. Samples for monitoring purposes must be taken during sluicing or discharge at a time when the operation has reached equilibrium. For example, samples should be taken when sluice paydirt loading and effluent discharge are fairly constant.
