FR941205-0-00180 FR941205-0-00029 Subpart C_Program Requirements ยง266.200 Eligible projects. (a) Minimum project size. Projects insured under this part must consist of five or more rental dwelling units (including cooperative dwelling units) on one site. The site may consist of two or more non-contiguous parcels of land situated so as to comprise a readily marketable real estate entity within an area small enough to allow convenient and efficient management. The units may be detached, semi-detached, row houses, multifamily structures, or mobile home parks (exclusive of the mobile homes). (b) New construction or substantial rehabilitation. Insurance under this part shall be for the purpose of financing the new construction or substantial rehabilitation of projects meeting the other requirements of this part as follows: (1) New construction occurs when all project and construction elements are installed as part of the work. (2) Substantial rehabilitation is any combination of the following work to the existing facilities of a project that aggregates to at least 15 percent of project's value after the rehabilitation and that results in material improvement of the project's economic life, liveability, marketability, and profitability: Replacement, alteration and/or modernization of building spaces, long-lived building or mechanical system components, or project facilities. Substantial rehabilitation may include but not consist solely of any combination of: minor repairs, replacement of short-lived building or mechanical system components, cosmetic work, or new project additions. (c) Existing projects. Financing of existing properties without substantial rehabilitation is allowed. (1) If an existing multifamily project is being acquired and HUD insurance under this part will be used to facilitate the acquisition of projects to increase the supply of affordable housing, such acquisitions are permissible if the HUD insured mortgage does not exceed the sum of the total cost of acquisition, cost of financing, cost of repairs, and reasonable transaction costs as determined by the Commissioner. (2) If the property is subject to an HFA-financed loan to be refinanced and such refinancing will result in the preservation of affordable housing, refinancing of these properties is permissible if project occupancy is not less than 93 percent (to include consideration of rent in arrears), based on the average occupancy in the project over the most recent 12 months, and the mortgage does not exceed an amount supportable by the lower of the unit rents being collected under the rental assistance agreement or the unit rents being collected at unassisted projects in the market area that are similar in amenities and location to the project for which insurance is being requested. The HUD-insured mortgage may not exceed the sum of the existing indebtedness, cost of refinancing, the cost of repairs and reasonable transaction costs as determined by the Commissioner. If a loan to be refinanced has been in default within the 12 months prior to application for refinancing, the HFA must assume not less than 50 percent of the risk. (d) Projects receiving Section 8 rental subsidies or other rental subsidies. Projects receiving project-based housing assistance payments under section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 or other rental subsidies and meeting the requirements of this part may be insured under this part only if the mortgage does not exceed an amount supportable by the lower of the unit rents being or to be collected under the rental assistance agreement or the unit rents being collected at unassisted projects in the market that are similar in amenities and location to the project for which insurance is being requested. (e) SRO projects. Single room occupancy (SRO) projects, as defined in ยง266.5, are eligible for insurance under this part. Units in SRO projects must be subject to 30-day or longer leases; however, rent payments may be made on a weekly basis in SRO projects.
