FR940725-0-00045 FR940725-0-00008 (2) Criterion B. A student who manifests a psychoemotional condition that is the primary cause of educational difficulties; a student who exhibits maladaptive behavior to a marked degree and over a long period of time that interferes with skill attainment, classroom functioning or performance, social-emotional condition, and who as a result requires special education. The term does not usually include a student whose difficulties are primarily the result of: (i) Intellectual deficit; (ii) Sensory or physical impairment; (iii) Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; (iv) Antisocial behavior; (v) Parent-child or family problems; (vi) Disruptive behavior disorders; (vii) Adjustment disorders; (viii) Interpersonal or life circumstance problems; or (ix) Other problems that are not the result of a severe emotional disorder. (3) Criterion C. The educational performance of the student is adversely affected, as determined by the CSC, by a speech and/or language impairment. (4) Criterion D. The measured academic achievement of the student in math, reading, or language is determined by the CSC to be adversely affected by underlying disabilities (including mental retardation and specific learning disability) including either an intellectual deficit or an information processing deficit. (5) Criterion E. A child, 0&hyph;5 inclusive, whose functioning level as determined by the CSC, is developmentally delayed and would qualify for special education and related services as determined by this regulation. (h) Consent. This term means that: (1) The parent of an infant, toddler, child, or preschool child with a disability has been fully informed, in his or her native language, or in another mode of communication, of all information relevant to the activity for which permission is sought. (2) The parent understands and agrees in writing to the implementation of the activity for which his or her permission is sought. The writing must describe that activity, list the child's records that will be released and to whom, and acknowledge that the parent understands consent is voluntary and may be prospectively revoked at any time. (3) The parent of an infant, toddler, preschool child or child must consent to the release of records. The request for permission must describe that activity, list each individual's records that will be released and to whom, and acknowledge that the parent understands that consent is voluntary and may be prospectively revoked at any time. (4) The written consent of a parent of an infant or toddler with a disability is necessary for implementation of early intervention services described in the individualized family service plan (IFSP). If such parent does not provide consent with respect to a particular early intervention service, then the early intervention services for which consent is obtained shall be provided. (i) Deaf. A hearing loss or deficit so severe that the child is impaired in processing linguistic information through hearing, with or without amplification, to the extent that his or her educational performance is adversely affected. (j) Deaf-blind. Concomitant hearing and visual impairments, the combination of which causes such severe communication and other developmental and educational problems that they cannot be accommodated in special education programs solely for children with deafness or children with blindness.
