FR941206-1-00112 FR941206-1-00008 F. Selection of Test Methods and Procedures Since the EPA does not yet have a published reference method for analyzing for the amount of VOHAP in a coating, the measure of total VOC is to be used as a surrogate. Method 24 is the Agency's reference method for determining the total volatile organic content (the total amount of VOHAP and other volatile organics). The proposed rule would use the VOC content of as-applied coatings to determine compliance with the VOHAP content limits (see section VII.B.1). Most, if not all, major shipbuilding facilities are believed to be located in ozone nonattainment areas. These facilities are likely to be required to meet State VOC regulations requiring BACM. As explained earlier in this notice, the EPA's draft recommended BACM for the draft CTG contains VOC limits equivalent to the VOHAP limits being proposed. Thus, using Method 24 to measure compliance with both the VOC and HAP rules (i.e., one test to satisfy two concerns) should be the least burdensome route of any source having to meet VOC rules in addition to HAP rules. However, in case there are any sources which are not required to meet VOC rules and have a desire to determine compliance through measuring VOHAP instead of VOC, an approach as outlined in option 5 is being proposed. (Comments are requested.) The proposed rule would require that affected sources use forms and procedures comparable to those in the EPA's ``Procedures for Certifying Quantity of Volatile Organic Compounds Emitted by Paint, Ink and Other Coatings,'' (Revised June 1986) EPA&hyph;450/3&hyph;84&hyph;019 for all certifications needed for compliance demonstrations. Consistent use of these forms and procedures will provide uniform and complete records that will allow determination of ``continuous'' compliance with the standards. Procedures other than test methods would be required to demonstrate compliance with the handling, transfer, and storage standard. Each source is required to submit an implementation plan that will include specific procedures to ensure compliance. G. Selection of Notification, Recordkeeping, and Reporting Requirements 1. Notification Requirements The proposed rule would require affected sources to submit an initial notification and subsequent quarterly notifications of compliance status. Exceedances (violations) should be reported on a quarterly basis. The notification requirements in §§63.9 (a)&hyph;(d) and (h)&hyph;(j) of subpart A would apply to all affected sources in addition to the source category-specific requirements in the proposed rule. Sections 63.9 (e)&hyph;(g) of subpart A would not apply unless an affected source installs an add-on control device. Section 63.9(b) of subpart A contains the initial notification requirements. The initial notification would alert the Administrator of: (1) The applicability for existing facilities or of construction for new facilities, (2) how the source plans to comply with the proposed standards, and (3) if any delays in compliance are expected. This notification would be due no later than 120 calendar days after the effective date of the rule for existing sources; for new or reconstructed sources, the due date would be within 120 days after initial startup if approval of construction or reconstruction is not required under §63.5(d) of subpart A. In addition to the items listed in §63.9(b) of subpart A, sources would be required to include in the initial notification: (1) The compliance procedure(s) that they intend to use for the coating operation standards; (2) procedures for ensuring compliance with the handling, transfer, and storage standard; and (3) procedures for maintaining records. Section 63.9(h) of subpart A contains the requirements for notification of compliance status. These would notify the Administrator of whether compliance has been achieved over the past 3 months. These notifications would be due before the 60th day following completion of each 3-month period. If there are no violations within the first year, compliant sources may request permission from the Administrator to go to 6-month notifications. Because records would be compiled on a monthly basis, 60 days should provide sufficient time to prepare these notifications. In addition to the items listed in §63.9(h) of subpart A, affected sources would be required to include in these notifications all other records that the source is required to maintain and compile on a monthly basis according to the proposed rule.
