FR940812-2-00032 FR940812-2-00029 _ Sources of waste characterization data. While the Agency has collected waste characterization data as part of hazardous waste listing determinations and industry surveys, most of these data have limitations (e.g., the data are often more than five years old). Some of the more important and challenging data elements for prioritizing hazardous wastes (and, in turn, industrial processes) based on hazard are: (1) the identities of constituents (i.e., chemicals) present in wastestreams, and (2) the concentrations of the constituents. Therefore, the Agency solicits comment on whether there are other readily-available sources of waste characterization data, in addition to the data already obtained by EPA, that include these data elements and that could potentially be employed for ranking these wastestreams (e.g., data collected by state regulatory agencies or technical assistance centers). _ Emphasis on hazard of wastes as generated. Consistent with the goal of the Draft Plan to reduce the quantity and toxicity of hazardous wastes, EPA's draft methodology prioritizes wastestreams based on the hazard associated with those wastes as generated. In effect, it identifies and promotes source reduction for the most pervasive, toxic, mobile, persistent, and/or bioaccumulative wastes, based on the characteristics of the wastes prior to management. At present, the draft methodology does not directly consider the hazard associated with the wastes as managed (e.g., considering releases and exposures following combustion of the wastes). EPA requests comment on the appropriateness of emphasizing the hazard of wastes as generated in developing a national-level screening methodology for prioritizing hazardous wastes. _ Applicability of EPA's as-generated hazard-based methodology to combusted wastestreams containing metals and/or halogenated organics. Given that metals are not destroyed by combustion (and typically exit the combustion unit in ash, air releases, or product), EPA is soliciting comments on whether EPA's draft as-generated hazard-based methodology is appropriate for national screening of wastestreams containing metals. EPA is also seeking comments on whether the draft methodology is appropriate for wastestreams containing halogenated organics, or whether the draft methodology should be modified to better reflect the hazard of these compounds as managed (e.g., through applying a destruction and removal efficiency (DRE) factor to halogen concentrations in wastes, prioritizing based on the percent halogen in waste feedstocks, focusing on wastestreams containing dioxin precursors, or using another approach). EPA would also be interested in commenters' views on whether the draft methodology should be complemented by considering releases/transfers reported in the Toxics Release Inventory (TRI). II. Availability of Documents The Draft Methodology Document and the Draft Plan are available for viewing at: EPA RCRA Information Center Room 2616 401 M Street, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 The RIC is open from 9:00 to 4:00 Monday through Friday, except for federal holidays. The public must make an appointment to review docket materials. Call (202) 260&hyph;9327 for appointments. Copies of the documents may be obtained by calling the RCRA Hotline, toll free at (800) 424&hyph;9346. TDD (800) 553&hyph;7672. Dated: July 26, 1994. Michael Shapiro, Director, Office of Solid Waste. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19771 Filed 8&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
