FR941017-2-00083 FR941017-2-00055 Presently, it is a violation of Rule 980 for clearing members to accept exercise instructions after the Exercise Cut-Off Time, except in reliance on one of the above exceptions. Because exercise instructions are submitted to the clearing members and then to the OCC by the clearing members, without having the audit trail pass directly through the Exchange, it is difficult for the Exchange to surveil for violations of Rule 980. 11 11 The Commission believes that the Exercise Cut-Off Time serves an important investor protection function. Specifically, the Exercise Cut-Off Time protects holders of short positions in equity options from unanticipated events occurring after the close of the market. As the Commission has previously stated, if expiring equity options were allowed to be exercised after the Exercise Cut-Off Time for reasons other than the exceptions set forth above, the Commission believes that options writers could be unfairly disadvantaged with respect to options holders by not having the same opportunity to react to such unanticipated events. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 19589 (March 10, 1983), 48 FR 11196 (March 16, 1983). In order to enhance the ability of the Exchange to surveil for violations of Rule 980 for expiring equity options, the proposed rule change would alter the existing exercise instruction procedures by requiring that final exercise decisions also be submitted to the Exchange. The clearing members would still be responsible for delivering exercise notices to the OCC, 12 however, the proposed rule change would allow the Exchange to accurately document when each exercise instruction was received by a member organization or clearing member, or delivered by a clearing member to the OCC. 13 The Exercise Cut-Off Time will still be 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T.) on the business day immediately prior to the expiration date. Pursuant to the proposal, however, there will be two means of exercising an expiring equity option: (1) take no action and allow exercise determinations to be made in accordance with OCC Rule 805; 14 or (2) the member organization may submit a contrary exercise advice ( i.e., a notice committing an option holder either to exercise an option that would not otherwise be exercised automatically pursuant to OCC Rule 805, or not exercise an option that otherwise would be exercised automatically pursuant to OCC Rule 805) (``Contrary Exercise Advice''). Contrary Exercise Advices would be submitted by a member organization either: (1) at a place designated for that purpose by any national options exchange of which the member organization is a member and where the option is listed; or (2) to the Exchange via the OCC in a format prescribed by the OCC. 15 In those instances where OCC Rule 805 has been waived by the OCC, 16 the proposal requires that a Contrary Exercise Advice be submitted prior to the Exercise Cut-Off Time by member organizations wishing to exercise an options that would not have been automatically exercised had the exercise-by-exception procedure been in effect, or not to exercise an option that would have been automatically exercised had the exercise-by-exception procedure been in effect. 17 The applicable underlying security price in such instances will be as described in OCC Rule 805(l), which will normally be the last sale price in the primary market for the underlying security. 18 12 Exercise instructions will still be submitted to clearing members, however, the requirements for this process will be determined by each clearing member, in accordance with the OCC's rules. This process will no longer be governed by the Amex's rules. Pursuant to the OCC's rules, equity options expire at 12:00 a.m. on the third Saturday of the expiration month. As explained earlier, the OCC has its own rules as to the latest time by which clearing members must submit exercise notices to the OCC. These rules are separate from the Exchange's Exercise Cut-Off Time and are not affected by the proposed rule change. 13 The proposed rule change also makes it clear that reporting of final exercise decisions as contemplated by the revised rule does not serve to substitute as the effective exercise notice to OCC for the exercise or non-exercise of expiring options. 14 OCC Rule 805 provides for automatic exercise of in-the-money options at expiration without the submission of an exercise notice to OCC if the price of the security underlying the option is at or above a certain price (for calls) or at or below a certain price (for puts); and the non-exercise of an option at expiration if the price of the security underlying the option does not satisfy such price levels. See OCC Rule 805. 15 Even though this may be accomplished by submitting exercise decisions directly to the Exchange, the more likely manner of accomplishing this will be to submit the exercise decisions to the Exchange through C/MACS. Due to the burden that would be placed on members of having to manually process every exercise decision for delivery directly to the Exchange, the procedures and rules being approved herein will not be implemented by the Amex until the OCC submits a written representation to the Commission that C/MACS has been modified as necessary, fully tested, and ready to go on-line, to allow members to submit exercise decisions to the Exchange though C/MACS. This process is expected to be completed in time for the November 1994 expirations. 16 The could happen where an underlying security is not traded on its primary market on the trading day immediately preceding an expiration date and, as a result, the OCC determines not to fix a closing price for that security. See OCC Rule 805(l). 17 When the OCC waives the exercise-by-exception procedure, the OCC's rules require submission of an affirmative exercise notice for all exercises even in circumstances where a Contrary Exercise Advice is not required to be submitted to the Exchange. See Amendment No. 2, supra note 4. 18 Id. The proposal would also require member organizations that maintain proprietary or public customer account positions in expiring options to be responsible for ensuring that final exercise decisions are indicated to the Exchange regarding such positions. 19 In addition, member organizations which have accepted the responsibility to indicate final exercise decisions on behalf of another member organization or non-member firm shall take necessary steps to ensure that such decisions are properly indicated. 20 Member organizations may establish an internal processing cut-off time prior to 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T.) at which time final exercise decisions from their customers will no longer be accepted by them for expiring options. 21 19 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 20 Id. 21 Id. With certain minor modifications, the proposal maintains the current exceptions to Rule 980. The proposal, however, adds language to Rule 980(b) to expressly state that the burden of establishing an exception to the Exercise Cut-Off Time for a proprietary or customer account of a member organization rests solely on the member organization seeking to rely on such exception.
