FR941110-1-00063 FR941110-1-00010 §956.87 Proceedings after termination. (a) Upon the termination of the provisions of this subpart, the then functioning members of the committee shall continue as joint trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the committee, of all funds and property then in the possession, or under control, of the committee, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered at the time of such termination. Action by said trusteeship shall require the concurrence of a majority of the said trustees. (b) The said trustees shall continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; shall, from time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of said committee and of the trustees, to such person as the Secretary may direct; and shall upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in said committee or the trustees pursuant to this subpart. (c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered by the committee or its members pursuant to this section shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the members of the committee and upon the said trustees. §956.88 Effect of termination or amendment. Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant to this subpart, or the issuance of any amendments to either thereof, shall not: (a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart; (b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any regulations issued under this subpart; and (c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the Secretary or of any other person with respect to any such violations. §956.89 Compliance. No handler shall handle Walla Walla Sweet Onions except in conformity to the provisions of this part. §956.90 Right of the Secretary. The members of the committee, including successors and alternates, and any agent or employee appointed or employed by the committee shall be subject to removal or suspension by the Secretary at any time. Each and every order, regulation, decision, determination, or other act of the committee shall be subject to the continuing right of the Secretary to disapprove of the same at any time. Upon such disapproval, the disapproved action of the committee shall be deemed null and void except as to acts done in reliance thereon or in compliance therewith prior to such disapproval by the Secretary. §956.91 Duration of immunities. The benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred upon any person by virtue of this subpart shall cease upon the termination of this subpart, except with respect to acts done under and during the existence of this subpart. §956.92 Agents. The Secretary may, by designation in writing, name any person, including any officer or employee of the Government, or name any agency in the United States Department of Agriculture, to act as the Secretary's agent or representative in connection with any of the provisions of this part. §956.93 Derogation. Nothing contained in this part is, or shall be construed to be, in derogation or in modification of the rights of the Secretary or of the United States to exercise any powers granted by the Act or otherwise, or, in accordance with such powers, to act in the premises whenever such action is deemed advisable. §956.94 Personal liability. No member or alternate of the committee or any employee or agent thereof, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any handler or to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate, employee, or agent, except for acts of dishonesty, willful misconduct, or gross negligence. §956.95 Separability. If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person, circumstance, or thing is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability thereof to any other person, circumstance, or thing shall not be affected thereby. §956.96 Amendments. Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the committee or by the Secretary. §956.97 Counterparts. This agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, and when one counterpart is signed by the Secretary, all such counterparts shall constitute, when taken together, one and the same instrument as if all signatures were contained in one original. §956.98 Additional parties. After the effective date hereof, any handler may become a party to this agreement if a counterpart is executed by him and delivered to the Secretary. This agreement shall take effect as to such new contracting party at the time such counterpart is delivered to the Secretary, and the benefits, privileges, and immunities conferred by this agreement shall then be effective as to such new contracting party. §956.99 Order with marketing agreement. Each signatory handler hereby requests the Secretary to issue, pursuant to the Act, an order providing for regulating the handling of Walla Walla Sweet Onions in the same manner as is provided for in this agreement. Dated: November 3, 1994. Kenneth C. Clayton, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27759 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 3:53 pm] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
