FR940505-1-00399 FR940505-1-00012 ( 2 ) A vapor hose which is crimped or flattened such that the vapor passage is blocked, or the pressure drop through the vapor hose exceeds by a factor of two or more the requirements in the system certified in the CARB Executive Order(s) applicable to the system. ( 3 ) A nozzle boot which is torn in one or more of the following manner: ( i ) Triangular-shaped or similar tear 1/2 inch or more to a side, or hole 1/2 inch or more in diameter or, ( ii ) Slit 1 inch or more in length. ( 4 ) Faceplate or flexible cone which is damaged in the following manner: ( i ) For balance nozzles and for nozzles for aspirator and educator assist type systems, damage shall be such that the capability to achieve a seal with a fill pipe interface is affected for 1/4 of the circumference of the faceplate (accumulated). ( ii ) For nozzles for vacuum assist-type systems, more than 1/4 of the flexible cone missing. ( 5 ) Nozzle shutoff mechanisms which malfunction in any manner. ( 6 ) Vapor return lines, including such components as swivels, anti-recirculation valves and underground piping, which malfunction or are blocked, or restricted such that pressure drop through the lines exceeds by factor of two or more requirements specified in the CARB Executive Order(s) that certified the system. ( 7 ) Vapor processing unit which is inoperative. ( 8 ) Vacuum producing device which is inoperative. ( 9 ) Pressure/vacuum relief valves, vapor check valves, or dry breaks which are inoperative. ( 10 ) Any equipment defect which is identified in an Executive Order certifying a system pursuant to the Certification Procedures incorporated in Section 94001 of Title 17, California Code of Regulations, as substantially impairing the effectiveness of the system in reducing air contaminants. ( 11 ) All nozzles affected by the above defects are to be considered defective. ( iii ) Additional Requirements. (A) An owner/operator shall not offer for sale, sell, or install any new or rebuilt vapor recovery equipment unless the components and the parts are clearly identified or marked by the certified manufacturing company and/or the certified rebuilding company. (B) An owner/operator shall not perform or permit the ``pump-out'' (bulk transfer) of gasoline from a storage tank subject to paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section; unless such bulk transfer is performed using a vapor collection and transfer system capable of returning the displaced vapors to the stationary storage tank or unless the storage tank will be removed or filled with water for testing. (C) An owner/operator shall not store, or allow the storage of, gasoline in any stationary storage tank with a capacity of 950 liters (251 gallons) or more unless such tank is equipped with a Phase I vapor recovery system. (D) An owner/operator of any gasoline dispensing facility shall conspicuously post the following signs in the immediate gasoline dispensing area. (1 ) ``NOZZLE'' operating instructions; ( 2 ) Appropriate District toll-free telephone number; and ( 3 ) A warning sign stating: Toxic Risk_For Your Own Protection Do Not Breathe Fumes. Do Not Top Tanks (E) All required signs shall conform to all of the following: ( 1 ) For decal signs: ( i ) Each sign shall be located adjacent to the dispenser price indicator (per gallon) on each side next to the driveway it serves; and ( ii ) Sign shall be readable from a distance of 3 feet or more. ( 2 ) All other signs: ( i ) For pump toppers, one double-back sign per island;
