FR940304-1-00084 FR940304-1-00014 On the other hand, Natural Resources Defense Council endorsed the Department's different assumptions used when calculating energy savings and net present value. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 36). For this rulemaking, the Department maintained the current methodologies for calculating energy savings and net present value. Ballast Energy; Use Forecasting Advance Transformer Company recommended that the Department exclude fluorescent lamp ballasts from incorporation in the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model because of their small number of sales in the residential sector. (Advance Transformer Company, No. 25 at 3). The Department did exclude fluorescent lamp ballasts from incorporation in the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model. Instead, the Department analyzed fluorescent lamp ballasts in the commercial sector using the Electric Power Research Institute end-use model and the Commercial Energy End-Use Model. Television Sets With regard to television power and usage forecasts, the Electronics Industries Association stated that television sets of newer vintage draw less power than those of older vintage. To support this, Electronic Industries Association presented data for the period 1967&hyph;1991. (Electronic Industries Association, No. 30 at 2). Thomson Consumer Electronics, Inc. provided data on the energy consumption of color televisions by size, and asserted that the most important factor in energy usage is viewing habits, specifically, the number of concurrently operating televisions in a household, the number of daily operating hours for each receiver, and control settings, i.e., brightness and sound levels. (Thomson Consumer Electronics, Inc., No. 49 at 3&hyph;5). The Department welcomes the additional data provided in the comments. The Department agrees that the energy consumption of a television set is a function of vintage. It was included in a previous analysis 9 and is included in the analysis for this proposed rule. 9 U.S. DOE Technical Support Document: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Products: Refrigerators, Furnaces, and Television Sets, DOE/CE&hyph;0239, November 1988. The Department also agrees that the number of television sets per household and number of viewing hours are determinants of energy usage, and included these factors in its forecasts. On the other hand, while the Department recognizes that control settings are important, it does not expect them to be different in the future than from today, and, therefore, it did not forecast them. Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model Two comments addressed the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model methodology and documentation. Whirlpool Corporation stated that it had no strong concerns with the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model at this time. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 1). The Florida Energy Office said that the Department should document, well before the final rule, all model assumptions. In addition, the Florida Energy Office offered to provide Florida-specific data to the Department. (Florida Energy Office, No. 42 at 2, 6). The Department will continue to use the basic Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model methodology, but will incorporate updates to data and coefficients for specific products as new analyses proceed. The model assumptions and data for this rulemaking are documented in the Technical Support Document accompanying this proposed rule. Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model 1. Modeling. There were numerous comments on the manufacturer impact analysis. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers and Whirlpool Corporation made several suggestions for improving the modeling of manufacturer impacts. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers suggested that the Department devote more modeling efforts to developing demand curves that are empirically verifiable. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 66).
