FR941004-2-00160 FR941004-2-00090 6. Rule 2a&hyph;7 provides that the current price per share of any money market fund may be computed by use of the amortized cost method or the penny rounding method, provided the fund meets certain conditions. These conditions include requirements that the fund (a) limit its investments to securities that have a remaining maturity of 397 days or less and meet certain credit quality standards, and (b) does not maintain a dollar-weighted average portfolio maturity that exceeds 90 days. Applicants request an exemption from rule 2a-7 for each Fund that is a money market fund solely to the extent necessary to permit each such Fund to invest in underlying securities (and to exclude underlying securities in calculating its dollar-weighted average maturity) so that an exact match with the investments chosen by the participants from such Funds can be achieved. Such an exemption would ensure that the deferred fees will not affect net asset value. The amounts involved will in all cases be de minimis in relation to the total net assets of each fund, and will have no effect on the per share net asset value of the Fund (since any increase or decrease in the value of the underlying securities will be precisely offset by a simultaneous increase or decrease in the value of the Fund's liability for deferred fees). 7. Section 6(c) provides that the SEC may, by order upon application, conditionally or unconditionally exempt any person, security or transaction from any provisions of the Act, if, and to the extent that, such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. Section 17(b) provides that any person may file with the SEC an application for an order exempting a proposed transaction of the applicant from one or more provisions of section 17(a), provided that the terms of the proposed transaction are reasonable and fair, the transaction is consistent with the policy of each registered investment company concerned, and is consistent with the general purposes of the Act. Applicants believe that the requested exemption meets the standards of sections 6(c) and 17(b). 4 4 Applicants represent that, except for the investment policies of certain Funds which prohibit such Funds from purchasing the shares of another investment company, the Funds meet all of the standards for relief under section 17(b). The Funds' qualification for relief under section 17(b)(2) therefore is premised on the assumption that the relief requested from section 13(a)(3) is granted. 8. Section 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder are designed to limit or prevent a registered investment company's joint or joint and several participation with an affiliated person in a transaction on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of the affiliated person. Applicants note that, while the Plans do possess profit-sharing characteristics, they do not have the effect of placing any Fund on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of any Participant. The effect of a Plan is merely to defer the payment of fees that the corresponding Fund otherwise would be obligated to pay on a current basis as services are performed by the Participants, enabling the fees to remain as part of the Fund's general assets and property. Applicants' Conditions Applicants agree that any order of the SEC granting the requested relief shall be subject to the following conditions: 1. If a Fund purchases shares issued by an affiliated Fund, the Fund will vote such shares in proportion to the votes of all other holders of shares of the affiliated Fund. 2. Any Fund that is a money market fund that values its assets by the amortized cost or penny-rounding methods will buy and hold shares in the Funds selected by a Participant that determine the performance of Deferred Payment Accounts to achieve an exact match between the liability of any such Fund to pay deferred fees and the assets that offset that liability. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24519 Filed 10&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
