FR941004-2-00014 FR941004-2-00006 (A)(i) There is a history of dumping in the United States or elsewhere of the class or kind of merchandise which is the subject of this investigation, or (ii) The person by whom, or for whose account, the merchandise was imported knew or should have known that the exporter was selling the merchandise which is the subject of the investigation at less than its fair value, and (B) There have been massive imports of the class or kind of merchandise which is the subject of this investigation over a relatively short period. Regarding A(i) above, in determining whether there has been a history of dumping, we normally consider whether there has been an antidumping order in the United States or elsewhere on such or similar merchandise. Regarding (A)(ii) above, we normally consider margins of 25 percent or more for purchase price sales sufficient to impute knowledge of dumping. ( See, Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value; Tapered Roller Bearings and Parts Thereof, Finished or Unfinished, from Italy, 52 FR 24198, June 29, 1987.) Pursuant to section 733(e)(1)(B), we generally consider the following factors in determining whether imports have been massive over a short period of time: (1) The volume and value of the imports; (2) seasonal trends (if applicable); and (3) the share of domestic consumption accounted for by imports. If imports during the period immediately following the filing of the petition increase by at least fifteen percent over imports during a comparable period immediately preceding the filing of a petition, we normally consider them massive. In order to determine whether imports have been massive over a relatively short period of time, we compared the reported shipments of butt-weld pipe fittings by Interfit to the United States in the seven months after the petition was filed to the seven months immediately before this period. Our analysis showed that the volume of imports of subject merchandise to the United States by Interfit had actually decreased over that period of time. ( See, 19 CFR 353.16(f)(2).) Based on this analysis, we determine that imports of butt-weld pipe fittings from Interfit were not massive over a relatively short period of time. Accordingly, as one of the criteria enumerated in Section 733(A)(3) of the Act is not met, we preliminarily determine that critical circumstances does not exist for imports of butt-weld pipe fittings from France. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify information used in making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the U.S. Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of certain carbon steel butt-weld pipe fittings from France, as defined in the ``Scope of Investigation'' section of this notice, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated dumping margin, as shown below. This suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The weighted-average dumping margins are as follows: ␣ 1Manufacturer/producer/exporter 1Margin percent Interfit 12.04 All others 12.04 ITC Notification In accordance with section 733(f) of this Act, we have notified the ITC of our determination. If our final determination is affirmative, the ITC will determine whether these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, the U.S. industry within 75 days after our final determination. Public Comment Interested parties who wish to request a hearing must submit a written request to the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room B&hyph;099, within ten days of the publication of this notice. Requests should contain: (1) The party's name, address, and telephone number; (2) the number of participants; and (3) a list of the issues to be discussed. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38, case briefs or other written comments in at least ten copies must be submitted to the Assistant Secretary no later than November 16, 1994, and rebuttal briefs no later than November 23, 1994. A hearing, if requested, will be held on November 28, 1994, at the Department of Commerce in Room 1414. Parties should confirm by telephone the time, date, and place of the hearing 48 hours prior to the scheduled time. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.3(b), oral presentations will be limited to issues raised in the briefs. We will make our final determination not later than 75 days after of this preliminary determination. This determination is published pursuant to section 733(f) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.15(a)(4). Dated: September 26, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24535 Filed 10&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;M
