FR940302-0-00011 FR940302-0-00005 The NWS agrees that it is important to identify those analogous previous office moves that will be relied upon for evidence. Primarily, these are the offices that were moved in their entirety, although experience in moving other offices in stages may be useful with respect to certain aspects of the relocation and, therefore, that evidence may be relevant. Offices that have been moved in their entirety were: The Washington WSFO, which was moved from Camp Springs, MD, to Sterling, VA; the Philadelphia WSFO which was moved from Philadelphia, PA, to Mount Holly, NJ; and the Ann Arbor WSFO, which was moved from Ann Arbor, MI to White Lake, MI. The evidence from these moves will be considered as part of the relocation certification. The comment that these moves are within a ``local commuting area'' (a concept that was not even in existence at the time of one of these moves) and may involve different climatological conditions completely misses the point_there simply is no difference between the existing office and the relocated office in terms of the data that is received, the equipment and staff that processes it, the products and services that are disseminated, and the way they are disseminated, except perhaps where the telecommunications services are obtained from a different company. The evidence from these previous moves demonstrates that the NWS is capable of making the necessary technical changes so that the relocated office will operate identically and provide identical services. Comment 4 _The NWSEO states ``no new technology is involved in relocation actions''. Response _At the time of the actual relocation from Redwood City, CA, to Monterey, CA, no new technology will be involved. The Redwood City office will be moved in its entirety, including all existing equipment, to Monterey. The commentor is correct however, that ``the new facility at Monterey will have NEXRAD and eventually AWIPS'', since Monterey will become a WFO. These later steps could involve a consolidation or closure. This illustrates that a relocation is a distinctly different action than a consolidation or closure, which will involve new technology. Certifications of such consolidation or closures will include evidence based on the use of the new technology. Comment 5 _The NWSEO commented that ``the criteria proposed by the NWS contains no measure of service quality, nor any indication that service quality will be measured as part of the certification process.'' Resonse _For a consolidation certification, criteria 2, User Confirmation of Services, measures service quality from the user perspective. After services have been transferred to the NEXRAD office, but prior to the consolidation action, confirmation that services have not been degraded is obtained from users in the affected service area. Since this is impractical for relocation certification, evidence from other completed office moves is used as a measure of service quality. Comment 6 _The Committee recommended that section IIA3 be amended to include that there would be no degradation of service. Response _the NWS agrees and has changed that section accordingly. A. Classification Under Executive Order 12866 This rule is not subject to review under E.O. 12866. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis These regulations set forth the criteria for certain modernization actions such as commissioning new weather observation systems, decommissioning outdated NWS radars, and evaluating staff needs at a field office and the criteria for certifying certain modernization actions such as consolidating and relocating a field office, will not result in a degradation of service to the affected area. These criteria will be appended to the Weather Service Modernization regulations. The General Counsel of the Department of Commerce certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration when these criteria were proposed, that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. These final criteria are intended for internal agency use, and the impact on small business entities will be negligible. The final criteria does not directly affect ``small government jurisdictions'' as defined by Public Law 96&hyph;354, the Regulatory Flexibility Act. C. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 These regulations will impose no information collection requirements of the type covered by Public Law 96&hyph;511, the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. D. E.O. 12612 This rule does not contain policies with sufficient Federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism assessment under Executive Order 12612. E. National Environmental Policy Act NOAA has concluded that publication of the final rule does not constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment. Therefore, an environmental impact statement is not required. A programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) regarding NEXRAD was prepared in November 1984, and an Environmental Assessment to update the portion of the EIS dealing with the bioeffects of NEXRAD non-ionizing radiation is being reviewed.
