FR940426-0-00021 FR940426-0-00003 (b) Disapproval of the selection of a manager or attorney by a borrower. (c) Power supply contracts and agreements including wholesale power, fuel, interconnections, wheeling, participation agreements, lease agreements for facilities or properties, and power sales agreements with non-RE Act beneficiaries. (d) Wholesale power rates. (e) Contracts for the construction and purchase of materials and equipment. (f) Retail rate contracts between borrowers and others relating to large power installations. (g) Additional authorities, as specifically delegated by the Administrator, necessary to effectively resolve troubled borrower situations. (h) Authority to execute or testify, consistent with USDA Departmental Regulations, on behalf of REA as follows: (1) Affidavits and certificates concerning borrowers assigned to FSS. (2) Testify on behalf of the Agency before regulatory bodies or courts on matters pertaining to borrowers assigned to the FSS. §1700.162&hyph;1700.169 [Reserved] Subpart L_Delegations of Authority; Financial Operations Activities §1700.170 General. The following delegations of authority in this subpart are made by the Administrator to the Financial Operations Division (FOD). §1700.171 Deputy Administrator. The Deputy Administrator in conformance with applicable regulations and REA policy is delegated authority to approve or execute for FOD all authorities conferred upon other persons in this subpart. §1700.172 Director, Financial Operations Division. The Director, Financial Operations Division in conformance with applicable regulations and REA policy is delegated authority to approve and execute for FOD: (a) Standard Form 1151, Nonexpendable Transfer Authorization, for the following activities related to loans made to the Administrator of REA by the Secretary of Treasury under authority of section 3(a) and 304 of the RE Act: (1) Advances of principal on notes executed by the Administrator; and (2) Payment of principal on loans made by the Administrator. (b) Letters to the Federal Financing Bank (FFB) granting REA approval to requests from borrowers, which are concurred in by the applicable Regional Director in the Electric or Telephone program for: (1) Extensions of short-term maturity dates of advances on the specified maturity date; (2) Prepayment of short-term maturities, including prepayment for the purpose of extending to long-term prior to the scheduled maturity date; and (3) Prepayments of long-term maturities. (c) Endorsements or assignments on promissory notes or other collateral pledged by borrowers as security for loans, as may be necessary in connection with the return of such documents to borrowers, due to the payment of the obligations in full or in order that the borrowers may institute legal action thereon or in connection therewith and the transmittal to the borrowers of such promissory notes or other collateral pledged by the borrower. (d) Cancellation or endorsement due to payment on the borrowers' notes which have been paid in full or which are to be returned to borrowers by reason of the cancellation of such notes resulting from the receipt of REA of funding, renewal or substituted notes and transmittal to the borrower. (e) Actions concerning borrower loan accounting, computations, procedures and policies. (f) Liaison responsibility with the Federal Financing Bank, the Department of Treasury. (g) Liaison responsibility with General Accounting Office (GAO). (h) In addition, all authorities conferred upon other persons in §1700.173. §1700.173 Chief, Loans Receivable Branch. The Chief, Loans Receivable Branch in conformance with applicable regulations and REA policy is delegated authority to approve and execute for FOD: (a) Preparation and forwarding of Energy Resource Conservation (ERC) loan documents to the Office of the General Counsel (OGC). (b) Preparation and forwarding of basis date agreements to OGC. §1700.174_1700.189 [Reserved] Dated: April 19, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary, Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9967 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;15&hyph;P
