FR940426-1-00089 FR940426-1-00008 b. EPA Modeling for the OTC&hyph;LEV Program. EPA will use the MOBILE5a emission factor model to quantify the HC, CO, and NO X emission reductions associated with the OTC&hyph;LEV program. MOBILE5a incorporates the latest technical information available on both the expected certification and in-use performance of vehicles meeting LEV standards. MOBILE5a uses emission factor equations for each OTC&hyph;LEV exhaust standard, and the proportion of vehicles meeting each of these standards necessary to meet the fleet average NMOG standard for each model year, to calculate the average emissions of each model year of the LEV program in any calendar year. EPA anticipates emissions reductions for NO X and CO, as well as NMOG, due to the lower NO X and CO standards required for vehicles in the OTC&hyph;LEV program. The emissions factor equations are derived from an engineering analysis of the performance of vehicles meeting existing exhaust standards and of the effect of new emission controls needed to meet the OTC&hyph;LEV standards. The emission factor equations for LEVs also take into account differences between certification fuel in California and the federal fuel which will be used in the OTR. Also, to evaluate the need for the LEV program to maintain the NAAQS, EPA would have to model emissions well past the attainment deadlines. Emission factors from MOBILE5a are multiplied by vehicle miles traveled (VMT) in order to create emissions inventories. For this analysis, EPA will be comparing projected mobile source inventories in future years with and without the OTC&hyph;LEV program. EPA will follow the same guidance EPA has given the States when projecting future VMT. MOBILE5a has the ability to model a LEV program which includes a ZEV sales mandate or a LEV program without a ZEV sales mandate, both meeting the same NMOG fleet average requirement. To properly quantify the emissions impact of the OTC recommendation, EPA will require information on the extent to which ZEVs will be required, as well as information on ZEV usage patterns and on their effect on power plant emissions. There are a number of other programs designed to reduce emissions from highway vehicles, including federal reformulated fuel, control of refueling emissions, and transportation control measures (TCMs), that are either mandated by the Clean Air Act in all or parts of the OTR or are programs that the States may opt into as part of a SIP. EPA intends to quantify the emission reductions of the OTC&hyph;LEV program, taking into account all mandatory measures and other regional measures that the OTC has identified. The timing of reductions could be accelerated if States were to adopt schemes to accelerate fleet turnover. But these schemes would likely have to be drastic to significantly increase the reductions that the LEV program would generate by 2005. At this time, EPA believes that evaporative emissions from California and federal vehicles will be the same, under a given fuel and inspection regime. This assumption is reflected in MOBILE5a. One current development that may affect EPA's modeling of the OTC&hyph;LEV program is California's decision as to whether to require onboard refueling vapor recovery systems (ORVR) as part of its motor vehicle emission program. See CARB Mail-out # 94&hyph;08, Workshop Notice (Feb. 9, 1994). Should California receive a waiver from EPA which would permit them not to require ORVR, it would seem inappropriate to include any emissions benefits from ORVR in modeling the benefits of the California LEV program. Given that the OTC&hyph;LEVs would have to meet identical standards as the California vehicles and that the OTC could not require a ``third vehicle,'' the OTC&hyph;LEVs could also have no requirements for onboard systems. The lack of an onboard refueling requirement for the OTC&hyph;LEV program could affect the emission benefits of the LEV program. The issue is related to section 184(b)(2)'s requirement that Stage II vehicle refueling provisions, or provisions capable of achieving comparable emissions reductions, shall be implemented in the OTR. EPA requests comment on the effect that a California's decision not to require ORVR would have on EPA's action on the OTC recommendation implications which this would have for Stage II exemption levels and enforcement provisions in the OTR.
