FR941207-0-00120 FR941207-0-00022 3. Although we wish to ``fine-tune'' some aspects of our rules, we generally conclude that the ``entrepreneurs' block'' concept and the special provisions for designated entities adopted in the Fifth Report and Order are the most efficient and effective means to fulfill our statutory mandate to provide for a diverse and competitive broadband PCS marketplace. In particular, we have adopted measures to ensure opportunities for meaningful participation by minority and women-owned businesses in the emerging broadband PCS marketplace by providing that such entities are eligible for bidding credits, installment payments, reduced up front payments and the benefits of tax certificates, and by adopting eligibility rules that accommodate noncontrolling equity investment. 4. On reconsideration of the Fifth Report and Order , we weigh the recommendations of those who have asked us to modify our rules. While we conclude that for the most part our rules will remain unchanged, we find that some rule modifications are necessary to further empower businesses owned by women and minorities and designated entities generally to participate in broadband PCS. Also, our rules need to be clarified in some instances to provide entities wishing to participate in the entrepreneurs' blocks with greater certainty and a better understanding of what is expected of them. Our rule changes will grant designated entities, particularly minority and women-owned applicants, additional flexibility in how they raise capital and structure their businesses. Minority-owned applicants, for example, should be able to draw more readily upon the financial resources and expertise of other successful minority business enterprises. Our revised rules seek to accommodate the many existing minority and women-owned firms that want to enter the PCS market, but whose existing corporate structures do not meet the criteria for entry prescribed in the Fifth Report and Order. Thus, experienced minority and women entrepreneurs, who are likely to succeed in the broadband PCS marketplace, are not inadvertently barred from participating in the entrepreneurs' block under our new rules. In sum, our revised rules permit entrepreneurs' block applicants to structure themselves in a way that better reflects the realities of raising capital in today's markets, and to obtain the necessary management and technical expertise for their PCS businesses. 5. As we indicated above, a primary objective on reconsideration is to ensure that our rules promote diversity and competition in the PCS marketplace of the future. In this regard, we believe a special effort must be made to enable minority and women-owned enterprises to enter, compete and ultimately succeed in the broadband PCS market. These designated entities face the most formidable barriers to entry, foremost of which is lack of access to capital. In our effort to provide opportunities for minorities and women to participate in PCS via the auctions process, we strive for a careful balance. On one hand, our rules must provide applicants with the flexibility they need to raise capital and structure their businesses to compete once they win licenses. On the other hand, our rules must ensure that control of the broadband PCS applicant, both as a practical and legal matter, as well as a meaningful measure of economic benefit, remain with the designated entities our regulations are intended to benefit. 6. After reviewing the record, we amend or clarify our entrepreneurs' block rules in several respects. 2 We emphasize that these changes constitute a refinement of our original entrepreneurs' block rules adopted in the Fifth Report and Order that will further advance our objectives of promoting competition and diversity in the broadband PCS marketplace. 2 We delegate to the appropriate Bureau the authority to revise and create forms as needed to ensure that PCS applicants comply with our rules. See 47 CFR 0.201&hyph;0.204. See also 47 U.S.C. 155(c). Background 7. On August 10, 1993, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the Budget Act) added Section 309(j) to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 309(j). This section gives the Commission express authority to employ competitive bidding procedures to select among mutually exclusive applicants for certain initial licenses. In the Second Report and Order in this proceeding, the Commission exercised its authority by determining that broadband PCS licenses should be awarded through competitive bidding and prescribed a broad menu of competitive bidding rules and procedures to be used for all auctionable services. 3 We re-examined certain aspects of these general rules and procedures in the Second Memorandum Opinion and Order (released August 15, 1994). 4 3 Second Report and Order in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, 9 FCC Rcd 2348, 59 Fed. Reg. 2348 (1994) ( Second Report and Order ). 4 Second Memorandum Opinion and Order in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, FCC 94&hyph;215 (released Aug. 15, 1994) ( Second Memorandum Opinion and Order ). 8. In the Fifth Report and Order , we established specific competitive bidding rules for broadband PCS. 5 We also decided in the Fifth Report and Order to conduct three separate auctions for broadband PCS licenses: the first for the 99 available broadband PCS licenses in MTA blocks A and B; the second for the 986 broadband PCS licenses in BTA blocks C and F (the ``entrepreneurs' blocks''); and, the third for the remaining 986 broadband PCS licenses in BTA blocks D and E. 6 The rules adopted in the Fifth Report and Order address auction methodology, application and payment procedures, and other regulatory safeguards. In addition, we established the entrepreneurs' block licenses to insulate smaller applicants from bidding against very large, well-financed entities. We also supplemented our entrepreneurs' block regulations with other special provisions designed to offer meaningful opportunities for designated entity participation in broadband PCS. In particular, we made bidding credits and installment payment options available to those entrepreneurs and designated entities that, according to the record of this proceeding, have demonstrated historic difficulties accessing capital. Additionally, we extended the benefits of our tax certificate policies to broadband PCS minority and women applicants to promote participation by these designated entities in the service. We also adopted attribution rules that accommodate passive equity investment in designated entities, but ensure that control of the applicant resides in the intended beneficiaries of the special provisions. Furthermore, we reduced the upfront payment required of bidders in the entrepreneurs' block. Finally, we established partitioning rules to allow rural telephone companies to expedite the availability of offerings in rural areas. 5 The Third Report and Order in this docket established competitive bidding rules for narrowband PCS. See Third Report and Order in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, 9 FCC Rcd 2941, 59 Fed. Reg. 26741 (1993), recon. Third Memorandum Opinion and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rule Making , FCC 94&hyph;219 (released Aug. 17, 1994). Also, in a recent Order , we reconsidered on our own motion several aspects of our narrowband PCS competitive bidding rules. See Order on Reconsideration in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, FCC 94&hyph;240, 59 FR 43062 (released Sept. 22, 1994) ( Order on Reconsideration ). The Fourth Report and Order in this docket established competitive bidding rules for the Interactive Video and Data Service (IVDS). See Fourth Report and Order , 9 FCC Rcd 2330, 59 Fed. Reg. 24947 (1994). 6 See Fifth Report and Order, FCC 94&hyph;178 at ¶37. When we crafted our broadband PCS licensing rules in Gen. Docket 90&hyph;314, we divided the licensed broadband PCS spectrum into three 30 MHz blocks (A, B, and C) and three 10 MHz blocks (D, E, and F). We also designated two different service areas: 493 Basic Trading Areas (BTAs) and 51 Major Trading Areas (MTAs). The 493 BTAs and 51 MTAs used in our broadband PCS licensing rules have been adapted from the Rand McNally 1992 Commercial Atlas and Marketing Guide, 123rd Edition, at 38&hyph;39. See Second Report and Order in Gen. Docket No. 90&hyph;314, 8 FCC Rcd 7700 (1993), recon. Memorandum Opinion and Order, 9 FCC Rcd 4957 (1994), Order on Reconsideration , 9 FCC Rcd 4441 (1994), on further recon. Third Memorandum Opinion and Order, FCC 94&hyph;265, 59 Fed. Reg. 55372 (released Oct. 19, 1994).
