FR940304-0-00086 FR940304-0-00019 Pigs ( Sus scrofa ) are originally native to Europe, northern Africa, Asia Minor, and Asia. European pigs, introduced to Hawaii by Captain James Cook in 1778, became feral and invaded forested areas, especially wet and mesic forests and dry areas at high elevations. They are currently present on Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Maui, and Hawaii and inhabit rain forests and grasslands. Pig hunting is allowed on all islands either year-round or during certain months, depending on the area (Hawaii DLNR n.d., 1985). While rooting in the ground in search of the invertebrates and plant material they eat, feral pigs disturb and destroy vegetative cover, trample plants and seedlings, and threaten forest regeneration by damaging seeds and seedlings. They disturb soil substrates and cause erosion, especially on slopes. Alien plant seeds are dispersed in their hooves and coats as well as through their digestive tracts, and the disturbed soil is fertilized by their feces, helping these plants to establish (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Medeiros et al . 1986, Smith 1985, Stone 1985, Tomich 1986, Wagner et al. 1990). Feral pigs pose an immediate threat to one or more populations of the following taxa in this rule: Clermontia lindseyana , Clermontia peleana , Colubrina oppositifolia , Cyrtandra giffardii , Cyrtandra tintinnabula , Portulaca sclerocarpa , Silene hawaiiensis , and Tetramolopium arenarium (Bruegmann 1990, CPC 1990, HPCC 1990a, 1991a, 1991d1, 1991d2; J. Lau, A. Medeiros, John Obata, Hawaii Plant Conservation Center, and W. Wagner, pers. comms., 1992). Land development for housing and commercial activities threatens Pritchardia affinis , Isodendrion pyrifolium , and Nothocestrum breviflorum (C. Corn, K. Nagata, and P. Weissich, pers. comms., 1992). These threats range from specific, previously approved projects to more general development pressures affecting much of the leeward portion of the island of Hawaii. A State-sponsored housing development at the site of the only known population of Isodendrion pyrifolium is currently being modified to reduce its impact on this taxa. However, this modification is not finalized, and the development could still pose a significant threat to the long-term survival of the species. Illegal cultivation of Cannabis sativa (marijuana) occurs in isolated portions of public and private lands in the Hawaiian Islands. This agricultural practice opens areas in native forest into which alien plants invade after the patches are abandoned (Medeiros et al . 1988). Marijuana cultivation is considered a threat to the integrity of the habitat of Clermontia peleana (Bruegmann 1990, CPC 1990). B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Unrestricted collecting for scientific or horticultural purposes and excessive visits by individuals interested in seeing rare plants could result from increased publicity. This is a potential threat to all of the taxa in this rule, but especially to Cyanea copelandii ssp. copelandii and Ochrosia kilaueaensis , each of which has only 1 or 2 populations and a total of 10 or fewer known individuals. Any collection of whole plants or reproductive parts of any of these two species could cause an adverse impact on the gene pool and threaten the survival of the species. C. Disease or Predation Axis deer, cattle, goats, or sheep have been reported in areas where populations of most of the taxa occur. As the taxa are not known to be unpalatable to these ungulates, predation is a probable threat where those animals have been reported, potentially affecting the following taxa: Clermontia lindseyana , Cyanea hamatiflora ssp. carlsonii , Cyanea stictophylla , Ischaemum byrone , Mariscus fauriei , Nothocestrum breviflorum , Ochrosia kilaueaensis , Portulaca sclerocarpa , Silene hawaiiensis , Tetramolopium arenarium , and Zanthoxylum hawaiiense . The lack of seedlings of several of the taxa and the occurrence of some populations or taxa only in areas inaccessible to ungulates seem to indicate the effect that browsing mammals, especially cattle and goats, have had in restricting the distribution of these plants.
