FR941031-2-00064 FR941031-2-00050 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM Banco Santander, S.A.; Application to Engage in Nonbanking Activities Banco Santander, S.A. , Madrid Spain, has applied pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) (``BHC Act'') and 225.23(a)(3) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.23(a)(3)), to engage de novo through its subsidiary, Santander Investment Securities, Inc., New York, New York, in the following activities: (1) Underwriting and dealing in obligations of the United States and Canada, general obligations of states and their political subdivisions, other obligations that state member banks of the Federal Reserve System may be authorized to underwrite and deal in, and money market instruments (``bank-eligible securities''); (2) underwriting and dealing, to a limited extent, in all types of debt securities; (3) underwriting and dealing, to a limited extent, in all types of equity securities; (4) acting as agent for issuers in the private placement of all types of securities and acting as a riskless principal with respect to all types of securities; (5) engaging in ``full service brokerage'' by providing investment and financial advisory services in combination with securities brokerage services; (6) making and servicing loans; and (7) buying and selling futures and forwards for, options on futures and forwards for, and options on, bank eligible and ineligible securities solely for hedging purposes, and in the case of instruments based on ineligible securities, solely as an incident to the proposed underwriting and dealing activities. Applicant proposes to conduct these activities throughout the United States and the world. Section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act provides that a bank holding company may, with Board approval, engage in any activity that the Board, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, has determined by order or regulation to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. This statutory test requires that two separate tests be met for an activity to be permissible for a bank holding company. First, the Board must determine that the activity is, as a general matter, closely related to banking. Second, the Board must find in a particular case that the performance of the activity by the applicant bank holding company may reasonably be expected to produce public benefits that outweigh possible adverse effects. A particular activity may be found to meet the ``closely related to banking'' test if it is demonstrated that banks generally have provided the proposed activity, that banks generally provide services that are so operationally or functionally similar to the proposed activity as to equip them particularly well to engage in the proposed activity, or that banks generally provide services that are so integrally related to the proposed activity as to require their provision in a specialized form. National Courier Ass'n v. Board of Governors , 516 F.2d 1229, 1237 (D.C. Cir. 1975). In addition, the Board may consider any other basis that may demonstrate that the activity has a reasonable or close relationship to banking or managing or controlling banks. Board Statement Regarding Regulation Y, 49 FR 806 (1984). Banco Santander states that the Board previously has determined by regulation that some of the proposed activities, when conducted within limitations established by the Board, are closely related to banking for purposes of section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act. See 12 CFR 225.25(b)(1) (making and servicing loans); 12 CFR 225.25 (b)(15) (full-service brokerage services); 12 CFR 225.25(b)(16) (underwriting and dealing in bank-eligible securities). Banco Santander also states that the Board has determined by order that the remaining proposed activities, when conducted within limitations established by the Board in previous orders, are closely related to banking. See Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, , 76 Federal Reserve Bulletin 158 (1990), J.P. Morgan & Company Incorporated, , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 192 (1989), aff'd sub nom. Securities Industry Association v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System , 900 F.2d 360 (D.C. Cir 1990), and Citicorp, et al. , 73 Federal Reserve Bulletin 473 (1987), aff'd sub nom. Securities Industry Association v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System , 839 F.2d 47 (2d Cir.), cert. denied , 486 U.S. 1059 (1988) (underwriting and dealing in debt and equity securities); Bankers Trust New York Corporation , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 829 (1989) (riskless principal and private placement activities); Swiss Bank Corporation , 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 759 (1991) (trading in derivatives of bank-eligible securities); Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank , 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 184 (1991) (trading in derivatives of bank-ineligible securities for hedging purposes as an incident to approved underwriting and dealing activities). Banco Santander maintains that it and Santander Investment Securities would conduct these previously approved activities in conformance with the conditions and limitations established by the Board in prior cases, including the Board's 10 percent revenue limitation on underwriting and dealing activities. For this reason, Banco Santander contends that approval of the application would not be barred by section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act (12 U.S.C. 377), which prohibits the affiliation of a state member bank with any company principally engaged in the underwriting, public sale, or distribution of securities. In order to approve the proposal, the Board must determine that the proposed activities ``can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices.'' 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8). Banco Santander states that the proposal will produce public benefits that outweigh any potential adverse effects. In particular, Banco Santander maintains that the proposal will enhance competition and enable it to offer its customers a broader range of products. In addition, Banco Santander states that the proposed activities will not result in adverse effects such as an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. In publishing the proposal for comment, the Board does not take a position on issues raised by the proposal. Notice of the proposal is published solely to seek the views of interested persons on the issues presented by the application and does not represent a determination by the Board that the proposal meets, or is likely to meet, the standards of the BHC Act. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted in writing to William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551, not later than November 15, 1994. Any request for a hearing on this application must, as required by 262.3(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(e)), be accompanied by a statement of reasons why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. This application may be inspected at the offices of the Board of Governors or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, October 25, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Deputy Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94-26871 Filed 10&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;F
