FR940630-2-00048 FR940630-2-00039 Fee Requirement 1Common carrier category 1Regulatory fee (dollars) 1Payment type code Interexchange Carriers 0.06 per presubscribed access line CDIN Local Exchange Carriers 0.06 per access line CDXN Competitive Access Providers 0.06 per subscriber CDPN Cellular Radio Licensees 0.06 per subscriber CDCN Public Mobile Service Licensees (Part 22) 45 0.06 per subscriber CDMN 4For purposes of calculating regulatory fees, we define a subscriber to a mobile service as an individual or entity authorized by the mobile service provider to operate under its blanket license in exchange for monetary consideration. 5Licensees in the Air-Ground Radiotelephone Service should treat the operator of the aircraft in which its service is installed as the subscriber to the service and compute their regulatory fee based upon the number of transceivers leased by the aircraft operator. Access lines for Local Exchange carriers should be based upon the number of working loops as described in ยง36.611 of our Rules, governing the submission of Information to the National Exchange Carrier Association (NECA). Presubscribed lines for Interexchange carriers should be based upon the number of presubscribed lines as described in ยง69.116 of our Rules. Carriers and licensees whose fee payments are based upon a subscriber, line or circuit count should use the number of subscribers, lines or circuits as of December 31, 1993. Public mobile radio licensees with more than 99 locations that have been given multiple call signs for the same license should list only one call sign on Form 159 and provide a separate listing of all other related call signs. See ``Special Instructions for Completing FCC Form 159 and 159&hyph;C'' for correct Payment Type Codes to use when making installment payments. Filing Procedures for Licensees of International Bearer Circuits Who Must Pay: Facilities-based common carriers as of December 31, 1993, activating international bearer circuits in any transmission facility for the provision of service to an end user or resale carrier. Private submarine cable operators also are to pay fees for international bearer circuits sold on an indefeasible right of use (IRU) basis or leased in their private submarine cables to any customer of the private cable operator. Governments and nonprofit (exempt under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code) carriers and licensees are exempt from paying regulatory fees and should not submit payment, but may be asked to submit a current IRS Determination Letter documenting its nonprofit status, or a certification of governmental authority.
