FR940104-0-00097 FR940104-0-00017 §1710.354 Eligible DSM activities. DSM activities that are projected to result in more efficient use of electric system resources and which are consistent with an REA approved Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) and DSM plan may be eligible for financing. Examples of such DSM activities, which are not mutually exclusive, are as follows: (a) General information and education; (b) Purchase and installation of borrower owned or consumer owned equipment or materials, including: (1) Heating, ventilation, air conditioning; (2) Building envelope; (3) Appliances; (4) Load control; (5) Lighting and lighting control; (6) Thermal storage; and (7) Efficient motors and drives; (c) Rebates for DSM equipment and facilities; (d) Fuel switching for dual fuel applications where one of the energy sources is electricity; and (e) Pilot DSM projects. §1710.355 DSM loan applications. (a) Any loan application which includes funds for DSM must include all loan support documents required for a loan for electric facilities, and must demonstrate that requirements for need, loan feasibility and loan security are satisfied. In addition, the application must be supported by an REA approved IRP, except as provided in §1710.356(a)(1), and an REA approved DSM plan. (b) DSM loans will be made to provide financing for DSM activities planned to be implemented within a two year period. §1710.356 Integrated resource plans. (a)(1) An REA approved IRP is required for all loans that include funds for DSM activities, unless the cumulative total of all previous DSM loans and the loan under consideration for that applicant is less than 1 percent of the applicant's total utility plant. (2) An REA approved IRP is required for all loans that include funds for on-grid renewable energy systems. (3) An REA approved IRP is required for all loans that include funds for off-grid renewable energy systems unless the Administrator determines that an IRP is not needed to determine that the loan is both feasible and secure pursuant to §§1710.112 and 1710.113, respectively. (b)(1) When an IRP is required, a distribution borrower that is a member of a power supply borrower must use the IRP prepared by the power supply borrower for its overall system. This IRP must have been coordinated with all of the member systems and it must have been approved by the board of directors of the power supply borrower. Because of the relationship between the power supply borrower and its members under which the loans incurred by the power supply borrower are primarily to construct, improve or acquire facilities that benefit all members directly or indirectly, the security of loans to all parties is interlinked. Consequently, DSM activities and renewable energy activities must be coordinated among all parties to insure that the activities of one member do not jeopardize the financial integrity or loan security of any other member or that of the power supply borrower. (2) A distribution system that is not a member of an REA financed power supply borrower shall prepare its own IRP. An IRP developed by a distribution borrower that is not a member of a power supply borrower need only address its own system, but shall include an analysis of the effects of its DSM activities on its wholesale power costs. (c) The IRP shall identify supply side and demand side options and analyze their benefits and costs in order to provide adequate and reliable electric service to consumers at the lowest cost for the system as a whole. (d) The IRP shall include necessary features for system operation, such as diversity, reliability, dispatchability, and other factors of risk; and it shall take into account the ability to verify energy and cost savings achieved through DSM, energy conservation, and renewable energy systems, and the projected durability of such savings measured over time. (e) The following elements also included in a DSM plan, pursuant to §§1710.357 and 1710.358, shall be included except where REA determines that they are not necessary: (1) Load shape objectives; (2) Wholesale power pricing policy and costs, and their relationship to the proposed DSM activities; (3) Ownership and costs of DSM related hardware; (4) Incentive and marketing costs; (5) Communication and control costs; and (6) Monitoring methods and costs. (f) The IRP shall analyze the DSM effects set forth in §1710.359. §1710.357 DSM plans. (a) A DSM plan approved by the borrower's board of directors is required in support of a loan that includes funds for DSM activities or for off-grid renewable energy systems. The DSM plan shall address the borrower's existing and proposed activities for the same period covered by the Long-Range Financial Forecast submitted in support of the loan application. (b)(1) A DSM plan prepared by a member of a power supply borrower must be consistent with the IRP prepared by the power supply borrower. (2) A DSM plan prepared by a distribution borrower that is not a member of an REA financed power supply borrower must be consistent with the borrower's own IRP. (c) The level of detail required in the DSM plan is dependent on several factors, for example: (1) Size and term of loan; (2) Financial impact of loan on the borrower; (3) Probability of realization of the estimated impacts;
