FR940217-1-00015 FR940217-1-00005 Systems and procedures designed to assure compliance with the identification and disaggregation requirements that are substantially comparable to those described in reproposed paragraph (f) would be deemed to be in compliance with reproposed paragraph (c)(3)(ii). Systems and procedures designed to assure that Schedules 7b and 8 are accurate and complete may include recordkeeping procedures triggered by the opening of new accounts and prescribing how, or for whom, a given omnibus account may be used. These systems and procedures are not intended to affect the existing disclosure practices and procedures between broker-dealers and banks or trust companies. 29 29 Custodian or nominee large traders generally are required to maintain and report information to their respective regulatory authorities that is similar to that required on these Schedules. These large traders, however, are not normally required to disclose proprietary information ( e.g., customer lists) to competitors or other non-primary regulatory authorities. The need to impose these duties on omnibus large traders results from the undisclosed nature of omnibus accounts. The Commission believes that the obligations found in reproposed paragraph (c)(3)(ii) would be necessary to assure the effectiveness and credibility of the large trader system. The Commission also believes that these requirements would establish consistent duties with respect to omnibus accounts maintained by banks or broker-dealers. c. Aggregation examples. A diversified financial services holding company, for example, may engage in all forms of banking, corporate finance, and trust services in addition to the full range of broker-dealer activities, such as proprietary trading, market making, brokerage execution, and clearing services for retail and institutional customer accounts. This holding company also may provide discretionary and non-discretionary investment management services for retail and institutional customers, as well as for affiliated and unaffiliated investment companies, pension funds, and insurance companies. Under the reproposed rules for the aggregation of accounts, the holding company is permitted to formulate its own methodology for filing of Form 13H. 30 For example, it may file a single Form 13H that would include accounts of all its owned or controlled and commonly owned or controlled persons, divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates. In the alternative, the holding company may file separate Form 13Hs for its divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates that independently would be a large trader. Finally, the holding company may file a separate Form 13H for individual traders or trading desks which also would independently qualify as a large trader. 30 See infra Section III.B.2., for a discussion of Form 13H and instructions. In another example, a diversified broker-dealer that engages in investment banking, proprietary trading, discretionary and non-discretionary investment management services, and clearing and custody services may also adopt its own methodology for the filing of Form 13H. First, the broker-dealer could file a single Form 13H for all of its activities. Second, the broker-dealer could file separate forms by dividing its activities along the three large trader capacities and then further subdivide each capacity in a fashion that best suits its business needs. Accordingly, this broker-dealer may wish to file one Form 13H for each proprietary trader due to operational considerations, two Form 13Hs for its investment management subsidiary due to confidentiality considerations ( e.g. , one for affiliated investment company accounts and one for other managed accounts), and for supervisory considerations, one Form 13H for all of the omnibus accounts for which it acts as custodian/nominee only. The Commission believes that this flexible approach to aggregation would accommodate the needs of the greatest number of large traders in the least burdensome manner possible. The Commission also believes that the reorganization and revision of the reproposed rules for aggregation would clarify the reproposed definition of a large trader. Nevertheless, the Commission solicits comments on whether there are other more effective means for aggregating accounts that would accomplish the objectives of the Market Reform Act. B. Identification Requirements for Large Traders Section 13(h)(1) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission to prescribe identification requirements for large traders for the purpose of monitoring the impact of large transactions on securities markets and to assist the Commission in the enforcement of the Exchange Act. 31 The Commission is specifically authorized to require large traders to provide it with the information deemed necessary or appropriate to identify large traders and all accounts in or through which large traders effect transactions. 32 The Commission also is authorized to require large traders to disclose their large trader status to the registered broker-dealers that carry the accounts through which they effect transactions. 33 The Commission is reproposing Rule 13h&hyph;1(b) and Form 13H to implement these provisions of Section 13(h)(1) of the Exchange Act. 31 See 15 U.S.C. 78m(h)(1) (1990). 32 See 15 U.S.C. 78m(h)(1)(A) (1990). 33 See 15 U.S.C. 78m(h)(1)(B) (1990). 1. Form 13H Filing Requirements Paragraph (b)(1) of the reproposed rule provides that each large trader shall file Form 13H with the Commission in accordance with the instructions contained therein. The filing requirement for Form 13H is the most significant burden imposed on large traders by the reproposed rule. The time for filing Form 13H is contained in new paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of the reproposed rule. The Commission recognizes that, due to the nature of many large trader's business activities, much of the information required by the proposed form may change daily. Accordingly, new paragraph (b)(1) of the reproposed rule would eliminate the proposed requirement that a large trader file a Form 13H every time the ``information contained therein becomes inaccurate for any reason.'' Paragraph (b)(1) of the reproposed rule would require a large trader to file Form 13H within 10 business days after it first effects transactions that reach the identifying activity level and within 60 calendar days after the end of each full calendar year thereafter. It should be noted, however, that a large trader would still be required to disclose its LTID or ID System number when a new account is opened during a calendar year. 34 The Commission believes that the reproposed Form 13H filing requirements would substantially reduce the frequency of filings and accomplish the purposes of the Market Reform Act. 34 See infra Section III.B.3., for a discussion of the duty to disclose large trader status. 2. Form 13H and Instructions The Commission received many negative comments about Form 13H. The majority of the commenters argued that the proposed Form 13H and Schedules were duplicative or burdensome, and would be required to be filed too frequently. The commenters made various suggestions to eliminate or reduce the burdens of the proposed form. These suggestions included: (1) eliminating the listing of certain types of accounts; 35 (2) incorporating information contained in other Commission filings by reference; (3) limiting the number of officers, directors, and partners for whom information must be provided; and (4) redesigning the proposed Schedules to capture the particular information possessed by each of the three basic types of large trader ( i.e. , owner, controller, or custodian/nominee). 35 These comments argued that the proposed Schedules, especially proposed Schedule 5, should not require a large trader that controls accounts to list the fully disclosed accounts of small or otherwise infrequent traders that it controls or the undisclosed sub-accounts of persons for whom trades are effected through an omnibus account.
