FR940428-1-00035 FR940428-1-00008 Environmental Impact The Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service, as a cooperating agency, are preparing a draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) on rangeland reform as announced in the Federal Register on August 13, 1993. Upon completion of the draft EIS, a notice of availability will be published in the Federal Register with an opportunity for public comment. Following the comment period on the draft EIS, a final EIS will be developed. Constitutionally Protected Property Rights This rule has been reviewed for its effects on private property rights (Executive Order 12630 of March 15, 1988, ``Government Actions and Interference with Constitutionally Protected Property Rights'' as implemented by the U.S. Attorneys General's Guidelines for the Evaluation of Risk and Avoidance of Unanticipated Takings). Under the Guidelines, benefits and privileges bestowed by the Government are expressly excluded from the definition of private property rights protected by the Fifth Amendment. The Congress established that a grazing permit is a privilege through the Granger-Thye Act of April 24, 1950 (Section 19) and the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of October 21, 1976 (Section 402h)). Both of these acts state that the issuance of grazing permits in no way grants any right, title, interest, or estate in or to lands or resources held by the United States. A long line of court cases has established that a grazing permit is a noncompensable interest since it is a privilege to use federally owned land for livestock grazing purposes. Accordingly, it is a privilege_not a right_which can be withdrawn or canceled by the United States without compensation. Since this rule deals with granting a privilege, Executive Order 12630, which involves the taking of private property for public use, does not apply. Notwithstanding the above, the Office of General Counsel has prepared a Taking Implication Assessment on grazing activities undertaken by the Forest Service. It was the conclusion of that assessment that regulatory activities associated with Forest Service administration of grazing on National Forest System lands do not present the risk of a taking of private property. Information Requirements This proposed rule governing grazing and livestock use on National Forest System lands specifies the information that applicants or permittees must provide in order for an authorized officer to act on a request. This proposed rule would not require permittees to provide any additional information from that already required under the existing rule. As such, this rule contains information requirements as defined in 5 CFR part 1320. The following Forest Service grazing-related forms: FS 2200&hyph;1, Refund, Credit, or Transfer Application; FS 2200&hyph;2, Application for Temporary Grazing Permit)_Part 1; FS 2200&hyph;12, Waiver of Term Grazing Permit; FS 2200&hyph;13, Escrow Waiver of Term Grazing Permit Privileges; FS 2200&hyph;16, Application for Term Grazing Permit; and FS 2200&hyph;17, Application for Term Private Land Grazing Permit are already cleared for the use that would be required by this proposed rule and have been assigned OMB control No. 0596&hyph;0003, with an expiration date of August 31, 1995. Public reporting burdens for the collection of information by these forms is estimated to average from 9 to 18 minutes per response depending on the form. Extremely complex situations may require up to 2 hours to prepare. The information needed to complete the forms should be readily available from existing livestock and landownership records. Reviewers should send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reduction this burden to: Chief (2200) Forest Service, USDA, P.O. Box 96090, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6090; and Forest Service Desk Officer, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503. Civil Justice Reform Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. If this proposed rule were adopted, (1) all state and local laws and regulations that are in conflict with this proposed rule or which would impede its full implementation would be preempted; (2) no retroactive effect would be given to this proposed rule; and (3) it would not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court challenging its provisions.
