FR940630-0-00113 FR940630-0-00036 (1) At least 10 percent of the total dollar amount of all section 3 covered contracts for building trades work for maintenance, repair, modernization or development of public or Indian housing, or for building trades work arising in connection with housing rehabilitation, housing construction and other public construction; and (2) At least three (3) percent of the total dollar amount of all other section 3 covered contracts. (d) Safe harbor and compliance determinations. (1) In the absence of evidence to the contrary, a recipient that meets the minimum numerical goals set forth in this section will be considered to have complied with the section 3 preference requirements. (2) In evaluating compliance under subpart D of this part, a recipient that has not met the numerical goals set forth in this section has the burden of demonstrating why it was not feasible to meet the numerical goals set forth in this section. Such justification may include impediments encountered despite actions taken. A recipient or contractor also can indicate other economic opportunities, such as those listed in §135.40, which were provided in its efforts to comply with section 3 and the requirements of this part. §135.32 Responsibilities of the recipient. Each recipient has the responsibility to comply with section 3 in its own operations, and ensure compliance in the operations of its contractors and subcontractors. This responsibility includes but may not be necessarily limited to: (a) Implementing procedures designed to notify section 3 residents about training and employment opportunities generated by section 3 covered assistance and section 3 business concerns about contracting opportunities generated by section 3 covered assistance; (b) Notifying potential contractors for section 3 covered projects of the requirements of this part, and incorporating the section 3 clause set forth in §135.38 in all solicitations and contracts. (c) Facilitating the training and employment of section 3 residents and the award of contracts to section 3 business concerns by undertaking activities such as described in the Appendix to this part, as appropriate, to reach the goals set forth in §135.30. Recipients, at their own discretion, may establish reasonable numerical goals for the training and employment of section 3 residents and contract award to section 3 business concerns that exceed those specified in §135.30; (d) Assisting and actively cooperating with the Assistant Secretary in obtaining the compliance of contractors and subcontractors with the requirements of this part, and refraining from entering into any contract with any contractor where the recipient has notice or knowledge that the contractor has been found in violation of the regulations in 24 CFR part 135. (e) Documenting actions taken to comply with the requirements of this part, the results of actions taken and impediments, if any. (f) A State or county which distributes funds for section 3 covered assistance to units of local governments, to the greatest extent feasible, must attempt to reach the numerical goals set forth in 135.30 regardless of the number of local governments receiving funds from the section 3 covered assistance which meet the thresholds for applicability set forth at 135.3. The State or county must inform units of local government to whom funds are distributed of the requirements of this part; assist local governments and their contractors in meeting the requirements and objectives of this part; and monitor the performance of local governments with respect to the objectives and requirements of this part. §135.34 Preference for section 3 residents in training and employment opportunities. (a) Order of providing preference. Recipients, contractors and subcontractors shall direct their efforts to provide, to the greatest extent feasible, training and employment opportunities generated from the expenditure of section 3 covered assistance to section 3 residents in the order of priority provided in paragraph (a) of this section. (1) Public and Indian housing programs. In public and Indian housing programs, efforts shall be directed to provide training and employment opportunities to section 3 residents in the following order of priority: (i) Residents of the housing development or developments for which the section 3 covered assistance is expended (category 1 residents); (ii) Residents of other housing developments managed by the HA that is expending the section 3 covered housing assistance (category 2 residents); (iii) Participants in HUD Youthbuild programs being carried out in the metropolitan area (or nonmetropolitan county) in which the section 3 covered assistance is expended (category 3 residents); (iv) Other section 3 residents. (2) Housing and community development programs. In housing and community development programs, priority consideration shall be given, where feasible, to: (i) Section 3 residents residing in the service area or neighborhood in which the section 3 covered project is located (collectively, referred to as category 1 residents); and (ii) Participants in HUD Youthbuild programs (category 2 residents). (iii) Where the section 3 project is assisted under the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq. ), homeless persons residing in the service area or neighborhood in which the section 3 covered project is located shall be given the highest priority; (iv) Other section 3 residents. (3) Recipients of housing assistance programs administered by the Assistant Secretary for Housing may, at their own discretion, provide preference to residents of the housing development receiving the section 3 covered assistance within the service area or neighborhood where the section 3 covered project is located. (4) Recipients of community development programs may, at their own discretion, provide priority to recipients of government assistance for housing, including recipients of certificates or vouchers under the Section 8 housing assistance program, within the service area or neighborhood where the section 3 covered project is located.
