FR940627-0-00156 FR940627-0-00019 b. In Vivo Micronucleus (MN) Assay . Micronuclei are sub-cellular structures containing chromosomes and chromosome fragments not incorporated into the main nucleus during cell division. While micronuclei do form under natural conditions, exposure to potentially mutagenic or carcinogenic agents can cause an increase in micronucleated cells. In this assay, live rodents will be exposed by inhalation to the emissions of the particular fuel or additive/base fuel mixture (this assay is applicable to the evaluation of both combustion and evaporative emissions). Subsequently, erythrocytes in the bone marrow will be sampled, stained, and viewed under a light microscope. The number of erythrocytes containing micronuclei will then be counted and compared with erythrocytes from untreated animals. The use of erythrocytes in this procedure facilitates the visualization of micronuclei, since their primary nucleus is normally extruded during cell development. The testing guidelines for the MN assay are contained in §79.62 and §79.64 of this final rule. A positive result for the MN assay is determined by a statistically significant concentration-related increase in the number of micronucleated erythrocytes or a reproducible and statistically significant positive response for at least one of the test concentrations. c. In Vivo Sister Chromatid Exchange (SCE) . SCEs are believed to be caused by chromosome strand breakage resulting in exchanges of genetic material between the halves of a chromosome ``pair'' (i.e., the chromatids). While some SCEs occur normally, an increase in the frequency of such exchanges may be indicative of carcinogenic activity. In this assay, animals which have undergone inhalation exposure to the emissions will be sacrificed (this assay is applicable to the evaluation of both combustion and evaporative emissions). Peripheral blood lymphocytes will then be isolated and cultured. The cells will be treated with a DNA base analog (bromodeoxyuridine, BrdU) and with a spindle inhibitor such as colchicine. After appropriate staining for labeled DNA, SCEs will be scored from cells arrested in the second mitotic division and the results compared with appropriate controls. Details on the SCE testing procedures are included in §79.62 and §79.65 of this final rule. A positive result for the SCE assay is determined by a statistically significant concentration-related increase in the number of SCE or a reproducible and statistically significant positive response for at least one of the test concentrations. 3. Fertility Screen for Reproductive and Teratologic Effects The fertility screen involves mating of test animals previously exposed (by inhalation) to F/FA emissions to examine the effects of such exposure on conception. The females will continue their exposures throughout pregnancy and will be assessed for teratologic effects on their offspring. This test is applicable to the evaluation of both combustion and evaporative emissions. The fertility assessment is coordinated with the 90-day subchronic inhalation study and replaces the separate reproductive and teratology studies originally proposed in the NPRM. The reproductive assessment includes vaginal cell smears to track effects on the estrous cycle. Commenters discouraged the use of frequent vaginal smearing. In response to the comments, vaginal cyclicity determinations will be performed on the test subjects for two weeks prior to the start of the exposure period (for culling acyclic females), and will resume after seven weeks of exposure (for four weeks or until the female is confirmed pregnant). The assessment for reproductive effects also includes a mating trial and the weighing and histopathological examination of male and female reproductive organs (i.e., uterus, ovaries, testes, epididymis, and seminal vesicles), all of which can be performed within the context of the 90-day subchronic inhalation study. As compared with appropriate control animals, positive results for reproductive effects include: changes in the length or stages of the estrous cycle as indicated by the vaginal cytology data, changes in reproductive organ weights, and pathological changes found during gross or microscopic examination of male or female reproductive organs. Changes in fecundity, fertility or litter size (number of normal fetuses) will also be regarded as positive results. To assess potential teratogenic effects, each dam will be sacrificed on the day prior to normal parturition and its uterus examined for embryonic or fetal deaths. Viable fetuses will be counted and then examined for skeletal and soft tissue anomalies. These results will be evaluated relative to the number of spontaneous embryonic or fetal deaths and abnormalities in unexposed controls. The required analysis covers specific fetal effects outcomes, i.e., in utero death, growth alteration, and structural abnormalities. Although the NPRM proposed the use of two different species for the evaluation of teratogenic effects, today's action requires the use of only one species to satisfy the Tier 2 requirements. This modification will reduce the number of animals needed for Tier 2 tests, as requested by some of the commenters, while maintaining an adequate approach for the screening of teratology effects. The above described combined protocol will detect fertility problems and teratogenic effects. EPA realizes that the protocol will not detect adverse effects on reproductive development that might appear in the offspring as they grow and mature (since pups are examined just before birth). However, EPA judges that the combined protocol provides a reasonable screen for both reproductive and teratogenic effects. The testing guidelines for the fertility assessment are included in §79.62 and §79.63 of this final rule. 4. Neurotoxicity Screen EPA proposed in the NPRM to require the Functional Observational Neurotoxicity Battery (FONB) for the evaluation of neurotoxic effects. In addition to the FONB, EPA asked for comment on the possible inclusion of a biochemical assay to measure the level of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Comments were received on both proposed tests. The regulated industry objected to the use of the FONB on the basis of their belief that it would be likely to give artifactual test results. Commenters also expressed concern about the use of the GFAP assay. They considered it to be a sensitive marker for neurotoxicity, but discouraged its use because they perceived that adequate historical data are not available for this test. While not necessarily agreeing with either of these comments, EPA has reconsidered its original proposal regarding the specific content of the Tier 2 neurotoxicity assessment.
