FR940825-1-00122 FR940825-1-00009 EPA will undertake a major effort, in conjunction with forthcoming rulemaking initiatives and its periodic review and revision of existing regulations, to make conforming changes to all CAA implementing regulations. As examples, today's proposed rule contains conforming modifications to 40 CFR Parts 50 and 81. The discussion below also explains in detail how the existing regulations implementing new source review permitting requirements and Title V permit program requirements would be affected by the action proposed today. The general regulatory provision applying existing, currently effective regulations to Tribes, as described in the previous paragraph, will address the application of existing regulations during the interim period in which conforming changes are made to CAA regulations. Further, in Part IV below, EPA outlines potential ways in which EPA's administration of Federal financial assistance for Tribes may differ from States. Thus, EPA is proposing to make corresponding changes to regulations implementing Federal financial assistance requirements. 1. 40 CFR Part 35_State [Tribal] and Local Assistance EPA is proposing to make changes to its regulations at 40 CFR Parts 35 related to Federal financial assistance. The proposed changes are described in detail in Part IV of today's preamble. 2. 40 CFR Part 49_Tribal Clean Air Act Authority The general Tribal authority provisions proposed in today's action will be codified at 40 CFR part 49. This includes the following: EPA's proposed interpretation of relevant jurisdictional issues, discussed in Part II; the proposed simplified eligibility criteria, discussed in Part III.A; the proposed finding that Tribes should generally be treated in the same manner as States under the CAA, the specific exceptions to this general finding, and the proposed provision authorizing Tribes to identify and request additional exceptions on an ad hoc basis, discussed in Part III.B, and; the general procedures for reviewing Tribal air programs, discussed in Part III.C. 3. 40 CFR Part 50_National Primary and Secondary Ambient Air Quality Standards EPA is proposing conforming changes to 40 CFR part 50. These modifications clarify that references to the term ``State'' in 40 CFR Part 50 include, as appropriate, ``Indian Tribe'' and ``Indian country.'' The revisions proposed clarify, for example, that under 40 CFR 50.2(c), the promulgation of NAAQS shall not be considered in any manner to allow significant deterioration of existing air quality in any portion of Indian country (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1151). They also clarify that in the same way that section 50.2(d) provides that States retain discretion to establish ambient air quality standards more stringent than the NAAQS, the establishment of NAAQS in no way prohibits Indian Tribes from establishing ambient air quality standards that are more stringent than the NAAQS. 4. 40 CFR Part 51_Requirements for Preparation, Adoption, and Submittal of Implementation Plans. The regulations in Part 51 contain the basic requirements for state implementation plans (SIP). However, EPA has not systematically updated 40 CFR Part 51 since the passage of the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act. In many instances these regulatory requirements are inconsistent with the revised law and are therefore inoperative as a matter of law. See CAA section 193 (``regulation *␣*␣* in effect before the date of enactment of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 shall remain in effect according to its terms, except to the extent *␣*␣* inconsistent with any provision of this Act.'') To facilitate SIP development under the amended law, EPA has issued guidance documents. These documents reflected EPA's preliminary interpretations of the relevant Act requirements at that time. See, e.g. , ``General Preamble for the Implementation of Title I of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990'' (57 FR 13498, April 16, 1992; 57 FR 18070, April 28, 1992); ``New Source Review (NSR) Program Supplemental Transitional Guidance on Applicability of New Part D NSR Permit Requirements'' (Issued by Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards Director on September 3, 1992); NO X Supplement to the General Preamble (57 FR 55620, November 25, 1992). EPA intends to update both the existing and new source regulatory requirements in Part 51 to make clear which regulatory provisions were rendered nugatory by the 1990 Amendments and which continue to have legal force. Interim implementation of applicable Title I requirements for Tribal lands should be guided by EPA's preliminary interpretations of the revised Title I requirements and the interpretive statements in this notice.
