FR941003-1-00007 FR941003-1-00001 ยง2604.102 Applicability. (a) General. The FOIA and this rule apply to all OGE records. However, if another law sets forth procedures for the disclosure of specific types of records, such as section 105 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, 5 U.S.C. appendix, OGE will process a request for those records in accordance with the procedures that apply to those specific records. See 5 CFR 2634.603 and subpart G of this part. If there is any record which is not required to be released under those provisions, OGE will consider the request under the FOIA and this rule, provided that the special Ethics Act access procedures cited must be complied with as to any record within the scope thereof. (b) The relationship between the FOIA and the Privacy Act of 1974. The Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, applies to records that are about individuals, but only if the records are in a system of records as defined in the Privacy Act. Requests from individuals for records about themselves which are contained in an OGE system of records will be processed under the provision of the Privacy Act as well as the FOIA. OGE will not deny access by a first party to a record under the FOIA or the Privacy Act unless the record is not available to that individual under both the Privacy Act and the FOIA. (c) Records available through routine distribution procedures. When the record requested includes material published and offered for sale (e.g., by the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office) or which is available to the public through an established distribution system (such as that of the National Technical Information Service of the Department of Commerce), OGE will instead explain how the record may be obtained through those channels. ยง2604.103 Definitions. As used in this part, (a) Agency has the meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552(f). (b) Business information means trade secrets or other commercial or financial information, provided to the Office by a submitter, which arguably is protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the Freedom of Information Act. (c) Business submitter means any person who provides business information, directly or indirectly, to the Office and who has a proprietary interest in the information. (d) Commercial use means, when referring to a request, that the request is from, or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or of a person on whose behalf the request is made. Whether a request is for a commercial use depends on the purpose of the request and the use to which the records will be put. When a request is from a representative of the news media, a purpose or use supporting the requester's news dissemination function is not a commercial use. (e) Direct costs means those expenditures actually incurred in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requesters, reviewing) records to respond to a FOIA request. Direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work and the cost of operating duplicating machinery. Not included in direct costs are overhead expenses such as costs of space and heating or lighting of the facility in which the records are stored. (f) Duplication means the process of making a copy of a record. Such copies include paper copy, microform, audio-visual materials, and magnetic tapes, cards, and discs. (g) Educational institution means a preschool, elementary or secondary school, institution of undergraduate or graduate higher education, or institute of professional or vocational education, which operates a program of scholarly research. (h) Freedom of Information Act or FOIA means section 552 of Title 5, United States Code, as amended. (i) General Counsel means the General Counsel of the Office of Government Ethics. The General Counsel may delegate any of his responsibilities in handling FOIA requests in this part to a designee on OGE's staff. (j) He, his and him include she, hers and her. (k) Noncommercial scientific institution means an institution that is not operated solely for purposes of furthering its own or someone else's business, trade, or profit interests, and that is operated for purposes of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. (l) Office or OGE means the United States Office of Government Ethics. (m) Person has the meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 551(2). (n) Records means any handwritten, typed, or printed documents (such as memoranda, books, brochures, studies, writings, drafts, letters, transcripts, and minutes) and documentary material in other forms (such as punchcards, magnetic tapes, cards or discs, paper tapes, audio or video recordings, maps, photographs, slides, microfilm and motion pictures) that are either created or obtained by the Office and are under Office control. It does not include objects or articles such as exhibits, models, equipment, and duplication machines or audiovisual processing materials. (o) Representative of the news media means a person actively gathering information for an entity organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. News media entities include television and radio broadcasters, publishers of periodicals who distribute their products to the general public or who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public, and entities that may disseminate news through other media, such as electronic dissemination of text. Freelance journalists will be considered as representatives of a news media entity if they can show a solid basis for expecting publication through such an entity. A publication contract is such a basis, and the requester's past publication record may show such a basis. (p) Request means any request for records made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3). (q) Requester means any person who makes a request for records to OGE. (r) Review means the process of initially, or upon appeal (see ยง2604.501(b)(3)), examining documents located in a response to a request to determine whether any portion of any document is permitted to be withheld. It also includes processing documents for disclosure, such as redacting portions which may be withheld. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal and policy issues regarding the application of exemptions. (s) Search means the time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents. (t) Working days means calendar days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays.
