FR941027-2-00080 FR941027-2-00043 Retrievability: Records are retrieved by name, date of birth, type of medical staff membership, Institute/Center/Division and licensing status. Safeguards: 1. Authorized users: Data on the computer network system is accessed by a password known only to authorized users who are NIH employees and Contractor staff responsible for implementing the medical staff credentials data system. Access to information is thus limited to those with a need to know. 2. Physical safeguards: Rooms where records are stored are locked when not in use. During regular business hours rooms are unlocked but entry is controlled by on-site personnel. 3. Procedural and technical safeguards: Access to files is strictly controlled by the system manager. Names and other identifying particulars are deleted when data from original records are encoded for analysis. Data stored in computers is accessed through a network system by use of a password known only to authorized users. All authorized users of personal information in connection with the performance of their jobs (see Authorized Users, above) protect information from public view and from unauthorized personnel entering an unsupervised office. These practices are in compliance with the standards of Chapter 45&hyph;13 of the HHS General Administration Manual, ``Safeguarding Records Contained in Systems of Records,'' supplementary Chapter PHS hf: 45&hyph;13, and the Department's Automated Information System Security Program Handbook, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS Pub. 41 and FIPS Pub. 31). Retention and disposal: Records are retained and disposed of under the authority of the NIH Records Control Schedule contained in NIH Manual Chapter 1743, Appendix 1_``Keeping and Destroying Records'' (HHS Records Management Manual, Appendix B&hyph;361), item 2300&hyph;293&hyph;4, ``Medical Staffs' Credential Files,'' which allows inactive records to be transferred to the Federal Records Center at five year intervals and to be destroyed after thirty years. Refer to the NIH Manual Chapter for specific disposition instructions. System manager and address: Chief, Medical Record Department, Warren G. Magnuson Clinical Center, National Institutes of Health, Building 10, Room 1N208, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Maryland 20892. Notification procedures: To determine if a record exists, write to the System Manager at the above address. The requester must provide tangible proof of identity (e.g., driver's license). If no identification papers are available, the requester must verify his or her identity by providing either a notarization of the request or a written certification that the requester is who he or she claims to be and understands that the knowing and willful request for acquisition of a record pertaining to an individual under false pretenses is a criminal offense under the Act, subject to a five thousand dollar fine. Record access procedures: Write to the System Manager specified above to attain access to records and provide the same information as that required under the Notification Procedures. Requesters should also reasonably specify the record contents being requested. Individuals may also request an accounting of disclosure of their records, if any. Contesting record procedures: Contact the System Manager specified above and reasonably identify the record, specify the information to be contested, the corrective action sought, and your reasons for requesting the correction, along with supporting information to show how the record is inaccurate, incomplete, untimely or irrelevant. The right to contest records is limited to information which is incomplete, irrelevant, incorrect, or untimely (obsolete). Record source categories: Subject individual. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26626 Filed 10&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;M
