FR940819-0-00005 FR940819-0-00002 (3) Complete an investigation of an allegation of reprisal for making or preparing a protected disclosure and issue a report within 90 days of the receipt of that allegation. If a determination is made that the report cannot be issued within 90 days of receipt of the allegation, notify the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)) and the member or the former member making an allegation of the reasons why that report will not be submitted within that time, and when that report will be submitted. (4) Prepare a report of the results of an investigation. That report shall include a thorough review of the facts and circumstances about an allegation, the relevant documents acquired during that investigation, and summaries of interviews conducted. (5) Submit a copy of an investigative report to the USD(P&R) and to a member or a former member making the allegation not later than 30 days after the completion of the investigation. A copy of that report issued to the member may exclude any information not otherwise available to him or her under 32 CFR part 285. (6) At the request of a Board for Correction of Military Records (BCMR), submit a copy of that investigative report to the BCMR. (7) At the request of a BCMR, gather further evidence and issue a further report to the BCMR. (8) After the final action in any military reprisal complaint filed with the IG, DoD, when possible, interview the person who made the allegation to determine the views of that person on the disposition of the matter. (9) Review and determine the adequacy of DoD Component IG investigations of allegations of reprisal against a member of the Armed Forces for making or preparing a protected disclosure conducted at the request of the IG, DoD. If such investigation is found inadequate, initiate a follow-up investigation to correct those inadequacies or ensure that the DoD Component corrects them. (b) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall: (1) Review and process, under the standards and procedures in ยง92.6 requests from members or former members of the Armed Forces for review of final decisions of a Secretary of a Military Department on applications for correction of military records decided in accordance with ยง92.6. (2) Notify the IG, DoD, of decisions made by the Secretary of Defense on requests for review of a final decision of a Secretary of a Military Department on an application for correction of military records submitted in accordance with ยง92.6(c)(1). (3) Have access to all research, reports, investigations, audits, reviews, documents, papers, or any other material necessary to carry out the responsibilities assigned to the USD(P&R) by this part. (4) If necessary, obtain for review and request the Secretaries of the Military Departments to comment on, evidence considered by a BCMR in cases in which the Secretary of Defense is requested to reconsider the final decision of the Secretary concerned. (c) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall:
