FR940222-2-00083 FR940222-2-00064 11. The prospectus of each class of a Fund will contain a statement to the effect that a salesperson or any other person entitled to receive compensation for selling or servicing Fund shares may receive different compensation with respect to one particular class of shares over another in that Fund. 12. The distributor will adopt compliance standards as to when each class of shares may appropriately be sold to particular investors. Applicants will require all persons selling shares of the Funds to agree to conform to such standards. Such compliance standards will require that all investors eligible to purchase shares of the Excluded Classes be sold only shares of the Excluded Classes, rather than any other class of shares offered by the Fund. 13. The conditions pursuant to which the exemptive order is granted and the duties and responsibilities of the trustees with respect to the Multi-Class System will be set forth in guidelines to be furnished to the trustees. 14. Each Fund will disclose the respective expenses, performance data, distribution arrangements, services, fees, CDSCs, and exchange privileges (if any) applicable to each class of shares in each prospectus, regardless of whether each class of shares are offered through each prospectus, except that such disclosure need not be made with respect to any Excluded Classes. Excluded Classes will be offered solely pursuant to a separate prospectus. Each prospectus for Excluded Classes will disclose the existence of the Fund's other classes, and the prospectuses for the Fund's other classes will identify the persons eligible to purchase shares of the Excluded Classes. Each Fund will disclose the respective expenses and performance data applicable to all other classes of shares in every shareholder report. The shareholder reports will contain, in the statement of assets and liabilities and statement of operations, information related to the Fund as a whole generally and not on a per class basis. Each Fund's per share data, however, will be prepared on a per class basis with respect to all classes of shares of such Fund. To the extent that any advertisement or sales literature describes the expenses or performance data applicable to any class of shares, it will also disclose the respective expenses and/or performance data applicable to all other classes of shares, except the Excluded Classes. Advertising materials reflecting the expenses or performance data for an Excluded Class will be available only to those persons eligible to purchase that class. The information provided by applicants for publication in any newspaper or similar listing of a Fund's net asset value or public offering price will present each class of shares separately, except for the Excluded Classes. 15. Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the requested exemptive order will not imply SEC approval, authorization of or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that applicants may make pursuant to any Administration Agreement, Class Addendum, or any 12b&hyph;1 plan, in reliance on the exemptive order. 16. Applicants will comply with the provisions of proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act (see Investment Company Release No. 16619 (Nov. 2, 1988)), as such rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted or amended. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3876 Filed 2&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
