FR940913-0-00041 FR940913-0-00013 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 165 [COTP Paducah 94&hyph;001] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone; Upper Mississippi River, Mile 42.0 to Mile 43.7 AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a safety zone on the Upper Mississippi River. This regulation is needed to restrict vessel traffic in the regulated area to prevent an allision with the salvage equipment located mid-channel at mile 43.0, Upper Mississippi River. The regulation restricts general navigation in the regulated area for the safety of vessel traffic and the protection of life and property along the river. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation is effective on August 24, 1994 and terminates on October 24, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LT Eric J. Mosher, Operations Officer, Captain of the Port, Paducah, Kentucky at (502) 442&hyph;1621. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are LT Eric J. Mosher, Project Officer, Marine Safety Office, Paducah, Kentucky and LT Sanders Moody, Project Attorney, Second Coast Guard District Legal Office. Regulatory History In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking has not been published for this regulation and good cause exists for making it effective in less than 30 days from the date of publication. Following normal rulemaking procedures would have been impracticable. Specifically, recent decreases in the river levels of the Upper Mississippi River have necessitated the removal and salvage of two sunken barges at miles 43.0 and 42.7 that have been determined to be a hazard to navigation in that area. As a result, the Coast Guard deems it to be in the public's best interest to issue a regulation immediately. Background and Purpose The situation requiring this regulation is the reduction of the channel width to 200 feet from below the Thebes Railroad Bridge at mile 43.7 to mile 42.0 due to the presence of salvage equipment. The salvage equipment is on scene to refloat two sunken barges at miles 43.0 and 42.7 that have been determined to be a hazard to navigation in that area. The regulation is intended to restrict all vessels to the following provisions. Meeting, overtaking or passing in the safety zone is prohibited. Upbound tows transiting the safety zone are limited in size to twenty barges and not more than four wide. Downbound tows transitting the safety zone are limited in size to fifteen barges and not more than three wide. During daylight hours, all vessels approaching the safety zone must contact the Coast Guard representative on board the M/V CAPTAIN VAL on VHF&hyph;FM channels 6, 13 or 16 for passing instructions. Upbound vessels must call in when approaching mile 39.0 and downbound vessels must call in when approaching mile 58.0. During hours of darkness, all vessels must use all reasonable means to identify vessels transiting or approaching the safety zone and make safe passing arrangements. All vessels must transit the safety zone at their slowest safe speed and should expect delays. All vessels are urged to give the widest possible berth to salvage equipment and operations. All vessels transiting the area are urged to exercise extreme caution. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). Because the duration of this emergency situation is anticipated to be short, the Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this regulation to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary.
