FR940516-1-00104 FR940516-1-00006 EPA is proposing to distinguish between ``handheld'' and ``nonhandheld'' equipment in a manner that is similar to that adopted by CARB. However, EPA proposes to clarify and expand on California's handheld definition. First, in cases where the operator carries all of the equipment's weight during engine operation, the equipment would be classified as handheld. Second, where the equipment is clearly required to operate in any position the equipment would also be classified as handheld. California's handheld definition requires that the equipment must both be carried and used multipositionally in order to qualify for handheld status. EPA requests comment on whether this approach may preclude equipment which is in practice ``handheld'' from qualifying for handheld status. The proposed federal definition does not require that both stated criteria be present for a given piece of equipment to qualify as handheld. One criterion is sufficient. It is EPA's intent that the preceding two criteria allow leafblowers, trimmers (both string and hedge), cutters, or chain saws to qualify for handheld status. In addition, EPA is proposing that engines be allowed to meet Class III, IV, or V standards if the dry weight of the equipment they are used in, including engine weight, is under 14 kg, there are no more than two wheels present on the equipment, and at least one of the following three attributes is also present: (1) The operator alternately provides support or carries the equipment throughout its performance; (2) the operator provides support and attitudinal control for the equipment throughout its performance; (3) the engine is used exclusively in a generator or pump. EPA believes that a weight-based criterion is an appropriate initial determinant of whether a 2-stroke engine can be handheld. Industry data show clear weight distinctions between those engines which are ``lightweight'' and made for handheld operations and those which are not. For example, review of industry brochures revealed that 2-stroke engines were almost always found in equipment under 14 kg. In addition, the presence of not more than two wheels in a given piece of equipment is another important indicator of the need for an operator to either support, carry, or provide attitudinal control for the equipment. The first attribute seeks to classify as ``handheld'' equipment which is either carried or supported by the operator throughout the entire engine operation. An operator carries equipment when the full weight of the equipment is borne by the operator. Support means that the operator holds the equipment in position so as to prevent it from falling, slipping, or sinking. The entire weight of the equipment is not necessarily borne by the operator. Legitimate sources of support might include the ground, ice, wood, or concrete. EPA intends that lightweight snowblowers, edgers, and augers qualify for handheld status under this first attribute. The second attribute classifies as ``handheld'' equipment which requires either operator support or attitudinal control during the entire operation. Attitudinal control means the operator regulates either the horizontal or vertical position of the equipment. This definition is meant to allow certain lightweight tillers, augers, or edgers to qualify for handheld status. Both ice and earth augers must be carried to each drill site by the operator, and must be supported by the operator during operation. In addition, the operator must control the vertical attitude of the equipment during operation including pulling upward after each hole is drilled. Tillers without wheels or with no more than two wheels are designed to be supported or picked up frequently during operation while maneuvering between rows in a garden. Likewise, the vertical and horizontal position of the tiller is controlled by the operator. Finally, the third attribute acknowledges that engines used in lightweight pumps and generators should be allowed to meet the handheld emission standards. Like augers, lightweight generators and pumps are carried to the work site by the operator and may operate at significant distances from electrical-power outlets. All other equipment would be classified as nonhandheld equipment. Examples of nonhandheld equipment include lawnmowers, compressors, lawn tractors, garden tractors, tillers with wheels, chippers/grinders, and log splitters. EPA believes that the proposed handheld definition identifies sufficient criteria by which all handheld equipment types may be classified. However, it may still be possible that certain equipment types which are in practice handheld applications would not meet this definition. EPA is considering whether to institute a ``case-by-case review process'' so that, where appropriate in the Administrator's judgment, engines used in specific types of nonhandheld equipment would either be reclassified as handheld or would be allowed to meet the handheld emission standards as if that type of equipment was classified as handheld. In such cases, the Administrator might consider factors including, but not necessarily limited to the following: Equipment function and design (for example, handle placement); equipment capability; equipment weight; engine weight; rated power; multipositional operating requirements; presence and number of wheels; presence of other weight supports; availability of similar 4-stroke, electric, and/or nonpowered models by the same manufacturer or competitors; typical operating profiles (including season of use), and nationwide annual industry-wide sales. The manufacturer requesting such a review might be required to demonstrate, based on these and any other pertinent factors, that a 2-stroke engine clearly was a necessary design feature of the equipment concerned.
