FR940927-2-00085 FR940927-2-00063 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Office of the Secretary Order Proposing Clarification of Contract Bulk Fare Exemption Authority SUMMARY: We are publishing the order in its entirety as an appendix to this document. DATES: Issued in Washington, DC., September 21, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia Thomas, Office of Aviation Analysis, Room 6401, 202&hyph;366&hyph;9721, or William J. Wagner, Office of Assistant General Counsel for Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings, Room 4116, 202&hyph;366&hyph;9342, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 205590. John V. Coleman, Director, Office of Aviation Analysis. [Docket 44369; Order 94&hyph;9&hyph;31] Exemption of Persons Who Contract for the Purchase of Blocks of Seats on Scheduled Service Pursuant to Applicable Tariffs for Resale to the Public Order to Show Cause Summary By this order, we are proposing to clarify the extent to which activities by contract bulk fare operators are covered by the exemption granted to such persons by Order 88&hyph;9&hyph;2. Background By Order 81&hyph;7&hyph;109, the Civil Aeronautics Board (the Board) granted to persons who contract for blocks of seats with U.S. and foreign direct air carriers a blanket exemption from the requirements of sections 401, 402, and 403 of the Federal Aviation Act (the Act) 1 and of part 221 of the Board's regulations to the extent necessary to allow such persons, commonly referred to as ``contract bulk fare operators,'' to resell the seats without filing tariffs or themselves having to obtain a certificate of public convenience and necessity or a foreign air carrier permit, as applicable. 2 By Order 88&hyph;9&hyph;2, the Department continued this exemption. 1 Pub. L. 103&hyph;272, enacted July 5, 1994, revised and recodified the Federal Aviation Act within Subtitle VII of Title 49 United States Code (Transportation) (the statute). For convenience in this order, we will refer both to the old section numbers in the Act and the new section numbers in the statute. The applicable provisions of sections 401, 402, and 403 are now contained in Subpart II (Economic Regulation) of Subtitle VII. 2 Under 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(2) ( see former section 101(3) of the Act), any person who engages, either directly or indirectly, in air transportation operations is deemed to be an air carrier. 49 U.S.C. 40109 ( see former section 101(3)) provides that air carriers not directly engaged in the operation of aircraft ( i.e., ``indirect'' air carriers) may be relieved from certain provisions of the statute to the extent and for such periods as the Secretary of Transportation decides are in the public interest. Traditionally, the marketing arrangement authorized by this exemption has been utilized by direct air carriers as an additional tool to enhance their marketing efforts but which is incidental to their overall scheduled service operations. The blanket exemption allows these direct air carriers to contract to sell a portion of their seats to middlemen (contract bulk fare operators). These contractors are then free to sell individual tickets to customers, either with or without a ground package, at whatever price their business judgments dictate. The contractors generally pay for the seats in advance and are sometimes subject to cancellation penalties for returning unsold seats. 3 The direct air carrier continues to market seats on these flights on its own behalf through the normal air transportation distribution system. 3 See Orders 80&hyph;2&hyph;112 and 81&hyph;7&hyph;109. The exemption is subject to certain disclosure and consumer protection provisions, specifically (a) that any direct air carrier implementing such marketing programs shall file tariff rules that clearly describe the relationship that exists between the direct air carrier and the passenger and that establish that, upon payment by the passenger, the direct air carrier bears the responsibility for safeguarding the passenger's money; (b) that any direct air carrier and any contractor operating under the exemption shall insure that consumers receive clear and conspicuous notice before payment of any special contractual conditions imposed either by the contractor or by the direct air carrier that are applicable to the passenger, 4 and (c) that any direct air carrier implementing these marketing programs in foreign air transportation must file tariffs that state the prices to be charged to the contractor. 5 4 These conditions include the following: the terms and amount of any cancellation penalties, fees for reservation changes, or other special charges; limits on voluntary refunds_specifically, notice that clearly informs the passenger of risks in the event of voluntary cancellation by stating the exact amount of the applicable refund for such cancellation; limits on involuntary refunds, rerouting or ticket reissuance rights; limits on ticket endorsability or special ticket purchase; check-in or reconfirmation requirements; if true, the fact that the passenger may be assessed price increases after ticket purchase; if true, the fact that flight dates and times are not guaranteed at the time of purchase; and information on the allocation of responsibility between the contractor and direct air carrier for the passenger's funds and transportation. See Orders 86&hyph;9&hyph;61 and 88&hyph;9&hyph;2. 5 Originally, the exemption granted by Order 81&hyph;7&hyph;109 also required that direct air carriers file with the Board the names and addresses of each contractor. This condition was eliminated by Order 88&hyph;9&hyph;2.
