FR940406-2-00003 FR940406-2-00001 FCIC establishes premium rates for the various coverage levels, yields, crop types and farming practices (e.g., irrigated) for each county. All planted acres of the crop are covered by the insurance policy unless for some reason the acreage is uninsurable. The premium owed by the insured person is determined by multiplying the average yield per acre by the coverage level, multiplied by the number of acres planted, the price election, and the premium rate. For example, if the average yield is 100 bushels per acre, the coverage level is 65 percent, planted acres are 50, the price election is $2.25, and the premium rate is 5.2 percent, the premium is equal to 100 × 0.65 × 50 × $2.25 × 0.052, or $380.25. The potential indemnity in the event of a total loss is $7,312.50 (determined by multiplying the average yield, coverage level, planted acres, and price election). A portion of the total premium is subsidized to encourage participation in the program. The subsidy is 30 percent of the total premium for coverage levels up to and including the 65 percent level. The subsidy for 75 percent level of coverage is equal to the dollar amount that would be paid at the 65 percent level of coverage. The premium subsidy for the above example would be $114.08; thus, the insured person would pay $266.17. The same $114.08 subsidy would be paid if the insured person chose the 75 percent coverage level. In the event of a loss, the amount of production that was harvested, or that was determined should have been harvested, is measured by the insurer. An indemnity payment is made if the determined production is less than the total guarantee for the acreage (yield multiplied by coverage level and acres planted). For example, if the insured person harvests 1,000 bushels from 25 acres and does not harvest a potential yield of 10 bushels per acre from the remaining 25 acres, the total of the production to count is 1,250 bushels (1,000 bushels harvested plus 25 acres multiplied by 10 bushels). This is subtracted from the total bushel guarantee for the acreage (100 × 0.65 × 50, or 3,250 bushels), resulting in a loss of 2,000 bushels. The indemnity is equal to the number of lost bushels multiplied by the price election. For this example, the indemnity would be 2,000 bushels × $2.25, or $4,500. Crop insurance does not guarantee revenue. As the above example illustrates, it provides an insurance indemnity only if production is less than the established guarantee. No protection is provided if the market price is less than the price election. B. Legislative Background and Issues Federal crop insurance was established as a pilot program in the 1930's. Prior to 1980, crop insurance was available only on major crops in major producing areas. The coverage level often was limited to 60 percent or less of a long-term average yield for an area. Congress amended the Act in 1980 to expand the scope and coverage of the program with the intent that it be the sole means of providing public disaster assistance to U.S. farmers. Participation in the program increased after the 1980 amendments, but remains below levels deemed necessary to be regarded as the principal vehicle for disaster assistance. Insured acreage peaked at about 40&hyph;45 percent of the total acreage planted to insurable crops in 1988&hyph;89, but more commonly has been in the 30&hyph;35 percent range. Losses also increased with the expansion of the program. The loss ratio has exceeded the break-even amount of 1.00 in every year since 1980. Cumulative losses for the years 1980&hyph;1992 were approximately $2.9 billion, with a cumulative loss ratio of about 1.45 for the 13 years. Program participation is an issue influencing the Federal crop insurance program. Full participation (i.e., 100 percent of eligible acres insured) is the measure of program success that is accepted (at least implicitly) by some persons. This measure may not be the most appropriate. A rational decision to buy insurance of any kind must be based on the magnitude of the financial difficulties that accompany a loss. For example, buying collision coverage on a 15-year old automobile makes little financial sense. Similarly, buying insurance on a crop that contributes only a small portion of the expected income of the insured person may not make financial sense. Full participation in the crop insurance program may not represent an efficient use of the taxpayer's resources. However, participation must be high enough to minimize or eliminate perceived needs to legislate disaster assistance funded under dire emergency provisions of the Budget Enforcement Act. The level of participation in the crop insurance program that maximizes returns to the public is not known, and is an area needing further definition. Many losses paid in the 1980's and early 1990's were due to widespread disasters, the adverse financial effects of which Congress intended to mitigate under the Act. However, continuing loss ratios exceeding 100 percent, enactment of disaster assistance in nearly every year since 1988, and lower than desirable participation indicate that the public policy goals of the program have not been fully realized. The Secretary of Agriculture has proposed a reform of the crop insurance program to: •Achieve actuarial soundness. •Increase participation to levels that render ad hoc disaster legislation. •Eliminate incentives to enact ad hoc disaster assistance legislation. The proposals contained in this Blueprint focus on these three areas that directly relate to the goal of achieving the targeted loss ratio. They are: (1) Actuarial matters such as premium rates and yield guarantees, (2) Underwriting matters such as terms and conditions of insurance policies, and (3) Management issues such as compliance and risk-sharing arrangements with commercial insurers. II. Management Actions To Achieve a Loss Ratio of 1.10 A. Develop More Accurate Insurance Yields The insurance yield may be the single most important factor in determining the success or failure of the crop insurance program. A yield that is too high compared to the productive potential of the person or land will increase the number of years that a loss is paid. An excessively high yield also increases the amount paid when a loss occurs. A yield that is too low will not effectively protect farmers from loss and, because it is regarded as insufficient, will not induce desired levels of participation. From the 1985 through 1993 crop years, insured yields were based on a program called the Actual Production History (APH) Plan. The goal of this program was to obtain 10 previous yields to establish the insured yield for the next crop year. Proxy yields largely based on ASCS farm program payment yields or county averages were allowed whenever farmers would not or could not provide 10 years of history. Analysis by FCIC and others determined the proxy yields were benefiting farmers whose yields tended to be lower than average and discouraging farmers whose yields tended to be above average. Consequently, a modified-APH program that reduced the influence of the proxy yields was introduced beginning with the 1994 crop year; thus, a ``ladder'' was introduced into the proxy yields. Only 65 percent credit is given to the proxy yield if no actual yields are reported, 80 percent credit is given if one actual yield is reported, 90 percent if two actual yields are reported, and 100 percent if three actual yields are reported. The proxy yields are not used after four actual yields are available. The insured yield is a simple average of the 4 years of actual and modified proxy yields for the first 4 years, and then (after 4 years) is the simple average of the actual yields reported. Acquiring 10 years of production history remains the goal of the program. These revised procedures are the core of the initiatives to comply with the mandate of OBRA 93 to institute rules to demonstrate actual production histories. The revised rules are expected to substantially reduce losses of the Federal crop insurance program. Analysis performed by FCIC indicates the new rules would reduce losses by 15 percent for corn, 22 percent for soybeans, and 18 percent for wheat. These analyses were based on simulations of loss histories using the rules for the two computational methods_the previous APH and the proposed modified-APH plans. The analyses encompassed nine states each for corn and soybeans and three states for wheat. These states and crops represented nearly 60 percent of the total premiums earned in 1990. The results indicated that the modified-APH rules would reduce losses by a weighted average of 19 percent and are believed to be representative for most crops. The actual loss ratio for the 1990 crop year was 1.23. If the modified-APH rules did reduce losses by an average of 19 percent, the loss ratio would have been 0.996. This would achieve significant compliance with the loss ratio target of 1.10. Based on these results, FCIC implemented modified-APH for the 1994 crop year by: •Promulgating regulations for the program during calendar year 1994. •Measuring the impact of the modifications upon net program losses by calculating insured yields, premiums, and indemnities of policyholders under 1993 and 1994 rules. •Where possible, determining whether the modified-APH rules had the intended effect of providing a more accurate offer for farmers who previously elected not to purchase crop insurance. •Determining whether the average number of yields reported for prior years has changed under the modified-APH rules compared with APH rules for 1990 through 1993. •Implementing a tracking system to assure that insurance experience remains associated with a person in future years (see item D below). •Developing reporting processes to assure that the accuracy of yield determinations is continuously monitored and improved. •Actions requiring analysis of the effects of the modified-APH rules upon the accuracy of insured yields cannot be completed until losses from the 1994 crop year are processed. For wheat and other fall planted crops, such availability will occur by about the fourth calendar quarter of 1994. For spring planted crops, this does not occur until about the middle of the first calendar quarter of 1995. FCIC believes that these actions to implement modified-APH will reduce the average loss ratio over time by 10&hyph;15 percentage points (e.g., from an average of 1.40 for several years to 1.25 to 1.30). This estimate is based on a conservative expectation of the actual results of the simulations described above. B. Catastrophic Yield Adjustment FCIC recognizes that the average of a series of observations as short as 4 years is subject to significant variations due to abnormally large or small yields during that time. For example, if a major disaster year such as 1993 is included in the 4 years, the procedure implicitly states that a similar year will occur once every 4 years. This is not likely. Thus, FCIC will examine certain adjustments to the modified-APH rules with a goal to assign more appropriate probabilities to the individual observations. These adjustments commonly are called catastrophic yield adjustments. However, just as the yields for 1 year may be abnormally low, they also may be abnormally high. Capping the abnormally high years may also be appropriate so that average yields are not excessively high due solely to a few observations. FCIC will evaluate alternative methods to recognize catastrophic and unusually good crop years, and consider implementing appropriate adjustments to the modified-APH plan effective for the 1995 crop year.
