FR941222-1-00053 FR941222-1-00008 The risk associated with the wastewaters in tanks is estimated to be below levels of concern. However, the risks associated with managing these wastewaters in surface impoundments are calculated to be high. One constituent found in the waste is considered capable of posing a substantial present or potential risk to human health or the environment ( i.e. , risks are 1E&hyph;4 or higher for carcinogens, or 1 or higher HQs for non-carcinogens). The constituent poses a risk 1E&hyph;4. As was the case with wastewater treatment sludge from the production of azo dyes, excluding FD&C colorants, the wastewaters were found to contain high concentrations of aniline, a high-volume dye reactant that poses an unacceptable risk at such levels. In fact, aniline was present in each of the seven wastewater samples from azo dye production. However, two of the seven aniline data points, which were both from one facility, were dropped prior to the risk assessment because the facility reported that aniline found in the wastewater is associated with non-dye operations. This facility consumes larger volumes of aniline in their non-dye operations than in the manufacture of azo dyes. It is likely that aniline from dye operations contributed to the presence of the constituent in the waste; however, the Agency could not determine the extent of this contribution. Based on the aniline concentrations represented by the five remaining data points, the Agency has determined that the risks posed by aniline in this wastestream are 2E&hyph;6). The presence of three coeluting isomers, 2-, 3-, and 4- aminotoluene, was confirmed in four out of six wastewater samples collected from azo dye manufacturing operations, and the combined concentration of the three compounds was quantified (refer to earlier discussion under Section II.D.2, Coeluting Compounds, for a discussion on the coelution of 2-, 3-, and 4-aminotoluene). The calculated high-end individual cancer-risk level, based on the toxicity of 2-aminotoluene, is 1E&hyph;4 for the surface impoundment management scenario.
