FR940721-0-00064 FR940721-0-00014 NHTSA proposed a specific procedure in ยง583.8 of the proposed regulation for determining country of origin for engines and transmissions. NHTSA noted in the NPRM that while the proposed regulatory text did not reflect taking parts production costs at the engine or transmission plant into account in determining country of origin for the engine or transmission, the agency might, depending on the comments, adopt such an approach in the final rule. a. Assembly costs. AAMA stated that it agrees that the statute provides that determination of country of origin for engine and transmission does not include the cost of assembling and fabricating the engine or transmission. Toyota, however, stated that it disagrees with this conclusion. That manufacturer argued that the statute does not expressly require such exclusion, and the Act's use of the words ``dollar value added'' in the first sentence of section 210(f)(12) connotes that the cost of assembling the engine or transmission is to be included. Toyota stated that it recognizes that the third sentence in (f)(12) provides that the estimate of value is based on the purchase price of direct materials, but argued that the sentence does not require that the estimate be based solely on the value of direct materials. Toyota urged the agency to interpret this section based on what it considers to be the plain meaning of both of these sentences, under which materials are a component of the value added calculation but not the sole component. Mitsubishi argued that exclusion of the cost of labor required to build or assemble engines and transmission is not consistent with other provisions of the regulations, and the value of labor should therefore be included. That manufacturer stated that since the term ``direct materials'' is not defined in the AALA, the agency should use its discretion to interpret the undefined and vague language in a manner that is consistent with the rest of the Act. JAMA also argued that assembly labor for engines and transmission should be included in the country of origin label calculations. That organization stated that if NHTSA believes that the statute precludes such inclusion, the agency should provide in the final regulations a clear disclaimer statement to that effect. JAMA stated that this could be accomplished by adding a sentence to the explanatory note or a parenthetical to the label following the words country of origin. After considering the comments, NHTSA concludes, based on the language in section 210(f)(12), that determination of country of origin for engine and transmission does not include the cost of assembling and fabricating the engine or transmission. The agency does not accept Toyota's argument about the first and third sentences of (f)(12). Since the third sentence expressly provides that ``(t)he estimate of the percentage of dollar value shall be based upon the purchase price of direct materials as received at the individual engine or transmissions plants of engines of the same displacement and transmission of the same transmission type,'' it limits the meaning of the term ``value added'' in the first sentence. The agency also does not agree that significance should be accorded the fact that (f)(12) does not expressly provide that the estimate must be based solely on the value of direct materials. A basic rule of statutory construction provides that where a form of conduct, the manner of its performance and operation, and the persons and things to which it refers are designated, there is an inference that all omissions should be understood as exclusions. See Sutherland Stat Const ยง47.23 (5th Ed). Since (f)(12) provides that the estimate is to be based on the value of direct materials received at the individual engine or transmission plant, other items such as assembly costs are excluded in making estimates. NHTSA disagrees with Mitsubishi's argument that exclusion of the cost of labor is inconsistent with the rest of the regulation. The agency notes that ยง583.8 applies only to the determination of country of origin for engines/transmissions for purposes of items four and five on the label; the cost of labor in assembling engines and transmissions is not excluded for purposes of determining U.S./Canadian parts content and major foreign sources of foreign content (items one and two of the label). NHTSA also notes that the exclusion of labor and assembly costs in determining the country of origin for engines/transmissions is directly analogous to the exclusion of final assembly costs in determining U.S./Canadian parts content and major foreign sources of content. The agency also disagrees that the term ``direct materials'' is so vague that it can be interpreted to include labor in assembling the equipment received at engine/transmission plants into engines/transmissions. NHTSA has, however, decided to specify the addition of the word ``parts'' after ``engine'' and ``transmission'' on the label. The agency believes that this will make it clear to consumers that these country of origin determinations exclude assembly costs. Because this change involves adding only two words to the label, it will not result in an information overload for consumers or an unnecessarily long label. NHTSA believes that this change is consistent with the statutory directive that the regulations provide to the ultimate purchaser of new passenger motor vehicles the best and most understandable information possible about the foreign and U.S./Canada origin of the equipment of such vehicles without imposing costly and unnecessary burdens on manufacturers. b. Parts that are produced at engine and transmission plants. AAMA recommended that the regulation provide that ``(a)ll value added at the transmission and engine plant is excluded from the calculation of origin.'' APMA stated that the agency asked whether it should include non-parts costs of on-site production prior to the point at which engine parts are assembled to engine block or transmission parts are assembled in the transmission casing. APMA stated that it supports the regulation as drafted, which does not include non-parts costs for on-site production, as being the only approach consistent with the statutory language. A number of other commenters, however, urged that ``on-site'' production of parts at an engine/transmission plant should be treated similarly to on-site production at a manufacturer's final assembly point, i.e., by including all costs related to the production of such components, including labor. Honda stated that it strongly supports inclusion of costs of in-house production of parts and subcomponents that are subsequently integrated into the engine or transmission during final assembly. It also stated that the agency's proposed definition of final assembly point for the engine (the point at which the engine parts are assembled to the engine block) and the transmission (the point at which the transmission part are assembled in the transmission casing or housing) seems appropriate.
