FR940919-0-00057 FR940919-0-00016 Although the HWIR rule for contaminated media is being developed on a different schedule than the LDR rules, EPA believes (and is supported by many commenters) that it is appropriate to address the issue of setting treatment standards for soils within the broader framework of the HWIR rule, since such treatment requirements are expected to be an integral part of that rule. In addition, EPA believes that the contained-in policy is one of the key issues that must be addressed in the development of a comprehensive regulatory framework for management of contaminated media. In the meantime, hazardous soils are generally subject to the LDR treatment standards that apply to the hazardous wastes with which the soils are contaminated, including those addressed in today's rule. The Agency has stated a presumption, however, that the treatment standards for as-generated wastes are generally inappropriate or unachievable for soils contaminated with hazardous wastes, within the meaning of 40 CFR 268.44(a) (see 55 FR 8759&hyph;60, March 8, 1990). It has been the Agency's experience that contaminated soils are significantly different in their treatability characteristics from the wastes that have been evaluated in establishing the BDAT standards, and thus, will generally qualify for a treatability variance under 40 CFR 268.44. For guidance on treatability variances for soils, see the EPA Fact Sheet entitled ``Regional Guide: Issuing Site-Specific Treatability Variances for Contaminated Soils and Debris from Land Disposal Restrictions (OSWER Publication 9839.3&hyph;08FS). For RCRA actions, the Regional Administrator was delegated the authority to deny or grant these variances in a non-rulemaking procedure under 40 CFR 268.44(h) on April 22, 1991. These variances may be granted by State agencies in States authorized for ยง268.44. Variance authority for CERCLA actions is discussed in LDR Guides 6A (revised Sept. 1990) and 6B (OSWER 9347.3&hyph;06FS and 9347.3&hyph;06BFS). As previously noted, EPA chose not to develop separate treatment standards for soils in this rulemaking, and currently plans to address treatment standards for contaminated soils in the context of the Hazardous Waste Identification Rule (HWIR) for contaminated media, which is currently under development. If, however, the HWIR Contaminated Media rule does not sufficiently address treatment standards for contaminated soils in a timely manner, the Agency may promulgate such standards in a separate rulemaking. Information on the HWIR Contaminated Media rule may be obtained by contacting Carolyn Loomis, at (703) 308&hyph;8626. Until LDR standards specific to soils are promulgated, EPA believes that treatability variances will generally be appropriate when hazardous soils are managed as part of site remediation activities. The Agency recognizes, however, that in some cases obtaining a treatability variance as provided under ยง268.44 could cause delays in implementing remedial actions. The Agency is currently considering whether changes to the existing variance or authorization procedures should be made as a means of expediting cleanup actions that are conducted under RCRA or other Federal or State authorities, or other cleanups initiated by responsible parties. Such changes, if necessary, will be addressed in a future rulemaking. II. Summary of Rule A. Treatment Standards for Newly Identified Organic Toxicity Characteristic (TC) Wastes On March 29, 1990, EPA promulgated a rule that identified organic constituents (in addition to existing EP metals and pesticide constituents) and levels at which a waste is considered hazardous based on the characteristic of toxicity (55 FR 11798). Because these wastes were identified as hazardous after the enactment date of HSWA in 1984, they are ``newly identified wastes'' for purposes of the LDR program. Included are wastes identified with the codes D018 through D043 based on the toxicity characteristic leaching procedure (TCLP), i.e., TC wastes. EPA is establishing treatment standards for each of these constituents if they are managed in systems other than those regulated under the Clean Water Act (CWA), those engaging in CWA-equivalent treatment prior to land disposal, and those injected into Class I deep injection wells regulated under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA). (For an explanation of these qualifications, see the May 24, 1993 Interim Final Rule (58 FR 29860).) In addition, because wastes exhibiting the toxicity characteristic (TC) can contain treatable levels of other hazardous constituents, EPA is establishing treatment standards for the underlying hazardous constituents, as defined in 268.2(i). These rules are consistent with the court's opinion in Chemical Waste Management v. EPA, 976 F.2d 2, 17&hyph;8 (D.C. Cir. 1992), cert. denied 113 U.S. 1961 (1993), which held that all hazardous constituents in characteristic wastes must meet the levels of performance satisfying the requirements in RCRA 3004(m) before land disposal, and that treatment standards cannot be achieved by dilution (provided, of course, that treatment standards are not established below the level at which threats to human health and the environment are minimized). B. Prohibition of Dilution of High TOC Ignitable and of TC Pesticide Wastes Injected Into Class I Deep Wells In its ruling on the Third Third LDR Rule, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals remanded the portion of the Agency's rule allowing treatment standards for characteristic wastes to be achieved by dilution. The Agency is continuing to develop a regulatory response to implement the court's ruling. As part of that response, EPA is today requiring that hazardous constituents in two types of characteristic wastes, high total organic carbon (TOC) ignitable liquids (D001), and halogenated pesticide wastes that exhibit the toxicity characteristic (D012&hyph;D017), be fully treated before those wastes are disposed unless the wastes are disposed in an injection well that has a no-migration variance. The Agency believes that treatment of these particular wastestreams is warranted. (See Section VIII_Deep Well Injection Issues for further discussion.) The D001 wastes are ignitable with potentially high concentrations of hazardous constituents, and the pesticide wastes contain particularly toxic constituents. Further, the organics in D001 high TOC liquids can be recovered, destroyed, or used as a fuel and occur in only small volumes so that segregation and treatment should not prove difficult. C. Treatment Standards for Newly Listed Wastes EPA has promulgated a number of hazardous waste listings since the enactment of HSWA in 1984, referred to as ``newly listed wastes'' under the LDR program. This rule describes the treatment technologies (recycling is a type of treatment) identified as BDAT for several of these newly listed wastes, and establishes treatment standards based on these BDATs. Newly listed wastes included in today's rule are K141&hyph;K145, K147&hyph;K148, and K149&hyph;K151 (coke by-product production wastes and chlorotoluene wastes) (see 40 CFR 261.32 for a description of these wastes).
