FR940622-1-00083 FR940622-1-00029 (5) An institution shall grant forbearance if_ (i) The amount of the payments the borrower is obligated to make on title IV loans each month (or a proportional share if the payments are due less frequently than monthly) is collectively equal to or greater than 20 percent of the borrower's monthly disposable income; (ii) The institution determines that the borrower should qualify for the forbearance due to poor health or for other acceptable reasons; or (iii) The Secretary authorizes a period in the event of a national military mobilization or other national emergency. (6) Before granting a forbearance to a borrower under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section, the institution shall require the borrower to submit at least the following documentation: (i) Evidence showing the amount of the borrower's most recent monthly disposable income. (ii) A copy of the borrower's federal income tax return if the borrower filed a tax return within eight months prior to the date the forbearance is requested. (iii) Evidence showing the most recent monthly amount due on the borrower's title IV loans. (7) Interest accrues during any period of forbearance. (e) Compromise of repayment. (1) An institution may compromise on the repayment of a defaulted loan if_ (i) The institution has fully complied with all due diligence requirements specified in subpart C of this part; and (ii) The student borrower pays in a single lump-sum payment_ (A) 90 percent of the outstanding principal balance on the loan under this part; (B) The interest due on the loan; and (C) Any collection fees due on the loan. (2) The Federal share of the compromise repayment must bear the same relation to the institution's share of the compromise repayment as the Federal capital contribution to the institution's loan Fund under this part bears to the institution's capital contribution to the Fund. * * * * * 18. Sections 674.34 through 674.39 are redesignated as §§674.35 through 674.40 respectively and a new §674.34 is added to read as follows: §674.34 Deferment of repayment_Federal Perkins loans and Direct loans made on or after July 1, 1993. (a) The borrower may defer making scheduled installment repayment on a Federal Perkins loan or a Direct loan made on or after July 1, 1993, during the periods described in this section. (b)(1) The borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, during a period after the commencement or resumption of the repayment period on a loan, when the borrower is_ (i) Enrolled and in attendance as a regular student in at least a half-time course of study at an eligible institution; (ii) Enrolled and in attendance as a regular student in a course of study that is part of a graduate fellowship program approved by the Secretary; (iii) Engaged in graduate or post-graduate fellowship-supported study (such as a Fulbright grant) outside the United States; or (iv) Enrolled in a course of study that is part of a rehabilitation training program for disabled individuals approved by the Secretary as described in paragraph (g) of this section. (2) No borrower is eligible for a deferment under paragraph (b)(1) of this section while serving in a medical internship or residency program. (3) The institution of higher education at which the borrower is enrolled does not need to be participating in the Federal Perkins Loan program for the borrower to qualify for a deferment. (4) If a borrower is attending an institution of higher education as at least a half-time regular student for a full academic year and intends to enroll as at least a half-time regular student in the next academic year, the borrower is entitled to a deferment for 12 months. (5) If an institution no longer qualifies as an institution of higher education, the borrower's deferment ends on the date the institution ceases to qualify.
