FR940511-2-00187 FR940511-2-00118 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration Noise Exposure Map Notice; Receipt of Noise Compatibility Program and Request for Review Central Florida Regional Airport Sanford, FL AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announces its determination that the revised future noise exposure map submitted by the Sanford Airport Authority, Sanford, Florida for The Central Florida Regional Airport under the provisions of Title I of the Aviation Safety and Noise Abatement Act of 1979 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;193) and 14 CFR part 150 is in compliance with applicable requirements. The FAA also announces that it is reviewing a proposed noise compatibility program that was submitted for The Central Florida Regional Airport under part 150 in conjunction with the noise exposure maps, and that this program will be approved or disapproved on or before October 16, 1994. This program was submitted subsequent to a determination by FAA that the associated existing noise exposure map submitted under 14 CFR part 150 for The Central Florida Regional Airport was in compliance with applicable requirements effective September 16, 1993. EFFECTIVE DATE: The effective date of the FAA's determination on the revised future noise exposure map and of the start of its review of the associated noise compatibility program is April 19, 1994. The public comment period ends June 18, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Tommy J. Pickering, P.E., Federal Aviation Administration, Orlando Airports District Office, 9677 Tradeport Drive, suite 130, Orlando, Florida 32827&hyph;5397, (407) 648&hyph;6583. Comments on the proposed noise compatibility program should also be submitted to the above office. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The notice announces that the FAA finds that the revised future noise exposure map submitted for The Central Florida Regional Airport is in compliance with applicable requirements of part 150, effective April 19, 1994. Further, FAA is reviewing a proposed noise compatibility program for that airport which will be approved or disapproved on or before October 16, 1994. This notice also announces the availability of this program for public review and comment. Under section 103 of Title I of the Aviation Safety and Noise Abatement Act of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as ``the Act''), an airport operator may submit to the FAA noise exposure maps which meet applicable regulations and which depict noncompatible land uses as of the date of submission of such maps, a description of projected aircraft operations, and the ways in which such operations will affect such maps. The Act requires such maps to be developed in consultation with interested and affected parties to the local community, government agencies, and persons using the airport. An airport operator who has submitted noise exposure maps that are found by FAA to be in compliance with the requirements of Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) part 150, promulgated pursuant to Title I of the Act, may submit a noise compatibility program for FAA approval which sets forth the measures the operator has taken or proposes for the reduction of existing noncompatible uses and for the prevention of the introduction of additional noncompatible uses. The Sanford Airport Authority, Sanford, Florida, submitted to the FAA on March 8, 1994, a revised future noise exposure map, descriptions and other documentation which were produced during the Central Florida Regional Airport FAR part 150 Study conducted between September, 1992 and February, 1994. It was requested that the FAA review this material as the future noise exposure map, as described in section 103(a)(1) of the Act, and that the noise mitigation measures, to be implemented jointly by the airport and surrounding communities, be approved as a noise compatibility program under section 104(b) of the Act. The FAA has completed its review of the revised future noise exposure map and related descriptions submitted by the Sanford Airport Authority, Sanford, Florida. The specific map under consideration is ``Future (1998) DNL Noise Contours With Recommended Controls'' in the submission. The FAA has determined that this map for The Central Florida Regional Airport is in compliance with applicable requirements. This determination is effective on April 19, 1994. FAA's determination on an airport operator's noise exposure maps is limited to a funding that the maps were developed in accordance with the procedures contained in appendix A of FAR part 150. Such determination does not constitute approval of the applicant's data, information or plans, or a commitment to approve a noise compatibility program or to fund the implementation of that program. If questions arise concerning the precise relationship of specific properties to noise exposure contours depicted on a noise exposure map submitted under section 103 of the Act, it should be noted that the FAA is not involved in any way in determining the relative locations of specific properties with regard to the depicted noise contours, or in interpreting the noise exposure maps to resolve questions concerning, for example, which properties should be covered by the provisions of section 107 of the Act. These functions are inseparable from the ultimate land use control and planning responsibilities of local government. These local responsibilities are not changed in any way under part 150 or through FAA's review of noise exposure maps. Therefore, the responsibility for the detailed overlaying of noise exposure contours onto the map depicting properties on the surface rests exclusively with the airport operator which submitted those maps, or with those public agencies and planning agencies with which consultation is required under section 103 of the Act. The FAA has relied on the certification by the airport operator, under ยง150.21 of FAR part 150 that the statutorily required consultation has been accomplished. The FAA has formally received the noise compatibility program for The Central Florida Regional Airport, also effective on April 19, 1994. Preliminary review of the submitted material indicated that it conforms to the requirements for the submittal of noise compatibility programs, but that further review will be necessary prior to approval or disapproval of the program. The formal review period, limited by law to a maximum of 180 days, will be completed on or before October 16, 1994. The FAA's detailed evaluation will be conducted under the provisions of 14 CFR part 150, ยง150.33. The primary considerations in the evaluation process are whether the proposed measures may reduce the level of aviation safety, create an undue burden on interstate or foreign commerce, or be reasonable consistent with obtaining the goal of reducing existing noncompatible land uses and preventing the introduction of additional noncompatible land uses. Interested persons are invited to comment on the program with specific reference to these factors. All Comments, other than those properly addressed to local land use authorities, will be considered by the FAA to the extent practicable. Copies of the noise exposure maps, the FAA's evaluation of the maps, and the proposed noise compatibility program are available for examination at the following locations: Federal Aviation Administration, Orlando Airports District Office, 9677 Tradeport Drive, suite 130 Orlando, Florida 32827&hyph;5397. Sanford Airport Authority, Central Florida Regional Airport, 2735 Mellonville Avenue, Sanford, FL 32772-0818. Questions may be directed to the individual named above under the heading, FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. Issued in Orlando, Florida, April 19, 1994. W. Dean Stringer, Assistant Manager, Orlando Airports District Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11408 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
