FR941107-2-00147 FR941107-2-00086 [Release No. 34&hyph;34918; File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;13] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Order Granting Temporary Accelerated Approval to Proposed Rule Change by the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to Procedures for the Handling of Market-on-Close Orders on Expiration Fridays and Quarterly Index Expiration Days October 31, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on October 12, 1994, the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. (``BSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On October 14, 1994, the Exchange submitted to the Commission Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change in order to correct certain typographical errors and to specify the duration of the pilot extension. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 See letter from Karen A. Aluise, Assistant Vice President, BSE, to Beth A. Stekler, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, dated October 12, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to extend the pilot program which provides a set of procedures for the handling of Market-on-Close (``MOC'') orders 2 on Expiration Fridays 3 and Quarterly Index Expiration Days. 4 These procedures mirror the procedures in place on the New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE'') 5 in order to ensure equal treatment of orders in both markets. 2 The BSE defines an ``at the close order'' as a market order which is to be executed at or as near to the close as practicable. See Ch. I, Sec. 3 of the BSE Rules. 3 The term ``Expiration Friday'' refers to the trading day, usually the third Friday of the month, when some stock index options, stock index futures and options on stock index futures expire or settle concurrently. 4 The term ``Quarterly Index Expiration Day'' refers to the trading day, currently the last trading day of each calendar quarter, on which Quarterly Index Expiration (``QIX'') options expire. 5 The Commission approved the NYSE's current auxiliary closing procedures for Expiration Fridays and Quarterly Index Expiration Days (collectively, ``expiration days'') on a pilot basis in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32868 (September 10, 1993), 58 FR 48687 (September 17, 1993) (File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;33) (``1993 Auxiliary Closing Procedures Approval Order''). The NYSE procedures establish, for all stocks, a 3:40 p.m. deadline for (1) the entry of MOC orders related to a strategy including any expiring stock index options, stock index futures or options on stock index futures and (2) the cancellation or reduction of any MOC order. In addition, for the pilot stocks (as defined below, see infra note 7), the NYSE specialist must, as soon as practicable after 3:40 p.m., disseminate any MOC order imbalance of 50,000 shares or more; thereafter, MOC orders in the pilot stocks may be entered only to offset a published imbalance. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item III below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements.
