FR940721-0-00089 FR940721-0-00014 (a) Each supplier of an engine or transmission shall determine the country of origin once a year for each engine and transmission. The origin of engines shall be calculated for engines of the same displacement produced at the same plant. The origin for transmissions shall be calculated for transmissions of the same type produced at the same plant. Transmissions are of the same type if they have the same attributes including: Drive line application, number of forward gears, controls, and layout. The U.S. and Canada are treated separately in making such determination. (b) The value of an engine or transmission is determined by adding up the prices paid by the manufacturer of the engine/transmission for each component comprising the engine/ transmission, as delivered to the assembly plant of the engine/transmission, and the fair market value of each individual part produced at the plant. All value added at the engine/transmission plant is otherwise excluded from the calculation of origin. Individual parts refers to the most basic level of parts used to assemble an engine or transmission and not subassemblies. (c) Determining the country of origin of components. (1) Except as provided in (c)(2), the country of origin of each component is the country which contributes the greatest amount of value added to that item. (2) Instead of making country of origin determinations in the manner specified in (c)(1), a manufacturer may, at its option, use any other methodology that is used for customs purposes (U.S. or foreign), so long as a consistent methodology is employed for all components. (d) Determination of the total value of an engine/transmission which is attributable to individual countries . The value of an engine/transmission that is attributable to each country is determined by adding up the total value of all of the components installed in that engine/transmission which originated in that country. (e) The country of origin of each engine and the country of origin of each transmission is the country which contributes the greatest amount of value added to that item of equipment. §583.9 Attachment and maintenance of label. (a) Attachment of the label. (1) Except as provided in (a)(2), each manufacturer shall cause the label required by §583.5 to be affixed to each new passenger motor vehicle before the vehicle is delivered to a dealer. (2) For vehicles which are delivered to a dealer prior to the introduction date for the model in question, each manufacturer shall cause the label required by §583.5 to be affixed to the vehicle prior to such introduction date. (b) Maintenance of the label. (1) Each dealer shall cause to be maintained each label on the new passenger motor vehicles it receives until after such time as a vehicle has been sold to a consumer for purposes other than resale. (2) If the manufacturer of a passenger motor vehicle provides a substitute label containing corrected information, the dealer shall replace the original label with the substitute label. (3) If a label becomes damaged so that the information it contains is not legible, the dealer shall replace it with an identical, undamaged label. §583.10 Outside suppliers of passenger motor vehicle equipment. (a) For each unique type of passenger motor vehicle equipment for which a manufacturer or allied supplier requests information, the outside supplier shall provide the manufacturer/allied supplier with a certificate providing the following information: (1) The name and address of the supplier; (2) A description of the unique type of equipment; (3) The price of the equipment to the manufacturer or allied supplier; (4) A statement that the equipment has, or does not have, at least 70 percent of its value added in the United States and Canada, determined under §583.6(c); (5) For equipment which has less than 70 percent of its value added in the United States and Canada, the country of origin of the equipment, determined under §583.7(c); (6) For equipment that may be used in an engine or transmission, the country of origin of the equipment, determined under §583.8(c); (7) A certification for the information, pursuant to §583.13, and the date (at least giving the month and year) of the certification. (8) A single certificate may cover multiple items of equipment. (b) The information and certification required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be provided to the manufacturer or allied supplier no later than 45 days after receipt of the request, or the date specified by the manufacturer/allied supplier, whichever is later. (A manufacturer or allied supplier may request that the outside supplier voluntarily provide the information and certification at an earlier date.) (c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the information provided in the certificate shall be the supplier's best estimates of price, content, and country of origin for the unique type of equipment expected to be supplied during the 12 month period beginning on the first July 1 after receipt of the request. If the unique type of equipment supplied by the supplier is expected to vary with respect to price, content, and country of origin during that period, the supplier shall base its estimates on expected averages for these factors. (2) The 12 month period specified in (c)(1) may be varied in time and length by the manufacturer or allied supplier if it determines that the alteration is not likely to result in less accurate information being provided to consumers on the label required by this part. (d) For outside suppliers of engines and transmissions, the information and certification required by this section is in addition to that required by §583.12. §583.11 Allied suppliers of passenger motor vehicle equipment. (a) For each unique type of passenger motor vehicle equipment which an allied supplier supplies to the manufacturer with which it is allied, the allied supplier shall provide the manufacturer with a certificate providing the following information: (1) The name and address of the supplier; (2) A description of the unique type of equipment; (3) The price of the equipment to the manufacturer; (4) The percentage U.S./Canadian content of the equipment, determined under §583.6(c); (5) The country of origin of the equipment, determined under §583.7(c); (6) For equipment that may be used in an engine or transmission, the country of origin of the equipment, determined under §583.8(c);
