FR940128-2-00129 FR940128-2-00087 An announcement of the availability of funds for cooperative agreements to provide T&TA to eligible grantees, along with instructions and forms needed to prepare and submit applications, will be published in the Federal Register early in 1994. Earlier cooperative agreements allowed support for networking and membership efforts. We are proposing that these activities not be continued under the new agreements. Instead, we are proposing that the agreements provide for T&TA focused on findings resulting from the monitoring of runaway and homeless youth grantees. Grantee project periods will be for five years, and approximately $1.5 million in first-year funds will be available in FY 1994. B. National Clearinghouse on Runaway and Homeless Youth In June 1992, a five-year contract was awarded by the Department to establish and operate the National Clearinghouse on Runaway and Homeless Youth. The purpose of the Clearinghouse is to serve as a central information point for professionals and agencies involved in the development and implementation of services to runaway and homeless youth. To this end, the Clearinghouse: (1) Collects, evaluates and maintains reports, materials and other products regarding the provision of services to runaway and homeless youth: (2) Develops and disseminates reports and bibliographies useful to the field; (3) Identifies areas in which new or additional reports, materials and products are needed; and (4) Carries out other activities designed to provide the field with the information needed to improve services to runaway and homeless youth. It is anticipated that non-competitive continuation funding will be awarded to sustain the Clearinghouse in FY 1994. C. Management Information System (MIS) Implementation In FY 1992, a five-year contract was awarded to implement the Runaway and Homeless Youth Management Information System (MIS) across three FYSB programs: the Runaway and Homeless Youth Basic Center Program, the Transitional Living Program, and the Drug Abuse Prevention Program. The MIS data elements include identification of the program in which the youth is enrolled, a profile on each youth served (demographics, presenting problems, services received), and an agency profile (agency description, program information, staff profile, and related information). Participation in the MIS is mandatory. In FY 1993, using an existing computer-based, information gathering protocol, the contractor began providing training and technical assistance to grantees in the use of the MIS. The system will become fully operational by the end of FY 1994. The data generated by the system will be used to produce reports and information regarding the programs, including information for the required reports to Congress on each of the three programs. The MIS is also designed to serve as a management tool for FYSB and for the individual programs. It is anticipated that continuation funding for the MIS will be provided in FY 1994. D. Monitoring Support for FYSB Programs In FY 1992, FYSB awarded a contract for initial development of a comprehensive monitoring instrument and set of site visit protocols, including a peer-review component, for the Runaway and Homeless Youth Basic Center Program, the Transitional Living Program, and the Drug Abuse Prevention Program. Pilot testing of the instrument and related protocols began in FY 1993. Also in FY 1993 an expanded contract was awarded to provide nationwide logistical support for the peer review monitoring process. The projected nationwide use of the new instrument and peer review process will improve Federal oversight of the programs and will identify program strengths and weaknesses. The findings will also be used to direct T&TA activities and FYSB policy development. It is anticipated that continuation funding for the logistical contractor will be provided in FY 1994. IV. Research and Demonstration Initiatives Section 343 of the Act authorizes the Department to make grants to States, localities, and private entities to carry out research, demonstration, and service projects designed to increase knowledge concerning and to improve services for runaway and homeless youth. These activities are important in order to identify emerging issues and to develop and test models which address such issues.
