FR940128-2-00017 FR940128-2-00005 DOC Position: We disagree with petitioners. The Department verified the accuracy of the coil costs contained only in the first submission. (See, the ``Case History'' section of this notice for further discussion.) Thus, any differences between the first and second responses are irrelevant. Moreover, it is not relevant that the weighted-average material costs reported in the first submission differ from selected invoices included as exhibits to the cost verification report. Specifically, the weighted-average prices are based on the entire population of invoices which comprise KT's raw material requisition values, while the invoices included as verification exhibits are only a selected portion of them. To the extent that the individual values are not identical, they should differ from the average value. Comment 8: Petitioners argue that the exhibits to the cost verification report demonstrate that an exchange rate gain claimed by KT as an offset to foreign exchange losses does not relate to the merchandise under investigation and, accordingly, should not be included in KT's submitted cost of manufacturing. DOC Position: We agree. Accordingly, we have not allowed an offset for this gain for purposes of the final determination. Comment 9: Petitioners contend that the Department cannot rely on KT's second cost submission because it contains unverified data. Thus, petitioners maintain that the Department's conclusion in the cost verification report that material costs in the first submission are lower than material costs reported in the second cost submission does not, and should not, lend any credibility to the data in the first submission. According to petitioners, both submissions are flawed and should be rejected in their entirety. DOC Position: We agree with petitioners that the material cost data contained in KT's second submission was not verified and should not be relied upon by the Department. Therefore, no conclusions were drawn as a result of comparing material costs contained in both the first and second submissions. Comment 10: KT argues that the Department should accept its reported value for work in process. KT asserts that, although its opening and closing work in process for the POI are valued at standard cost, without any adjustment for the variance during the period, it is mathematically impossible for this to result in an understatement of KT's costs because KT had a negative variance for FY 1993. DOC Position: We agree. Since KT had a negative variance during the relevant periods, the effect of valuing work-in-process at standard cost would be to overstate its costs. Therefore, no adjustment is deemed necessary.
