FR940505-1-00437 FR940505-1-00012 ( 1 ) The date construction is commenced on all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit. ( 2 ) The anticipated date of initial startup of the unit after completing all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit. ( 3 ) The actual date of initial startup of the unit after completing all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment to the unit. (C) By the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (v)(5) of this section, any owner or operator of a unit subject to the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(i) of this section shall submit to the Administrator certification that the unit is in compliance with the applicable standards in paragraph (v)(3)(i) of this section as demonstrated through the applicable requirements of paragraph (v)(7)(i) of this section. As a part of the certification, the owner or operator shall submit a written report of the results of the compliance method used. If an owner or operator demonstrates compliance by use of a compliance test in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (v)(7)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of the compliance test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. (D) Any owner or operator that must or chooses to demonstrate compliance with paragraph (v)(3)(i) of this section shall submit to the Administrator a written report of the results of all compliance tests required under paragraph (v)(3)(i)(D) of this section within 60 days after completing each compliance test. The owner or operator shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of the compliance test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. (E) By the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (v)(5) of this section, any owner or operator of a unit subject to the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(ii) of this section shall submit to the Administrator a report that documents the compliance method selected for demonstrating compliance with the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(ii) of this section. The report shall also contain documentation of the procedure used or the results of the compliance test to demonstrate that the unit is in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(ii) of this section. (F) Any owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(ii) of this section shall submit to the Administrator a report every 12 months after the initial compliance date that contains documentation of the procedure used and the results of the compliance method to demonstrate that the unit is in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(ii) of this section. (G) Any owner or operator subject to the monitoring requirements of paragraph (v)(6)(ii) of this section shall notify the Administrator in writing within 30 days after the rolling 12 calendar month annual heat input rate of the unit equals or exceeds 1.8 × 109 Btu/yr or 0.3 × 109 Btu/yr. Any owner or operator that becomes subject to the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(i) or (v)(3)(ii) of this section as a result of the requirements of this paragraph shall be subject to the compliance schedule in paragraph (v)(5)(iv) or (v)(5)(v) of this section and the applicable requirements of paragraphs (v)(6) and (v)(7) of this section. (ii) Monitoring requirements. Any owner or operator of a unit with an annual heat input rate of less than 1.8 × 109 Btu/yr and not complying with the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(i) of this section shall install a totalizing fuel meter for each applicable unit and for each fuel. Meters shall be accurate to # 1 percent, as certified by the manufacturer in writing. Fuel consumption for each unit shall be compiled monthly into a rolling 12 calendar month report. (iii) Recordkeeping requirements. Any owner or operator of a unit subject to paragraph (v) of this section shall maintain all records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the section for a period of five calendar years at the plant where the subject unit is located. The records shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. The owner or operator shall maintain records of the following information for each day the unit is operated: (A) Identification and location of each unit subject to the requirements of this section. (B) Calendar date of record; (C) The number of hours the unit is operated during each day; (D) Boiler load, fuel type, actual time of startups and shutdowns, breakdown periods, and the type and duration of maintenance and repairs. (E) The results of all compliance tests and monitored stack gas oxygen concentrations. (F) If a unit is equipped with a flue gas recirculation system, records of the percentage of the flue gas that is recirculated to the combustion chamber of the unit. (G) For units with an annual heat input rate less than 1.8 × 109 Btu/yr, the monthly fuel consumption and the rolling 12 calendar month fuel consumption. (H) Any owner or operator that uses a non-gaseous fuel in any unit, pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (v)(4) of this section, shall maintain daily records of each occurrence. Each record shall specify the reason why non-gaseous fuel is used in a unit and shall include the type of fuel, the quantity of fuel, and the hours of operation during the use of non-gaseous fuel. If non-gaseous fuel is used during a natural gas curtailment, the owner or operator shall obtain information from the natural gas supplier to verify the period of curtailment. If non-gaseous fuel is used to maintain the non-gaseous fuel system, the owner or operator shall maintain records of the total hours during which the unit was operated on non-gaseous fuel during each calendar year.
