FR940512-2-00189 FR940512-2-00078 Additional copies of this announcement may be obtained from the ACF Regional Offices or by calling the telephone number listed at the beginning of this announcement. Further general information may be obtained from the Training and Technical Assistance Providers listed in Part VI, Appendix G. F. Application Consideration All applications which are complete and conform to the requirements of this program announcement will be subject to a competitive review and evaluation process against the specific criteria outlined in Part II of this announcement and the specific Minimum Requirements for Project Design contained in Part III of this announcement. This review will be conducted in Washington, DC, by teams of non-Federal experts knowledgeable in the areas of youth development and/or human service programs. Applications for a Basic Center Program grant will be reviewed competitively only with other applications from the same State. Applications for Drug Abuse Prevention Program, Transitional Living Program and Training and Technical Assistance grants will be reviewed as a part of a national competition. The non-Federal experts will review the applications based on the Evaluation Criteria listed in Part II of this announcement and the specific Minimum Requirements for Project Design contained in Part III of this announcement and will assign a score to each application. The results of the competitive review will be analyzed by Federal staff who, in consultation with ACF Regional officials, will select those applications to be recommended for funding to the Commissioner, ACYF. The Commissioner will make the final selection of the applicants to be funded. As required by runaway and homeless youth legislation, priority for funding will be given to agencies with demonstrated experience in providing direct services to runaway and homeless youth. However, current grantees ending a three-year funding period, and applying as a new applicant for funds under this program announcement, are reminded that when the current project period ends so does the funding agency's obligation for future awards. Criterion 3, Approach, requires applicants to specifically discuss how their project will be maintained after termination of Federal support. In addition to scores assigned by non-Federal reviewers, consideration also will be given to adequate geographic distribution of services and the Commissioner may show preference for applications proposing services in areas that would not otherwise be served. The Commissioner also may elect to consider an applicant's past performance in providing services to runaway and homeless youth and also may elect not to fund any applicants having known management, fiscal or other problems which make it unlikely that they would be able to provide effective services. Grant awards for Basic Center Program, Drug Abuse Prevention Program and Training and Technical Assistance grants will be made by September 30, 1994. Grant awards for Transitional Living Program grants will be made after October 1, 1994. Successful applicants will be notified through the issuance of a Financial Assistance Award which will set forth the amount of funds granted, the terms and conditions of the grant, the effective date of the grant, the budget period for which support will be given, the non-Federal share to be provided, and the total project period for which support is contemplated. Organizations whose applications will not be funded will be notified of that decision in writing by the Commissioner of the Administration on Children, Youth and Families. Every effort will be made to notify all unsuccessful applicants as soon as possible after final decisions are made, including grantees whose three-year project periods end in FY 1994. Part V. Application Assembly and Submission Applicants applying for more than one runaway and homeless youth grant (Basic Center Program, Drug Abuse Prevention Program, Transitional Living Program and/or Training and Technical Assistance) must submit a separate and complete application for each program. Applications that combine more than one program in a single proposal will not be reviewed. A. Contents of application. Each application must contain the following items in the order listed: 1. Application for Federal Assistance (Standard Form 424, REV 4&hyph;88) (page i). 2. Budget Information (Standard Form 424A, REV 4&hyph;88) (pages ii&hyph;iii). 3. Budget Justification (Type on standard size plain white paper) (pages iv&hyph;v). 4. Assurances_Non-Construction Programs (Standard Form 424B, REV 4&hyph;88) (pages vi&hyph;vii). 5. Certification Regarding Lobbying (page viii). 6. Program Narrative Statement (pages 1 and following; 40 pages maximum, double-spaced). Special Note: APPLICANTS ARE STRONGLY ENCOURAGED TO LIMIT THE PROGRAM NARRATIVE STATEMENT PORTION OF THE APPLICATION TO 40 DOUBLE-SPACED PAGES. 7. Organizational Capability Statement (pages OCS&hyph;1 and following; 3 pages maximum). 8. Supporting Documents (pages SD&hyph;1 and following; 10 pages maximum, exclusive of letters of support or agreement).
