FR940505-1-00446 FR940505-1-00012 (iii) Provide the vehicle owner with a written copy of the test results and the determination that the vehicle was not obviously abused or tampered with. This document shall be signed by the certified emission inspector and the manager or an assistant manager of the FIP I/M test facility. (4) Exceedance of an I/M-based selective recall liability threshold. (i) The liability threshold is 5.0 percent for vehicles that have not exceeded 50.0 percent of their useful life and 10.0 percent for vehicles that have not exceeded 100.0 percent of their full useful life. (ii) An exhaust engine family is deemed to have exceeded the liability threshold for NO X or HC if the NO X or HC failure rate for any model year of that exhaust engine family, per paragraph (f)(5) of this section, exceeds the half- or full-life liability threshold at any time, after three months of data have been submitted for that model year's vehicles. Exceedance of the liability thresholds for HC and NO X are determined independently. (5) Calculation of failure rates. (i) The failure rate (in percent) for a specific pollutant for each model year of each exhaust engine family will consist of the total number of failing vehicles for that pollutant divided by the total number of vehicles multiplied by 100, where: (A) The total number of vehicles refers to the sum of all vehicles from a specific model year and exhaust engine family which have been tested in a FIP I/M program, (B) The total number of failing vehicles includes those vehicles included under paragraph (f)(5)(i)(A) of this section which: (1 ) At any time exceeded the applicable IM240 exhaust NO X standard specified in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) or (c)(2)(iv) of this section, as applicable, (considered a failure for NO X ); or ( 2 ) At any time exceeded the applicable IM240 exhaust HC standard specified in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) or (c)(2)(iv) of this section, as applicable, or failed either the purge or pressure functional tests described in ยง52.2963(t) and (u), respectively (considered a failure for HC). (C) Separate failure rates for each pollutant will be calculated for vehicles which have not exceeded 50.0 percent of their full useful life and for vehicles which have not exceeded 100.0 percent of their full useful life. (D) Failure rates shall be expressed as a percentage, rounded to one figure after the decimal. (ii) On a monthly basis, the Administrator will calculate the HC and NO X failure rates for each exhaust engine family and notify each vehicle manufacturer, as applicable, of the results for their engine families. (iii) Within thirty days after a liability threshold for an exhaust family has been determined to be exceeded, the Administrator shall, by registered mail, notify the manufacturer of the affected vehicles and managers of enhanced I/M test facilities required to meet the requirements of ยง52.2963. (g) Enhanced ILEV fleet program. (1) Fleet operators which control 10 or more vehicles which operate at any time in the South Coast Air Basin Nonattainment Area for Ozone as defined in 40 CFR 81.305 shall determine whether they are a covered fleet operator. This determination is to be made as follows: (i) The fleet operator shall not count the following types of vehicles: (A) Vehicles with a GVWR greater than 26,000 pounds; (B) Law enforcement and other emergency vehicles; (C) Nonroad vehicles; (D) Vehicles garaged at a private residence that are not centrally fueled; (E) Vehicles held for lease or rent to the general public; (F) Vehicles held for sale by motor vehicle dealers (including demonstration vehicles); and (G) Vehicles used for motor vehicle manufacturer product demonstrations and tests. (ii) Fleet operators shall determine the number of vehicles not exempted in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section that can be centrally fueled (as defined in 40 CFR 88.302&hyph;94). (iii) If a fleet operator determines under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section that 10 or more non-exempt vehicles can be centrally fueled, then the fleet operator shall be considered to be a covered fleet operator. (2) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, covered fleet operators acquiring vehicles to replace vehicles meeting the provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, or acquiring additional vehicles which meet the same provisions, shall acquire a number of enhanced ILEVs equal to the number of such vehicles acquired multiplied by the appropriate percentage as follows: (i) For model year 1999 light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty vehicles, 50 percent; (ii) For model year 2000 and later light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty vehicles, 70 percent. (3) Enhanced ILEV purchase credits. Covered fleet operators may satisfy the enhanced ILEV purchase requirements provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section wholly or in part by redeeming an appropriate number of enhanced ILEV purchase credits. Enhanced ILEV purchase credits may be generated as follows: (i) A covered fleet operator which purchases enhanced ILEVs in excess of the enhanced ILEV purchase requirement may receive one enhanced ILEV purchase credit for each excess vehicle; and (ii) A covered fleet operator which purchases enhanced ILEVs earlier than required may receive one enhanced ILEV purchase credit for each such vehicle. (iii) The Administrator shall issue a credit document or documents to a covered fleet operator which requests enhanced ILEV credit or credits and which provides evidence of the appropriate purchases. (iv) The Administrator shall approve the reduction of any covered fleet operator's enhanced ILEV purchase requirement by a number equal to the number of credits presented to the Administrator for redemption, subject to confirmation of the legitimacy of the credit documents so presented.
