FR940223-2-00221 FR940223-2-00102 Additional Instructions_Distance Education Projects 1. The applicant may include other pertinent information that may assist the Secretary in reviewing the application, including the scope and degree of services to be provided, who will render the telecommunications service, and when it will be delivered. 2. Justifications and specifications for equipment purchases should be clearly related to existing facilities and resources as well as to distance learning services to be delivered. 3. Applicants that apply for the production of instructional programming should be specific in the scope and sequence of the content and the tasks required to produce the proposed courses of instruction. 4. The application should enable reviewers to make clear linkages between the proposed budget and the specific tasks, operations, and service delivery. The Secretary strongly requests the applicant to limit the Application Narrative to no more than 45 double-spaced, typed 81/2 ’ ’ × 11 ’ ’ pages (on one side only), although the Secretary will consider applications of greater length. The applicant may include an appendix, also on 81/2 ’ ’ × 11 ’ ’ paper or any other pertinent information (e.g., letters of support, footnotes, resumes, etc.) that might assist the Secretary in reviewing the application. The applicant may provide a VHS 1/2 inch videotape, however such a tape should be limited to no more than 12 minutes. CFDA NO: 84.203B␣Star Schools_Special Statewide Network The narrative should encompass each function or activity for which funds are being requested and should_ 1. Begin with an Abstract that is a summary of the proposed project. 2. Describe how the proposed project will use a Statewide fiber optics network with two-way full motion video and audio communications to meet any or all of the priorities in the light of each of the selection criteria in the order in which the criteria are listed in this notice. Requirements_Special Statewide Network The legislation authorizing the Star Schools Program requires that all applications address each of the following: 1. Describe the telecommunications facilities and equipment and technical assistance for which assistance is sought which may include: A. The design, development, construction, and acquisition of Statewide educational telecommunications networks and technology resource centers; B. Reception facilities; C. Production facilities; D. Other telecommunications equipment capable of serving a wide geographic area; E. The provision of training services to instructors who will be using the facilities and equipment and how to integrate distance learning into the classroom curriculum; and F. The development of educational programming for students to be used on the telecommunications network. 2. Describe the types of programming which will be developed to enhance instruction and training and provide assurances that such programming will be designed in consultation with professionals who are experts in the applicable subject matter and grade level. 3. Demonstrate that the eligible telecommunications partnership has engaged in sufficient survey and analysis of the area to be served to ensure that the services offered by the telecommunications partnership will increase the availability of courses of instruction in mathematics, science, foreign languages and literacy skills as well as other subjects to be offered. 4. Describe the training policies for teachers and other school personnel to be implemented to ensure the effective use of the telecommunications facilities and equipment for which assistance is sought. 5. Describe the activities or services for which assistance is sought including activities and services such as_ A. Providing facilities, equipment, training, services, and technical assistance; B. Making programs accessible to individuals with disabilities through mechanisms such as closed captioning and descriptive video services; C. Linking networks together, for example, around an issue of national importance such as elections; D. Sharing curriculum materials among networks; E. Providing teacher and student support services; F. Incorporating community resources such as libraries and museums into instructional programs; G. Providing teacher training to early childhood development and Head Start teachers and staff; H. Providing teacher training to vocational education teachers and staff, and I. Providing programs for adults at times other than the regular school day in order to maximize the use of the telecommunications facilities and equipment. Additional Instructions_Special Statewide Network 1. The applicant may include other pertinent information that may assist the Secretary in reviewing the application, including the scope and degree of services to be provided, who will render the telecommunication service, when it will be delivered, and the role of the interactive components. 2. Justifications and specifications for equipment purchases should be clearly related to existing facilities and resources as well as to distance learning services to be delivered.
