FR941212-0-00111 FR941212-0-00019 (6) Action on appeal (§536.64). (7) Attorney fees (§536.66). §536.104 Settlement agreement. Procedures concerning settlement agreements will be in accordance with §536.32, except that the agreement will be modified to include a State and its NG in most cases. A copy of the agreement will be furnished to State authorities and the individual tortfeasor. Subpart G_Claims Under Status of Forces and Other International Agreements General §536.105 Statutory authority. The authority for this subpart is contained in the following: (a) 10 U.S.C. 2734a as amended, concerning claims arising overseas under international agreements. (b) 10 U.S.C. 2734b, as amended, concerning claims arising under international agreements in this country. (c) 10 U.S.C. 2735. (d) 10 U.S.C. 2736, as amended, providing for advance payment of certain claims. Claims Arising in the United States §536.106 Scope. (a) This subpart provides procedures and defines responsibilities for the investigation, processing, and settlement of claims arising out of acts or omissions of members of a foreign military force or civilian component present in the United States, or a territory, commonwealth, or possession thereof under the provisions of reciprocal international agreements, which contain claims settlement provisions applicable to claims arising in the United States, such as Article VIII of the Agreement Regarding the Status of Forces of Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix L). (b) The Sending States under current international reciprocal agreements include Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Turkey, the United Kingdom, Spain, and SHAPE. (c) Reference should be made to DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix L for delineation of what constitutes a foreign military force, a foreign civilian component, and a foreign dependent. (d) Whenever claims arise involving foreign soldiers training or otherwise stationed in the United States pursuant to bilateral agreements or other arrangements, such as foreign military sales agreements, which contain specific claims provisions, the claims office receiving the claim will report such claims to the Commander, USARCS, for guidance as to the resolution and, if necessary, payment of such claims. (e) The United States, as a Receiving State, is responsible under some Status of Forces Agreements, for the investigation of incidents, and for the processing of claims, arising from acts or omissions of members or civilian employees of an armed force of a sending state present in the United States. The United States may be liable for partial payment of such claims if they arise incident to the official duties of the sending state's soldier or employee. Article VIII of the NATO SOFA is the most commonly invoked agreement of this sort. It applies to torts committed within the North Atlantic Treaty Area, which includes the continental United States and island possessions north of the Tropic of Cancer (i.e. excludes Puerto Rico, Hawaii and American Samoa). It also applies to claims arising out of acts by military or civilian personnel, regardless of nationality, who are assigned, attached to, or employed by an international headquarters established under the provisions of the Protocol on the Status of International Military Headquarters Set Up Pursuant to the North Atlantic Treaty dated August 28, 1952 ( e.g. Supreme Allied Command, Atlantic). (f) Single service responsibility for the processing and settlement of claims cognizable under this section is assigned to DA by DODD 5515.8. The Secretary of the Army hereby designates the USARCS as the Receiving State Office for claims cognizable under this section with authority to settle such claims in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2734b. (See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix L.) (g) As Sending State forces are considered assimilated into the armed forces of the United States for purposes of the SOFAs, their members are also barred from being compensated by the United States when they are injured incident to their service, Daberkow v. United States, 581 F.2d 785 (9th Cir. 1978). (See also DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix L for an example of a government-to-government claim bar in these circumstances.) §536.107 Notification of incidents. In order for the United States to properly discharge its claims responsibilities under international agreements, it is essential that the responsible military authorities be notified of all incidents, including off-duty incidents, in which members of a foreign military force or civilian component are involved. Any installation that learns of an incident involving a member of a foreign military force or civilian component which results in personal injury, death, or property damage will notify immediately by the most expeditious means the installation to which such person is assigned or attached. An information copy of such notification will be furnished to the Commander, USARCS. In the event the member is not assigned or attached to any installation within the United States, the Commander, USARCS will be notified. The notification (exempt report, AR 335&hyph;15, paragraph 720) will contain so much of the following information as is readily available:
