FR940721-1-00028 FR940721-1-00009 The contingency plan contains only one trigger, a monitored air quality violation of the ozone NAAQS, as defined in 40 CFR 50.9. The trigger date will be the date that the State certifies to the USEPA that the air quality data are quality assured and no later than 30 days after an ambient air quality violation is monitored. D. Contingency Plan The level of VOC and NO X emissions in the Detroit-Ann Arbor area will largely determine its ability to stay in compliance with the ozone NAAQS in the future. Despite best efforts to demonstrate continued compliance with the NAAQS, the ambient air pollutant concentrations may exceed or violate the NAAQS. Therefore, as required by section 175A of the Act, Michigan has provided contingency measures with a schedule for implementation in the event of a future ozone air quality problem. Contingency measures contained in the plan include basic I/M, NO X RACT, Stage I expansion, Stage II, RVP reduction to 7.8 psi and intensified RACT for degreasing operations. In instances where the contingency measures must be actually adopted and implemented, the schedules specified for these SIPs in the Act and any corresponding regulations will be observed, with the exception of implementation of 7.8 RVP and intensified degreasing rules which will commence 12 months after the decision to employ these measures. Once the triggering event, a violation of the ozone NAAQS, is confirmed, the State will implement one or more appropriate contingency measure. Selection of the contingency measure(s) will be based on a technical analysis using UAM. The Governor will select the contingency measures within 6 months of a triggering event. The adoption and implementation schedules for the selected contingency measure(s) will be submitted to the USEPA with the UAM analysis. The USEPA understands, on the basis of the State's submission, that the adoption and implementation schedules specified in the Act and any corresponding regulations would be observed; therefore, the following schedules will be applicable for the contingency measures specified in the contingency plan: •Basic I/M would be implemented as a contingency measure 1 year from the effective date of the legislation, which would be the date of the decision to employ a basic I/M program to correct a violation of the ozone NAAQS. Part 40 CFR 51.373(b) stipulates implementation of basic I/M within 1 year of obtaining legal authority. •NO X RACT rules would be submitted 2 years from date of the decision to employ NOx RACT as a contingency measure. The NO X RACT rules would be implemented 30.5 months from the date NOx RACT rules are submitted to the USEPA or 54.5 months from the date of the decision to employ NO X RACT as a contingency measure. This schedule is consistent with section 182(b)(2)(C) which is the schedule applicable to the adoption and implementation of NO X RACT as specified by section 182(f). •Implementation of Stage I expansion to the entire seven county Detroit-Ann Arbor area (currently, Stage I is implemented in Wayne, Oakland and Macomb counties) would be in accordance with the schedule contained in Michigan's Stage I legislation (Senate Bill 726, section 9i). Gasoline dispensing facilities of any size constructed after November 15, 1990 must implement Stage I within 6 months of the decision to employ Stage I as a contingency measure. Existing facilities dispensing 100,000 gallons or more of gasoline a month must implement Stage I within 1 year and facilities dispensing less than 100,000 gallons of gasoline a month must implement Stage I within 2 years of the decision to employ Stage I as a contingency measure. •Stage II would be implemented according to the same schedule set forth for Stage I, since they are contained in the same legislation (Senate Bill 726), but will only be implemented in the counties of Wayne, Oakland, Macomb and Washtenaw. Under separate cover, the State has submitted to the USEPA, as SIP revisions, fully adopted legislation allowing implementation of a basic I/M program, Stage I, and Stage II in the Detroit-Ann Arbor area. The legislation provide for implementation of these programs as contingency measures within areas redesignated to attainment for ozone. The USEPA's Redesignation/Maintenance Plan TSD provides a more detailed discussion of each contingency measure.
