FR941027-2-00141 FR941027-2-00082 Appendix B Potential applicants frequently direct questions to officials of the Department regarding application notices and programmatic and administrative regulations governing various direct grant programs. To assist potential applicants the Department has assembled the following most commonly asked questions. Q. Can we get an extension of the deadline? A. No. A closing date may be changed only under extraordinary circumstances. Any change must be announced in the Federal Register and apply to all applications. Waivers for individual applications cannot be granted regardless of the circumstances. Q. How many copies of the application should I submit and must they be bound? A. Our new policy calls for an original and six copies to be submitted. The binding of applications is optional. Q. May we use this same application to compete for funds under a different grant program? A. Yes, however, the likelihood of success is not good. A properly prepared application must meet the specifications of the grant program to which it is submitted. Q. I'm not sure which grant program is most appropriate for my project. What should I do? A. We are happy to provide general program information. Clearly, it would not be appropriate for staff to participate in the actual writing of an application, but we can respond to specific questions about application requirements, evaluation criteria, and the priorities. Applicants should understand that this previous contact is not required, nor will it in any way influence the success of an application. Q. When will I find out if I'm going to be funded? A. You can expect to receive notification within 3 to 4 months of the application closing date, depending on the number of applications received and the number of grant programs with closing dates at about the same time. Q. Once my application has been reviewed by the review panel, can you tell me the outcome? A. No. Every year we are called by a number of applicants who have legitimate reasons for needing to know the outcome of the review prior to official notification. Some applicants need to make job decisions, some need to notify a local school district, etc. Regardless of the reason, because final funding decisions have not been made at that point, we cannot share information about the review with anyone. Q. Will my application be returned if I am not funded? A. We no longer return unsuccessful applications. Thus applicants should retain at least one copy of the application. Q. Can I obtain copies of reviewers' comments? A. Upon written request, reviewers' comments will be mailed to unsuccessful applicants. Q. Is travel allowed under these projects? A. Travel associated with carrying out the project is allowed. Because we may request the project director of funded projects to attend an annual project directors meeting, you may also wish to include a trip or two to Washington, D.C. in the travel budget. Travel to conferences is sometimes allowed when it is for purposes of dissemination. Q. If my application receives high scores from the reviewers, does that mean that I will receive funding? A. Not necessarily. It is often the case that the number of applications scored highly by the reviewers exceeds the dollars available for funding projects under a particular competition. The order of selection, which is based on the scores of all the applications and other relevant factors, determines the applications that can be funded. Q. What happens during negotiations? A. During negotiations technical and budget issues may be raised. These are issues that have been identified during the panel and staff reviews that require clarification. Sometimes issues are stated as ``conditions.'' These are issues that have been identified as so critical that the award cannot be made unless those conditions are met. Questions may also be raised about the proposed budget. Generally, these issues are raised because there is inadequate justification or explanation of a particular budget item, or because the budget item seems unimportant to the successful completion of the project. If you are asked to make changes that you feel could seriously affect the project's success, you may provide reasons for not making the changes or provide alternative suggestions. Similarly, if proposed budget reductions will, in your opinion, seriously affect the project activities, you may explain why and provide additional justification for the proposed expenses. An award cannot be made until all negotiation issues have been resolved. Q. How do I provide an assurance? A. Except for SF&hyph;424B, ``Assurances_Non-Construction Programs,'' which must be completed, simply state in writing that you are meeting a prescribed requirement. Q. Where can copies of the Federal Register , a program's regulations, and Federal statutes be obtained? Copies of these materials can usually be found at your local library. If not, most can be obtained from the Government Printing Office by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, Telephone: (202) 783&hyph;3238. When requesting copies of regulations or statutes, it is helpful to use the specific name, public law number, or part number. The material referenced in this notice would be referred to as follows: (1) Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (Public Law 101&hyph;392) 104 Stat. 753 (1990). (2) State Vocational and Applied Technology Education Programs and National Discretionary Programs of Vocational Education Final Regulations, 34 CFR parts 400 and 427. (3) Education Department General Administrative Regulations, 34 CFR parts 74, 75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85 and 86. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26661 Filed 10&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
