FR940617-1-00099 FR940617-1-00012 (ii) Demonstrates in vitro activity against organisms as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. (iii) When tested, in vivo, by the test procedure for the evaluation of surgical hand scrub drug products in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, reduces the number of bacteria 1- log 10 on each hand within 1 minute and the bacterial cell count on each hand does not subsequently exceed baseline within 6 hours on the first day, and produces a 2-log 10 reduction of the microbial flora on each hand within 1 minute of product use by the end of the second day of enumeration, and a 3-log 10 reduction of the microbial flora on each hand within 1 minute of product use by the end of the fifth day when compared to the established baseline. (A) Apparatus _( 1 ) Colony Counter . Any of several types may be used. ( 2 ) Incubator. Any incubator capable of maintaining a temperature of 30 # 2 ○C may be used. ( 3 ) Sterilizer. Any suitable steam sterilizer capable of producing conditions of sterility is acceptable. ( 4 ) Timer (stop clock). A timer that can be read in minutes and seconds. ( 5 ) Hand washing sink. A sink of sufficient size to permit panelists to wash without touching hands to sink surface or other panelists. ( 6 ) Water faucet(s). Water faucets should be located above the sink at a height that permits the hands to be held higher than the elbows during the washing procedure. (It is desirable for the height of the faucets to be adjustable.) ( 7 ) Tap water temperature regulator and temperature monitor. Device(s) to monitor and regulate water temperature to 40 # 2 ○C. (B) Materials and reagents _( 1 ) Petri dishes. Petri dishes for performing standard plate count should be 100 by 15 millimeters. ( 2 ) Bacteriological pipets. Pipets of 10.0 and 2.2 or 1.1 milliliter capacity are recommended. ( 3 ) Water-dilution bottles. Any sterilizable glass container having a 150 to 200 milliliter capacity and tight closures may be used. ( 4 ) Baseline control soap. A liquid castile soap or other liquid soap containing no antimicrobial. ( 5 ) Gloves. Sterile loose fitting gloves of latex, unlined, not possessing antimicrobial properties. ( 6 ) Test formulation. Directions used to demonstrate the effectiveness of the test formulation are to be the same as those proposed for the use of the product including the use of a nail cleaner and/or brush, if indicated. If no directions are available, use directions provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(J)( 3 ) of this section. ( 7 ) Positive control formulation. Any surgical hand scrub formulation approved by the Food and Drug Administration is acceptable. ( 8 ) Sampling solution. ( i ) Dissolve 0.4 gram potassium phosphate, monobasic, 10.1 gram sodium phosphate, dibasic, and 1 gram Triton X&hyph;100 in 1 liter distilled water. Adjust to pH 7.8 with 0.1 Normal hydrochloric acid or 0.1 Normal sodium hydroxide. Dispense 50 to 100 milliliter volumes into water dilution bottles, or other suitable containers, and sterilize for 20 minutes at 121 ○C. Include in the sampling solution used to collect bacterial samples from the hand following the final wash with the test formulation an antimicrobial inactivator specific for the test formulation being evaluated. ( ii ) A definitive recommendation regarding the inclusion of an inactivator prior to the final wash cannot be made. The questions of whether residual neutralizer on the skin will reduce the effectiveness of the test formulation in subsequent washes and result in higher than expected bacterial counts and whether or not samples can be processed rapidly enough to avoid a decreased bacterial count due to the continued action of the test formulation should be considered when the decision concerning the use of a neutralizer in sampling solutions used for bacterial collection prior to the final wash is made. Whatever the decision, to facilitate the comparison of results across studies, the investigator is to indicate whether or not a neutralizer has been included.
