FR941216-0-00035 FR941216-0-00011 Issue 15: One commenter stated that listing will not alleviate the effect of exotic predators, which was identified in the proposed rule as one of the most severe threats to the survival of the arroyo toad. Service Response: The Act provides for the determination of endangered or threatened status to be based upon the five factors of section 4(a)(1) and not upon whether or not certain threats can be reduced or eliminated in a species' recovery. Section 4(f)(1) of the Act directs the Service to develop and implement a recovery plan for the conservation and survival of listed species. Most of the exotic predators are either game fish (e.g., bass, trout) or the bullfrog (see below). A recovery plan would address the reduction of some of the impacts from those predators through State and Federal actions. Section 6 of the Act enables the Service to transfer funds to State endangered species conservation programs for implementation of actions that will further the conservation of the listed species. Thus, by listing the arroyo toad, guidance and funding can be provided for habitat management, including control of exotic predators in arroyo toad habitats. Summary of Factors Affecting the Species After a thorough review and consideration of all information available, the Service has determined that the arroyo toad should be classified as an endangered species. Procedures found at section 4 of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act were followed. A species may be determined to be an endangered or threatened species due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to the arroyo southwestern toad ( Bufo microscaphus californicus ) are as follows: A. The Present or Threatened Destruction, Modification, or Curtailment of Its Habitat or Range Habitat destruction and alteration constitutes the most severe threat facing the arroyo toad. This toad is now confined to the headwaters of streams it occupied historically along their entire lengths. The arroyo toad was formerly found on rivers with near-perennial flow throughout southern California from San Luis Obispo County to San Diego County. It is believed to be extirpated in San Luis Obispo County (S. Sweet, pers. comm., 1991). Populations persist in Santa Barbara, Ventura, Los Angeles, Riverside, and San Diego Counties. Recent sightings of scattered individuals have been reported from Orange, San Bernardino, and southwest Imperial Counties. The majority of the remaining populations in Santa Barbara and Ventura Counties are located on the Los Padres National Forest. This National Forest supports the majority of southern California's remaining intact large river systems and maintains five viable populations of arroyo toads. Sespe Creek in Ventura County has the largest known population (Sweet 1992). Other populations are found on the Sisquoc, Santa Ynez, and upper and lower Piru drainages (Sweet 1992). Populations to the south are located primarily in San Diego and Riverside Counties and are predominantly found in the vicinity of the Cleveland National Forest and on private lands within or adjacent to national forest. In San Diego County, arroyo toads have been found on the Santa Margarita, Guejito, Sweetwater, Vallecito, San Luis Rey, Santa Ysabel, Witch, Cottonwood, Temescal, Agua Caliente, Santa Maria, Lusardi, Pine Valley, Noble, Kitchen, Long Potrero, Upper San Diego, San Vincente, and Morena drainages. Populations on Temescal, Agua Caliente, Pine Valley, and Cottonwood drainages may be considered viable (J. Stephenson, in litt. , 1993; J. Copp, California Academy of Sciences, in litt. , 1993). Recent surveys have located very small populations of arroyo toads in four creeks in southwestern Riverside County (Temecula, Arroyo Seco, San Mateo, and Tenaja Creeks) (J. Stephenson, in litt. , 1993). The single recent occurrence of arroyo toads in San Bernardino County is on Deep Creek in the San Bernardino National Forest. Several factors presently threaten the remaining 25 percent of the habitat of the arroyo toad including: (1) Short- and long-term changes in river hydrology, including construction of dams and water diversions; (2) alteration of riparian wetland habitats by agriculture and urbanization; (3) construction of roads; (4) site-specific damage by off-highway vehicle use; (5) development of campgrounds and other recreational activities; (6) over-grazing; and (7) mining activities.
