FR940627-2-00091 FR940627-2-00041 This development activity is intended to create real property assets and associated income for the Common School Fund of the State of Oregon, encourage new industrial employment within the area, and contribute to the economic stability and employment diversification of Clatsop County and the State of Oregon. Under the proposed action, the Service would gain fee title to lands within the administrative boundary of the Refuge. This would provide the Service with the needed management flexibility to control future expected incompatible uses and enhance wildlife populations and their habitats. Scoping activities were undertaken preparatory to developing an EIS with a variety of Federal, State, and local entities. A Notice of Intent to prepare the EIS was published in the Federal Register on November 4, 1991. A Draft EIS was issued in June 1992. A Notice of Availability for the Draft EIS was published in the Federal Register on July 2, 1993. A Notice of Availability for the Final EIS was published in the Federal Register on May 20, 1994. B. Key Issues Through public scoping and with input from various agencies and publics, key issues were identified. These focused on the following subject areas: (1) Certain aspects of the physical environment, especially the potential for hazardous materials to be released from local sediments; (2) certain aspects of the biological environment, especially wetlands and threatened and endangered species; and (3) certain aspects of the cultural and social environment, especially the local and regional economy. These factors were also examined for the State-owned islands proposed as additions to the Refuge. These issues were thoroughly examined in the Draft and Final EIS. C. Alternatives More than 20 alternatives were considered before limiting the alternatives to be advanced for further study. Alternatives considered but not advanced for detailed analysis included alternative development concepts, alternative sites, and single versus multi-tenant developments. Alternatives advanced for detailed analysis include (A) the proposed land exchange and development of a multi-tenant marine industrial development; (B) the proposed land exchange and multi-tenant marine industrial development with connecting road to North Tongue Point; and (C) a No Action Alternative. Adverse and beneficial impacts of each alternative are considered. Alternative A Alternative A comprises two elements: (1) the land exchange, and (2) the multi-tenant marine industrial development. (1) Approximately 3,930 acres of State-owned land within the administrative boundary of the Lewis and Clark National Wildlife Refuge would be exchanged through GSA to the Service for the 130 acres on South Tongue Point. The remaining 950 acres would be managed under a long-term cooperative agreement between the Division and the Service. (2) Development of the multi-tenant marine industrial site would occur in two phases. Phase 1 would involve site infrastructure developments and construction of marine industrial facilities. Construction would begin in 1994 and occur at a rate supported by market conditions. Alternative B Alternative B comprises the same two elements as Alternative A with the addition, in Phase 2, of a road connecting South Tongue Point to North Tongue Point. Construction of the connecting road would be dependent upon the need for additional land to support marine industrial development and increased port activities at North Tongue Point. Alternative C With the No Action Alternative, South Tongue Point would remain in its present undeveloped condition except for the existing Corps Field Station. There would be no land exchange. The No Action Alternative would not have direct adverse impacts to the physical and biological environment. However, the No Action Alternative would not have direct economic benefits from job creation and tax revenues. Dated: June 20, 1994. Marvin L. Plenert, Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15476 Filed 6&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
