FR940414-0-00048 FR940414-0-00019 With the publication of the final rule, the Department is clarifying the scope of covered awards under this policy. The policy is limited to those grants/cooperative agreements that have as their principal purpose a relationship wherein the recipient/partner will contribute resources to promote agency programs, publicize agency activities, assist in fundraising, or provide assistance to the agency. Therefore, because of the unlikelihood of a research award meeting this criteria, we are eliminating the separate distinction and policy for research awards. In determining the applicability of the policy, the focus should be on the purpose of the award. For such an award, the Department's policy should apply whether the award is for research or not. Executive Order 12866, Paperwork Reduction Act, and Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule was not subject to Office of Management and Budget review under Executive Order 12866. The Department has determined that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, since this rule merely implements a former Secretarial decision concerning the prohibition of recipients to use the Department's use of services and products provided as an endorsement. This revision to the rule does not contain a collection of information subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Environmental Effects The Department has determined that this rule does not constitute a major Federal action having significant impact on the human environment under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. Executive Order 12778 The Department has certified to the Office of Management and Budget that these proposed regulations meet the applicable standards provided in Sections 2 (a) and 2 (b) of Executive Order No. 12778. List of Subjects in 43 CFR Part 12 Accounting, Administrative practice and procedure, Drug abuse, Grant programs, Indians, Intergovernmental relations, Loan programs, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: April 6, 1994. B.R. Cohen, Assistant Secretary-Policy, Management and Budget. Title 43, part 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as set forth below: PART 12_ADMINISTRATIVE AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS AND COST PRINCIPLES FOR ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS 1. The authority citation for part 12 is revised to read as follows:
