FR941216-2-00065 FR941216-2-00043 Summary of Comments Appendix A_Public Comments Public notice of the draft permit reissuance was published at 59 FR 47862 (September 19, 1994). Additionally, the permit was publicly noticed in five (5) major cities in the State of Florida on September 16, 1994, (Public Notice Number 94FL0167), to allow comments from interested parties which would be considered in the formulation of a final decision regarding reissuance of the proposed draft NPDES General Permit No. FLG830000. The following parties responded with written comments on reissuance of the proposed NPDES general permit: Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP), Chevron Research & Technology Company, Morgan Lewis & Bockius, Mobil Oil Corporation, Exxon Company, Walt Disney World Company, Florida Chemical Industry Council and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Comment 1: The Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP), Bureau of Waste Cleanup, submitted comments by letter dated October 3, 1994, which commented on Part I.A.3 of the general permit. The FDEP wanted clarification concerning the intent of Part I.A.3. FDEP stated that the statement on Page two (2) of the introduction states that `` Except for facilities meeting the conditions of Part I.3, written notice of intent to be covered by the reissued NPDES general permit shall be provided to the Permit Issuing Authority prior to initiation of discharge to waters of the United States,'' implies that this includes subparts of Part I.3., including I.3.(a), (b), and (c). FDEP stated that this implies that for discharges that are either uncontaminated or are contaminated with petroleum only and are treated, notification to EPA is not required. It was stated that this is not consistent with the phrase under I.3(a) which states ``upon receipt of written EPA notification of coverage that the Notice of Intent (NOI) request is complete, these short-term discharges may commence.'' The State mentioned that this implies that not only must prior notification be given by EPA for the short-term discharges from sites contaminated by petroleum only, but that the person responsible for the discharge must wait for a reply from EPA, and this inconsistency should be reconciled. Response: EPA agrees that the referenced statement on page 2 of the introduction is incorrect. It has been corrected to read, ``except for facilities meeting the conditions of Part I.A.3(c), written NOI to be covered by the reissued permit shall be provided to the Permit Issuing Authority.'' Comment 2: FDEP stated that it is not reasonable to wait for a response from EPA in order to initiate a short-term discharge for the following reasons: (1) Chapter 62&hyph;770, requires that a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) be submitted to the FDEP within 2 months of approval of a Contamination Assessment Report (CAR), and that it is routine to require pump tests to design information for the RAP, plus identify aquifer characteristics. FDEP stated that it is not reasonable to delay the RAP by requiring prior approval from EPA of these simple 8 hour pump tests. (2) Due to varying hydrogeological conditions in Florida, local departments commonly perform dewatering activities in their right-of-way of previous retail service stations, plus have no information before commencing these activities on the existence of petroleum contamination. FDEP stated that these construction projects should not be delayed for an extended period to wait on response from EPA, since mobile treatment units can be deployed and designed to meet EPA's discharge limitations in the NPDES general permit. (3) During dewatering for construction and replacement of underground storage tanks, FDEP mentioned that it was not reasonable for the tank installation to be delayed for an extended period of time; especially since discharges from these operations only last for a few hours at a time and mobile equipment used is very reliable in achieving EPA's discharge standards.
