FR940803-1-00008 FR940803-1-00003 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 61 RIN 3150&hyph;AE88 Land Ownership Requirements for Low-Level Waste Sites AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is considering amending its regulations to allow private ownership of Low-Level Radioactive Waste facility sites as an alternative to the current requirement for Federal or State ownership. Information to twelve questions is requested to assist in determining if such a change could be made without adversely impacting public health and safety. DATES: The comment period expires October 3, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but the Commission is able to assure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Mail comments to: The Secretary of the Commission, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Service Branch. Deliver comments to: 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, between 7:45 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. Federal workdays. Examine copies of comments received at: The NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Haisfield, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 415&hyph;6196. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The NRC regulations for licensing land disposal of radioactive waste require that the land must be owned by the Federal or State government (ยง61.59(a)). This requirement was issued to assure control of the disposal site after closure, and thereby reduce the potential for inadvertent intrusion, better ensure integrity of the site, and facilitate monitoring of site performance. However, on June 28, 1993, the NRC found acceptable an exemption to the above land ownership requirement that was granted to Envirocare of Utah, Inc. (Envirocare) by the State of Utah (an Agreement State 1 ). The State of Utah, using the exemption provision in its regulations, issued an exemption to the land ownership requirement when it issued a license to Envirocare on March 21, 1991, for the land disposal of low-level radioactive waste (LLW). Under the exemption, Envirocare will remain the property owner and remain responsible for the site under the license through the 100 year post-closure period (referred to as the active institutional control period). 1 Pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, the Commission has the authority to relinquish part of its regulatory authority to a State, contingent upon making a determination that the State's regulatory program is compatible with the Commission's and adequate to protect the public health and safety. Twenty nine States, under formal agreements with the Commission, have assumed this regulatory responsibility. Negotiations with other States are underway. The Commission initially reviewed the State of Utah's exemption in April 1992, and determined that the State of Utah had not provided sufficient rationale for issuing the exemption to the land ownership requirement. Subsequently, the NRC proposed, and the State of Utah and Envirocare agreed to, additional provisions imposed by the State of Utah upon Envirocare. The restrictions on the land imposed by the State of Utah were zoning the property for industrial waste and writing a restrictive covenant which was added as an annotation to the land record. The covenant adds additional restrictions regarding future activities and uses of the land to ensure its integrity, and remains in effect indefinitely. To provide assurance of financial surety, the State of Utah required Envirocare to establish a trust account under the control of the State. The disbursement of the funds from the account must be approved by the State. The Commission staff, in response to a 2.206 petition from US Ecology, is reviewing whether the State of Utah is controlling Envirocare's LLW site in a manner that provides a substantially equivalent level of protection of the public health and safety as is provided by Federal or State site ownership. The Envirocare site may present a special case for private ownership. On the other hand, it is possible that land use controls could be used at other LLW sites without requiring government ownership; therefore, the Commission is considering amending 10 CFR Part 61 to provide a generic basis for allowing the use of such controls as an alternative to government ownership. Specific Proposal The Commission is considering amending ยง61.59 to allow private ownership of a LLW disposal site under provisions similar to those used for Envirocare by the State of Utah as discussed above. Specifically, ยง61.59(a) would be modified to permit private ownership of a LLW disposal site, provided that the integrity of the disposal site is ensured after closure. Specific Considerations Advice and recommendations on a proposed rule reflecting the foregoing and on any other points considered pertinent are invited from all interested persons. Comments and supporting reasons are particularly requested on the following questions: 1. The Commission considers that an amendment to 10 CFR Part 61 as described in this ANPRM could facilitate the objectives of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1985, as amended, by allowing States additional flexibility in developing new low-level radioactive waste disposal facilities. Would this change be useful for other LLW disposal sites or is it likely that the Utah exemption was one of a kind? The NRC would specifically request Compacts and Agreement States to inform us if private ownership for any potential site in their region is possible or is precluded by State laws or other provisions.
