FR941220-1-00052 FR941220-1-00009 (ii) The State has the option of whether or not to allow PWSs to demonstrate compliance through the Alternative Method of Compliance. Where the State has chosen not to allow the Alternative Method of Compliance, PWSs shall demonstrate compliance by achieving the MCL in samples taken at each entry point to the distribution system. (iii) Where EPA is the primacy agent, the Regional Administrator may authorize PWSs to demonstrate compliance through the Alternative Method of Compliance. In determining whether to authorize the use of the Alternative Method of Compliance, the Regional Administration in its sole discretion may consider the availability of regional resources, and whether it is reasonable and practical for the Regional Office to oversee implementation of the Alternative Method of Compliance. If the Regional Administrator authorizes the Alternative Method of Compliance, each PWS shall have the option to comply either by achieving the MCL in samples taken at each entry point to the distribution system or through the Alternative Method of Compliance. (iv) Until such time as notified by the State or Primacy Agency that the Alternative Method of Compliance will be authorized, PWSs shall be required to achieve the MCL at each entry point to the distribution system. (v) The general prohibition on the use of bottled water and point-of-use devices in 40 CFR 141.101 shall not apply to PWSs that choose to achieve compliance with the MCL for sulfate by meeting the requirements of the Alternative Method of Compliance. (vi) A PWS must report failure to comply with a NPDWR to the State under the requirements of 40 CFR 141.31. Within 30 days of notifying the State of failure to comply with the sulfate MCL, the PWS shall notify the State as to which of the two methods of compliance, ยง141.23(r)(1)(i) (A) or (B), the PWS intends to use to return to compliance with the sulfate MCL. (2) Alternative Water Supplied to Target Populations. The requirements of this subsection apply only to a PWS that has chosen to comply with the MCL for sulfate through the Alternative Method of Compliance instead of by achieving the MCL in samples taken at each entry point to the distribution system. (i) Definitions. (A) Alternative water: For purposes of this section, a PWS supplies Alternative Water when it supplies either bottled water or water that has been treated with a POU or POE device (as defined in ยง141.2). (B) Target population, for purposes of this section, means all infants, travelers and new residents within the PWS's service area, according to the following: (1) For the purposes of this rule, infant is defined as persons under the age of 12 months. (2) Transients means visitors from outside the service area, vacation travelers and business travelers. (3) New residents means persons who have resided in the service area for no more than six weeks. (ii) Community water systems shall maintain a record of all requests for Alternative Water. Records shall include the name and address of the person requesting the water, date of request, date of delivery requested, date of delivery and quantity of water delivered (or date of installation in the case of a POU/POE device). This record shall be maintained for five years from the time of recording. (iii) Community water systems shall supply Alternative Water in compliance with this subsection to the Target Population for the time periods described under paragraph (r)(2)(vii) of this section. Transient water systems and non-transient, non-community systems shall have alternative water available for infants, travelers, newcomers and visitors. (iv) Community water systems shall provide door-to-door delivery of the bottled water or installation of POU or POE devices upon request to customers who are within the Target Population. The PWS shall have the option of deciding whether to provide a customer with bottled water or POU/POE devices. (v) Bottled water requirements. (A) Quality. Bottled water provided by the PWS shall meet the requirements of ยง142.62 (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this chapter. (B) Quantity. Community water systems shall have bottled water available and delivered at the level of two liters per day for each person within the Target Population for whom bottled water is requested (unless the customer requests a lesser amount). Transient water systems and non-transient, non-community systems shall have sufficient bottled water to serve the transient population, unless POE or POU devices are installed. (C) Time of delivery. Community water systems shall deliver the bottled water within 24 hours of the request, or on the date requested, whichever is later. (vi) POU and POE device requirements. PWSs that choose POU or POE devices as a method of compliance shall meet the following requirements: (A) PWSs that choose POE devices as a method of compliance shall meet the requirements of ยง141.100 (a) through (d). (B) If the PWS decides to provide a POE/POU device and is unable to install such equipment within 24 hours of the request, or on the date requested, the PWS shall provide bottled water to the target population during the interim time period between the time of the request and the time of installation of the POU/POE device. (C) PWSs that choose POU devices as a method of compliance shall obtain the approval of a monitoring plan which ensures that the devices provide water that complies with the sulfate MCL. It is the responsibility of the public water system to operate and maintain the POU system. The microbiological safety of the water must be maintained at all times. The State shall require adequate certification of performance and a rigorous engineering design review. The design and application of the POU must consider the potential for increasing concentrations of heterotrophic bacteria in water treated with activated carbon.
