FR941128-0-00018 FR941128-0-00005 (5) A statement by the applicant that it has complied with all requirements of the Board of Governors concerning applications to conduct the activity in question and the status of such application, including a copy of the Board of Governors' disposition of such application, if applicable; (6) A statement of why the activity will pose no significant risk to the deposit insurance fund; and (7) Any other information which the regional director deems appropriate. (e) Application procedures. Applications pursuant to this section shall be filed with the Regional Director of the Division of Supervision for the region in which the insured state branch is located. An application shall not be deemed complete until it contains all the information requested by the Regional Director and has been accepted. Approval of such an application may be conditioned on the applicant's agreement to conduct the activity subject to specific limitations, such as but not limited to the pledging of assets in excess of the requirements of ยง346.19 and/or the maintenance of eligible assets in excess of the requirements of ยง346.20. In the case of an application to conduct an activity, as opposed to an application to continue to conduct an activity, the insured branch shall not commence the activity until it has been approved in writing by the FDIC pursuant to this part and the Board of Governors, and any and all conditions imposed in such approvals have been satisfied. (f) Divestiture or cessation. (1) If an application for permission to continue to conduct an activity is not approved by the FDIC or the Board of Governors, the applicant shall submit a detailed written plan of divestiture or cessation of the activity to the Regional Director of the Division of Supervision for the region where the insured branch is located within 60 days of the disapproval. The divestiture or cessation plan shall describe in detail the manner in which the applicant will divest itself of or cease the activity in question and shall include a projected timetable describing how long the divestiture or cessation is expected to take. Divestitures or cessations shall be completed within one year from the date of the disapproval, or within such shorter period of time as the Corporation shall direct. (2) A foreign bank operating an insured state branch which elects not to apply to the FDIC for permission to continue to conduct an impermissible activity shall submit a written plan of divestiture or cessation, in conformance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section, within 60 days of January 1, 1995, or of any change in statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, written order or interpretation, or decision of a court of competent jurisdiction rendering such activity impermissible. (g) Delegation of authority. Authority is hereby delegated to the Executive Director, Compliance, Resolutions and Supervision, and the Director of the Division of Supervision, and where confirmed in writing by the Director, to an associate director, or to the appropriate regional director or deputy regional director, to approve plans of divestiture and cessation submitted pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section. By order of the Board of Directors. Dated at Washington, D.C. this 22nd day of November, 1994. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Robert E. Feldman, Acting Executive Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29241 Filed 11&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6714&hyph;01&hyph;P
