FR940719-2-00006 FR940719-2-00003 Article VII_Subrogation Because You may be able to recover all or part of Your loss from someone other than Us, You must do all You can to preserve any such rights. If We pay for a loss, then any right to recovery will belong to Us. If We recover more than We paid, plus Our expenses, the excess will be paid to You. Article VII_Prorata Liability We will not be liable for a greater proportion of any loss than the amount hereby insured shall bear to the whole insurance covering the Crop insured against the peril involved, whether collectible or not. Article IX_Assignment Assignment of any interest under this policy shall not bind Us until our consent is endorsed hereon. Article X_Waiver or Change of Policy Provisions A waiver or change of any provision must be in writing and approved by Us. Our request for an appraisal or examination will not waive any of Our rights. Article XI_Concealment or Fraud We do not provide coverage for any insured who has intentionally concealed or mispresented any material fact or circumstances relating to this insurance, either before or after a loss. Article XII_Conformity to Statutes If any terms of this Policy are in conflict with statutes of the state in which this Policy is issued, the Policy will conform to such statutes. Article XIII_Suit Against Us You cannot bring suit or action against Us unless You have complied with all of the Policy provisions. If You do enter suit against Us, You must do so within twelve (12) months of the occurrence causing loss or damage. (State law exceptions to the twelve (12) months limitation, if any, are contained in Mandatory Endorsement.) Throughout this Policy ``You'' and ``Your'' refer to the ``Named Insured'' shown in the Application of Summary of Coverage, and ``We'', ``Us'' and ``Our'' refer to the Company providing this insurance. A. ``Insured'' means You. B. ``Summary of Coverage'' means the Summary provided by Us to You which summarizes Your coverage under this Policy based on information provided by You to Us. C. ``MPCI Policy'' means the Multiple Peril Crop Insurance policy specifically designated by policy number and issuing company as the MPCI Policy in the Summary of Coverage. D. ``Crop(s)'' means the Crop(s) insured under Your MPCI Policy which you have elected, by specific endorsement, to have insured under this policy as shown in the Summary of Coverage. E. ``MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment'' means the indemnity payment made to You under the MPCI Policy as the result of a Crop production loss resulting from peril(s) insured against under the MPCI Policy which has been properly issued and is in full force and effect at the time of such production loss, all as determined by Us. MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment does not include any payment, made under the MPCI Policy, for replanting the Crop(s). If a dispute arises between You and the Company issuing the MPCI Policy as to the payment of any indemnity to be made to You under the MPCI Policy and You receive a payment under the MPCI Policy as the result of an appraisal award, the entry of a final court judgment, or a settlement agreement between You and the Company issuing the MPCI Policy, the payment received by You will be deemed to be an MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment to the extent that it is directly related to the contract indemnity to be paid to You under the terms of the MPCI Policy. Any award or payment in the nature of punitive damages, incidental or consequential damages, interest, court costs, or attorney's fees shall not be characterized as or included in the determination of the MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment. F. ``MPCI Policy Crop Price Election'' means the price election chosen by You for the Crop(s) under the terms of the MPCI Policy. G. ``Notice of Acceptance'' means written notice by Us to You that the insurance coverage applied for has been accepted by Us and is in effect. H. ``Farm Unit'' shall have the same meaning as that term is defined in the MPCI Policy.
