FR941202-0-00106 FR941202-0-00011 b. Definition of Title I Modification. The definition of ``title I modification'' in the regulations submitted by Oregon as part of its Title V program does not include changes reviewed under a minor source preconstruction review program approved pursuant to section 110(a)(2)(C) of the Act (``minor NSR changes'') or changes triggering the application of a National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) established pursuant to section 112 prior to the 1990 Amendments (``part 61 NESHAP modifications''). In the September 14, 1994 Federal Register notice proposing action on the Oregon title V program, EPA advised the State that it would be required to revise its definition of the term ``title I modification'' to obtain full EPA approval: Therefore, EPA proposes that, to receive full approval, Oregon must revise OAR 340&hyph;28&hyph;110(118) to include any determination established through a minor source pre-construction permit as well as changes reviewed under 40 CFR 61.15. EPA expects to revise its criteria for interim approval in 40 CFR 70.4(d) prior to final action on this proposal to grant interim approval to Oregon so that interim approval may be granted to State programs like Oregon's that include a narrower definition of ``title I modification.'' As noted, EPA believes the better interpretation of ``title I modifications'' would preclude granting full approval to the Oregon program. However, in the proposal to revise Part 70, EPA will be taking comment on whether the criteria in 40 CFR 70.7(e)(2)(i)(A), including the phrase ``modification under any provision of title I,'' should be interpreted in a manner that would allow changes reviewed under programs approved pursuant to section 110(a)(2)(C) of the Act and changes that trigger the application of NESHAP established prior to the 1990 Amendments to be eligible for processing through minor modification procedures. Should EPA adopt this alternative interpretation, the current definition of ``title I modification'' in the Oregon programs would be fully consistent with Part 70. See (59 FR 47108). In response to EPA's proposed interim approval of the Oregon program, three commenters objected to EPA's proposed requirement that Oregon revise its definition of ``title I modification'' to include minor new source review in order to obtain full approval. These commenters argued that Oregon's current definition fully meets the requirements of the Clean Air Act. One commenter contended that section 110(a)(2) does not require a State Implementation Plan (SIP) to include a program to regulate the modification of any stationary source but rather to only include a program to regulate modifications as defined in other sections of title I. These commenters also stated that the changes required by the September 14, 1994, Federal Register notice would be completely unworkable and would frustrate the practical implementation of the operating permit program in Oregon by requiring sources to undergo significant permit modification procedures for changes covered by Oregon's Notice of Construction rule that was approved by EPA as part of the SIP under section 110(a)(2)(C) of the Act. As discussed below, EPA has reconsidered the approach proposed in the September 14, 1994 Federal Register notice and is fully approving Oregon's title V program with respect to the definition of ``title I modification.'' If EPA were to conclude at this time that the phrase ``title I modification'' should be interpreted as including minor NSR changes, EPA would be required to disapprove Oregon's program because part 70 does not currently allow EPA to grant interim approval unless the permitting agency has adequate authority to issue permits that assure compliance with all applicable requirements. See 40 CFR 70.4(d)(3)(ii). On August 29, 1994, EPA proposed revisions to the interim approval criteria to, among other things, allow State programs with a more narrow definition of ``title I modification,'' like Oregon's, to receive interim approval (59 FR 44572). The Agency also solicited public comment on the appropriate interpretation of ``title I modification'' (59 FR 44573). The Agency stated that if, after considering the public comments, it continued to believe that the phrase ``title I modification'' should be interpreted as including minor NSR changes, it would revise the interim approval criteria as needed to grant interim approval to States that adopted a narrower definition. As noted in the September 14, 1994 Federal Register notice proposing action on Oregon's title V program, EPA intended to finalize its revisions to the interim approval criteria under 40 CFR section 70.4(d) before taking final action on Part 70 programs submitted by the States. However, that is no longer possible. Publication of the proposed revisions occurred on August 29, 1994, and EPA received several requests to extend the original 30-day public comment period. Given the importance to the States, sources and the public of the issues raised in that rulemaking, but mindful of the need to take action quickly, EPA agreed to extend the comment period until October 28, 1994. See 59 FR 52122 (October 14, 1994). Consequently, final action to revise the interim approval criteria will not occur before the deadline for EPA action on State programs, such as Oregon's, that were submitted on or before November 15, 1993. 3 3 Section 502(d) requires, in relevant part, that ``[n]ot later than 1 year after receiving a program, and after notice and opportunity for public comment, the Administrator shall approve or disapprove such program, in whole or in part.''
