FR940527-1-00053 FR940527-1-00014 G. Research on Refinements to Labor Market Areas 1. Background Almost from the beginning of the prospective payment system, we have received comments from hospitals and ProPAC objecting to the use of MSA-based labor market areas to construct the wage index. Common concerns have been that the Statewide rural areas are too large to distinguish differences in labor market conditions, and that the MSA-based wage index does not reflect the fact that hospitals in the center cities (the ``urban core'') pay higher wages than suburban hospitals. Some commenters have argued that rural labor market areas should be subdivided into two smaller groups based on county populations and that MSA-based labor market areas should be divided into urban core and suburban ring labor markets to distinguish the differences in labor market conditions. In light of these concerns, we have continued to examine a variety of options for revising wage index labor market areas. In this proposed rule, we discuss in detail issues raised by commenters concerning ProPAC's ``nearest neighbor'' recommendation, our research and analysis on alternative labor market areas, and the possibility of allowing all hospitals in a State to opt out of the current labor market system. 2. Discussion of Comments Concerning ProPAC's Nearest Neighbor Recommendation In its March 1, 1993 report, ProPAC recommended that the Secretary substantially revise the hospital wage index under the prospective payment system for FY 1994. In its March 1, 1994 report, ProPAC made the same recommendation (Recommendation 16). Specifically, ProPAC recommends that we develop hospital-specific labor market areas based on geographic proximity, using each hospital's ``nearest neighbors'' for purposes of a revised wage index. As in 1993, ProPAC has also recommended that Congress repeal the current statutory provisions relating to geographic reclassification for the wage index. In ProPAC's 1993 report, the Commission discussed establishing each hospital's labor market area based on its 10 nearest neighbors within a 50-mile radius. In its 1994 report, ProPAC examined defining labor markets for each hospital by including the nearest 15 hospitals within a 20-mile radius, and extending the radius up to 30 or 35 miles when needed in order to include a total of at least 3 hospitals. In our May 26, 1993 proposed rule (58 FR 30242), we stated that we believed, and ProPAC agreed, that legislation would be required before we could use hospital-specific labor market areas in constructing the wage index due to the statutory requirements regarding hospital reclassifications for wage index purposes. We also stated that in addition to the statutory constraints, we did not believe that it would be feasible or advisable to attempt to implement ProPAC's recommendation in FY 1994. Although we acknowledged that ProPAC's recommendation might have promise, we indicated that careful analysis of the impact of such a proposal on hospitals was necessary before proposing to adopt such a significant change. In addition, we stated there were also a number of administrative issues that must be carefully considered before ProPAC's proposal could be implemented, including the possible development of an exceptions or appeals process to resolve disputes concerning the labor market areas. We agreed with ProPAC that if we adopted hospital-specific labor market areas using its methodology, the MGCRB as it is currently constituted might no longer be necessary. We also stated that we would not recommend that Congress repeal the MGCRB provisions of the Act until we had analyzed fully the implications of adopting hospital-specific labor market areas or some other revisions to labor market areas. We noted that after our analysis was complete, we would decide whether to recommend that the mission of the MGCRB be altered to make it responsible for resolving disputes concerning hospital-specific labor market areas. To facilitate a thorough analysis of ProPAC's proposal, we published in the FY 1994 proposed rule hospital-specific wage index values using ProPAC's data on hospital locations and the new FY 1990 hospital wage data (58 FR 30457). The tables indicated what each hospital's wage index value would be if the wage index were based on the wage data for the hospital and its 10 nearest neighbors up to a radius of 50 air miles. The tables also showed which hospitals were in each hospital's labor market area based on ProPAC's data base. Subsequently, we discovered a technical error in the wage index values and republished a revised wage index value for each hospital in a correction notice (June 29, 1993, 58 FR 34742).
