FR941107-2-00193 FR941107-2-00105 Parent Training and Information Centers projects provide training and information to parents of infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities, and to persons who work with parents to enable parents to participate more fully and effectively with professionals in meeting the educational needs of their children with disabilities. Outreach projects build the capacity of educational and other agencies to adopt and implement proven models and components of models to improve services for children under the age of eight with disabilities and their families. Note: This notice of final priority does not solicit applications. Notices inviting applications under these competitions are published in a separate notice in this issue of the Federal Register . On July 26, 1994, the Secretary published a notice of proposed priority in the Federal Register (59 FR 38082). The comments, and the Secretary's responses to them, are discussed in appendix 1 to this notice. A listing of areas for which applications have been made for designation as Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities is contained in appendix 2. Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(2) the Secretary gives a competitive preference to applications that are otherwise eligible for funding under appropriate discretionary programs under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act and that meet the following priority. The Secretary will implement this priority for fiscal year 1995 and may implement it for any later fiscal year: Propose to provide services to one or more Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities that are designated within the areas served by projects. To meet this priority an applicant must indicate that it will: •Design a program that includes special activities focused on the unique needs of one or more Empowerment Zones or Enterprises Communities; or, •Devote a substantial portion of program resources to providing services within, or meeting the needs of residents of these zones and communities. As appropriate, the proposed project under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act must contribute to the strategic plan of the Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities and be made an integral component of the Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community activities. Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities are not expected to be designated by the time proposals must be prepared for fiscal year 1995 competitions. In order to obtain a competitive preference under this priority for FY 1995, applicants must choose one of the following options. First, an applicant may indicate that it will serve a specific area or areas that have applied for designations as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities within the geographic area that the applicant proposes to serve. Alternatively, the applicant may simply state that it would serve one or more Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities that may be designated within the geographic area that the applicant proposes to serve. In the first case, additional points will be awarded only if one or more of the areas specified in the application are designated as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities. In the second case, additional points will be awarded only if one or more Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities are designated within the geographic area that the project proposes to serve. Intergovernmental Review One or more of the programs that may be affected by this priority are subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for these programs. Program authority: 20 U.S.C. Sections 1421 through 1462. Dated: November 1, 1994. Howard R. Moses, Acting Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services.
