FR940805-1-00152 FR940805-1-00014 §91.515 Funding determinations by HUD. (a) Formula funding. The action plan submitted by the jurisdiction will be considered as the application for the CDBG, HOME, ESG, and HOPWA formula grants to which the jurisdiction may be entitled under applicable program regulations. A single form SF&hyph;424 shall be included for this purpose in the submission to HUD. The Department will make its funding award determination after reviewing the plan submission in accordance with §91.500. (b) Other funding. For other funding, the jurisdiction must still respond to Notices of Funding Availability for the individual programs in order to receive funding. §91.520 Performance reports. (a) General. Each jurisdiction that has a consolidated plan shall annually review and report, in a form acceptable to HUD, on the progress it has made in carrying out its plan. This performance report shall be submitted to HUD within 90 days after the close of the jurisdiction's program year. (b) Affordable housing. The report shall include an evaluation of the jurisdiction's progress in meeting its short-term objective of providing affordable housing, including the number and types of households served. This element of the report must include the number of extremely low, very low-income, and low- and moderate-income persons served and the racial and ethnic status of persons assisted with funds made available. (c) CDBG. For CDBG recipients, the report shall include a description of the use of CDBG funds during the program year and an assessment by the jurisdiction of the relationship of that use to the objectives identified in the plan, giving special attention to the highest priority activities that were identified. This element of the report must evaluate the extent to which its funds were used for activities that benefited extremely low, very low-income and low-income persons. It must also indicate the nature of and reasons for changes in its program objectives over the year and what changes it expects to make in its programs as a result of its experiences. (d) HOME. For HOME participating jurisdictions, the report shall include the results of on-site inspections of affordable rental housing assisted under the program to determine compliance with housing codes and other applicable regulations. (e) HOPWA. For jurisdictions receiving funding under the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS program, the report must include the number of individuals assisted and the types of assistance provided. (f) Evaluation by HUD. HUD shall review the performance report and determine whether it is satisfactory. If a satisfactory report is not submitted in a timely manner, the Department may suspend funding until a satisfactory report is submitted, or may withdraw and reallocate funding if the Department determines, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that the jurisdiction will not submit a satisfactory report. §91.525 Performance review by HUD. (a) General. HUD shall review the performance of each jurisdiction covered by this part at least annually, including site visits by employees_insofar as practicable, assessing the following: (1) Management of funds made available under programs administered by HUD; (2) Compliance with the consolidated plan; (3) Accuracy in the preparation of performance reports; (4) Extent to which the jurisdiction made progress towards the statutory goals identified in §91.1; and (5) Efforts to ensure that housing assisted under programs administered by HUD is in compliance with contractual agreements and the requirements of law. (b) Report by HUD. HUD shall report on the performance review in writing, stating the length of time the jurisdiction has to review and comment on the report, which will be at least 30 days. HUD may revise the report after considering the jurisdiction's views, and shall make the report, the jurisdiction's comments, and any revisions available to the public within 30 days after receipt of the jurisdiction's comments. Subpart G_Insular Areas [Reserved]
