FR940118-2-00014 FR940118-2-00012 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration [I.D. 011094 B] International Whaling Commission; Meetings AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of meetings. SUMMARY: NOAA makes use of a public Interagency Committee to assist in preparing for meetings of the International Whaling Commission (IWC). This notice sets forth guidelines for participating on the Committee and a tentative schedule of meetings and other important dates. DATES: See `` SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION '' for dates of scheduled meetings. ADDRESSES: Recommendations to the U.S. Commissioner to the IWC and nominations to the U.S. delegation to the IWC should be sent to: Dr. D. James Baker, Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere, Department of Commerce, Herbert C. Hoover Building, 14th and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230, with a copy sent to Kevin Chu, Office of International Affairs, room 14247, National Marine Fisheries Service, 1315 East West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kevin Chu, Office of International Affairs, room 14247, National Marine Fisheries Service, 1315 East West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Phone: (301) 713&hyph;2276. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Secretary of Commerce is charged with the responsibility of discharging the obligations of the United States under the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, 1946. This authority has been delegated to the Under Secretary of NOAA. The U.S. Commissioner to the IWC has primary responsibility for the preparation and negotiation of U.S. positions on international issues concerning whaling and for all matters involving the IWC. He is staffed by the Department of Commerce, and assisted by the Department of State, the Department of the Interior, the Marine Mammal Commission, and other interested agencies. Each year, NOAA conducts a series of meetings and other actions to prepare for the annual meeting of the IWC, which is usually held in the spring or summer. The major purpose of the preparatory meetings is to provide for input in the development of policy by members of the public and non-governmental organizations interested in whale conservation. NOAA believes that this participation is important for the effective development and implementation of U.S. policy concerning whaling. Any person with an identifiable interest in United States whale conservation policy may participate in the meetings, but NOAA reserves the authority to inquire about the interest of any person who appears at a meeting and to determine the appropriateness of that person's participation. Foreign nationals and persons who represent foreign governments may not attend. These stringent measures are necessary to promote the candid exchange of information. Such measures are a necessary basis for the relatively open process of preparing for IWC meetings that characterizes current practice. The tentative schedule of meetings and deadlines, including those of the IWC and deadlines for the preparation of position papers during 1994 is as follows: January 3, 1994_Publish in the Federal Register the Agency views on: (1) The current population levels and annual net recruitment rate of bowhead whales, (2) the nature and extent of the aboriginal/subsistence need for bowhead whales, (3) the level of take of bowhead whales that is consistent with provisions of the IWC aboriginal/subsistence whaling management scheme, and (4) a list of documents reviewed by NOAA and used by the Administrator in formulating these views. January 11, 1994 (2 p.m., room 6009, Herbert C. Hoover Building, Department of Commerce, 14th and Constitution, Washington, DC)_Meeting of the Interagency Committee to review past events and to begin preparation for the 1994 Annual Meeting of the IWC. As with all such meetings, interested persons who are unable to attend are welcome to submit comments. Recommendations to the U.S. Commissioner should be sent to the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere at the above address. February 1, 1994_Nominations for the U.S. Delegation to the May IWC meetings are due to the U.S. Commissioner, with a copy to Kevin Chu at the address above. All persons wishing to be considered pursuant to the U.S. Commissioner's recommendation to the Department of State concerning the composition of the Delegation should ensure that nominations are received by this date. Prospective Congressional advisors to the Delegation should contact the Department of State directly. February 20&hyph;24, 1994, Norfolk Island, Australia_Intersessional meeting of the IWC to discuss a proposal to create a whale sanctuary in the Antarctic. (Attendance is limited to official delegations and observers from inter-governmental organizations and non-member governments.) March 10, 1994 (2 p.m., room 6009, Herbert C. Hoover Building, Department of Commerce, 14th and Constitution, Washington, DC)_Tentative Interagency Committee meeting date to review recent events relating to the IWC, to continue preparations for the upcoming IWC Annual Meeting. April 21, 1994 (2 p.m., room 6009, Herbert C. Hoover Building, Department of Commerce, 14th and Constitution, Washington, DC)_Tentative Interagency Committee Meeting date for finalizing preparations for 1991 IWC meetings. May 23&hyph;27, 1994, Puerto Vallarta, Mexico_46th Annual Meeting of the International Whaling Commission. Dated: January 4, 1994. Nancy Foster, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1091 Filed 1&hyph;14&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;M
