FR940810-2-00032 FR940810-2-00021 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION National Educational Research Policy and Priorities Board; Nominations AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Acceptance of Nominations for Membership on the National Educational Research Policy and Priorities Board (Board). 1. Introduction The U.S. Department of Education's Office of Educational Research and Improvement (OERI) was recently reauthorized by Public Law 103&hyph;227 Title IX: the ``Educational Research, Development, Dissemination and Improvement Act of 1994'' (the Act). Part B of the Act directs the Secretary to establish, within OERI, a ``National Educational Research Policy and Priorities Board''. In accordance with this directive, notice is hereby given that the Secretary of Education (the Secretary) is accepting nominations of individuals who, by virtue of their training, experience, and background in educational research and the education professions, are exceptionally qualified to appraise the educational research and development effort of the United States and to work with the Assistant Secretary for Educational Research and Improvement (Assistant Secretary) in fulfilling other duties as described elsewhere in this Notice. (Section 921(f)(1) of the Act) 2. Description of the Board The Board shall consist of 15 members appointed by the Secretary. Five members shall be appointed from among researchers in the field of education who have been nominated by the National Academy of Sciences; five shall be outstanding school-based professional educators; and five shall be individuals who are knowledgeable about the educational needs of the United States and may include: parents with experience in promoting parental involvement in education, Chief State School Officers, local educational agency superintendents, principals, members of State or local boards of education or Bureau of Indian Affairs-funded school boards, and individuals from business and industry with experience in promoting private sector involvement in education. Members of the Board may not serve on any other governing or advisory board within the Department of Education (Department) or as a paid consultant of the Department. The Act provides that generally the terms of office for members shall be for six years. However, for the first Board appointed under this legislative authority, the terms of office shall, through a random selection process at the time of appointment, be as follows: five members will serve for three (3) years; five members will serve for four (4) years; and five members will serve for six (6) years. (Section 921(l)(2)(B) of the Act) At a minimum, the Board is required to meet quarterly. Additional time will most likely be required for subcommittee meetings and to fulfill the duties assigned to the Board. By law, the Board is required to hold its first meeting no later than May 15, 1995. However, the Secretary and Assistant Secretary believe that the restructuring of the Department's education research and dissemination effort is of such urgency and high priority that they would like to have the advice of and collaboration with the Board begin as soon as possible. Therefore, they anticipate holding the Board's first meeting in late November, 1994. 3. Functions of the Board Section 921(b) of the Act provides that the Board had the responsibility to: (a) work collaboratively with the Assistant Secretary to determine priorities that should guide the work of OERI and provide guidance to the Congress in its oversight of OERI; (b) review and approve the Research Priorities Plan developed by the Assistant Secretary in collaboration with the Board; (c) review and approve standards for the conduct and evaluation of all research, development, and dissemination carried out under the auspices of OERI; and (d) review regularly, evaluate, and publicly comment upon, the implementation of its recommended priorities and policies by the Department and the Congress. Additional responsibilities of the Board include: (1) Providing advice and assistance to the Assistant Secretary in administering the duties of OERI; (2) Making recommendations to the Assistant Secretary of persons qualified to fulfill the responsibilities of the Director of each research institute established within OERI, making special efforts to identify qualified women and minorities and soliciting and giving due consideration to recommendations from professional associations and interested members of the public; (3) Advising and making recommendations to the President with respect to individuals who are qualified to fulfill the responsibilities of the Assistant Secretary for OERI;
