FR940525-2-00026 FR940525-2-00018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL 4887&hyph;3] EPA Region III Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act Program; Transfer and Disclosure of Information to Contractors and Subcontractors AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: EPA Region III intends to authorize certain contractors and subcontractors access to information submitted to EPA under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (``CERCLA''). Some of this information may be claimed or determined to be confidential business information (CBI). DATES: Contractor access to this information will occur after April 30, 1994. Comments concerning CBI access will be accepted June 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be submitted to Susan Janowiak (3HW43), Chief, Contracts and State Oversight Section, EPA Region III, 841 Chestnut Building, Philadelphia, PA 19107. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan Janowiak at (215) 597&hyph;8573. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The contractors and subcontractors listed below will provide certain services to EPA Region III, including: (1) Information management support services for the operation of a file room and an administrative records room in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; (2) compilation and organization of documents and information; and (3) review and analysis of documents and information. In performing these tasks, employees of the contractors and subcontractors listed below will have access to Agency documents for purposes of document processing, filing, abstracting, analyzing, inventorying, retrieving, tracking, etc. The documents to which these contractors and subcontractors will have access potentially include all documents submitted under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. Some of these documents may contain information claimed as confidential business information (``CBI''). Pursuant to EPA regulations at 40 CFR part 2, subpart B, EPA has determined that these contractors and subcontractors require access to CBI to perform the work required under the contracts and subcontracts. These regulations provide for five days notice before contractors are given CBI. This notice is intended to provide notice of all disclosures of such information by EPA Region III to the contractors and subcontractors listed below. All of the listed contractors and subcontractors are required by contract to protect confidential information. When the contractors' and subcontractors' need for the documents is completed, the contractors and subcontractors will return them to EPA. The contractors and subcontractors to which this notice applies are as follows: ␣ 1Contractor/subcontractor 1Contract No. Booz-Allen & Hamilton, Inc. # 68&hyph;W4&hyph;0010 Subcontractors: Dynamac Corporation CDM Federal Programs Corporation PRC Environmental Management, Inc. CACI, Inc. Investigative Consultant Services, Inc. Northeast Investigations Tri-State Enterprises Hydraulic & Water Resources Engineers, Inc. Dated: May 10, 1994. Thomas C. Voltaggio, Director, Hazardous Waste Management, Division, EPA Region III. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12773 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
