FR940407-2-00031 FR940407-2-00021 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Savannah River Operations Office (SR) Financial Assistance Award; Intent To Award a Noncompetitive Grant SUMMARY: The DOE announces that it plans to accept an unsolicited proposal and award a grant to South Carolina Research Authority, 5300 International Boulevard, North Charleston, SC 29418. The project entitled, ``The Reclamation and Reduction of Nuclear Residuals Program,'' will be awarded for a six-month period with DOE support of $298,602. Pursuant to Section 10 CFR 600.7(b) and 600.14, eligibility for this award has been limited to South Carolina Research Authority as a result of acceptance of their unsolicited proposal, and DOE has determined that award of a grant is appropriate. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Elizabeth T. Martin, Prime Contracts and Financial Assistance Branch, U.S. Department of Energy, Savannah River Operations Office; P.O. Box A, Aiken, SC 29802, Telephone: (803) 725&hyph;2191. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Procurement Request Number: 09&hyph;94SR18422.000. Project Scope: The proposed program will involve the performance of an assessment of a concept to manage, in a comprehensive manner, the residues from the use and production of nuclear materials in South Carolina. The proposal includes a phased approach for the assessment, with the first phase assessing the technical, environmental and economic feasibility, benefits and risks regarding the reclamation and reduction of nuclear residues. The result of Phase I will be an assessment that will define a nuclear materials management program that vastly improves the existing means of nuclear material storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials in South Carolina. The assessment will specifically address the concept that irradiated and contaminated materials be converted into containers that are necessary to hold and store nuclear materials, wastes and by-products. This assessment will further define a Nuclear Materials Management Program centered at the Savannah River Site (SRS) that may improve the situation regarding nuclear material storage and disposal in South Carolina. South Carolina Research Authority is a not-for-profit, public corporation established by an act of the South Carolina Assembly on April 29, 1983, to enhance the research capabilities of the State's public and private universities, establish a continuing forum to foster greater dialogue throughout the research community within the State, and to promote the development of high technology industry and research facilities in South Carolina. The proposed project is considered meritorious and represents a unique and innovative idea and approach which is not eligible for financial assistance under a recent, current or planned solicitation. Based on documentation presented and appropriate evaluation, it is determined to be in the best interest of DOE to award a grant to South Carolina Research Authority. Issued in Aiken, South Carolina, on: March 18, 1994. Robert E. Lynch, DOE Savannah River Operations Office, Head of Contracting Activity, Designee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8359 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
