FR940404-2-00139 FR940404-2-00092 Marvin Peterson, Senior Science Attache, Safeguards Affairs, U.S. Mission, Vienna Geraldine Schuetze, Personal Assistant to the Chairman, Nuclear Regulatory Commission Theodore S. Sherr, Assistant to Ambassador-at-Large, Department of State Carlton Stoiber, Office of Nuclear Technology and Safeguards, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Richard J.K. Stratford, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Nuclear Energy and Energy Technology Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Michael von Grey, Adviser, U.S. Mission, Vienna William H. Young, Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy, Department of Energy Private Sector Adviser L. Manning Muntzing, Doub, Muntzing and Glasgow, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the Working Party on the Facilitation of International Trade Procedures, 36th Session, and Its Subgroups Economic Commission for Europe (ECE), Geneva, September 21&hyph;26, 1992 Representative Clifford W. Woodward, Jr., Division Chief, Trade, Facilitation and Technical Issues Division, Office of International Transportation and Trade, Department of Transportation Advisers Vicki Hodziewich, Customs Attache, United States Mission to the European Communities, Brussels William H. Kenworthy, Jr., Data Systems Manager, Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Defense for Management Systems, Department of Defense Private Sector Advisers Irwin Chmielewski, Electronic Data Systems, Troy, Michigan Thomas P. Colberg, Principal, Price Waterhouse, Washington, DC Robert Gillen, Chairman, ASC&hyph;X12 Transportation Subcommittee, United Parcel Service, Atlanta, Georgia Robert Howell, PAEB Vice Chairman, IBM Corporation, Owego, New York Robert Hurd, Pan American EDIFACT, Data Interchange Standards Association, Alexandria, Virginia Jeffrey B. Ritter, Legal Adviser and Co-Rapporteur on Legal Questions, Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease, Columbus, Ohio Carrie L. Spencer, PAEB Database, Publications and Maintenance Administrator, EDIFACT Technical Assessment Group Secretary/Secretariat, Alexandria, Virginia Robert K. Windsor, Association Executive, NCITD_The International Trade, Facilitation Council, Alexandria, Virginia United States Delegation to the Study Group XI and Its Working Parties International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee (CCITT), International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, Switzerland, September 21&hyph;October 2, 1992 Representative Otto J. Gusella, Executive Director, Exchange Carrier Standards Association, Bethesda, Maryland Alternate Representative Kathryn A. Martin, Engineer, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Adviser Leslie A. Collica, Computer Scientist, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce Wendell Harris, Assistant Chief/International, Common Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Private Sector Advisers Elmer R. Hapeman, Technical Staff Member, Bellcore, Red Bank, New Jersey Harry A. Hetz, Standards Manager, Bell Atlantic Corporation, Arlington, Virginia Jay R. Hilton, Manager, Technical Standards, GTE Telephone Operations, Irving, Texas Doris S. Lebovits, Manager, AT&T, Bedminster, New Jersey Anthony Toubassi, Standards Engineer, MCI International Incorporated, Richardson, Texas
