FR941216-2-00162 FR941216-2-00093 [Release No. 34&hyph;35080; File Nos. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;13 and SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;68] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Amendment of Proposed Rule Change by National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to the Small Order Execution System and the Proposed Nasdaq Primary Retail Order View and Execution System December 9, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that in connection with File Nos. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;13 2 and SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;68, 3 on October 24, 1994 the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') an econometric analysis conducted by the NASD's Economic Research Department. In addition, in connection with File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;13 4 on December 2, 1994 the NASD filed with the Commission an analysis of the potential for order queues to develop in its proposed Nasdaq Primary Retail Order View and Execution System (``NPROVE''). The econometric analysis and the NPROVE order queuing analysis are set forth in Items I and II below respectively, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. Accompanying Nasdaq's analyses were certain graphs, charts and tables which are not included in this notice, but are available for inspection in the Commission's Public Reference Room. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34145 (June 1, 1994), 59 FR 29649 (June 8, 1994) (notice of File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;13, incorporating Amendment No. 1), Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34453 (July 28, 1994), 59 FR 39808 (Aug. 4, 1994) (notice of Amendment No. 2) and Securities Exchange Act Release No. 35024 (Nov. 29, 1994), 59 FR 62755 (Dec. 6, 1994) (notice of Amendment No. 3). 3 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 35077 (Dec. 9, 1994) (notice of File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;68). 4 See supra note 2. I. Impact of the SOES Interim Changes on the Quality of The Nasdaq Stock Market In SEC Release No. 34&hyph;33377 5 (the ``Release''), the SEC approved certain changes to the NASD's Small Order Execution System (``SOES'') on a pilot basis. Specifically, the SEC approved the following changes to SOES: (1) A reduction in the maximum size order eligible for SOES execution to 500 shares from 1,000 shares; 6 (2) a reduction in the minimum exposure limit for ``unpreferenced'' SOES orders to two times the maximum exposure limit from five times the maximum exposure; (3) the elimination of exposure limits for ``preferenced'' orders; (4) the implementation of an automated function for updating market maker quotations when the market maker's exposure limit has been exhausted; and (5) the prohibition of short sale transactions through SOES. These changes, collectively referred to hereinafter as the ``SOES changes,'' went into effect on January 31, 1994. 5 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33377 (Dec. 23, 1993), 58 FR 69419 (Dec. 30, 1993) (approval of File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;16 on a one-year pilot basis). 6 Thus with this change, the SOES maximum order size for Nasdaq National Market (NNM) securities is 200 shares or 500 shares, depending upon the trading characteristics of the particular security. All Nasdaq SmallCap securities are subject to a SOES maximum order size of 500 shares. Due to the pilot nature of these changes, the Commission stated that ``[a]ny further action the NASD seeks with respect to SOES_extension of these modifications upon expiration, or introduction of other changes_will require independent consideration under Section 19 of the Act.'' In addition, the SEC stated that, should the NASD desire to extend these SOES changes or modify SOES, the Commission would expect, ``the NASD to monitor the quality of its markets and assess the effects of the approved SOES changes on market quality for Nasdaq securities.'' Also, if feasible, the SEC instructed the NASD to provide a quantitative and statistical assessment of the effects of the SOES changes on market quality; or, if an assessment is not feasible, the SEC stated that the NASD should provide a reasoned explanation supporting that determination. 7 7 The SEC also expressed the view that it is not possible to determine from the correlation and regression analyses submitted in support of the SOES changes whether increased stock price volatility definitely leads to trading by SOES active trading (SAT) firms or trading by SAT firms results in additional stock price volatility. The SEC further determined that it is not possible to differentiate between the effects on spreads and stock price volatility attributable to active SOES trading and the effects attributable to other factors such as stock-specific news or volatility. Accordingly, in order to facilitate and support approval of the Nasdaq Stock Market's Nasdaq Primary Order View and Execution (NPROVE) system, or an extension of the SOES changes, should the Commission not approve NPROVE before termination of the SOES changes, the NASD is submitting this economic study conducted by the NASD's Economic Research Department on the impacts of the SOES changes on the quality of the markets for Nasdaq securities. In sum, the study found that: •Since the SOES changes went into effect in January 1994, quoted spreads in Nasdaq securities experienced a decline in the immediate period following implementation of the changes and have continued to decline since then. In particular, quoted spreads for the 500 largest Nasdaq National Market securities experienced a sharp decline from April 28 to May 12 and from June 23 to July 18. 8 8 Some press reports have attributed the recent decline in spreads for Nasdaq stocks to the publication, on May 26 and 27, 1994, of newspaper articles in The Wall Street Journal, The Los Angeles Times and other publications reporting the results of an economic study conducted by two academicians that illustrated the lack of odd-eighth quotes for active Nasdaq stocks. Contrary to these press reports, this study shows that spreads had indeed narrowed before publication of these articles (from April 28 to May 12), stabilized at these narrower levels from mid-May until June 23, and declined again from June 23 to July 18. •With the exception of a brief, market-wide period of volatility experienced by stocks traded on Nasdaq, the New York Stock Exchange, and the America Stock Exchange during the Spring, the volatility of Nasdaq securities appears to be unchanged in the period following implementation of the changes. The SOES changes were designed to correct a major market quality problem caused by the establishment in mid-1988 of: (1) a requirement that market makers in NNM securities must participate in SOES and (2) minimum market maker exposure limits of 5000 shares for the most active group of NNM securities (1988 SOES changes). While the 1988 SOES changes were intended to ensure that order entry firms could obtain executions for their customers in volatile markets, the changes also had the unintended consequence of dramatically changing the dynamics and economics of intra-day trading by investors in Nasdaq. Specifically, the assurance of automatic order execution afforded investors through SOES spawned trading by SAT firms that resulted in market makers receiving multiple executions in brief periods of time without the ability to update their quotes. This rapid-fire, intra-day trading by SAT firms increased the cost of market making and, in turn, resulted in a dramatic widening of displayed quotation spreads as market makers avoided the trading risks associated with the mandated 5,000-share exposure limit in SOES. The SOES changes noted above were an attempt by the NASD to preserve the benefits of SOES for small retail investors and eliminate the negative market impacts created by abuses of SOES. As detailed below, the NASD's analysis illustrates that the SOES changes have been associated with substantive improvements in the quality of the markets for Nasdaq securities and that these positive improvements have become more pronounced the longer the changes have been in effect, as market makers have adjusted their trading practices to reflect the lower costs and risks associated with SOES trading. As the SEC stated in the release, market factors other than SOES changes may be jointly or singly responsible for changes in market quality. However, market quality measures are useful in indicating whether the SOES changes have been associated with non-negative or positive changes in market quality. Even though cause and effect cannot be statistically proven, as pointed out succinctly in the Release, the absence of negative market developments associated with the implementation of the SOES changes, coupled with the apparent positive market improvements associated with the SOES changes, provides useful support for the SEC's evaluation of its decision to approve the SOES changes.
