FR941006-1-00032 FR941006-1-00008 Subpart C_Demand Deposit Securities The Tax Reform Act of 1986 imposed arbitrage rebate requirements on issuers of tax-exempt bonds and directed the Department of the Treasury to accommodate such requirements by enabling entities to invest qualifying funds in a Treasury money-market type investment vehicle. Accordingly, the Department expanded the State and Local Government Series program, beginning with its 1986 regulations, to include a demand deposit security offering. This security is not treated as investment property for purposes of sections 143(g)(3) and 148 of the Internal Revenue Code and, therefore, enables eligible entities to invest proceeds of tax-exempt bonds in an obligation which avoids the earning of arbitrage subject to rebate. Proposed changes from the current rule are as follows: (1) Section 344.6(c)_A typographical error in the current regulation is corrected. (2) Section 344.7(a)_A typographical error in the current regulation is corrected, and the Bureau of the Public Debt is substituted for the Federal Reserve Banks to reflect the consolidation of program activities in Parkersburg, WV. The current regulation provides that subscriptions must be received under this section at least three business days before the issue date, by a 1 p.m., Eastern time, deadline. The proposed section would clarify that subscriptions may be submitted by certified or registered mail, or by other carrier. In addition, the proposed section provides that a subscription may be submitted by facsimile equipment, at least three business days before the issue date, provided that the original subscription form is submitted by mail, or other carrier, and is received by the Bureau of the Public Debt by 3 p.m., Eastern time, on the issue date. (3) Section 344.7(b)_Current §344.7(b) is redesignated §344.7(c) and a new §344.7(b) is added. The current regulation provides that the principal amount to be invested may be changed without penalty so long as notice is provided by 1 p.m., Eastern time, at least one business day before the issue date. The proposed section provides that the principal amount to be invested may be changed without penalty on or before the issue date, but no later than 1 p.m., Eastern time, on the issue date. This section would allow for sending of amendments to original subscriptions by facsimile, provided the notification is clearly identified as an amendment and is immediately followed by the submission, by mail or other carrier, of written notification of the amendment. In addition, this section would provide that, where an amendment is not submitted timely, the Division of Special Investments may determine, pursuant to the provisions governing waiver of regulations set forth under 31 CFR 306.126, that such an amendment is acceptable on an exception basis. Where an amendment is determined to be acceptable on an exception basis, the amended information shall be used as the basis for issuing the securities, and an administrative fee of $100 per subscription will be assessed. The Secretary reserves the right to reject amendments which are not submitted timely. (4) Section 344.7(c)_Current §344.7(b) is redesignated as §344.7(c). A typographical error in current §344.7(b)(5)(vii) is corrected. (5) Section 344.8_The current section is divided into two parts, (a) and (b). (6) Section 344.8(a)_In this section, the Bureau of the Public Debt is substituted for the Federal Reserve Banks to reflect the consolidation of program activities in Parkersburg, WV. The current rule requires investors to deposit funds in an account for debit by a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch on or before the date of issue. As proposed, this section would require that full payment for each subscription be submitted utilizing the Fedwire funds transfer system.
