FR940721-2-00054 FR940721-2-00035 (b) The data are needed to establish the validity of evidence or to verify the accuracy of information presented by the individual, and it concerns one or more of the following; the individual's eligibility to benefits under the Medicare program;: The amount of reimbursement;: Any case in which the evidence is being reviewed as a result of suspected abuse or fraud, concern for program integrity, or for quality appraisal, or evaluation and measurement of system activities. (3) Third-party contacts where necessary to establish or verify information provided by representative payees or payee applicants. (4) The Treasury Department for investigating alleged theft, forgery, or unlawful negotiation of Medicare reimbursement checks. (5) The U.S. Postal Service for investigating alleged forgery or theft of Medicare checks. (6) The Department of Justice for investigating and prosecuting violations of the Social Security Act to which criminal penalties attach, or other criminal statutes as they pertain to the Social Security Act programs, for representing the Secretary, and for investigating issues of fraud by agency officers or employees, or violation of civil rights. (7) The Railroad Retirement Board for administering provisions of the Railroad Retirement and Social Security Acts relating to railroad employment. (8) Peer Review Organizations and Quality Review Organizations in connection with their review of claims, or in connection with studies or other review activities, conducted pursuant to Part B of Title XI of the Social Security Act. (9) State Licensing Boards for review of unethical practices of nonprofessional conduct. (10) Providers and suppliers of services (and their authorized billing agents) directly or dealing through fiscal intermediaries or carriers, for administration of provisions of title XVIII. (11) An individual or organization for a research, evaluation or epidemiological project related to the prevention of disease or disability, or the restoration or maintenance of health if HCFA: a. Determines that the use of disclosure does not violate legal limitations under which the record was provided, collected, or obtained. b. Determines that the purpose for which this disclosure is to be made: (1) Cannot be reasonably accomplished unless the record is provided in individually identifiable form. (2) Is of sufficient importance to warrant the effect and/or risk on the privacy of the individual that additional exposure of the record might bring, and (3) There is reasonable probability that the objective for the use would be accomplished: (c) Requires the information recipient to: (1) Establish reasonable administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of the record, and (2) Remove or destroy the information that allows the individual to be identified at the earliest time at which removal or destruction can be accomplished consistent with the purpose of the project, unless the recipient presents an adequate justification of a research or health nature for retaining such information and
