FR940111-0-00059 FR940111-0-00015 Response. This rulemaking is not intended to address how the highway sanctions will be implemented. The EPA is in the process of developing procedures with the U.S. DOT to provide for the coordinated implementation of the highway sanction. The EPA and the U.S. DOT will develop procedures consistent with the specifications in section 179(b). 3. Authority to Sanction For Failure to Implement Comment. The Massachusetts DOT comments that EPA's authority to sanction a State if ``*␣*␣* a requirement of an approved plan is not being implemented is too broad, given the large number of agencies, regulatory authorities, and group interests which can prevent a planned project from being implemented.'' Instead, a State's good faith effort to implement an approved project should be identified as an exception to this policy. Response. The types of findings that may lead to the imposition of sanctions are specified in the Act; they are not being developed by this rulemaking. Therefore, once a finding of failure to implement a plan has been made, section 179(a) requires that the 18-month mandatory sanctions clock begins. Furthermore, any finding made under section 179(a) provides EPA with discretion to impose sanctions under section 110(m). 4. Clarification of Offset Sanction Comment. The Massachusetts DOT requests clarification of the requirement for a 2:1 emissions reduction from existing sources to offset emissions from major new facilities. The Massachusetts DOT believes it is not reasonable to require reductions from existing, older or congested facilities before major new improvements are made. Response. The procedure by which facilities offset emissions is not the subject of this rulemaking. Those issues must be resolved in regulations adopted by the State pursuant to the requirements of section 173. VI. Miscellaneous A. Relationship to Permit Program The Act includes specific sanctions provisions for permitting requirements in section 502(d) and (i), 42 U.S.C., 7661a(d) and (i). The section 110(m) sanctions procedure does not apply with respect to findings regarding permit program failures. B. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, OMB has notified EPA that this action is a ``significant regulatory action'' within the meaning of the Executive Order. For this reason, this action was submitted to OMB for review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations will be documented in the public record. C. Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C 605(b), the Administrator hereby certifies that the attached rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Since the rule requires EPA to consider criteria before applying sanctions on a statewide basis, it potentially could result in a reduced burden on small entities. D. Paperwork Reduction Act This proposed rule does not contain any information collection requirements subject to review by OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501, et seq. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Ozone, Carbon monoxide, Nitrogen oxides, Sulfur dioxide, PM&hyph;10, Sanctions. Dated: December 29, 1993. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
