FR941117-0-00077 FR941117-0-00011 (b) Limit on STA term. The FCC may grant STAs valid for a period not to exceed 180 days under the provisions of §309(f) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, (47 U.S.C. 309(f)) if extraordinary circumstances so require, and pending the filing of an application for regular operation. The FCC may grant extensions of STAs for a period of 180 days, but the applicant must show that extraordinary circumstances warrant such an extension. §22.127 Public notices. Periodically, the FCC issues Public Notices listing major filings and other information of public significance. Categories of Public Notice listings are as follows: (a) Accepted for filing. Acceptance for filing of applications and major amendments thereto. (b) Actions. FCC actions on pending applications previously listed as accepted for filing. (c) Informative listings. Information that the FCC, in its discretion, believes to be of public significance. Such listings do not create any rights to file oppositions or other pleadings. §22.128 Dismissal of applications. The FCC may dismiss any application for authorization, assignment of authorization, or consent to transfer of control in the Public Mobile Services, upon request by the applicant, or if the application is untimely filed, or if the application is mutually exclusive with another application that is selected or granted in accordance with the rules in this part, or for failure to prosecute, or if the requested spectrum is not available, or if the application is found to be defective. Such dismissal may be ``without prejudice,'' meaning that the FCC may accept from the applicant another application for the same purpose at any later time, or ``with prejudice,'' meaning that the FCC will not accept from the applicant another application for the same purpose for a period of one year. Unless otherwise provided in this part, a dismissed application will not be returned to the applicant. (a) Dismissal at request of applicant. Any applicant may request that its application be returned or dismissed. A request for the return of an application after it has been listed on Public Notice as tentatively accepted for filing is considered to be a request for dismissal of that application without prejudice. (1) If the applicant requests dismissal of its application with prejudice, the FCC will dismiss that application with prejudice. (2) If the applicant requests dismissal of its application without prejudice, the FCC will dismiss that application without prejudice, unless: (i) It has been designated for comparative hearing; (ii) It has been selected in a random selection process; or, (iii) It is an application for which the applicant submitted the winning bid in a competitive bidding process. (3) If the applicant requests dismissal of its application for which it submitted the winning bid in a competitive bidding process, the FCC will dismiss that application with prejudice. If the applicant requests dismissal of its application after that application has been designated for comparative hearing or selected in a random selection process, it may submit a written petition requesting that the dismissal be without prejudice. Such petition must demonstrate good cause and comply with §22.129 and be served upon all parties of record. The FCC may grant such petition and dismiss the application without prejudice or deny the petition and dismiss the application with prejudice. (b) Dismissal of mutually exclusive applications not granted. The FCC may dismiss mutually exclusive applications: (1) For which the applicant did not submit the winning bid in a competitive bidding process; (2) That are included in a random selection process but are not granted; or, (3) That receive comparative consideration in a hearing but are not granted by order of the presiding officer. (c) Dismissal for failure to prosecute. The FCC may dismiss applications for failure of the applicant to prosecute or for failure of the applicant to respond substantially within a specified time period to official correspondence or requests for additional information. Such dismissal will generally be without prejudice if the failure to prosecute or respond occurred prior to designation of the application for comparative hearing or prior to selection of the application in a random selection process, but may be with prejudice in cases of non-compliance with §22.129. Dismissal will generally be with prejudice if the failure to prosecute or respond occurred after designation of the application for comparative hearing or after selection of the application in a random selection process. The FCC may dismiss applications with prejudice for failure of the applicant to comply with requirements related to a competitive bidding process. (d) Dismissal as defective. The FCC may dismiss without prejudice applications that it finds to be defective. Applications for authorization or assignment of authorization are defective if: (1) They are unsigned or incomplete with respect to required answers to questions, informational showings, or other matters of a formal character; or, (2) They request an authorization that would not comply with one or more of the FCC rules and do not contain a request for waiver of these rule(s), or in the event that the FCC denies such a waiver request, do not contain an alternative proposal that fully complies with the rules; (e) Dismissal because spectrum not available. The FCC may dismiss applications that request spectrum which is unavailable because:
