FR940902-0-00111 FR940902-0-00010 (c) Pursuant to instructions issued by the Secretary, additional funds may be awarded to States for the purpose of carrying out the administrative activities described in section 202(c)(1)(A) when a State receives an amount under such section that is less than $500,000 (section 453(d)). (d) Termination. Each grant shall terminate when the period of availability for expenditure (funding period), as specified in section 161(b) of the Act, has expired and shall be closed in accordance with §627.485, of this part, Closeout. §627.410 Reallotment and reallocation. (a)(1) The Governor shall reallocate title II&hyph;A and II&hyph;C funds among service delivery areas within the State in accordance with the provisions of section 109(a) of the Act. The amount to be reallocated, if any, shall be based on SDA obligations of the funds allocated separately to each SDA for title II&hyph;A or II&hyph;C programs. (2) The Governor shall not establish reallocation requirements that are inconsistent with the provisions of section 109(a) of the Act. (b) The Secretary shall reallot title II&hyph;A and II&hyph;C funds among the States in accordance with the provisions of section 109(b) of the Act. The amounts to be reallotted, if any, shall be based on State obligations of the funds allotted separately to each State for title II&hyph;A or II&hyph;C programs, excluding funds allotted under section 202(c)(1)(D) and the State's obligation of such funds. (c) Title III funds shall be reallotted by the Secretary in accordance with section 303 of the Act. §627.415 Insurance. (a) General. Each recipient and subrecipient shall follow its normal insurance procedures except as otherwise indicated in this section and §627.465, Property Management Standards. (b) DOL assumes no liability with respect to bodily injury, illness, or any other damages or losses, or with respect to any claims arising out of any activity under a JTPA grant or agreement whether concerning persons or property in the recipient's or any subrecipient's organization or that of any third party. §627.420 Procurement. (a) General. (1) For purposes of this section, the term procurement means the process which leads to any award of JTPA funds. (2) The Governor, in accordance with the minimum requirements established in this section, shall prescribe and implement procurement standards to ensure fiscal accountability and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse in programs administered under this Act. (3) When procuring property and services, a State shall follow the same policies and procedures it uses for procurements from its non-Federal funds, provided that the State's procurement procedures also comply with the minimum requirements of this section. (4) Each subrecipient shall use its own procurement procedures which reflect applicable State and local laws and regulations, provided that the subrecipient's procurement procedures also comply with the requirements of this section and the standards established by the Governor, pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (5) States and subrecipients shall not use funds provided under JTPA to duplicate facilities or services available in the area (with or without reimbursement) from Federal, State, or local sources, unless it is demonstrated that the JTPA-funded alternative services or facilities would be more effective or more likely to achieve performance goals (sections 107(b) and 141(h)). (6) Awards are to be made to responsible organizations possessing the demonstrated ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed subgrant or contract. A determination of demonstrated ability shall be done in accordance with the requirements contained in §627.422 (b) and (d). (b) Competition. (1) Each State and subrecipient shall conduct procurements in a manner which provides full and open competition. Some of the situations considered to be restrictive of competition include, but are not limited to: (i) Placing unreasonable requirements on firms or organizations in order for them to qualify to do business; (ii) Requiring unnecessary experience and excessive bonding; (iii) Noncompetitive pricing practices between firms or organizations or between affiliated companies or organizations; (iv) Noncompetitive awards to consultants that are on retainer contracts; (v) Organizational conflicts of interest; (vi) Specifying only a ``brand name'' product instead of allowing ``an equal'' product to be offered and describing the performance of other relevant requirements of the procurement; (vii) Overly restrictive specifications; and (viii) Any arbitrary action in the procurement process. (2) Each State and subrecipient shall have written procedures for procurement transactions. These procedures shall ensure that all solicitations: (i) Incorporate a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product, or service to be procured (including quantities). Such description shall not, in competitive procurements, contain features which unduly restrict competition; and (ii) Identify all requirements which the offerors must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals. (3) Each State and subrecipient shall ensure that all prequalified lists of persons, firms, or other organizations which are used in acquiring goods and services are current and include sufficient numbers of qualified sources to ensure maximum open and free competition. (c) Conflict of interest. (1) Each recipient and subrecipient shall maintain a written code of standards of conduct governing the performance of persons engaged in the award and administration of JTPA contracts and subgrants. To the extent permitted by State or local law or regulation, such standards of conduct will provide for penalties, sanctions, or other disciplinary actions for violations of such standards by the awarding agency's officers, employees, or agents, or by awardees or their agents. (2) Staff conflict of interest. Each recipient and subrecipient shall ensure that no individual in a decisionmaking capacity shall engage in any activity, including participation in the selection, award, or administration of a subgrant or contract supported by JTPA funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved.
