FR940721-2-00160 FR940721-2-00086 Progress toward the goal of environmental regulatory enhancement would include the strengthening of tribal environmental laws, providing for the training and education of those employees responsible for ensuring compliance with and enforcement of these laws, and the development of programs to conduct compliance and enforcement functions. Other functions leading toward enhancing local regulatory capacity include, but are not limited to: •Environmental assessments; •Development and use of environmental laboratories; and •Development of court systems for enforcement of tribal and Federal environmental laws. Ultimate success in this program will be realized when the applicant's desired level of environmental quality is acquired and maintained. C. Proposed Projects To Be Funded Financial assistance provided by ANA is available for developmental projects designed to assist tribes in advancing their capacity and capability to plan for and: •Develop or enhance the tribal environmental regulatory infrastructure required to support a tribal environmental program, and to regulate and enforce environmental activities on Indian lands pursuant to Federal and Indian law; •Develop regulations, ordinances and laws to protect the environment; •Develop the technical and program capacity to carry out a comprehensive tribal environmental program and perform essential environmental program functions; •Promote environmental training and education of tribal employees; •Develop technical and program capability to meet tribal and Federal regulatory requirements; •Develop technical and program capability to monitor compliance and enforcement of tribal environmental regulations, ordinances, and laws; and •Ensure the tribal court system enforcement requirements are developed in concert with and support the tribe's comprehensive environmental program. D. Eligible Applicants The following organizations are eligible to apply under this competitive area: •Federally recognized Indian tribes (as listed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in an October 21, 1993 Federal Register notice, 58 Fed. Reg. 54. 364 (1993)); •Incorporated non-Federally recognized Indian tribes; •Alaska Native villages as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) and/or nonprofit village consortia; •Nonprofit Alaska Native Regional Corporations/Associations with village specific projects; and •Other tribal or village organizations or consortia of Indian tribes. The following organizations are not eligible to apply: •Urban Indian Centers; •Incorporated nonprofit multi-purpose community-based Indian organizations; •Public and nonprofit private agencies serving: Native Hawaiians, peoples from Guam, American Samoa, Palau, or the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands; •Incorporated nonprofit Alaska Native multi-purpose community based organizations; and •National or regional incorporated nonprofit Native American organizations with Native American community-specific objectives. Proof of an applicant's nonprofit status, such as an IRS determination of nonprofit status under IRS Code 501(c)(3), must be included in the application. Under each competitive area, ANA will only accept one application which serves or impacts a reservation. If a Tribe chooses not to submit an application under a specific competitive area, it may support another applicant's project (e.g., a tribal organization) which serves or impacts the reservation. In this case, the applicant must include a Tribal resolution which clearly demonstrates the Tribe's support of the project and the Tribe's understanding that the other applicant's project supplants the Tribe's authority to submit an application under that specific competitive area for the duration of the approved grant period. E. Grantee Share of the Project Grantees must provide at least 20 percent of the total approved cost of the project. The total approved cost of the project is the sum of the ACF share and the non-Federal share. The non-Federal share may be met by cash or in-kind contributions; although applicants are encouraged to meet their match requirement through cash contributions. Therefore, a project requesting $300,000 in Federal funds must include a match of at least $75,000 (20% of total project cost). The non-Federal share may be met by cash or through the provision of in-kind property or services, but only to the extent that cash or property is from any source (including any Federal agency where legislation or regulation authorizes using specific types of funds for a match) other than a program, contract or grant authorized under the Native American Programs Act of 1974, as amended. An itemized budget detailing the applicant's non-Federal share, and its source, must be included in an application. A request for a waiver of the non-Federal share requirement may be submitted in accordance with 45 CFR 1336.50(b)(3) of the Native American Program Regulations.
