FR940617-0-00198 FR940617-0-00026 (4) The NO X analytical system requires a continuously integrated measurement of diluted NO X meeting the minimum requirements and technical specifications contained in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Unless compensation for varying flow is made, a constant flow system must be used to ensure a representative sample. (5) Since various configurations can produce equivalent results, exact conformance with these drawings is not required. Additional components such as instruments, valves, solenoids, pumps, and switches may be used to provide additional information and coordinate the functions of the component systems. Other components, such as snubbers, which are not needed to maintain accuracy on some systems, may be excluded if their exclusion is based upon good engineering judgment. (6) Other sampling and/or analytical systems may be used if shown to yield equivalent results and if approved in advance by the Administrator. (b) Component description. The components necessary for exhaust sampling shall meet the following requirements: (1) Exhaust dilution system. The PDP&hyph;CVS shall conform to all of the requirements listed for the exhaust gas PDP&hyph;CVS in §86.1309&hyph;90(b) of this chapter. The CFV&hyph;CVS shall conform to all of the requirements listed for the exhaust gas CFV&hyph;CVS in §86.1309&hyph;90(c) of this chapter. In addition, the CVS must conform to the following requirements: (i) The flow capacity of the CVS must be sufficient to maintain the diluted exhaust stream at or below the temperature required for the measurement of hydrocarbon emissions noted in the following paragraph and to prevent condensation of water at any point in the dilution tunnel. (ii) The flow capacity of the CVS must be sufficient to maintain the diluted exhaust stream in the primary dilution tunnel at a temperature of 191 ○C or less at the sampling zone for hydrocarbon measurement and as required to prevent condensation at any point in the dilution tunnel. Gaseous emission samples may be taken directly from this sampling point. (iii) For the CFV&hyph;CVS, either a heat exchanger or electronic flow compensation is required (see Figure 3 in appendix A to this subpart). (iv) For the CFV&hyph;CVS when a heat exchanger is used, the gas mixture temperature, measured at a point immediately ahead of the critical flow venturi, shall be within # 11 ○C) of the average operating temperature observed during the test with the simultaneous requirement that condensation does not occur. The temperature measuring system (sensors and readout) shall have an accuracy and precision of # 2 ○C. For systems utilizing a flow compensator to maintain proportional flow, the requirement for maintaining constant temperature is not necessary. (v) The primary dilution air shall have a temperature of 25 ○C # 5 ○C. (2) Continuous HC measurement system. (i) The continuous HC sample system (as shown in Figure 2 or 3 in appendix A to this subpart) uses an ``overflow'' zero and span system. In this type of system, excess zero or span gas spills out of the probe when zero and span checks of the analyzer are made. The ``overflow'' system may also be used to calibrate the HC analyzer per §86.1321&hyph;90(b) of this chapter, although this is not required. (ii) No other analyzers may draw a sample from the continuous HC sample probe, line or system, unless a common sample pump is used for all analyzers and the sample line system design reflects good engineering practice. (iii) The overflow gas flow rates into the sample line shall be at least 105 percent of the sample system flow rate. (iv) The overflow gases shall enter the heated sample line as close as practical to the outside surface of the CVS duct or dilution tunnel. (v) The continuous HC sampling system shall consist of a probe (which must raise the sample to the specified temperature) and, where used, a sample transfer system (which must maintain the specified temperature). The continuous hydrocarbon sampling system (exclusive of the probe) shall:
