FR940526-2-00130 FR940526-2-00063 Film Developing. Price to process and print 35 millimeter, 24 exposure, 100 ASA color roll film. Single prints only, standard size and finish. Doctor, Office Visit. Typical fee, after the initial visit, for an office visit when medical advice or simple treatment is all that is needed. Do not include the charge for a complete physical examination, injections, medication, laboratory tests, or similar services. Oil Change. Price of a regular oil change including oil and filter for a current year model Honda Civic DX sedan, 1.5 liter, 4 cylinder engine. 2. Prices of many of the items can be obtained ``off-the-shelf'' without assistance. Occasionally, when a specific item is not available, assistance from sales or other personnel may be required to identify and price substitution items of comparable quality and quantity. 3. Prices of most services are obtained by telephone or personal interview. A few services are priced with little or no assistance. For example, prices may be obtainable from a displayed price schedule, list, or menu. Housing Component_Rental Information Collection 1. Describe the location, size, layout, number and types of rooms, and square footage of your rental units. 2. Are they apartments, duplexes, town houses, detached houses, or other types of units? Describe. 3. Are there additional amenities (e.g., pool, sauna, tennis courts, gym)? If so, describe. 4. What is the monthly rent? What is the amount of the security deposit (if any)? What other kinds of fees or assessments are there? 5. Are utilities included? Which ones? If you can, please provide information on average monthly or annual costs of utilities paid by tenants. 6. Are term leases usually required? What are the conditions and penalties associated with the lease? 7. Are there any special restrictions or other factors we should know about (e.g., seasonal tourist trade)? Housing Component_Information Collection for Comparable Sales 1. Describe the location, size, layout, number and types of rooms, and square footage of some of your recent home sales. 2. Were they condominiums, duplexes, town houses, detached houses, or other types of dwellings? Describe. 3. Were there any atypical characteristics (e.g., extra large lot sizes, beach front, desirable/undesirable locations)? 4. Are there additional amenities provided by the developer, homeowners association, or similar community group (e.g., pool, sauna, tennis courts, gym)? If so, describe facilities and charges. 5. What was the selling price and date of sale? 6. What are the real estate taxes? 7. Do you have any data on utilities relating to these homes? 8. In the past year or so, what has been the average appreciation rate of property in this community? Looking back over the past six years, has this rate changed? How? 9. Describe current market conditions (e.g., soft, booming, so-so). How has this affected housing prices? Describe the housing market over the past six years. 10. Are there any special considerations or other factors we should know about (e.g., retirement/tourist trade) that might affect the housing market in this community? BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEN26MY94.000 E:GRAPHICSEN26MY94.001 E:GRAPHICSEN26MY94.002 BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;C
