FR940930-0-00267 FR940930-0-00031 9. Section 203.401 is amended by redesignating paragraph (c) as paragraph (d); by adding a new paragraph (c); and by revising the newly redesignated paragraph (d), to read as follows: §203.401 Amount of payment_conveyed and non-conveyed properties. * * * * * (c) Pre-foreclosure Sales. Where a claim for insurance benefits is filed in accordance with this subpart, based on a pre-foreclosure sale approved by or on behalf of the Secretary (under the provisions of §203.370), the amount of insurance benefits shall be computed by adding to the original principal balance of the mortgage (as increased by the amount of open-end advances made by the mortgagee and approved by the Commissioner) which was unpaid on the date of closing of the pre-foreclosure sale, the amount of all applicable items set forth in §203.402; provided however that appropriate adjustment shall be made for any such items covered by proceeds of the pre-foreclosure sale. (d) Final Payment. (1) The mortgagee may not file for any additional payments of its mortgage insurance claim after six months from payment by the Commissioner of the final payment except for: (i) Cases where the Commissioner requests or requires a deficiency judgment. (ii) Other cases where the Commissioner determines it appropriate and expressly authorizes an extension of time. (2) For the purpose of this section, the term final payment shall mean, in the case of claims filed for conveyed properties, the payment under subpart B of this part which is made by the Commissioner based upon the submission by the mortgagee of all required documents and information filed pursuant to §203.365. In the case of claims filed under claims without conveyance of title, final payment shall mean the payment which is made by the Commissioner based upon submission by the mortgagee of all required documents and information filed pursuant to §§203.368 and 203.401(b). In the case of claims filed pursuant to pre-foreclosure sales, final payment shall mean the payment which is made by the Commissioner based upon submission by the mortgagee of all required documents and information filed pursuant to §§203.370 and 203.401(d). 10. Section 203.402 is amended by revising the introductory paragraph; by adding a new paragraph (k)(3); by revising paragraph (l); and by adding new paragraphs (s) and (t), to read as follows: §203.402 Items included in payment_conveyed and non-conveyed properties. The insurance benefits paid in connection with foreclosed properties, whether or not conveyed to the Commissioner; and those properties conveyed to the Commissioner as a result of a deed in lieu of foreclosure; and those properties sold under an approved pre-foreclosure sale shall include the following items: * * * * * (k) *␣*␣* (3) Where a claim for insurance benefits is being paid following a pre-foreclosure sale, without foreclosure or conveyance to the Commissioner in accordance with §203.370, an amount equivalent to the sum of: (i) The debenture interest which would have been earned, as of the date of the closing of the pre-foreclosure sale, on an amount equal to the amount by which an insurance claim determined in accordance with §203.401(a) exceeds the amount of the actual claim being paid in debentures; plus (ii) The debenture interest which would have been earned, from the date of the closing of the pre-foreclosure sale to the date when payment of the claim is made, on the portion of the insurance benefits paid in cash if such portion had been paid in debentures, except that if the mortgagee fails to meet any of the applicable requirements of §203.365 within the specified time and in a manner satisfactory to the Commissioner (or within such further time as the Commissioner may approve in writing), the interest allowance in such cash payment shall be computed only to the date on which the particular required action should have been taken or to which it was extended. (l) Reasonable costs of appraisal under §203.368(e) or pursuant to §203.370; * * * * * (s) Reasonable costs of the title search ordered by the mortgagee, in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Secretary, to determine the status of a mortgagor meeting all other criteria for approval to participate in the Pre-foreclosure Sale procedure. (t) The administrative fee as authorized by the Secretary and payable to the mortgagee for its role in facilitating a successful pre-foreclosure sale, said fee not to be subject to the payment of debenture interest thereon. 11. Section 203.403 is amended by adding a new paragraph (d), to read as follows: §203.403 Items deducted from payment_conveyed and non-conveyed properties. * * * * * (d) With regard to claims filed pursuant to successful pre-foreclosure sales, all amounts received by the mortgagee relating to the sale of the property. 12. Section 203.410 is amended by revising the introductory text in paragraph (a); by removing the word ``or'' from the end of paragraph (a)(1)(ii); by removing the period at the end of paragraph (a)(1)(iii), and adding in its place ``; or''; and by adding a new paragraph (a)(1)(iv), to read as follows: §203.410 Issue date of debentures. (a) Conveyed properties, claims without conveyance, pre-foreclosure sales_Where the property is conveyed to the Commissioner, or the mortgagee or other party acquires title to the property under the claim without conveyance procedure or the pre-foreclosure sale procedure, debenture shall be dated: * * * * * (1) *␣*␣*␣ (iv) The property was acquired after default by a third party under the pre-foreclosure sale procedure. 13. A new §203.501 is added to read as follows: §203.501 Loss mitigation. Mortgagees must consider the comparative effects of their elective servicing actions, and must take those appropriate actions which can reasonably be expected to generate the smallest financial loss to the Department. Dated: September 12, 1994. Jeanne K. Engel, General Deputy Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24262 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;P
