FR941227-1-00021 FR941227-1-00006 Explanation of Provisions A. Overview The purpose of section 1258 is to treat the time value income from conversion transactions as ordinary income. Section 1258(a) may create a character mismatch, however, because it focuses only on the gain recognized on the transaction. If a taxpayer separately disposes of the positions of a conversion transaction, the taxpayer's inability to net losses on the positions against gains could result in the recharacterization of gain in excess of the time value element. For example, assume that a taxpayer buys a capital asset for $100 and simultaneously sells that asset forward for $105 in one year. Assume that the AIIA is $8. If the asset were delivered to close out the forward contract, the taxpayer would have a $5 capital gain. Even though the AIIA is $8, no more than the $5 gain would be recharacterized. Assume, instead, that the taxpayer sells the asset and closes out the forward contract in separate transactions when the value of the asset has dropped to $97. Gain subject to recharacterization under section 1258(a), determined separately for each position, is $8 on the forward contract. If the $3 loss on the asset were not netted against that $8 gain prior to applying section 1258(a), the full $8 gain would be recharacterized as ordinary income. This recharacterization would force the taxpayer to recognize $8 of ordinary income and $3 of non-offsetting capital loss. The proposed regulations provide relief from this potential character mismatch in certain circumstances. B. Specific Provisions The proposed regulations allow taxpayers to net gains and losses on the positions of certain conversion transactions for purposes of section 1258(a). To be eligible, the taxpayer must identify, before the close of the day on which the positions become part of the conversion transaction, all the positions that are part of the conversion transaction. In addition, the taxpayer must dispose of all the positions within a 14-day period that is within a single taxable year. The proposed regulations also provide special rules for losses on positions of conversion transactions. These rules prevent the netting of built-in loss against gain. In addition, the rules treat certain losses that arise during the term of a conversion transaction as built-in losses. These regulations are proposed to be effective for conversion transactions entered into on or after the date of the filing of the final regulations with the Federal Register . C. Solicitation of Comments on Other Issues The scope of the relief provided by the proposed regulations would be broadened if a taxpayer could elect to treat retained positions of a conversion transaction as if they were sold for their fair market values whenever another position of that transaction was disposed of, terminated, or treated as sold under any other provision of the Code or regulations. The proposed regulations do not include such a mark-to-market provision. Marking positions to market raises a number of issues under other provisions of the Code (for example, sections 1271 through 1278). The Service solicits comments on the necessity for and terms of a mark-to-market provision under section 1258. The Service is aware that section 1258 presents a number of issues not addressed by the proposed regulations. The Service invites comments concerning which, if any, of these issues should be addressed in future regulations. Special Analyses It has been determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, this notice of proposed rulemaking will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Comments and Public Hearing Before these proposed regulations are adopted as final regulations, consideration will be given to any written comments (a signed original and eight (8) copies) that are submitted timely to the IRS. All comments will be available for public inspection and copying.
