FR940223-2-00083 FR940223-2-00039 Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted an agreement to a proposed consent order from Thomas L. Fenton. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement and take other appropriate action or make final the agreement's proposed order. This matter concerns advertising and promotional practices related to the sale of the Omexin System for Hair (``Omexin''), which was advertised on the ``Can You Beat Baldness?'' infomercial. The Commission's Amended Complaint, issued on October 13, 1993, charges that respondent Fenton falsely represented that Omexin will curtail hair loss, will promote hair growth, is scientifically proven to curtail hair loss and promote hair growth, and has successfully curtailed hair loss and promoted hair growth for thousands of balding men and women. According to the allegations of the Amended Complaint, the infomercial was falsely represented to be independent programming, rather than a paid advertisement. The Amended Complaint further charges that consumer testimonials on the infomercial were falsely represented to reflect the typical experience of members of the public who used the product. The proposed consent order contains provisions which are designed to remedy the advertising violations charged and to prevent the respondent from engaging in similar acts and practices in the future. Part I of the proposed order prohibits respondent from disseminating the ``Can You Beat Baldness?'' infomercial. With regard to Omexin or any substantially similar product, Part II.A prohibits Fenton from making the claims alleged in the Complaint to be false. Part II.B prohibits him from representing that any product or service will prevent or reduce hair loss, will promote hair growth, is an effective remedy for hair loss, or is proven through any test or study to relieve hair loss unless the claim is true and substantiated by competent and reliable scientific evidence. Part II.C forbids this respondent from advertising or promoting any hair loss product unless it is the subject of an approved New Drug Application by the Food and Drug Administration. Part III of the proposed order prohibits respondent from misrepresenting the validity, results, conclusions, or interpretations of any test or study. Part IV prohibits him from making any representation about the performance, benefits, efficacy, or safety of any food, drug, or device unless he possesses competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. Part V.A of the proposed order prohibits Fenton from disseminating any advertisement that misrepresents that it is not a paid advertisement. Part V.B requires that any advertisement fifteen minutes or longer display visually, in a clear and prominent manner and for a length of time sufficient for an ordinary consumer to read, within the first thirty seconds of the commercial and immediately before each presentation of ordering instructions, the following disclosure: ``The program you are watching is a paid advertisement for [the product or service].'' Part V.B specifies that an oral or visual presentation of an ordering address or telephone number shall also require the display of this disclosure. Under the terms of Part VI, Fenton may not represent that any endorsement of a product or service represents the typical or ordinary experience of members of the public, unless such is the fact. Parts VII, VIII, and IX relate to respondent's obligation to maintain records, notify the Commission of changes in business or employment status, and file compliance reports with the Commission. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed order. It is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify in any way their terms. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4046 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
