FR940516-2-00017 FR940516-2-00011 Action Affecting Export Privileges; Leon Albert Lisbona; Order Denying Permission to Apply for or Use Export Licenses In the matter of: Leon Albert Lisbona, 110&hyph;46 68th Drive, Forest Hills, New York 11375 currently incarcerated at: U.S. Bureau of Prisons, Federal Correctional Institute, Allenwood, Post Office Box 1000, Montgomery, Pennsylvania 17752. On January 29, 1992, Leon Albert Lisbona (hereinafter referred to as ``Lisbona'') was convicted in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York of, among other crimes, four counts of violating the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C.A. 2778 (1990, Supp. 1993)) (the ``AECA''), for exporting night vision devices to Argentina and the Soviet Union and for exporting firearms and ammunition to Iraq and Poland, without obtaining the required licenses or written approval from the U.S. Department of State. Section 11(h) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C.A. app. sections 2401&hyph;2420 (1991, Supp. 1993, and No. 103&hyph;10, March 27, 1993)) (the ``EAA''), provides that, at the discretion of the Secretary of Commerce, 1 no person convicted of violating the AECA, or certain other provisions of the United States Code, shall be eligible to apply for or use any export license issued pursuant to, or provided by, the EAA or the Export Administration Regulations (currently codified at 15 CFR parts 768&hyph;799 (1993)) (the ``Regulations''), for a period of up to 10 years from the date of the conviction. In addition, any export license issued pursuant to the EAA in which such a person had any interest at the time of his conviction may be revoked. 1 Pursuant to appropriate delegations of authority that are reflected in the Regulations, the Director, Office of Export Licensing, in consultation with the Director, Office of Export Enforcement, exercises the authority granted to the Secretary by section 11(h) of the EAA. Pursuant to §§770.15 and 772.1(g) of the Regulations, upon notification that a person has been convicted of violating the AECA, the Director, Office of Export Licensing, in consultation with the Director, Office of Export Enforcement, shall determine whether to deny that person permission to apply for or use any export license issued pursuant to, or provided by, the EAA and the Regulations and shall also determine whether to revoke any export license previously issued to such a person. Having received notice of Lisbona's conviction for violating the AECA, and following consultations with the Director, Office of Export Enforcement, I have decided to deny Lisbona permission to apply for or use any export license, including any general license, issued pursuant to, or provided by, the EAA and the Regulations, for a period of 10 years from the data of his conviction. The 10-year period ends on January 29, 2002. I have also decided to revoke all export licenses issued pursuant to the EAA in which Lisbona had an interest at the time of his conviction. Accordingly, it is hereby Ordered I. All outstanding individual validated licenses in which Lisbona appears or participates, in any manner or capacity, are hereby revoked and shall be returned forthwith to the Office of Export Licensing for cancellation. Further, all of Lisbona's privileges of participating, in any manner or capacity, in any special licensing procedure, including, but not limited to, distribution licenses, are hereby revoked. II. Until January 29, 2002, Leon Albert Lisbona, 110&hyph;46 68th Drive, Forest Hills, New York 11375, currently incarcerated at U.S. Bureau of Prisons, Federal Correctional Institute_Allenwood, Post Office Box 1000, Montgomery, Pennsylvania 17752, hereby is denied all privileges of participating, directly or indirectly, in any manner or capacity, in any transaction in the United States or abroad involving any commodity or technical data exported or to be exported from the United States, in whole or in part, and subject to the Regulations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, participating, either in the United States or abroad, shall include participation, directly or indirectly, in any manner or capacity: (i) As a party or as a representative of a party to any export license application submitted to the Department; (ii) in preparing or filing with the Department any export license application or request for reexport authorization, or any document to be submitted therewith; (iii) in obtaining from the Department or using any validated or general export license, reexport authorization or other export control document; (iv) in carrying on negotiations with respect to, or in receiving, ordering, buying, selling, delivering, storing, using, or disposing of, in whole or in part, any commodities or technical data exported or to be exported from the United States, and subject to the Regulations; and (v) in financing, forwarding, transporting, or other servicing of such commodities or technical data. III. After notice and opportunity for comment as provided in §770.15(h) of the Regulations, any person, firm, corporation, or business organization related to Lisbona by affiliation, ownership, control, or position of responsibility in the conduct of trade or related services may also be subject to the provisions of this Order. IV. As provided in §787.12(a) of the Regulations, without prior disclosure of the facts to and specific authorization of the Office of Export Licensing, in consultation with the Office of Export Enforcement, no person may directly or indirectly, in any manner or capacity: (i) Apply for, obtain, or use any license, Shipper's Export Declaration, bill of lading, or other export control document relating to an export or reexport of commodities or technical data by, to, or for another person then subject to an order revoking or denying his export privileges or then excluded from practice before the Bureau of Export Administration; or (ii) order, buy, receive, use, sell, deliver, store, dispose of, forward, transport, finance, or otherwise service or participate: (a) in any transaction which may involve any commodity or technical data exported or to be exported from the United States; (b) in any reexport thereof; or (c) in any other transaction which is subject to the Export Administration Regulations, if the person denied export privileges may obtain any benefit or have any interest in, directly or indirectly, any of these transactions. V. This Order is effective immediately and shall remain in effect until January 29, 2002. VI. A copy of this Order shall be delivered to Leon Albert Lisbona. This Order shall be published in the Federal Register . Dated: May 4, 1994. Eileen M. Albanese, Acting Director, Office of Export Licensing. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11822 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DT&hyph;M
