FR940928-2-00046 FR940928-2-00039 •Provides internal ADP support, e.g., investigates, develops and implements new office automation technology. •Manages Data Abstraction Contracts. •Maintains liaison with other HCFA and HHS components, Congress, and external professional organizations. (2) Division of Program Development (FLE32) •Develops, implements, and interprets program policy and guidance pertaining to the implementation of the HCQIP in all health care settings. •Monitors legislative, regulatory and operational developments related to the HCQIP, and develops/amends related regulations and legislative proposals. •Coordinates with other HHS/HCFA components and appropriate private/public sector organizations regarding the development of HCQIP program policy, regulations, and legislative proposals. •Develops program manual issuances and policy guidance. •Develops and manages program approaches to apply HCQIP strategies to health care provided in all health care settings. •Develops and implements quality improvement/management feedback/dissemination mechanisms. •Processes and responds to inquiries from the public, Congress and other entities regarding HCQIP. (3) Division of Contract Operations (FLE33) Maintains responsibility for the following activities in support of HCQIP contracts, accounts and support activities: •Formulates contract and administrative budgets. •Maintains fund control systems. •Develops and manages the procurement planning process. •Coordinates contract development, evaluation and negotiations. •Provides program guidance, technical assistance and training to HCFA central and regional office staff and contractor personnel on program evaluation and financial management activities. •Develops, implements and manages a comprehensive system for assessing contractor performance and for measuring the overall effectiveness of HCQIP. •Conducts liaison with HCFA central and regional office staff and the contractor community concerning contract and financial management and evaluation issues. (4) Division of Quality Measurement and Improvement (FLE34) •Oversees a variety of performance measurement and quality improvement efforts to assess/improve quality of care activities in health care settings. •Direct and monitor the development of HCQIP projects to improve quality of care for Medicare beneficiaries. •Analyzes clinical, claims, and demographic data and develops models to measure patterns and outcomes of care. •Directs and monitors the development, assessment, compilation, preparation, and dissemination of information on the quality and patterns of care. •Develops data and information dissemination protocols to provide feedback to the public and medical community on the quality of care provided to Medicare beneficiaries. •Promotes participation of public and private sector individuals and groups in the development of performance measures and quality improvement strategies of mutual benefit and interest. Dated: September 9, 1994. Bruce C. Vladeck, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23962 Filed 9&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
