FR941230-2-00153 FR941230-2-00072 • Diversion programs for minority youths who come in contact with the juvenile justice system. • Prevention programs in communities with numbers of minority residents. • Programs to increase the capacity of community-based organizations to provide alternatives to detention and incarceration for minority youths. • Aftercare programs designed to assist minority youths returning to their communities from secure institutions. Grants would be available to State and local agencies, local units of government, and nonprofit organizations in amounts ranging from $50,000 to $100,000 for the implementation and evaluation of interventions designed to reduce disproportionate minority confinement. In addition to the general selection criteria applied to all OJJDP competitive applications, OJJDP would consider the relationship of the application to the State's development of multiple strategies to address the State's problem based on minority overrepresentation indices as identified in the Phase I data collection analysis. Three to six competitive applications would be funded in fiscal year 1995 at $50,000 to $100,000 each. Violence Study_Causes and Correlates_$300,000 OJJDP proposes to support additional analyses of data collected under its Program of Research on the Causes and Correlates of Delinquency, conducted at the State University of New York at Albany, the University of Pittsburgh, and the University of Colorado. Because of the richness and scope of the data base, many issues have yet to be addressed. The main purpose of additional analyses to be conducted under this program is to inform the further development of OJJDP's Comprehensive Strategy for Serious, Violent, and Chronic Juvenile Offenders. In addition to conducting analyses specifically related to the Comprehensive Strategy, the grantees will produce an update summary of their research results. This program will be implemented by the grantees noted above. No additional applications would be solicited in fiscal year 1995. Child Centered Community-Oriented Policing_$300,000 In fiscal year 1993, OJJDP provided support to the New Haven, Connecticut, Police Department and the Yale University Child Development Center to document a child-centered community-oriented policing model, which is being implemented in New Haven. The basic elements of the model are a 10-week training course in child development for all new police officers, and child development fellowships for all community-based district commanders who direct neighborhood police teams. The fellowships provide 4 to 6 hours of training each week over a 3-month period at the Child Study Center. The program also includes: (1) 24-hour consultation from a clinical professional and a police supervisor to patrol officers who assist children in violent situations; (2) weekly case conferences with police officers, educators; and (3) child study center staff; open police stations, located in neighborhoods and accessible to residents, for police and related services; community liaison; and neighborhood foot patrols. In fiscal year 1994, Community Policing funds transferred from the Bureau of Justice Assistance supported a technical assistance and training grant to allow the Yale/New Haven project to serve as a host site for jurisdictions interested in replicating the essential elements of the model. In fiscal year 1995, OJJDP funds will support the continuation of this project. No additional applications will be solicited in fiscal year 1995. Nonviolent Dispute Resolution_$300,000 This program is a joint effort of OJJDP and the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) to test a variety of strategies to train teenage students to constructively manage anger, resolve conflicts, learn the importance of mutual respect, and be responsible for their actions. Up to three organizations or agencies would be identified to implement program models. To qualify, applicants must have demonstrated successful work in programs that include collaborative efforts among educators, counselors, criminal justice representatives, and parents or caretakers. Applications would be solicited by BJA on a competitive basis.
