FR940426-1-00094 FR940426-1-00008 Regarding issue two, neither trial court has issued a final determination, both deferring this issue to trial. However, in his decision on manufacturers' motion for preliminary injunction on this count, Judge Mazzone concluded that manufacturers had not shown a likelihood of prevailing. In its amicus curiae brief to the First Circuit, EPA argued that Massachusetts' failure to adopt the clean fuels program did not violate the ``third car'' prohibition because (1) manufacturers could not show that Massachusetts' LEV program compels any design change_manufacturers are free to sell cars in Massachusetts that are identical to California cars; (2) manufacturers' testing-based concerns were not ripe for review; and (3) the term ``third vehicle'' is applied only to design changes necessary to meet certification requirements, not minor changes unrelated to meeting applicable emission standards. On issue three, the Second Circuit found that New York's promulgation of California's ZEV sales mandate did not violate section 177's requirement that States not limit, either directly or indirectly, the sale of California cars. The court found that the ZEV mandate did not prevent manufacturers from selling any California-certified vehicles as long as they also sold the specified percentage of ZEVs. ``Like the third vehicle rule, the sales-limitation rule is designed to reinforce the identicality requirement. It would be incongruous for us to hold that the [State] wrongly mandated a ZEV sales percentage identical to California's mandate.'' EPA had taken this position in its amicus brief. On issue four, the Second Circuit ruled that New York's adoption of the ZEV mandate does not violate the ``third car'' prohibition because New York is administering the mandate in the same manner as California and any changes manufacturers make in their cars to sell them in New York are based on marketing decisions by manufacturers, not a requirement of the State. EPA's amicus brief was consistent with this result. 4. Issues Implicated by the OTC Petition Some of the section 177-related issues briefed in the New York and Massachusetts cases are also implicated by the OTC petition. The OTC recommendation, like the New York and Massachusetts regulations, does not include California's clean fuel provisions. Moreover, the recommendation states: To the extent that a Zero Emission Vehicle sales requirement must be a component of a LEV program adopted under Section 177, such a requirement shall apply. Further, if such a Zero Emission Vehicle sales requirement is not a required component of programs adopted under Section 177, individual States within the OTC may at their option include such a requirement and/or economic incentives designed to increase the sales of ZEVs in the programs they adopt. This provision relates to the same ZEV-related issues argued in the court cases and also produces several section 177-related issues not determined in the court cases. The issue of whether the ZEV sales mandate is a required component in any State LEV program was not addressed by the courts. Section 177 allows a State to adopt and enforce ``for any model year standards relating to control of emissions from new motor vehicles and *␣*␣* engines *␣*␣* if such standards are identical to the California standards for which a waiver has been granted for such model year.'' The first question presented by this issue is whether the ZEV sales mandate is a ``standard relating to control of emissions.'' In letters sent to New York and Virginia State officials on January 7, 1993, EPA stated that it believed the ZEV sales mandate ``in light of the existence of the NMOG [non-methane organic gases] fleet average requirement (which is a motor vehicle emission standard), the California ZEV sales requirement is not a motor vehicle emission standard. Thus, a State which adopts California motor vehicle emission standards is not required to, but may, adopt this particular provision of California's program. The ZEV sales mandate simply limits the flexibility otherwise accorded manufacturers to choose the mix of vehicles produced to meet the NMOG fleet average requirement.''
