FR941012-0-00165 FR941012-0-00011 Root wad. The ball of a tree root and dirt that is pulled from the ground when a tree is uprooted. Serviceable condition. A state or ability of a tool, machine, vehicle or other device to operate as it was intended by the manufacturer to operate. Skidding. The yarding of trees or logs by pulling or towing them across the ground. Slope (grade). The increase or decrease in altitude over a horizontal distance expressed as a percentage. For example, a change of altitude of 20 feet (6 m) over a horizontal distance of 100 feet (30 m) is expressed as a 20 percent slope. Snag. Any standing dead tree or portion thereof. Spring pole. A tree, segment of a tree, limb, or sapling which is under stress or tension due to the pressure or weight of another object. Tie down. Chain, cable, steel strips or fiber webbing and binders attached to a truck, trailer or other conveyance as a means to secure loads and to prevent them from shifting or moving when they are being transported. Undercut. A notch cut in a tree to guide the direction of the tree fall and to prevent splitting or kickback. Vehicle. A car, bus, truck, trailer or semi-trailer that is used for transportation of employees or movement of material. Winching. The winding of cable or rope onto a spool or drum. Yarding. The movement of logs from the place they are felled to a landing. (d) General requirements. (1) Personal protective equipment. (i) The employer shall assure that personal protective equipment, including any personal protective equipment provided by an employee, is maintained in a serviceable condition. (ii) The employer shall assure that personal protective equipment, including any personal protective equipment provided by an employee, is inspected before initial use during each workshift. Defects or damage shall be repaired or the unserviceable personal protective equipment shall be replaced before work is commenced. (iii) The employer shall provide, at no cost to the employee, and assure that each employee handling wire rope wears cotton gloves or other hand protection which the employer demonstrates provides equivalent protection. (iv) The employer shall provide, at no cost to the employee, and assure that each employee who operates a chain saw wears ballistic nylon leg protection or other leg protection the employer demonstrates provides equivalent protection. The leg protection shall cover the full length of the thigh to the top of the boot on each leg to protect against contact with a moving chain saw. Exception: This requirement does not apply when an employee is working as a climber if the employer demonstrates that a greater hazard is posed by wearing leg protection in the particular situation, or when an employee is working from a vehicular mounted elevating and rotating work platform meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.68. (v) The employer shall assure that each employee shall wears foot protection, such as heavy-duty logging boots, that are waterproof or water repellant, cover and provide support to the ankle, and protect the employee from penetration by chain saws. Sharp, calk-soled boots or other slip-resistant type boots may be worn where the employer demonstrates that they are necessary for the employee's job, the terrain, the timber type, and the weather conditions, provided that foot protection otherwise required by this paragraph is met. (vi) The employer shall provide, at no cost to the employee, and assure that each employee who works in an area where there is potential for head injury from falling or flying objects wears head protection meeting the requirements of subpart I of Part 1910. (vii) The employer shall provide, at no cost to the employee, and assure that each employee who works in an area there is a potential for injury due to falling or flying objects wears eye and face protection meeting the requirements of subpart I of Part 1910. Logger-type mesh screens may be worn where the employer demonstrates that they provide equivalent protection. (2) First-aid kits. (i) The employer shall provide first-aid kits at each work site where felling is being conducted, at each landing, and on each employee transport vehicle. The number of first-aid kits and the content of each kit shall reflect the degree of isolation, the number of employees, and the hazards reasonably anticipated at the work site. (ii) At a minimum, each first-aid kit shall contain the items listed in Appendix A at all times. (iii) The number and content of first-aid kits shall be reviewed and approved at least annually by a health care provider. (iv) The employer shall maintain the contents of each first-aid kit in a serviceable condition. (3) Seat belts. For each vehicle or machine (equipped with ROPS/FOPS or overhead guards), including any vehicle or machine provided by an employee, the employer shall assure: (i) That a seat belt is provided for each vehicle or machine operator; (ii) That each employee uses the available seat belt while the vehicle or machine is being operated; (iii) That each employee securely and tightly fastens the seat belt to restrain the employee within the vehicle or machine cab;
