FR940705-1-00025 FR940705-1-00012 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 94&hyph;53, Notice 01] RIN No. 2127&hyph;AF19 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS); New Pneumatic Tires AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation (DOT). ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document responds to a petition for rulemaking submitted by the Japan Automobile Tire Manufacturers' Association, Inc. (JATMA), and proposes to amend the labeling requirements of FMVSS No. 109, New Pneumatic Tires, to permit tires that have a maximum inflation pressure of 60 pounds per square inch (psi) to be labeled ``inflate to 420 kPa (60 psi).'' Currently, the standard does not permit the metric unit to be on the label. The proposal would aid the international harmonization of standards. This notice also proposes to correct a typographical error in S4.3 of the standard. DATES: Comment closing date: Comments on this notice must be received on or before September 6, 1994. Proposed effective date: If adopted, the amendment proposed in this notice would become effective 30 days after publication of the final rule. ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to the docket and notice numbers shown above and be submitted to: Docket Section, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Room 5109, Washington, DC 20590. Docket room hours are from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Larry Cook, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Room 5307, Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 366&hyph;4803. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Standard 109 requires passenger car tires to be labeled with important safety information, including tire size, construction, and inflation pressure. Paragraph S4.3.5. of the standard provides that if the maximum inflation pressure of a tire is 60 psi, the words ``Inflate to 60 psi'' shall be molded into or onto both sidewalls of the tire in letters and numerals not less than 1/2 inch high. JATMA submitted a petition to the agency suggesting an amendment to S4.3.5. The petition, submitted on behalf of Japanese tire manufacturers, suggested that S4.3.5 should require adding the words ``or inflate to 420 kPa (60 psi)'' after ``Inflate to 60 psi.'' JATMA stated that the maximum inflation pressure of a ``T''-type spare tire is listed as 420 kilopascals (kPa) in the Tire and Rim Association, Inc., Year Book, the JATMA Year Book, and in Japanese Industrial Standard (JIS) D4230. JATMA indicated that, if the suggested amendment were adopted by NHTSA, the amendment would simplify the manufacturing processes of Japanese tire manufacturers since they would be able to mark tires the same for both the Japanese and U.S. markets. NHTSA granted the petition by letter dated January 7, 1994. This notice proposes to amend Standard No. 109 as requested by the petitioner. This NPRM is consistent with the requirement of ยง5164 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act (Pub. L. 100&hyph;418), which designated the metric system as the preferred system of weights and measures for U.S. trade and commerce. NHTSA believes that allowing metric units on tires would further the international harmonization of standards. Common sizing for all international markets would facilitate the manufacture of products, and could ultimately result in manufacturers selling their products at cheaper prices. NHTSA has tentatively determined that the petitioner's requested metric unit on tires would not confuse consumers or obscure the meaning of the inflation pressure information labeled on tires. Accordingly, NHTSA tentatively concludes there is no safety reason for precluding JATMA's requested metric labeling. This notice also proposes to correct a typographical error in paragraph S4.3 of FMVSS 109. The first sentence of paragraph S4.3 provides that each tire shall have permanently molded into or onto both sidewalls the information ``shown in paragraphs (a) and (g)'' of S4.3. The word ``and'' in that phrase is incorrect. NHTSA intends that all the information specified in (a) through (g) be molded into or onto tires, not just (a) and (g). Accordingly, NHTSA proposes to substitute the word ``through'' for the word ``and'' at the end of the first sentence of paragraph S4.3. The agency notes that, notwithstanding the use of ``and'' in that sentence, tire manufacturers are labeling tires with the information of (a) through (g). Thus, this correction would not have any effect on how tires are currently labeled. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices A. Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This notice has not been reviewed under E.O. 12866. NHTSA has considered the impact of this rulemaking action and has concluded that it is not significant under the DOT's regulatory policies and procedures. This action would not change any of the substantive requirements of Standard 109. The effect on labeling costs might be to decrease such costs slightly for tire manufacturers that now convert metric units on their tires to English units, or that now convert English units on tires to metric units for sale overseas. However, NHTSA believes the costs savings, if any, would be minimal. NHTSA has concluded, therefore, that the costs of complying with the changes proposed in this notice do not warrant preparation of a preliminary regulatory evaluation.
