FR940603-2-00100 FR940603-2-00059 The BCU staff requires 7 people to perform its bird harassment responsibilities (1 supervisor, 2 employees per shift, 2 shifts per day, 7 days a week). In order to incresae the capability of the BCU, the Service has determined that three additional people are required, as well as improving the professional training and capabilities of the BCU and assuring that the BCU is adequately equipped to do its job. 2. Establish in-house capability within the BCU to assess and monitor effectiveness of control programs on target species. On or before January 31, 1995, the PA will develop and implement monitoring programs to assess the following: (1) Evaluation of the effectiveness of the gull shooting program and JFKIA's bird hazard management program; (2) Identification of criteria that could be used to determine when a gull shooting program should begin or end; (3) Identification of criteria, with the involvement of the BHTF, that could be used to determine when Category 1 elements have become ineffective; (4) Evaluation of off-airport attractants that encourage gulls to fly through JFKIA airspace; and (5) Continuing evaluation of potential on-airport attractants. 3. Prepare written plans for vegetation, insect control, solid waste, water management and other on-airport issues that address bird hazard management. The PA will produce written management plans for vegetation, insect, water, and solid waste management on JFKIA by December 29, 1994. These plans will document the existing programs and the overall management strategies for these programs. The Service has determined that these written plans are needed as part of the Service's monitoring and enforcement program for this permit. The PA has actively addressed these management issues on JFKIA, as documented in FEIS (Section 3.2); however, poor documentation for these programs makes interpretation and monitoring impossible at this time. 4. As a part of the effort to develop data on bird species contributing to hazards at JFKIA and to a determination of when Category 2 measures may be appropriate, the NPS is committed to participating in seasonal surveys in 1994 to monitor gull populations and distribution in the Jamaica Bay area and will provide these data to the BCU and BHTF. 1995 Actions. For the 1994&hyph;95 period, the Service will monitor the above described implementation schedule and will not consider applications for Special Purpose Permits for either the PA or ADC in 1995, unless all of the above specified improvements are implemented according to the above schedule or unless a deviation from these conditions has been expressly permitted by the Service. The Service has ascertained that these specific improvements are needed under the IMP/DOI element dealing with continued development of JFKIA's on-airport program. The Service has determined that these programs are needed to support the Service's monitoring and enforcement program for this permit. These improvements will, by themselves, likely result in a marginal reduction in gull-aircraft interactions. However, their implementation will improve the decision-making and evaluation process, and will provide a mechanism for determination of when Category 2 elements need to be considered. In addition, the NPS has committed to participate in seasonal surveys in 1995 to monitor gull populations and distribution in the Jamaica Bay area, as part of this program, and will provide these data to the BCU and BHTF to support this monitoring and enforcement program. 1996 Actions. In 1996 and subsequent years, the Service will review data collected by the BCU and recommendations made by the BHTF, as part of the annual review process for issuance of Special Purpose Permits. These future permit decisions and any restrictions placed upon future permits will be guided by this improved data collection and analysis system implemented by the PA for JFKIA in 1994. Findings and Decisions Having reviewed and considered the FEIS for the gull hazard management program at JFKIA and the public comments thereon, the Service finds as follows: 1. The requirements of NEPA and implementing regulations have been satisfied; and 2. Consistent with social, economic, programmatic and environmental considerations from among the reasonable alternative thereto, the Preferred Action alternative with the Service's conditions described above is one which minimizes or avoids adverse environmental effects to the maximum extent practicable, including the effects discussed in the FEIS; and, 3. Consistent with the social, economic and other essential considerations, to the maximum extent practicable, adverse environmental effects revealed in the EIS process will be minimized or avoided by incorporating as conditions those mitigative measures identified in the Preferred Alternative in the FEIS and its supporting appendices; and, 4. The limitations on the numbers of gulls which may be taken under this permit are compatible with the terms of the Migratory Bird Conventions and are made with due regard to their distribution, abdundance, breeding habits, and migratory patterns; and 5. The ADC and the PA have made a sufficient showing of compelling justification for these permits; and 6. All improvements to the BCU, BHTF, and JFKIA management programs, as specified in above in the Service Actions section during the term of each permit are hereby adopted as part of this finding and will be used to guide future migratory bird permit decisions. Having made the above findings, the Service has decided to proceed with implementation of the Preferred Alternative with the above conditions. This Record of Decision will serve as the written facts and conclusions relied on in reaching this decision. This Record of Decision was approved by the Regional Director of the Service on May 25, 1994. Dated: May 25, 1994. Ronald E. Lambertson, Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13530 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
