FR941019-1-00004 FR941019-1-00001 The NRC has identified possible regulatory actions to address these problems and subjected them to a regulatory analysis which also addresses the requirements for a backfit analysis under 10 CFR 50.109. 1 These actions have been evaluated within the framework of the Commission's Safety Goal Policy, (51 FR 30028; August 21, 1986) to determine whether or not they would result in a substantial increase in the overall protection of the public health and safety. 1 The current regulatory analysis only addresses the LCO and SR option for controls for specific equipment relied upon during shutdown and low-power operations, whereas the proposed rule allows for incorporation of controls included in technical specifications limiting conditions for operation and surveillance requirements in accordance with 10 CFR 50.36(c)(2) and (3), or plant procedures required by technical specifications administrative controls pursuant to 10 CFR 50.36(c)(5). The staff plans to revise the regulatory analysis to incorporate consideration of other alternatives as appropriate for equipment controls during shutdown and low-power operations. In addition, the staff will consider the following in the revised regulatory analysis: (1) insights gained from the recent NRC PRAs for shutdown and low-power operations at Surry and Grand Gulf; (2) industry improvements made in outages; (3) comments received from ACRS, CRGR and the Commission; (4) specific industry comments on the draft regulatory analysis documented in a letter from NUMARC dated January 11, 1994, in a letter from NEI dated March 28, 1994 and in a letter from GEOG dated April 8, 1994. The NRC has observed that many shutdown operations may take place with the containment partially open. Therefore, cost-effective regulatory actions are appropriate to ensure substantial reduction in core-damage probability, and an improvement in the likelihood of containment isolation, when necessary. These actions would substantially increase the overall protection of public health and safety. Operating Experience The NRC staff reviewed operating experience at nuclear power plants to ensure that its evaluation encompassed the range of events encountered during shutdown and low-power operations including: licensee event reports (LERs), studies performed by the Office for Analysis and Evaluation of Operational Data (AEOD), and various inspection reports to determine the types of events that take place during refueling, cold and hot shutdown, and low-power operations. The NRC staff also reviewed events that occurred at foreign nuclear power plants using information found in the foreign events file maintained for AEOD at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL). The AEOD compilation included the types of events that applied to U.S. nuclear plants and those not found in a review of U.S. experience. In performing this review, the NRC staff found that the more significant events for pressurized-water reactors (PWRs) were the loss of residual heat removal, potential pressurization, and boron dilution events. The more important events for boiling-water reactors (BWRs) were the loss of coolant, the loss of cooling, and potential pressurization. Generally, the majority of important events involved human error and procedural errors. The NRC staff documented this review in NUREG&hyph;1449. In addition, the NRC staff selected 10 events from the AEOD review for further assessment as precursors to potential severe core-damage accidents. This assessment is fully documented in NUREG&hyph;1449.
