FR941110-1-00067 FR941110-1-00011 In addition, the Agency is seeking to improve the efficiency of the requirements and to reduce the burden on the affected companies while ensuring continued compliance with Title VI of the CAA and the Montreal Protocol. In light of these objectives, the Agency is proposing the following administrative changes to improve the Program. II. Administrative Changes in the Stratospheric Protection Program A. Program Requirements for Continued Post-Phaseout Production and Imports The paragraphs under Section A., Program Requirements for Continued Post-Phaseout Production and Imports, describe the administrative changes being proposed by EPA to facilitate the phaseout of all class I ozone-depleting substances effective January 1, 1996 (except for methyl bromide), and the special production and importation scenarios allowed for essential uses. 2 2 In contrast, the changes in Section C., Program Adjustments and Clarifications, are proposed to modify the current regulation in order to increase the effectiveness of the program and ease administrative burdens and will go into effect January 1, 1995. The Program currently requires the use of allowances by companies that produce or import class I chemicals, except halons (Group II), which were phased out January 1, 1994. Under the current regulation, the phaseout of the production and consumption of the following Groups of class I controlled substances will be complete by January 1, 1996: Group I, CFCs Group II, Halons Group III, Other CFCs Group IV, Carbon Tetrachloride Group V, Methyl Chloroform, and Group VII, HBFCs. A list of the specific class I ozone-depleting chemicals in each Group is in Appendix A and F in Subpart A. Due to the phaseout, the Agency is proposing to no longer use production and consumption allowances for all class I controlled substances, except Group VI, methyl bromide, beginning January 1, 1996. Today's proposal anticipates the 1996 production phaseout agreed to by the Parties to the Protocol for CFCs, carbon tetrachloride, methyl chloroform and HBFCs, but allows production for essential uses to become effective January 1, 1996, contingent upon approval for such essential uses by the Parties to the Protocol at the October 1994 meeting. Although EPA proposes to no longer use production and consumption allowances for class I controlled substances (except methyl bromide) beginning January 1, 1996, the Agency envisions that the manufacture of class I controlled substances will continue after January 1, 1996, provided the substances are: •either transformed or destroyed, •exported to Article 5 countries, •produced for essential uses as authorized by the Protocol and CAA and consistent with essential-use allowances, or •produced with destruction or transformation credits. In addition, EPA envisions class I controlled substances (except methyl bromide) being imported without the need for consumption allowances after January 1, 1996, if: •the substance is either transformed or destroyed, •the substance was previously used, recycled or reclaimed, •the substance was imported using destruction or transformation credits, or •the substance was imported using essential-use allowances. Although the proposal is to no longer use production or consumption allowances for the phased out class I substances (except methyl bromide), the Agency wishes: (1) to maintain a category of Article 5 allowances (previously called potential production allowances),
