FR940525-1-00070 FR940525-1-00008 (ii) U.S. diets tend to be high in fat and low in fruits and vegetables. Studies in various parts of the world indicate that populations who habitually consume a diet high in plant foods have lower risk of some cancers. These diets are generally low in fat and rich in many nutrients, including but not limited to, dietary fiber, vitamin A as beta -carotene, and vitamin C. Current dietary guidelines from the Federal Government and nationally recognized health professional organizations recommend decreased consumption of fats (less than 30 percent of calories), maintenance of desirable body weight, and increased consumption of fruits and vegetables (five or more servings daily), particularly those fruits and vegetables which contain dietary fiber, vitamin A, and vitamin C. (3) Requirements. (i) All requirements set forth in §317.314 shall be met. (ii) Specific Requirements. (A) Nature of the claim. A health claim associating diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables with reduced risk of cancer may be made on the label or labeling of a meat or meat food product described in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; Provided, That: ( 1 ) The claim states that diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables ``may'' or ``might'' reduce the risk of some cancers; ( 2 ) In specifying the disease, the claim uses the terms ``some types of cancer'' or ``some cancers''; ( 3 ) The claim characterizes fruits and vegetables as foods that are low in fat and may contain vitamin A, vitamin C, and dietary fiber; ( 4 ) The claim characterizes the product bearing the claim as containing one or more of the following, for which the product is a ``good source'' under §317.354: Vitamin A (as beta -carotene), vitamin C, or dietary fiber; ( 5 ) The claim indicates that the development of cancer depends on many factors; ( 6 ) The claim does not attribute any degree of cancer risk reduction to diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables; ( 7 ) In specifying the fat component of the labeled product, the claim uses the terms ``total fat'' or ``fat''; ( 8 ) The claim does not specify types of fats or fatty acids that may be related to cancer risk; ( 9 ) In specifying the dietary fiber component of the labeled product, the claim uses the terms ``fiber,'' ``dietary fiber,'' or ``total dietary fiber''; and ( 7 ) The claim does not specify types of dietary fiber that may be related to risk of cancer. (B) Nature of the food. (1) The product shall contain a fruit or vegetable; ( 2 ) The product shall meet the requirements for ``low fat'' as defined in §317.362, except that the product may meet the total fat and cholesterol criteria for ``extra lean'' in §317.362; and ( 3 ) The product shall meet the requirements for a ``good source'' of at least one of the following: Vitamin A (as beta -carotene), vitamin C, or dietary fiber as defined in §317.354 prior to any nutrient addition, except the basis for meal-type products as defined in §317.313(l) shall be per labeled serving size. (4) Optional information. (i) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors for development of cancer: Family history of a specific type of cancer, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity, ultraviolet or ionizing radiation, exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, and dietary factors. (ii) The claim may include information from paragraphs (g) (1) and (2) of this section, which summarizes the relationship between diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables and some types of cancer and the significance of the relationship. (iii) The claim may use the word `` beta -carotene'' in parentheses after the term vitamin A when the vitamin A in the product bearing the claim is beta -carotene. (iii) The claim may indicate that it is consistent with ``Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans.'' (iv) The claim may include information on the number of people in the United States who have cancer. The source of this information must be identified, and it must be current information from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (5) Model health claims. The following model health claims may be used in food labeling to characterize the relationship between substances in diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables and cancer: (i) Low fat diets rich in fruits and vegetables (foods that are low in fat and may contain dietary fiber, vitamin A, and vitamin C) may reduce the risk of some types of cancer, a disease associated with many factors. Broccoli is high in vitamins A and C, and it is a good source of dietary fiber.
