FR940912-2-00091 FR940912-2-00057 Part III of the proposed order requires respondents to cease using the name ``BoneRestore'' or any other brand name that represents that such product has the ability to restore, build, or increase bone, unless respondents possess competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. Part IV of the proposed order prohibits respondents from misrepresenting the existence, contents, validity, results, conclusions, or interpretations of any test or study. Part V of the proposed order prohibits respondents from representing that BoneRestore or any food or dietary supplement, food, or drug, will treat, cure, prevent, or reduce the risk of developing any disease, disorder, or condition, unless respondents possess competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiate the representation. Parts VI and VII of the proposed order include safe harbor provisions allowing respondents to make any representation permitted in labeling by the Food and Drug Administration for food under the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990, and for drugs under any tentative final or final standard promulgated by the Food and Drug Administration. The remaining portions of the proposed order require respondents to maintain materials relied upon in disseminating any representation covered by this order, to distribute copies of the order to certain officials and employees, to notify the Commission of changes in the business and employment of the individual respondents, and to file reports detailing respondents' compliance with the order. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed consent order. It is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify in any way their terms. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Deborah K. Owen in the Matter of RN Nutrition (File No. 912&hyph;3145) The reasons for my dissenting vote in this matter are identical to those expressed in my separate statement in the companion case, Metagenics, Inc. (File No. 912&hyph;3347), which is attached. Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Deborah K. Owen in the Matter of Metagenics, Inc. (File No. 912&hyph;3347) Although I believe that certain of Metagenics' claims were unsubstantiated and, therefore, I would have been inclined to support a more narrow complaint, I must dissent from today's Commission action because I believe that, on balance, it runs contrary to the public interest. I fear that the breadth of the allegations in the administrative complaint may convey the wrong message to the public and thereby discourage not only truthful and nondeceptive claims about calcium supplements but, ultimately, their use. The Commission has taken great pains in recent years to articulate and justify its standards for advertising interpretation and substantiation. In taking this action today, I believe that the Commission has essentially ceded its authority to the FDA on both counts. In short, I find today's Commission action overly restrictive and inconsistent with the previously announced policies of the Commission. Accordingly, I respectfully dissent. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22432 Filed 9&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
