FR941025-1-00003 FR941025-1-00001 ␣ 1Country/locality 1Common name 1Botanical name 1Plant part(s) Argentina Currant Ribes spp Fruit. ␣ Gooseberry Ribes spp Fruit. Australia Currant Ribes spp Fruit. ␣ Gooseberry Ribes spp Fruit. Austria Asparagus, white Asparagus officinalis Shoot.2 Belize Sage Salvia officinalis Leaf and stem. El Salvador Cilantro Coriandrum sativum Above ground parts. ␣ Dill Anethum graveolens Above ground parts. Honduras Cilantro Coriandrum sativum Above ground parts. Indonesia Onion Allium cepa Bulb. ␣ Shallot Allium ascalonicum Bulb. Nicaragua Cilantro Coriandrum sativum Above ground parts. Peru Cornsalad Valerianella spp Whole plant. ␣ Lambsquarters Chenopodium album Above ground parts. South Korea Eggplant Solanum melongena Fruit. ␣ Kiwi Actinidia deliciosa Fruit. ␣ Lettuce Lactuca sativa Leaf. Tonga Jicama Pachyrhizus tuberosus Root. 2No green may be visible on the shoot. Pest risk analyses conducted by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) have shown that the fruits and vegetables listed above are not attacked by fruit flies or other injurious plant pests, either because they are not hosts to the pests or because the pests are not present in the country or locality of origin. In addition, we have determined that any other injurious plant pests that might be carried by the listed fruits or vegetables would be readily detectable by a USDA inspector. Therefore, the provisions in §319.56&hyph;6 concerning inspection, disinfection, or both, at the port of first arrival, appear adequate to prevent the introduction into the United States of injurious plant pests by the importation of these fruits and vegetables. Treatment Required Additionally, we are proposing to allow the fruits and vegetables listed below to be imported into the United States. These fruits and vegetables are attacked by the Mediterranean fruit fly (Medfly) or other injurious insects, as specified below, in their country or locality of origin. Visual inspection cannot be relied upon to detect the insects. However, the fruits and vegetables listed below can be treated to destroy the Medfly or other injurious insects. Therefore, we propose to allow these fruits and vegetables to be imported into the United States, or specified parts of the United States, only if they have been treated in accordance with the Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) Treatment Manual, which has been incorporated by reference into the Code of Federal Regulations at 7 CFR 300.1. We would revise the PPQ Treatment Manual to show that treatments are required as follows for the fruits and vegetables listed below:
