FR940407-0-00045 FR940407-0-00009 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD 91&hyph;059] RIN 2115&hyph;AE14 Drawbridge Operation Regulations, Unnecessary Openings agency: Coast Guard, DOT. action: Final rule. summary: The Coast Guard amends the regulations that govern the nation's drawbridges by clarifying the responsibilities of vessel operators requesting drawbridge openings and prohibiting vessel operators from signalling for unnecessary drawbridge openings. This action is intended to better accommodate the needs of vehicular traffic and reduce the wear and tear on draw machinery while still providing for the reasonable needs of navigation. effective date: This rule is effective on May 9, 1994. addresses: Unless otherwise indicated, documents referenced in this preamble are available for inspection and copying at the office of the Executive Secretary, Marine Safety Council (G&hyph;LRA&hyph;2/3046), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street, SW., Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001, room 3406, between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The telephone number is (202) 267&hyph;1477 for information. for further information contact: Mr. Larry R. Tyssens, Alterations, Regulations and Systems Branch (G&hyph;NBR&hyph;1), at (202) 267&hyph;0376. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Mr. Larry R. Tyssens, Project Manager, and Ms. Helen Boutrous, Project Counsel, Office of Chief Counsel. Regulatory History On July 8, 1993, the Coast Guard published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) entitled ``Drawbridge Operation Regulations, Unnecessary Openings'' in the Federal Register (58 FR 36629). In addition, the Commander, Eighth Coast Guard District, published the proposal in a Public Notice dated July 28, 1993. Opportunity for comment on the proposal was provided until August 23, 1993. The Coast Guard received 4 letters commenting on the proposal. A public hearing was not requested and one was not held. Background and Purpose Currently, 33 CFR 117.11 specifies that no vessel owner or operator shall signal a drawbridge to open for any nonstructural vessel appurtenance which is not essential to navigation or which is easily lowered. This section does not address vessels that have no appurtenances and that can pass safely underneath the drawbridge in question in the closed position, or vessels which signal for a drawbridge opening with no intention of passing through the bridge. Under ยง117.5, drawtenders are required to open a drawbridge when a proper signal is given. Unnecessary drawbridge openings can cause vehicular delays and inordinate wear and tear on draw machinery. Therefore, it has been determined that there is a need for a regulation requiring that vessel owners and operators refrain from requesting such unnecessary drawbridge openings. Also, it has been determined that defining the terms used in the regulation would provide mariners with additional guidance concerning their responsibilities under the regulations when requesting the opening of a drawbridge. Discussion of Comments Four letters were received in response to the NPRM. The first comment was from a private towing company which stated that their business had no problem with the proposed regulation and fully supported the change. The second response was from a private statewide transportation agency which endorsed the proposed regulation. The third response was from the New Jersey Department of Transportation which also supported the proposed amendment. The fourth response was from the Governor's Office of the State of Florida which has determined that the proposed regulation will not significantly affect the coastal water and adjacent shorelands of the State of Florida and is therefore consistent with the Florida Coastal Management Program. No changes were made to the final rule as a result of these comments.
