FR940324-2-00168 FR940324-2-00091 5. Criteria for Screening Applications All applications that meet the published deadline for submission will be screened to determine completeness and conformity to the requirements of this Announcement. Only those applications meeting the following requirements will be reviewed and evaluated competitively. Others will be returned to the applicants with a notation that they were unacceptable. a. Initial Screening (1) The application must contain a completed Standard Form SF&hyph;424 signed by an official of the entity applying for the grant who has authority to obligate the entity legally; (2) a budget (SF&hyph;424A); and (3) ``Assurances'' (SF&hyph;424B) signed by the appropriate official. b. Pre-rating Review Applications which pass the initial screening will be forwarded to reviewers for analytical comment and scoring based on the criteria detailed in the Section below and the specific requirements contained in Part C of this Announcement. Prior to the programmatic review, these reviewers and/or OCS staff will verify that the applications comply with this Program Announcement in the following areas: (1) Eligibility: Applicant meets the eligibility requirements as specified in Part A2. (2) Target Populations: The application clearly targets the specific outcomes and benefits of the project to low-income participants as defined in the DHHS Poverty Income Guidelines (Attachment A). (3) Grant Amount: The amount of funds requested does not exceed $12 million. (4) Program Focus: The application addresses the geographic scope and project requirements described in Part C of this announcement. c. Evaluation Criteria Applications which pass the initial screening and pre-rating review will be assessed and scored by reviewers. Each reviewer will give a numerical score for each application reviewed. These numerical scores will be supported by explanatory statements on a formal rating form describing major strengths and major weaknesses under each applicable criterion published in this announcement. Part H_Post Award Information and Reporting Requirements Following approval of the applications selected for funding, notice of project approval and authority to draw down project funds will be made in writing. The official award document is the Financial Assistance Award which provides the amount of Federal funds approved for use in the project, the budget period for which support is provided, and the terms and conditions of the award. In addition to the General Conditions and Special Conditions (where the latter are warranted) which will be applicable to grants, grantees will be subject to the provisions of 45 CFR part 74 (generally non-governmental) or 92 (governmental) along with OMB Circulars 122 and 87, and 128 or 133. Grantees will be required to submit progress and financial reports (SF&hyph;269). Grantees are subject to the audit requirements in 45 CFR parts 74 or 92. By signing and/or submitting an application under this announcement, the applicant organization is providing certification as set forth in these attachments. Attachment E_U. S. Department of Health and Human Services Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements Grantees Other Than Individuals. Attachment F_Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters_Primary Covered Transactions. Section 319 of Public Law 101&hyph;121, signed into law on October 23, 1989, imposes prohibitions and requirements for disclosure and certification related to lobbying when an applicant has engaged in lobbying activities or is expected to lobby in trying to obtain the grant. It provides limited exemptions for Indian tribes and tribal organizations. Current and prospective recipients (and their subtier contractors and/or grantees) are prohibited from using appropriated funds for lobbying Congress or any Federal agency in connection with the award of a contract, grant cooperative agreement or loan. In addition, for each award action in excess of $100,000 (or $150,000 for loans) the law requires recipients and their subtier contractors and/or subgrantees (1) to certify that they have neither used nor will use any appropriate funds for payment to lobbyists, (2) to submit a declaration setting forth whether payments to lobbyists have been or will be made out of nonappropriated funds and, if so, the name, address, payment details, and purpose of any agreements with such lobbyists whom recipients or their subtier contractors or subgrantees will pay with the nonappropriated funds and (3) to file quarterly up-dates about the use of lobbyists if an event occurs that materially affects the accuracy of the information submitted by way of declaration and certification. The law establishes civil penalties for noncompliance and is effective with respect to contracts, grants, cooperative agreements and loans entered into or made on or after December 23, 1989. See Attachment H for certification and disclosure forms to be submitted with the applications for this program. Attachment I indicates the regulations which apply to all applicants/grantees under the Discretionary Grants Program. Dated: March 21, 1994. Donald Sykes, Director, Office of Community Services.
