FR941025-1-00047 FR941025-1-00013 Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments AGENCIES: Department of Agriculture, Department of Commerce, Department of Defense, Department of Education, Department of Energy, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Department of the Interior, Department of Justice, Department of Labor, Department of State, Department of Transportation, Department of Veterans Affairs, Corporation for National and Community Service, Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, General Services Administration, Institute of Museum Services, National Archives and Records Administration, National Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities, National Science Foundation, Office of National Drug Control Policy, Small Business Administration. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: In response to a recommendation by the National Performance Review, this proposed revision to the grants management common rule, ``Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments,'' originally issued in the March 11, 1988, Federal Register , is issued to raise the dollar threshold for simplified procedures for small purchases (simplified acquisition threshold) by State and local grantees. The agencies' common rule provides uniform fiscal and administrative requirements applicable to all types of grants and cooperative agreements to State and local governments. DATES: Comments must be received on or before December 27, 1994 in order to be assured of consideration. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to submit comments on this notice of proposed rulemaking should send them to Charles Gale, Director, Division of Grants Policy and Oversight, Department of Health and Human Services, A&hyph;102 Rulemaking Docket, Room 517D, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, Washington, DC 20201. A copy of each communication submitted will be available for public inspection and copying during regular business hours (9:00 a.m.&hyph;5:30 p.m. eastern standard time) at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general issues regarding this proposed rule, contact Charles Gale, Director, Division of Grants Policy and Oversight, Department of Health and Human Services, (202) 690&hyph;6377. For agency-specific issues, see contact persons for individual agencies in preambles of the individual agencies below.
