FR940930-0-00198 FR940930-0-00028 21. A new ยง88.306&hyph;94 is added to subpart C to read as follows: ยง88.306&hyph;94 Requirements for a converted vehicle to qualify as a clean-fuel fleet vehicle. (a) For purposes of meeting the requirements of section 246 of the Clean Air Act or the SIP revisions, conversions of engines or vehicles which satisfy the requirements of this section shall be treated as a purchase of a clean-fuel vehicle under subpart C of this part. (b) The engine or vehicle must be converted using a conversion configuration which has been certified according to the provisions of 40 CFR part 86 using applicable emission standards and other provisions from part 88 for clean-fuel engines and vehicles. The following requirements will also apply: (1) If the installation of the certified conversion configuration is performed by an entity other than aftermarket conversion certifier, the aftermarket conversion certifier shall submit a list of such installers to the Administrator. Additional installers must be added to this list and the revised list submitted to the Administrator within 5 working days from the time they are authorized to perform conversion installations by the clean-fuel vehicle aftermarket conversion certifier. (2) If the installation of the certified conversion configuration is performed by an entity other than the certificate holder, the certificate holder shall provide instructions for installation of the aftermarket conversion system to installers listed on the certificate, and ensure that the systems are properly installed. (3) For the purpose of determining whether certification under the Small-Volume Manufacturers Certification Program pursuant to the requirements of 40 CFR 86.094&hyph;14 is permitted, the 10,000 sales volume limit in 40 CFR 86.094&hyph;14(b)(1) shall apply to the aggregate total of all vehicles sold by a given clean-fuel vehicle aftermarket conversion certifier at all of its installation facilities without regard to the model year of the original vehicles upon which the conversion configurations are based. All vehicle sales will be included in calculating the clean-fuel vehicle aftermarket conversion certifier's aggregate total, including vehicle conversions performed under the requirements of this part 88, and all other vehicle conversions. Vehicle conversions not covered by this part 88 will be counted if they occur within the model year for which certification is sought.
