FR940713-2-00109 FR940713-2-00063 Thomas G. Soper, M.D., S.C. Employees' Pension Plan and Trust (the Plan) Located in Evanston, Illinois [Application No. D&hyph;9703] Proposed Exemption The Department is considering granting an exemption under the authority of section 4975(c)(2) of the Code and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 CFR Part 2570, Subpart B (55 FR 32836, 32847, August 10, 1990). If the exemption is granted, the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to the proposed cash sale (the Sale) of certain real property (the Property) by the Plan to Thomas E. Soper, a disqualified person with respect to the Plan; provided that (1) the Sale is a one-time transaction for cash; (2) the Plan does not experience any loss nor incur any expenses in the proposed transaction; and (3) the Plan receives as consideration the greater of either the fair market value of the Property as determined by an independent appraiser on the date of the Sale, or receives an amount equal to all the funds expended by the Plan in acquiring and maintaining the Property. Summary of Facts and Representations 1. The Plan is a defined contribution plan that is designated as a money purchase pension plan. It has one participant, Thomas G. Soper, M.D., and as of December 31, 1993, it had total assets of $355,000. The fiduciaries of the Plan, who have investment discretion, are Thomas G. Soper, M.D. and his wife, Julie Kelly Soper. Dr. Soper and his wife are the parents of Thomas E. Soper, the proposed purchaser of the Property, and are the applicants of the exemption. The sponsoring employer of the Plan is an Illinois professional corporation, Thomas G. Soper, M.D., S.C., which is engaged in the practice of medical surgery in Evanston, Illinois. It is wholly owned by Thomas G. Soper, M.D., who is its president and sole director. 1 1 Since Dr. Soper is the sole shareholder of the sponsor of the Plan and the only participant of the Plan, there is no jurisdiction under Title I of the Act, pursuant to 29 CFR 2510.3&hyph;3(c)(1). However, there is jurisdiction under Title II of the Act pursuant to section 4975 of the Code. 2. The Property is located at 2428 Grant Street in Evanston, Illinois and is approximately 150 feet in depth and 49.5 feet in width. The improvements on the Property consist of a one and one-half story frame residence with a detached garage at the back of the lot. The residence, which is 76 years old, is in need of extensive repairs. Its kitchen and first floor bathroom are unfinished and unusable. The basement floor has been removed and currently consists of a one-inch gravel base over clay and soil. There is a need for repairs to the walls of the basement because of recent flooding. Eleanor N. Hall of Cyrus Realtors located in Evanston, Illinois represents that she evaluated the Property with the intent to present the Property for sale and, although she found the Property to be in a good location, amid higher priced houses, and situated on a well landscaped lot, she determined at this time that without a kitchen the Property is unmarketable. The Property was purchased by the Plan for the consideration of $167,000 on September 5, 1991, from the conservator of the estate of an elderly individual, who had no relationship with respect to the Plan or the participant. During the occupancy of the previous owner, the Property had deteriorated so that by September 1991 the Property was experiencing foundation and structural faults, unsafe wiring, and roofing defects. The Plan purchased the Property with the understanding that because of its desirous location it could be rehabilitated and resold for a substantial gain. The Plan has made no attempt to find tenants for the Property because of the dilapidated condition of the Property; however, rehabilitation of the Property was commenced upon its purchase by the Plan. Although approximately 85 percent of the repairs are completed, delays have occurred because of the need for engineering studies and the procurement of permits from regulatory agencies of the city or county, and because of the additional structural damage to the Property from a broken water main during January 1994. The applicants represent that from September 5, 1991, to June 6, 1994, the Plan incurred expenses of $34,126 from improving and maintaining the Property. These expenses included (a) Homeowners Insurance, totalling $1,276 for the years 1991 through 1993; (b) Real Estate taxes, totalling $15,375 for the years 1991 through 1993; (c) Drywall in October 1991, totalling $5,150; (d) Landscape expenses, totalling $4,000; (e) Kitchen Cabinets (not installed), totalling $915; and (f) Electrical expenses, totalling $7,380. The Property was appraised by Richard Anselmo, Certified General Appraiser, State Certification # 153&hyph;000832, of Bulthuis Realty Consultants, Oakbrook, Illinois, who determined the fair market value of the Property to be $215,000, as of May 28, 1994. 3. Cognizant that the Property's fair market value represents approximately 60 percent of the total assets of the Plan, 2 the applicants propose selling the Property to their son for cash as soon as possible following the issuance of the requested exemption. Their son, Thomas E. Soper, is unmarried and has recently returned from living in California. He is presently residing with his parents and intends to finish rehabilitating the Property. 2 In this proposed exemption the Department expresses no opinion with respect to the Plan's lack of diversification of investments caused by the acquisition and holding of the Property. Thomas G. Soper, M.D., the sole participant of the Plan is planning to retire from his practice by the end of 1994 or early in 1995. His primary source of retirement income will be from the assets of the Plan and a profit sharing plan, also sponsored by his professional corporation. The applicants represent that it is in the best interests of the Plan and its sole participant to sell the Property in its present condition as soon as possible in order to avoid additional expenses to the Plan and to generate liquid assets that can produce earnings for the distribution of benefits to the participant upon his contemplated retirement. 4. In summary, the applicants represent that the proposed transaction will satisfy the criteria of section 4975(c)(2) of the Code because (a) the Sale of the Property involves a one-time transaction for cash; (b) the Plan will not incur any expenses incidental to the Sale; (c) the Plan will receive as consideration for the Sale the greater of either the fair market value of the Property as determined on the date of the Sale by a qualified, independent appraiser, or will receive all of the funds expended by the Plan in obtaining and maintaining the Property; (d) the Sale will permit the Plan to reinvest illiquid assets into income producing, liquid assets; and (e) the Plan will avoid the expenses and risks involved in retaining and developing the Property. NOTICE TO INTERESTED PERSONS: Since the applicants and their son are the only persons affected by the proposed transaction, there is no need to distribute notice to interested persons. Comments are due 30 days after publication of this notice in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. C. E. Beaver of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8881. (This is not a toll-free number.)
