FR940314-2-00003 FR940314-2-00002 Federal Grain Inspection Service Pilot Programs Allowing More Than One Official Agency To Provide Official Services Within A Single Geographic Area AGENCY: Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS). ACTION: Notice With Comment Period. SUMMARY: Amendments in 1993 changed the United States Grain Standards Act, as amended (Act). One of these changes provides that the Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS) may conduct pilot programs allowing more than one official agency to provide official services within a single geographic area. FGIS is announcing its intent to conduct one or more such pilot programs. FGIS is requesting comments on the specific pilot programs described below, and FGIS also is requesting suggestions for other possible pilot programs in lieu of or in addition to those listed below. DATES: Comments and suggestions must be postmarked, or sent by telecopier (FAX) or electronic mail by April 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and suggestions must be submitted in writing to Neil E. Porter, Director, Compliance Division, FGIS, USDA, Room 1647 South Building, P.O. Box 96454, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6454. SprintMail users may respond to [A:ATTMAIL,O:USDA,ID:A36CPDIR]. ATTMAIL and FTS2000MAIL users may respond to !A36CPDIR. Telecopier (FAX) users may send comments and suggestions to the automatic telecopier machine at 202&hyph;720&hyph;1015, attention: Neil E. Porter. All comments and suggestions received will be made available for public inspection during regular business hours at the above address located at 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Neil E. Porter, telephone 202&hyph;720&hyph;8262. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Sections 7(f) and 7A of the Act were amended by the U.S. Grain Standards Act Amendments of 1993 (Public Law 103&hyph;156) on November 24, 1993, to authorize FGIS' Administrator to conduct pilot programs allowing more than one official agency to provide official services within a single geographic area without undermining the declared policy of the Act. The purpose of the pilot programs is to evaluate the impact of allowing more than one official agency to provide official services within a single geographic area. FGIS is considering several possible pilot programs and may conduct one or more pilot programs. Official agencies selected by FGIS to participate in a pilot program would be allowed to provide official services in specified areas during the test period, and these agencies would provide FGIS with information on such official services. Following the pilot programs, FGIS would evaluate the impact of allowing more than one official agency to provide service within a single geographic area. FGIS is considering the following possible pilot programs and may select one or more of these or other suggested pilot programs for a test. 1. Barges on selected rivers or portions of rivers as defined by FGIS. Agencies would be allowed to provide official services for barges at these locations in addition to the agency already designated to serve these locations. 2. Exceptions. Agencies having exceptions to their assigned geographic areas would be allowed to provide official services at these specified locations in addition to the official agency already designated to serve these points. 3. Commercial inspection services. Agencies would be allowed to provide official commercial inspection services outside their assigned geographic areas. 4. Submitted samples. Agencies would be allowed to enter another agency's assigned area to pick up submitted samples. 5. Timeliness of service. If an official agency can not provide the requested services within 12 hours of the request, the applicant may request such services from another official agency. Commenters are encouraged to submit reasons and pertinent data for support or objection to the pilot programs described above. FGIS is also requesting suggestions regarding other possible pilot programs in addition to or in lieu of those listed above. All comments and suggestions must be submitted to the Compliance Division at the above address. Comments and other available information will be considered in determining which pilot programs to conduct. FGIS will publish notice of any pilot programs to be conducted. Authority: Pub. L. 94&hyph;582, 90 Stat. 2867, as amended (7 U.S.C. 71 et seq. ) Dated: March 3, 1994. Neil E. Porter, Director, Compliance Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5805 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;EN&hyph;F
