FR940613-2-00015 FR940613-2-00006 C. Proposal Review and Evaluation Pre-proposals will be reviewed as outlined in section A, ``Pre-proposals,'' above. All full proposals will be reviewed by: SRD research staff; at least two outside individuals who are acknowledged experts in the particular field represented by the proposal; and an outside panel of experts. Each full proposal is also forwarded to the appropriate SRD Regional, State Coastal Zone Management, and Reserve staffs for comments. Verbatim copies of all peer reviews, excluding the name of the reviewer, will be sent to the applicant. Applicants will have two weeks to address and rebut peer reviews. These rebuttals will be considered by SRD when final funding decisions are made. All recommendations for funding by SRD must be approved by the NOAA Grants Management Division before awards are made. In order to provide for the fair and equitable selection of the most meritorious research projects for support, SRD has established specific criteria for their review and evaluation. These criteria are intended to be applied to all research proposals in accordance with the SRD Research Priorities set forth in this announcement. The criteria used in both pre-proposal and full proposal review process are listed below, together with the elements that constitute each criterion and their relative weights (in parenthesis): 1. Scientific Merit (40%). This criterion is used to evaluate whether the objectives of the proposal are: important to the field; consistent with the stated national research priorities; and likely to improve the scientific understanding of estuarine processes within the Reserve(s) as well as in other similar estuaries. 2. Technical Approach (40%). This criterion is used to assess: the technical feasibility of the proposed effort; the reasonableness of the hypotheses; the degree to which the proposed timeline is realistic; the appropriateness and scientific validity of the proposed analytical methods; the degree to which the proposal demonstrates an understanding of the Reserve environment and management needs; the current state of knowledge in the particular field of research interest; and the total research requirements. 3. Qualifications of P.I. and Key Personnel (10%). This criterion relates to the experience and past performance of the principal investigator and key personnel, their familiarity with the geographic area of the proposed study, and their publication record. 4. Institutional Support and Capabilities (5%). This criterion relates to the extent of the applicant institution's support for and commitment to the proposed research and what facilities, equipment, and other resources are available to the principal investigator and key personnel from his/her institution for use in accomplishing the proposed work. 5. Budget (5%). This criterion is used to determine whether the budget is realistic and reasonable for accomplishing the proposed tasks. The external panel will review and rank the proposals based solely on the technical criteria above. The panel will submit its rankings to SRD. In making final funding decisions among qualified proposals ranked highly by the above technical criteria, SRD will also take into consideration the following programmatic policy factors: Utility to Reserve Management and to Regional Coastal Management Issues. This criterion is used to assess the likelihood that results of this research will support the management of the affected Reserve(s) and will enhance wise coastal resource management within the region(s) of study. Relevance to National Research Priorities and Utility to National Coastal Management Issues. This criterion is used to assess the relationship between the objectives of the proposed project and the National Research Priorities established by NOAA, and to assess the likelihood that results of this research will be important to national coastal management issues across the NERR System and coastal states. Consequently, proposals ranked highest on technical criteria will not necessarily receive funding from SRD. Final funding decisions will be made by the Chief of the Sanctuaries and Reserves Division, based upon review panel rankings and programmatic considerations. VI. Other Requirements Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all Federal laws and Federal and DOC policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards.
