FR941017-2-00012 FR941017-2-00005 Section 3314 of the Fiscal Year (FY) 1993 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) (50 U.S.C. 98h&hyph;1) formally established a Market Impact Committee (the Committee) to ``advise the National Defense Stockpile Manager on the projected domestic and foreign economic effects of all acquisitions and disposals of materials from the stockpile *␣*␣*.'' the Committee includes representatives from the Departments of Commerce, State, Agriculture, Defense, Energy, Interior, Treasury and the Federal Emergency Management Agency and is co-chaired by the Departments of Commerce and State. The NDAA for Fiscal Year 1993 directs the Committee to ``consult from time to time with representatives of producers, processors and consumers of the types of materials stored in the stockpile.'' It is Defense's intent that the National Defense Stockpile be a dependable, long term source of material. The material will be sold as close to market prices as the conditions of sale permit (e.g., consideration will be given for the certifiable quality of the materials being sold, and any appropriate transportation differential). In order to protect the United States against avoidable loss, Defense intends to exercise restraint regarding the quantities and timing of any offers of excess materials for sale. The Committee will soon begin its consideration of Defense's FY 1996 annual Materials Plan (AMP) of proposed disposals and acquisitions of stockpile materials and will also consider revisions to the FY 1995 AMP. The following, with exceptions noted, are the materials for which Defense has been granted disposal authority by Congress, and which therefore may be included in the FY 1996 AMP. Commodities which May be Included in FY 1996 AMP. Aluminum Oxide, Abrasive Aluminum Oxide, Fused Crude Analgesics Asbestos (all types) Antimony Bauxite, Metallurgical (Jamaican) Bauxite, Metallurgical (Surinam) Bauxite, Refractory Beryl Ore Bismuth Cadmium Celestite Chromite, Chemical Chromite, Metallurgical Chromite, Refractory Chromium, Ferro Alloys1 Cobalt Diamond Bort Diamond Stone Fluorspar, Acid Fluorspar, Metallurgical Graphite, Natural Malagasy Graphite, Natural Other Iodine Lead Manganese, Battery Grade Natural Manganese, Chemical Grade Manganese, Electrolytic Manganese, Ferro Alloys 1 1 Commodities have not received Congressional approval for disposal. Manganese, Metallurgical Grade Mercury Mica, Muscovite Block Mica, Muscovite Film Mica, Muscovite Splittings Mica, Phlogopite Splittings Nickel Quinidine Quinine Quartz Crystals, Natural Sapphire & Ruby Sebacic Acid Silicon Carbide Silver (for coinage) Talc Tin Thorium Nitrate Vegetable Tannin Extract, Chestnut Vegetable Tannin Extract, Quebracho Vegetable Tannin Extract, Wattle Zinc Listed below are the materials in the FY 1995 AMP for which Defense proposes disposal revisions: Aluminum Oxide, Abrasive Antimony Cadmium Chromite, Refractory Diamond Bort Fluorspar, Acid Fluorspar, Metallurgical Jewel Bearings Kyanite Lead Manganese, Metallurgical Mercury Mica, Muscovite Film Rutile Sapphire & Ruby Talc Vegetable Tannin Extract, Wattle Zinc
