FR940804-1-00042 FR940804-1-00013 Land acquisition and management by Federal, State, or local agencies, or by private groups and organizations has contributed to the protection of some localities inhabited by this taxon. However, as discussed below, these efforts are often directed at other species and are inadequate to assure the long-term survival of the San Diego fairy shrimp. The San Diego fairy shrimp occurs within the California Department of Transportation Vernal Pool Preserve. Although these pools are managed for the long-term protection of vernal pool flora and fauna, off-road vehicle activity, development proposals immediately adjacent to the preserve, and proposed restoration actions threaten the San Diego fairy shrimp at this locality (Hogan and Belk 1992; M. Simovich, pers. comm., 1993). The San Diego fairy shrimp also occurs in northwestern Baja California, Mexico. The Service is not aware of any existing regulatory mechanisms in Mexico that would protect the San Diego fairy shrimp or its habitat. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence Cattle grazing occurs on Otay Mesa in areas where several vernal pool complexes contain the San Diego fairy shrimp. Livestock grazing typically changes the composition of native plant communities by reducing or eliminating those species that can not withstand trampling and by enabling more resistant (usually non-native) species to increase in abundance. Taxa that were not previously part of the native flora may be introduced and flourish under a grazing regime and may reduce or replace native species through competition for resources. Disturbance of vernal pools in San Diego County increases the potential for other fairy shrimp species (such as the widespread Branchinecta lindahli ) to replace the San Diego fairy shrimp, which is unable to persist under disturbed conditions (M. Simovich, in litt ., University of San Diego, 1992). San Diego fairy shrimp are highly reliant on seasonal rainfall. Drier conditions, such as those that prevailed from 1986 to 1992, reduce the number of individuals in populations. Climatic conditions stress species. Negative effects of habitat loss and degradation from other factors including development, discing, and grazing, when combined with climatic conditions, increase the level of threat to the San Diego fairy shrimp. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by the San Diego fairy shrimp in determining to propose this rule. Based on this evaluation, the Service finds that the preferred action is to list the San Diego fairy shrimp as endangered. The San Diego fairy shrimp is threatened by one or more of the following factors: Habitat alteration and destruction resulting from urban and agricultural development; alteration of hydrology; off-road vehicle use/recreational activities; inadequate regulatory mechanisms; and grazing. The San Diego fairy shrimp is in imminent danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range. Critical habitat is not being proposed for this taxon for the reasons discussed below. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary designate critical habitat at the time the taxon is listed. Critical habitat is not determinable if insufficient information exists to perform an economic impact analysis of designating a particular area as critical habitat, or if the biological needs of the species are not sufficiently well known to permit identification of an area as critical habitat (50 CFR 424.12(a)(2)). The Service is in the process of defining critical habitat and determining more clearly what the ecological requirements and constituent elements are for the San Diego fairy shrimp. The Service may find that determination of critical habitat is not prudent for this taxon, however, at this time designation of critical habitat is not determinable.
