FR941006-1-00022 FR941006-1-00007 While the Department would prefer each HA to obtain its own hardware and software, HAs may elect to contract out the electronic transmission function. However, when HAs contract out the electronic transmission function, they are still required to continue to retain the ability to monitor the day-to-day operations of the projects and be able to demonstrate that ability to their local HUD Office. In recognition of the difficulty some HAs may have in conversion to electronic submission of data, the rule will permit HUD Field Offices to grant extensions of time beyond the stated implementation date for commencement of electronic submission under certain circumstances. D. Cost Housing agencies may be concerned about funding the initial cost of automation. For public and Indian housing, the costs of the electronic transmission of the correctly formatted data, including either the purchase and maintenance of computer hardware or software, or both; the cost of contracting for those services; or the cost of centralizing the electronic transmission function; are eligible operating expenses and can be included in the operating budget. However, they are not eligible for additional operating subsidy funding. Automating this management function also is an allowable expense under the Comprehensive Improvement Assistance Program and the Comprehensive Grant Program. For Section 8 programs, the costs may be paid from ongoing administrative fees or the Section 8 operating reserve. Ultimately, the cost of automating this function will be recovered in reduced administrative costs. The Department anticipates that the large number of vendors competing in the marketplace will cause the cost of automation and electronic transmission to be reasonable, and a large number of HAs will therefore be able to purchase and maintain their own equipment. However, the decision to purchase and maintain the necessary equipment and services or to contract for the automation and electronic transmission function, will only be made by each housing agency. III. Parts Amended This proposed rule would add a new part 908 to specify the electronic submission requirements. The requirements for obtaining and verifying family income information in the various programs are found in ยง813.109 for the Section 8 Rental Certificate, Rental Voucher and Moderate Rehabilitation programs, in ยง905.315 for the Indian housing program, and in ยง913.109 for the public housing program. This rule would add a new paragraph to each of these sections to cross reference the requirements of the new part 908. IV. Other Matters A. Environmental Impact In accordance with 40 CFR 1508.4 of the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality and 24 CFR 50.20(o) of the HUD regulations, the policies and procedures contained in this proposed rule relate only to HUD administrative procedures and, therefore, are categorically excluded from the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act. B. Federalism Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive order 12612, Federalism, has determined that the policies contained in this proposed rule will not have substantial direct effects on states or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the Federal government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Specifically, this proposed rule is directed to housing agencies that operate HUD-assisted housing, whose functions and authority remain unchanged. It merely changes the format of data submitted to HUD to make its transmission more accurate and efficient. It will not impinge upon the relationship between the Federal Government and State and local governments. As a result, the proposed rule is not subject to review under the order.
