FR940324-2-00157 FR940324-2-00090 In general, NECET funds are available to support all of the varied tasks associated with the production of children's television, and project eligibility is not limited to any particular stage of production or type of activity as long as it is germane to the production of children's television programming that furthers the objectives of the 1990 Act. Programming funded by NECET is primarily intended for general viewing by children, although it may also have value and be used within an instructional context. In general, NECET expects to award funds for four categories of projects: Series To initiate new series productions, or to complete a series project already underway. Individual Programs or Specials To support production of new individual program(s) or special(s). Pilot Programs To support various pre-production activities (e.g., planning, research development, scripting, etc.) up through and including the production of pilot program(s). Pre-Production Projects To support preliminary pre-production activities, such as planning, research, development and/or scripting, that will eventually lead to production. Evaluation Criteria Five Evaluation Criteria will be used to evaluate all NECET Pre-Application and NECET Full Application submissions received during the FY 1994 grant cycle. These criteria, and the weight accorded each criterion, are as follows: Creativity (30 points) The proposed project must display a high degree of creativity, originality and artistic imagination and, ideally, be unique and innovative in its approach. Clarity of Educational Objectives; Plan for Evaluating Educational Effectiveness; Indication of Developmental Appropriateness (30 points) Applicants must provide: (1) A clear statement of the educational objectives of their proposal; (2) a plan for evaluating the educational effectiveness of the proposed project; and (3) an indication that the proposed project is developmentally appropriate for the target audience specified in the proposal. Conformance With NECET Objectives (15 points) Applicants must satisfy NECET that their project will further the three NECET objectives discussed earlier in this Notice: (1) To Improve the Fundamental Intellectual Skills of Children through the Vehicle of Television Programming; (2) To the Extent Feasible, to Support the Development of Programming for Children Aged 6 to 8; and (3) To Encompass a Broad Range of Subject Areas within the Overall Context of the Grant Program. Applicant Capability (15 points) Applicants must indicate why NECET may be confident that they will be able to complete the proposed project in a satisfactory manner. Applicants may demonstrate this capability in various ways, including documentation of previous experience, presentation of a well-developed plan, and related information. Thoroughness of Project Plan (10 points) Applicants must provide evidence of a well-developed and sound plan for execution of their project, including a detailed and realistic timetable and budget that accurately reflect the needs of the project. Program Standards Programs produced with NECET grant funding must meet broadcast-quality production and technical standards consistent with those of the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). All programs must be closed-captioned. Programming funded by NECET may not be interrupted with commercial advertising messages for the life of the program. All NECET-funded programming must be aired with a funding (underwriting) credit for the National Endowment for Children's Educational Television (NECET), and any ancillary materials produced with this grant shall contain a similar credit. Such funding credit shall be consistent with common practice for funding announcements on public broadcasting stations. Rights, Clearances, and Distribution NECET grant recipients are entitled to retain continuing rights to the programming that they create with NECET funding assistance. Recipients of NECET grant funding must comply with all requirements of United States Copyright Law, including requirements to obtain permission from owners of copyright in works of authorship and to pay any required license fees. Accordingly, NECET requires that all completed creative works supported by NECET funding have appropriate clearances, releases, and/or other documentation demonstrating that the organization or individual producing the programming either has obtained rights for the use of all elements in the programs, or has itself originally created the work. These rights and clearances apply to all elements of such programming. NECET Applicants should note that they will need to obtain an option on any material critical to the successful completion of their projects before they apply to NECET, unless all such material has already been cleared or is entirely original with the applicant.
