FR940920-2-00034 FR940920-2-00015 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Financial Assistance Award; Intent to Award Renewal Grant to Southeastern Consortium for Minorities in Engineering (SECME) AGENCY: Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice of Intent. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy announces that pursuant to 10 CFR 600.6(a)(5), it is making a discretionary financial assistance renewal award based on the criteria set forth at 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i) (B) and (D) to SECME, Atlanta, GA., under Amendment A001 to Grant Number DE&hyph;FG01&hyph;93MI10270. The purpose of the award is to continue to develop an educational and training program for middle and high school students, teachers and school administrators in the District of Columbia public schools. The projects goal is to increase the number of minority students who are academically prepared to enter college and complete studies in engineering, mathematics and science. The period of performance will be extended two (2) years October 1, 1994&hyph;September 30, 1996. The total estimated cost of this budget period (10/1/94&hyph;9/30/95) is $150,000 which will be provided by DOE_there is no cost sharing. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Please write the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Placement and Administration, ATTN: Rosemarie Marshall, HR&hyph;531.11, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposed renewal grant will provide funding to SECME, which is a pre-college program designed to increase the number of minority students who are academically prepared to enter and complete studies in engineering, mathematics, and science. SECME is a nonprofit organization organized in 1975 by the engineering deans of six Southeastern universities. SECME is proposing to expand its consortium network by establishing the SECME school systems model in the District of Columbia, with the development of 16 school programs in four schools systems in DC covering the northwest, northeast, southwest and southeast areas. The University of the District of Columbia's College of Engineering will serve as SECME's 33rd member university and work with SECME school programs throughout the targeted region. The University's role is vital to the success of the program. The University's support to the schools will be through Saturday School Engineering Workshops and school visits from engineering faculty consultants who provide information on additions to school curricula, on-going curriculum enrichment, and university-level preparatory courses. The program is meritorious because by increasing the pool of minority students who are prepared to enter and complete studies in the scientific technical fields, the competitiveness and prosperity of the American workforce will be significantly enhanced in the years ahead. The project will assist teachers in formulating ways to enrich their instructional programs through the use of curriculum materials and computer applications and help them develop motivational guidance for their students. The DOE knows of no other entity which is conducting or is planning to conduct such an activity. Based on the evaluation of relevance to the accomplishment of a public purpose, it is determined that the application represents a beneficial method to ensure precollege students' success in courses which are prerequisite to technical education and careers. Through this project, students will be better prepared to enroll in and succeed in university-level engineering, mathematics, and science programs. Michael B. Raizen, Contracting Officer, Operations Branch A&hyph;1, Office of Placement and Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23243 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
