FR940804-0-00031 FR940804-0-00012 B. Demonstration of Maintenance_Projected Inventories Total VOC, NO X , and CO emissions were projected from the 1990 base year out to 2004. These projected inventories were prepared in accordance with EPA guidance. Refer to EPA's TSD prepared for this notice for more in-depth details regarding the projected inventory for the Memphis and Shelby County area. On March 31, 1994, the State of Tennessee submitted supplemental projection inventories. The data submitted for 1993 showed a higher level of NO X emissions than the base year, however, the Memphis/Shelby County nonattainment area was still in attainment during 1993. All following years' data is below the 1993 level, therefore, continued attainment is expected. The projected emissions for 1993 closely approximate actual 1993 data. The NO X levels projected for 1996 and 1999, although higher than the base year levels, are significantly lower than the 1993 levels, which, as noted above, did not cause a violation of the standard. The levels for 2002 and 2004 projected as less than the attainment year. Although approval of NO X increases above a de minimis level is a departure from EPA guidance, EPA believes that the emissions projections demonstrate that the area will continue to maintain the O 3 NAAQS because this area achieved attainment through VOC controls and reductions. The projected emission inventories were submitted in the SAMS format. C. Verification of Continued Attainment Continued attainment of the O 3 NAAQS in the Memphis and Shelby County area depends, in part, on the State of Tennessee's efforts toward tracking indicators of continued attainment during the maintenance period. The Memphis and Shelby County area will utilize the several plan elements to maintain current acceptable ozone levels. The air quality monitoring network will continue to operate in accordance with 40 CFR Part 58, with no reductions to the existing monitoring network. Any relocation of monitors will be agreed upon by the EPA prior to their relocation. Existing stationary source control will continue. Additional companies subject to RACT regulations will be added to the source listing, and will be required to comply with emission standards. Sources wishing to locate in Shelby County will continue to undergo new source review requirements to include the installation of best available control technology. A triennial emissions inventory will be performed to include area, mobile and point sources of volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides. This inventory will be developed in conjunction with emission inventories for Carbon Monoxide. The first year for inclusion as an inventory year is 1993, with said inventory to be accomplished by December 31, 1994 and submitted for approval to the State of Tennessee by January 31, 1995. Successive inventories are to be accomplished using the same procedure. When the triennial inventory exceeds the projected inventory by more than ten percent, then the inventory development will be increased to an annual event. Inspection and Maintenance (I & M) of the automobile will continue in the City of Memphis with an increased emphasis on enforcement to assure vehicle owner participation. D. Contingency Plan The level of VOC and NO X emissions in the Memphis and Shelby County area will largely determine its ability to stay in compliance with the O 3 NAAQS in the future. Despite the State's best efforts to demonstrate continued compliance with the NAAQS, the ambient air pollutant concentrations may exceed or violate the NAAQS. Therefore, the State of Tennessee has provided contingency measures with a schedule for implementation in the event of a future O 3 air quality problem. The State of Tennessee's contingency plan is triggered by a violation of the Ozone NAAQS of 0.12 ppm that occurs after redesignation to attainment. Plan implementation would begin upon confirmation of an ozone violation. The plan contains a contingency to implement pre-adopted additional control measures such as Reasonable Available Control Technology (RACT) level control for not previously controlled VOC sources. Development of requirements to lower emissions of NO X from stationary fuel burning sources would also begin immediately. These pre-adopted additional measures for RACT will be implemented within 90 days of the date the State certifies to EPA that the air quality data which demonstrates a violation of the O 3 NAAQS is quality assured. NO X regulations would be implemented within two years of the ozone violation. A complete description of these contingency measures and their triggers can be found in the TSD prepared for this notice. EPA finds that the contingency measures provided in the State of Tennessee submittal meet the requirements of section 175A(d) of the CAA. E. Subsequent Maintenance Plan Revisions In accordance with section 175A(b) of the CAA, the State of Tennessee has agreed to submit a revised maintenance SIP eight years after the area is redesignated to attainment. Such revised SIP will provide for maintenance for an additional ten years. Final Action In this final action, EPA is approving the Memphis and Shelby County O 3 maintenance plan, including the 1990 base year emission inventory, because it meets the requirements of section 175A. In addition, the EPA is redesignating the Memphis and Shelby County area to attainment for O 3 because the State of Tennessee has demonstrated compliance with the requirements of section 107(d)(3)(E) for redesignation. This action stops the sanctions and federal implementation plan clocks that were triggered for the Memphis and Shelby County area by the January 15, 1993, findings letter.
