FR940526-2-00183 FR940526-2-00064 (d) Key personnel . (10 points). (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project, including_ (i) The qualifications of the project director; (ii) The qualifications of each of the other key personnel to be used on the project; (iii) The time, including justification for the time that each one of the key personnel, including the project director, will commit to the project; and (iv) Subject to the Indian preference provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq. ) that apply to grants and contracts to tribal organizations, how the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, will ensure that its personnel are selected for employment without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disabling condition. (2) To determine personnel qualifications, the Secretary considers_ (i) The experience and training of key personnel in project management and in the objectives of the project; and (ii) Any other qualifications of key personnel that pertain to the quality of the project. (e) Budget and cost effectiveness. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which_ (1) The budget is adequate to support the project activities; (2) Costs are reasonable in relation to the objectives of the project and the number of participants to be served; and (3) The budget narrative justifies the expenditures. (f) Evaluation plan. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the evaluation plan for the project, including the extent to which_ (1) The plan identifies, at a minimum, types of data to be collected and reported with respect to the academic and vocational competencies demonstrated by participants and the number and kind of academic and work credentials acquired by participants who complete the training; (2) The plan identifies, at a minimum, types of data to be collected and reported with respect to the achievement of project goals for the enrollment, completion, and placement of participants. The data must be broken down by sex and by occupation for which the training was provided; (3) The methods of evaluation are appropriate for the project and, to the extent possible, are objective and produce data that are quantifiable; and (4) The methods of evaluation provide periodic data that can be used by the project for ongoing program improvement. (h) Employment opportunities. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan for job placement of participants who complete training under this program, including_ (1) The expected employment opportunities (including any military specialties) and any additional educational or training opportunities that are related to the participants' training; (2) Information and documentation concerning potential employers' commitment to hire participants who complete training; and (3) An estimate of the percentage of trainees expected to be employed (including self-employed individuals) in the field for which they were trained following completion of training. Special Consideration Under 34 CFR 401.20(e), in addition to the 100 points to be awarded based on the selection criteria in 34 CFR 401.21, the Secretary awards: (a) Up to five points to applications proposing exemplary approaches that involve, coordinate with, or encourage tribal economic development plans; and (b) Five points to applications from tribally controlled community colleges that_ (1) Are accredited or are candidates for accreditation by a nationally recognized accreditation organization as an institution of postsecondary vocational education; or (2) Operate vocational education programs that are accredited or are candidates for accreditation by a nationally recognized accreditation organization and issue certificates for completion of vocational education programs. Instructions for Transmittal of Applications (a) If an applicant wants to apply for a grant under this competition, the applicant must_ (1) Mail the original and six copies of the application on or before the deadline date to: U.S. Department of Education, Application Control Center, Attention: (CFDA # 84.101), Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4725. (2) Hand deliver the original and six copies of the application by 4:30 p.m. (Washington, DC time) on or before the deadline date to: U.S. Department of Education, Application Control Center, Attention: (CFDA #84.101), Room # 3633, Regional Office Building # 3, 7th and D Streets, SW., Washington, DC. (b) An applicant must show one of the following as proof of mailing: (1) A legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark. (2) A legible mail receipt with the date of mailing stamped by the U.S. Postal Service. (3) A dated shipping label, invoice, or receipt from a commercial carrier. (4) Any other proof of mailing acceptable to the Secretary. (c) If an application is mailed through the U.S. Postal Service, the Secretary does not accept either of the following as proof of mailing:
