FR941205-2-00023 FR941205-2-00022 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Agency for Health Care Policy and Research National Advisory Council for Health Care Policy, Research, and Evaluation: Request for Nominations for Public Members AGENCY: Agency for Health Care Policy and Research. ACTION: Request for Nominations for Public Members. SUMMARY: 42 U.S.C. 299c, section 921 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, as amended by section 6103(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989, established a National Advisory Council for Health Care Policy, Research, and Evaluation (the Council). The Council is to advise the Secretary and the Administrator, Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR), on matters related to the enhancement of quality, appropriateness, and effectiveness of health care services, and access to such services through scientific research, the promotion of improvements in clinical practice and in the organization, financing, and delivery of health care services. Seventeen members with staggered terms were appointed in 1990. Six current members' terms will expire in May 1995. Nominations to fill these vacancies should be received on or before January 20, 1995. Current members whose terms expire in 1995 will be considered for reappointment should they so desire. ADDRESSES: All nominations for membership should be submitted to Deborah L. Queenan, Executive Secretary, National Advisory Council for Health Care Policy, Research, and Evaluation, Suite 603, Executive Office Center, 2101 East Jefferson Street, Rockville, Maryland 20852. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Deborah L. Queenan, Executive Secretary at (301) 594&hyph;1459. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 42 U.S.C. 299c, section 921 of the PHS Act, provides that the National Advisory Council for Health Care Policy, Research, and Evaluation shall consist of 17 appropriately qualified representatives of the public appointed by the Secretary. Of the 17 public members, 8 are to be individuals distinguished in the conduct of research, demonstration projects, and evaluations with respect to health care; 3 are to be individuals distinguished in the practice of medicine; 2 are to be individuals distinguished in the health professions; 2 are to be individuals distinguished in the fields of business, law, ethics, economics, and public policy; and 2 are to be individuals representing the interests of consumers of health care. The six members whose terms will expire May 31, 1995, represent expertise in health services research (2 members), health professions (one member), the practice of medicine (one member), public policy (one member), and the interests of health care consumers (one member). (Each of these individuals with expiring terms will be considered for reappointment should they so desire.) A Council member's term of office is 3 years, except that appointments are staggered to permit an orderly rotation of membership. The Council advises the Secretary, through the Administrator, regarding priorities for a national agenda and strategy for: (1) conduct of research, demonstration projects, and evaluations with respect to health care, including clinical practice and primary care; (2) development and application of appropriate health care technology assessments; (3) development and periodic review and update of guidelines for clinical practice, standards of quality, performance measures, and medical review criteria with respect to health care; (4) conduct of research on outcomes of health care services and procedures. In addition, the Council performs second level review of grant applications which exceed $50,000 or more in total direct costs. Interested persons may nominate one or more qualified persons for membership on the Council. Nominations shall state that the nominee is willing to serve as a member of the Council and appears to have no conflict of interest that would preclude Council membership. Potential candidates will be asked to provide detailed information concerning such matters as financial interests, consultancies, and research grants or contracts, to permit evaluation of possible sources of conflict of interest. The Department is seeking a broad geographic representation and has special interest in assuring that women, minority groups, and the physically handicapped are adequately represented on advisory bodies and, therefore, extends particular encouragement to nominations for appropriately qualified female, minority, and/or physically handicapped candidates. Dated: November 25, 1994. Clifton R. Gaus, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29852 Filed 12&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;90&hyph;P
