FR941221-2-00086 FR941221-2-00067 Wagner-Peyser Act; One-Stop Career Center System Local Grants AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and solicitation for Grant Application (SGA). SUMMARY: All information required to submit a proposal is contained in this announcement. The U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration (DOL/ETA) announces the availability of competitive grants to award approximately $3.5 million for local community One-Stop Career Center systems in order to implement several ``learning laboratories.'' The grants will allow these sites to serve as ``learning laboratories'' to provide ``hands-on'' skill training and professional development to others across the Country and/or serve as ``test sites'' for One-Stop components or applications. It is anticipated that up to 10 awards to local communities, who have moved forward to transform the fragment array of employment and training programs into a coordinated information and service delivery system for individuals seeking first, new or better jobs and for employers seeking to hire new workers, will be made. The Department's intent is that these local sites will fit into the broader national strategy for the One-Stop Career Center system. Accordingly, the Department is seeking to fund local sites that embody the same four broad outcomes of the national system_i.e., universality, customer choice, integrated system and performance-driven/outcome-based measures_that guided selection of the recent One-Stop Career Center System State grant awards. These four outcomes are described in detail later in the grant solicitation. The awards will be made on a competitive basis and in the range of $250,000 to $500,000 per grant. The duration of the grants will be 15 months, from the date of award. Funding for subsequent years is contingent upon the availability of funds, the activity funded, and upon satisfactory performance in the prior year. DATES: Application for grant awards will be accepted commencing January 3, 1995. The closing date for receipt of proposals at the Department of Labor shall be March 6, 1995 at 2:00 p.m., Eastern time. Any proposal not received at the designated place, date and time of delivery specified will not be considered.
