FR940318-0-00112 FR940318-0-00023 In 1989, EPA organized the Stratospheric Ozone Protection Advisory Committee (STOPAC) in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. app. section 9(c). The STOPAC consisted of members selected on the basis of their professional qualifications and diversity of perspectives and provided representation from industry, academia, federal, state, and local government agencies, non-governmental and environmental groups, as well as international organizations. The purpose of STOPAC was to provide advice to the Agency on policy and technical issues related to the protection of stratospheric ozone. In 1991, the Agency asked STOPAC members to participate in subgroups to assist in developing regulations under title VI of the CAA. EPA established a subgroup of the standing STOPAC to guide the Agency specifically on development of the safe alternatives program. The subgroup on safe alternatives met twice. At the first meeting in May 1991, subgroup members reviewed a detailed description of EPA's plans for implementing section 612. At this meeting, there was general agreement on the need to issue a request for data to provide the general public with an opportunity to furnish the Agency with information on substitutes. The group also agreed on the need to review substitutes as quickly as possible to avoid any delay in industry's efforts to phase out ozone-depleting substances. At the second meeting of the subgroup, in July 1991, subgroup members provided EPA with comments on a draft of the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM), which was prepared in response to the conclusions of the first meeting. The comments focused primarily on the draft discussion of EPA's plans for implementing section 612 and refinements to a list of preliminary substitutes that the Agency intended to review. Based on comments received from the subgroup and other offices within EPA, a final ANPRM was prepared and published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1984). Because the bulk of regulatory development required under title VI has been completed, the STOPAC has since been disbanded. III. Section 612 Program A. Statutory Requirements Section 612 of the Clean Air Act authorizes EPA to develop a program for evaluating alternatives to ozone-depleting substances. EPA is referring to this new program as the Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP) program. The major provisions of section 612 are: •Rulemaking_Section 612(c) requires EPA to promulgate rules making it unlawful to replace any class I or class II substance with any substitute that the Administrator determines may present adverse effects to human health or the environment where the Administrator has identified an alternative that (1) reduces the overall risk to human health and the environment, and (2) is currently or potentially available. •Listing of Unacceptable/Acceptable Substitutes_Section 612(c) also requires EPA to publish a list of the substitutes unacceptable for specific uses. EPA must publish a corresponding list of acceptable alternatives for specific uses. •Petition Process_Section 612(d) grants the right to any person to petition EPA to add a substance to or delete a substance from the lists published in accordance with section 612(c). The Agency has 90 days to grant or deny a petition. Where the Agency grants the petition, EPA must publish the revised lists within an additional 6 months. •90-day Notification_Section 612(e) requires EPA to require any person who produces a chemical substitute for a class I substance to notify the Agency not less than 90 days before new or existing chemicals are introduced into interstate commerce for significant new uses as substitutes for a class I substance. The producer must also provide the Agency with the producer's unpublished health and safety studies on such substitutes. •Outreach_Section 612(b)(1) states that the Administrator shall seek to maximize the use of federal research facilities and resources to assist users of class I and II substances in identifying and developing alternatives to the use of such substances in key commercial applications. •Clearinghouse_Section 612(b)(4) requires the Agency to set up a public clearinghouse of alternative chemicals, product substitutes, and alternative manufacturing processes that are available for products and manufacturing processes which use class I and II substances. B. Guiding Principles EPA has followed several guiding principles in developing the SNAP program: 1. Evaluate Substitutes Within a Comparative Risk Framework The Agency's risk evaluation compares risks of substitutes to risks from continued use of ozone-depleting compounds as well as to risks associated with other substitutes. This evaluation considers effects due to ozone depletion as well as effects due to direct toxicity of substitutes. Other risk factors considered include effects on water and air quality, the potential for direct and indirect contributions to global warming, and occupational health and safety. Any effects found to pose a concern will be evaluated further to determine if controls are required. EPA does not believe that a numerical scheme producing a single index to rank all substitutes based on risks is appropriate. A strict quantitative index would not allow for sufficient flexibility in making appropriate risk management decisions that consider issues such as the quality of information supporting the decision, the degree of uncertainty in the data, the availability of other substitutes, and economic feasibility. 2. Do Not Require That Substitutes Be Risk-Free To Be Found Acceptable Section 612(c) requires the Agency to publish a list of acceptable and unacceptable substitutes. The Agency interprets this as a mandate to identify substitutes that reduce risks compared to use of class I or II compounds or to other substitutes for class I or II substances, rather than a mandate to list as acceptable only those substitutes with zero risks. In keeping with this interpretation, the Agency believes that a key goal of the SNAP program is to promote the use of substitutes for class I and II chemicals that minimize risks to human health and the environment relative to other alternatives. In some cases, this approach may involve designating a substitute acceptable even though the compound may be toxic, or pose other environmental risk of some type, provided its use reduces overall risk to human health and the environment as compared to use of class I or class II substances or other potential substitutes.
