FR940328-2-00017 FR940328-2-00008 February 22, 1994. Memorandum For: Louis J. Boezi, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Modernization From: James D. Belville, MIC/AM WSFO, Washington, DC Subject: Evaluation of the Relocation of WSFO, Washington, DC from Camp Springs, MD to Sterling, VA The Weather Service Forecast Office (WSFO) in Washington, DC provides weather forecasts and warnings over a four state area (Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, and the eastern panhandle of West Virginia) as well as, one federal district and a large section of the North Atlantic Ocean. The WSFO in Washington, DC provides a full suite of services including aviation, public, and marine forecasts; fire weather, air pollution, and agricultural support services; hydrologic data collection and forecasts; and severe weather warnings. Due to the multi-state service area and multitude of services, few if any WSFO's in the United States could compare in complexity for the relocation of this particular office. The WSFO Washington, DC (WBC) relocated on March 19, 1990 from Camp Springs, MD to Sterling, VA. The relocation of this facility was necessary because of the location of the WSR&hyph;88D weather radar on property owned by the NWS just west of Dulles International Airport. The distance of this move was approximately fifty (50) miles. The move of WSFO WBC was completely planned and coordinated by myself, William Comeaux (DMIC), and numerous staff members of the WSFO. Our first priority was to ensure that the office move was totally transparent to our entire user community. This meant that all services continued uninterrupted during the transition of services from one location to another. In every aspect of the planning process, the transition of services was the number one consideration. User notification of the office relocation along with new NWS phone numbers presented the WSFO with a significant challenge. While gearing up for this task, we found there was no central listing of the various users. Each office focal point was tasked with developing a comprehensive list of users, along with the current address, for notification. These were then combined and compiled in an administrative computer. A letter was composed for each specific user group of individual along with computer produced mailing labels. We found that computer paper with the NOAA letterhead was available. We were able to generate in excess of 2400 notification letters and mail them over a three day period. Following the office relocation, we received zero complaints from all user groups concerning our notification procedures. The notification occurred 45 days prior to the relocation. Designing and implementing a communication system for the new facility in Sterling was the most difficult, as well as frustrating, experience of the entire move. For the most part, this was due to the fact that the local phone company was Contel, but C&P Telephone and AT&T also provided many of our data circuits. An enormous amount of coordination was required in order to successfully install all needed communications circuits. All data circuits were tested using a PC one week prior to the move. Several problems were found and immediately corrected. These efforts paid off as the WSFO AFOS system, NWR, RADIDS monitors, and SWIS were all functioning in an operational configuration at the new site within 18 hours of being turned off at the old location. One significant outcome of the WSFO relocation was the vastly increased (nearly double) area covered by the metro area telephone service the NWS obtained through Contel. The WSFO public service function was greatly enhanced by the expanded telephone service area. There were three communication deficiencies which resulted from the relocation of the WSFO. 1. FTS service was not available at the Sterling site for approximately 11/2 years following the relocation. 2. Relocating the office telephone system from the old site to the new location was a mistake. It proved to be quite expensive and required several days to complete installation. Installing a new phone system prior to the relocation would have been better. 3. The FEMA NAWAS circuits were installed about one month following the office move. This delay was caused by FEMA not budgeting for the relocation of these circuits. Service backup for the WSFO relocation was provided by several means. The public forecast and warning programs were provided from WSO Baltimore, MD by WSFO WBC forecasters. The backup service began at 12 AM EST Sunday, March 19 and ended at 8 AM EST Monday, March 20, 1990. All products were issued on time and were of excellent quality. Neither the public, local officials, nor media could tell that a relocation had occurred. The aviation forecast products and marine forecast products were issued by WSFO Charleston, WV and WSFO Raleigh, NC respectively. They did an excellent job of providing quality products for our users. The relocation of the equipment was planned in great detail. Equipment was loaded onto the vans in the order in which it needed when unloaded. In other words, the most important was loaded last in order to be first off. The first off was the NOAA Weather Radio (NWR). This system was down for a total of 6 hours. Next, the AFOS was off loaded. As each piece was moved into the new facility, it was off loaded. As each piece was moved into the new facility, it was hooked up immediately by the electronics technicians. The entire system installation and checkout was completed by 8 PM EST, March 19. The system was allowed to run all night to ensure everything was operating satisfactorily. Two forecasters and a meteorological technician monitored data flow and product delivery to validate service delivery capabilities. No troubles were encountered during the night and all backup services were terminated at 8 AM Monday morning. The relocation of WSFO WBC to a new facility was more than just a move. It also provided the WSFO with an opportunity to improve several key areas of WSFO operations. These were: 1. Greatly improved operations layout with respect to access to the various technologies and the facilitation of interaction between forecasters. 2. Vastly improved NOAA Weather Radio operations both in the basic programming and quality of the broadcast. 3. Improved warning procedures were obtained by locating the key dissemination systems to local officials and the media in the operations area (NAWAS and EBS). 4. The SKYWARN spotter program was significantly enhanced with respect to the location of the amateur radio station in the operations area and improved antenna system. It was difficult for SKYWARN to function at the old location. To-date, I have not received nor have I heard of a complaint connected with the relocation of WSFO WBC to Sterling, VA. The relocation went extremely well and was transparent to all users. I have thoroughly reviewed the WSFO San Francisco relocation checklist with respect to requirements of relocation of WSFO WBC. I find this checklist quite comprehensive and serves its intended purpose well. I could find no deficiencies in their planning for this office relocation.
