FR940202-0-00078 FR940202-0-00006 (iv) A governor or similar restriction that is not reasonably expected as of the issue date to cause the yield on the debt instrument to be significantly more or significantly less than the expected yield determined without the governor. (c) Objective rate_ (1) In general. An objective rate is a rate (other than a qualified floating rate) that is determined using a single fixed formula and that is based on_ (i) One or more qualified floating rates; (ii) One or more rates where each rate would be a qualified floating rate for a debt instrument denominated in a currency other than the currency in which the debt instrument is denominated; (iii) The yield or changes in the price of one or more items of personal property (other than stock or debt of the issuer or a related party within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)), provided each item of property is actively traded within the meaning of section 1092(d)(1) (determined without regard to section 1092(d)(3)); or (iv) A combination of rates described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), and (c)(1)(iii) of this section. (2) Other objective rates to be specified by Commissioner. The Commissioner may designate in the Internal Revenue Bulletin variable rates other than those described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section that will be treated as objective rates (see ยง601.601(d)(2)(ii) of this chapter). (3) Qualified inverse floating rate. An objective rate described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is a qualified inverse floating rate if_ (i) The rate is equal to a fixed rate minus a qualified floating rate; and (ii) The variations in the rate can reasonably be expected to inversely reflect contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds (disregarding any restrictions on the rate that are described in paragraphs (b)(3)(i), (b)(3)(ii), (b)(3)(iii), and (b)(3)(iv) of this section). (4) Significant front-loading or back-loading of interest. Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a variable rate of interest on a debt instrument is not an objective rate if it is reasonably expected that the average value of the rate during the first half of the instrument's term will be either significantly less than or significantly greater than the average value of the rate during the final half of the instrument's term. (5) Tax-exempt debt. Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, in the case of any tax-exempt obligation (within the meaning of section 1275(a)(3)), a variable rate is an objective rate only if it is a qualified inverse floating rate. (d) Examples. The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. For purposes of these examples, assume that paragraphs (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this section do not apply. Example 1. Rate based on LIBOR. X issues a debt instrument that provides for annual payments of interest at a rate equal to the value of the 1-year London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) at the end of each year. Variations in the value of 1-year LIBOR over the term of the debt instrument can reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds over that term. Accordingly, the rate is a qualified floating rate. Example 2. Rate increased by a fixed amount. X issues a debt instrument that provides for annual payments of interest at a rate equal to 200 basis points (2 percent) plus the current value, at the end of each year, of the average yield on 1-year Treasury securities as published in Federal Reserve bulletins. Variations in the value of this interest rate can reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds. Accordingly, the rate is a qualified floating rate. Example 3. Rate based on commercial paper rate. X issues a debt instrument that provides for a rate of interest that is periodically adjusted to equal the current interest rate of Bank's commercial paper. Variations in the value of this interest rate can reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds. Accordingly, the rate is a qualified floating rate. Example 4. Rate based on changes in the value of a commodity index. X issues a debt instrument that provides for annual interest payments at the end of each year at a rate equal to the percentage increase, if any, in the value of an index for the year immediately preceding the payment. The index is based on the prices of several actively traded commodities. Variations in the value of this interest rate cannot reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds. Accordingly, the rate is not a qualified floating rate. However, because the rate is based on changes in the prices of actively traded property, the rate is an objective rate. Example 5. Rate based on a percentage of S&P 500 Index. X issues a debt instrument that provides for annual interest payments at the end of each year based on a fixed percentage of the value of the S&P 500 Index. Variations in the value of this interest rate cannot reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds and, therefore, the rate is not a qualified floating rate. In addition, because the interest rate is based on the value of the S&P 500 Index rather than on changes in that value, the rate is not an objective rate. Example 6. Rate based on issuer's profits. Z issues a debt instrument that provides for annual interest payments equal to 20 percent of Z's net profits earned during the year immediately preceding the payment. Variations in the value of this interest rate cannot reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds. Accordingly, the rate is not a qualified floating rate. In addition, because the stated rate is neither based on the yield or changes in the price of actively traded property nor based on a qualified floating rate, the rate is not an objective rate. Example 7. Rate based on a multiple of an interest index. Z issues a debt instrument with annual interest payments at a rate equal to two times the value of 1-year LIBOR as of the payment date. Because the rate is a multiple greater than 1.35 times a qualified floating rate, the rate is not a qualified floating rate. However, because the stated rate is based on a qualified floating rate using a single fixed formula, the rate is an objective rate.
