FR940707-2-00172 FR940707-2-00095 [Release No. 34&hyph;34284; File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;93&hyph;19] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change by the Boston Stock Exchange Inc., Relating to the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 June 30, 1994. I. Introduction On November 8, 1993, the Boston Stock Exchange Inc. (``BSE'' or ``Exchange'') submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''), pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 a proposed rule change to adopt a new BSE Rule_Chapter II, Section 37(a), ITSFEA Procedures_relating to the establishment, maintenance and enforcement of procedures designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information. On January 13, 1994, the BSE submitted to the Commission an amendment to the proposed rule change. 3 Notice of the proposal appeared in the Federal Register on February 14, 1994. No comments were received on the proposal. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR ยง240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). 3 See letter from Karen A. Aluise, assistant Vice President, Boston Stock Exchange, to Sandy Sciole, Branch Chief, Commission, dated January 13, 1994. The BSE letter made a similar change in nine places that clarifies member obligations with respect to ``securities transactions which they reasonably believe may have involved the misuse of material, non-public information.'' Exhibit 4 of the proposal requires associated persons to submit a list of securities accounts in which they either have a direct or indirect financial interest or make investment decisions. Associated persons with the firm are under a continuous obligation to update the list. The BSE's letter deleted a sentence that resulted in confusion on this matter. The letter also added ``trade confirmations'' to Exhibit 4, paragraph 1a, so that associated persons must submit to the member organization duplicate trade confirmations and monthly account statements for each relevant account. Finally, the letter changed the date in the Exhibit 3, Sample Membership Bulletin, from March 31, 1994, to April 30, 1994. II. Description of the Proposal A. Background In November 1988, Congress enacted the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 (``ITSFEA''), designed primarily to prevent, deter, and prosecute insider trading. 4 ITSFEA created a new Section 15(f) of the Act 5 to require broker-dealers to maintain procedures designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information by such Broker-dealers or any person associated with such broker-dealers. ITSEFEA also granted the Commission broad rule-making authority concerning so-called ``Chinese Wall'' procedures developed by broker-dealers to deter and prevent insider trading. 6 Pursuant to this grant of rule-making authority, the Division undertook a comprehensive review of broker-dealer policies and procedures and, in March of 1990, issued a report of its findings, conclusions and recommendations. 7 In the Report, the Division stated that, among other things, it was concerned about the need for firms to ``maintain documentation sufficient to recreate actions taken pursuant to Chinese Wall procedures.'' 8 Accordingly, the Division urged the self-regulatory organizations (``SRO'') to develop standards of documentation for their member firms as well as effective examination programs. 4 4 Pub. L. No. 100&hyph;704. 5 15 U.S.C. 78o (f) (1988). 6 ``Chinese Walls'' are broker-dealer policies and procedures designed as information barriers to segment the flow and prevent the misuse of material, non-public information. 7 See Report on Broker-Dealer Policies and Procedures Designed to Segment the Flow and Prevent the Misuse of material Non-public Information (``Report''), Division of Market Regulation, Commission, March 1990. 8Id. at 26. B. The Proposal The proposed rule change was designed to supplement Section 15(f) of the Act and ITSFEA, by requiring every member organization of the Exchange to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information by such member and any person associated with the member. The proposal establishes minimum standards for compliance with the record-keeping requirements of the Rule and the Act. It mandates that all members that are required to file SEC Form X&hyph;17A&hyph;5 (``FOCUS Reports'') with the Exchange on an annual basis submit with their FOCUS Reports signed statements by such members that the procedures mandated by this rule have been established, enforced and maintained. The proposal requires members and associated persons to promptly notify the Exchange's Market Surveillance Department of any securities transaction that the firm reasonably believes may have involved the misuse of material, non-public information. Finally, the proposal provides that when BSE members adopt written supervisory procedures relating to ITSFEA in connection with requirements of another designated examining authority (``DEA''), that member organization shall not be subject to the ITSFEA requirements of this Rule. The proposal adds four Supplementary Material provisions to Chapter II, ITSFEA Procedures, Section 37(a) of the BSE Rules. Supplementary Material .01 describes conduct that would constitute the misuse of material, non-public information. This conduct includes, but is not limited to: (a) Trading in any securities, or in any related securities issued by a corporation, in any related securities or related options on other derivative securities while knowingly in possession of material non-public information concerning that issuer; (b) trading in a security or related option or other derivative security while in possession of material, non-public information concerning imminent transactions in the security or related securities; or (c) disclosing to another person or entity any material, non-public information involving a corporation whose shares are publicly traded or an imminent transaction in an underlying security or related securities for the purpose of knowingly facilitating the possible misuse of material, non-public information.
