FR940804-2-00154 FR940804-2-00084 [Release No. 34&hyph;34453; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;13, Amendment No. 2] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Proposed Rule Change by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to Amendments to the NASD's Proposed N • PROVE System for Price Improvement and Execution of Small Orders July 28, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on July 25, 1994, 2 the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') Amendment No. 2 to the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 The NASD initially filed the proposed rule change on March 4, 1994. On March 28, 1994, the NASD filed Amendment No. 1, which expands and clarifies the description of the system. Notice of the original filing and Amendment No. 1 was provided by publication in the Federal Register . Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34145 (June 1, 1994), 59 FR 29649 (June 8, 1994). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD and The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. (``Nasdaq'') propose to amend the proposed rules governing the operation of The Nasdaq Primary Retail Order View and Execution System (``N • PROVE''), a new Nasdaq system for execution and price improvement of small-sized customer orders. Specifically, the NASD proposes to amend Sections 6.b and 6.c. of the Rules of Operation and Procedures for the N • PROVE service to provide that a limit order entered at a price between the best bid or offer displayed on Nasdaq will be immediately executed against a limit order subsequently entered into N • PROVE on the opposite side of the market priced at or superior to the limit price of the first limit order. Following is the text of the proposed rule change. (Additions are in italics; deletions are bracketed.) RULES OF OPERATION AND PROCEDURES FOR THE N • PROVE SYSTEM (6) EXECUTIONS OF N • PROVE ORDERS * * * * * a. No change. b. Limit orders may be entered into N • PROVE. A limit order priced at the Nasdaq inside market when the order is delivered to an N • PROVE market maker will be handled as a market order. Limit orders priced outside the Nasdaq inside market will be stored in the N • PROVE limit order file, and when the inside market equals or betters the limit price, the order will be handled as a market order. Limit orders priced better than the inside market upon entry will establish the price at which subsequent incoming market orders on the other side of market may be priced and executed (e.g., a sell order priced between the best bid and offer would improve the price of an incoming buy order). Market makers will receive notification of the existence of a limit order priced better than the inside market on their quote retrieval screens; provided however, notification of the existence of a preferenced limit order will only be delivered to the designated market maker. [A limit order priced better than the inside market in Nasdaq may also be matched and executed against an incoming market or limit order, on the other side of the market, without the participation of a market maker.] A limit order priced better than the inside market on Nasdaq shall be automatically executed against a subsequent limit order on the opposite side of the market at a price equal or superior to the limit price of the initial limit order (a sell (buy) limit order priced at or below (above) a limit order to buy (sell)), up to the size of the initial limit order or the subsequent limit order, whichever is smaller, and without the participation of a market maker. c. Market orders may be entered into N • PROVE. A market order will be delivered to a market maker for execution at the current inside market (buy orders will be executed at the best offer and sell orders at the best bid). If a limit order has previously been entered into N • PROVE at a price superior to the best bid or offer, the incoming market order will be repriced to match the price of the limit order and will be displayed for 15 seconds to all market makers [at] whose current quotation equals the applicable inside quote , in the case of an unpreferenced order, and to the preferenced market maker in the case of a preferenced order. [That order will either be executed by a market maker or will be matched and executed against the limit order.] If no market maker accepts the incoming market order within the 15-second period, the market order will be automatically executed against the limit order. All market orders entered into N • PROVE will be executed in compliance with market maker obligations as established in subsection (4). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of this amendment is to amend N • PROVE's execution algorithm for limit orders to provide that, upon receipt of limit orders that match between the inside spread, the system will automatically execute the matching limit orders against each other without any delay or separate display to market makers. The NASD believes this amendment will further enhance the price improvement and limit order protection benefits afforded retail investors through N • PROVE.
