FR940524-2-00097 FR940524-2-00054 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20306; File No. 812&hyph;8732] Applications, Hearings; Determinations, etc. 231 Funds May 17, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: The 231 Funds (the ``Fund''), and Continental Bank N.A. (the ``Adviser''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Section 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to permit any of the Fund's existing and future money market series, and any other series that holds itself out as a money market fund and for which the Adviser, or any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Adviser, serves as investment adviser (each a ``Portfolio''), and the investment adviser of such Portfolio, jointly to enter into master repurchase agreements with non-affiliated financial institutions. FILING DATE: The application was filed on December 17, 1993, and amended on March 29, 1994, and May 12, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving the applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on June 13, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: the Fund, 125 West 55th Street, New York, New York 10019; the Adviser, 231 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60697. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James J. Dwyer, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0581, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Fund is a registered investment company that currently offers three money market series: Prime Fund, U.s. Government Securities Fund, and Treasury Fund. Each series may offer up to three classes of shares. 1 The Adviser is the investment adviser of the Fund, and serves as custodian of the Fund's assets. Fund shares are distributed by The 231 Broker-Dealer Services, Inc. (the ``Distributor''), and in the past were distributed by Concord Financial Group, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Concord Holding Corporation, the parent of the Distributor. 1 Emerald Funds, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 20032 (Jan. 24, 1994) (notice) and 20086 (Feb. 22, 1994) (order). 2. Applicants request that the order of exemption permit the Adviser, on behalf of each of the Portfolios it advisers, to enter into repurchase transactions where, as further described below, the Adviser in certain circumstances would co-invest with the Portfolio engaging in the transaction. No Portfolio would jointly enter into a repurchase agreement with any other Portfolio. 3. An order to purchase Portfolio shares must be received by Supervised Service Company, Inc., the transfer agent, prior to the determination of the net asset value of the Portfolio (the ``Determination Time'') to be executed on a given day, except that purchase orders effected through the Adviser's computer system may be received by the Adviser, in its capacity as custodian, as of the Determination Time. Purchase orders received after the Determination Time will be executed the next business day. The Determination Time, which is also when the net income of a Portfolio is determined and declared as a dividend to the shareholders of record, is 2:30 p.m. Eastern Time for the U.S. Government Securities Fund and the Treasury Fund, and 3 p.m. Eastern Time for the Prime Fund. Orders for the purchase of shares of the Portfolios are executed only when monies are available to the custodian by 4 p.m. Eastern Time for investment by the Portfolio. 4. Purchasers of Portfolio shares include, without limitation, individuals, businesses, and customers of the Adviser or its affiliates that maintain customer-directed, non-discretionary accounts or discretionary accounts at the Adviser or its affiliates. The Adviser, in accordance with its customers' standing orders, automatically will ``sweep'' excess cash balances from the customers' accounts by means of a computer system. The proceeds from the sweep program will be held by the Adviser, as custodian, and will be available immediately for investment in Portfolio shares. The total assets actually invested in the Portfolios through the sweep program, however, would not be known until the machine processing required to process the Adviser's accounting system is completed (the ``Completion Time''), which normally will not be later than 4 a.m. Eastern Time the following morning. 5. If a Portfolio were to accept orders from the Adviser through the sweep program without special agreements for investment of the proceeds of these orders, dividends would be payable on shares purchased pursuant to such orders. The proceeds of such orders, however, would remain uninvested overnight, and dividends to other shareholders of the applicable Portfolio would be diluted. The requested relief would permit the Adviser to enter into repurchase transactions on behalf of the Portfolios at the applicable Determination Time in an amount which it considers, based upon its experience in administering its computer sweep program, to be sufficient to invest the net assets of the Portfolios attributable to the operation of the sweep program that day. The exact amount of the repurchase transaction would not be known until the Completion Time.
