FR941110-1-00072 FR941110-1-00011 Discussion of Options _The following discussion outlines options considered by EPA in proposing today's system to grant credits for the destruction or transformation of controlled substances. The initial discussion focuses on options for destruction credits. This is followed by a summary of how the same arguments pertain to a parallel system for granting transformation credits. Options for Destruction Credits _The Agency considered many factors in analyzing how to provide incentives to destroy controlled substances in the post-phaseout period. EPA envisions granting destruction credits to people who destroy controlled substances that were recovered from use systems, as well as controlled substances that were produced or imported for intended emissive uses. The Agency believes that as the phaseout goes into effect on January 1, 1996, an increasing number of people will retrofit or switch from use systems that use class I controlled substances to use systems that occupy other chemicals or processes less damaging to stratospheric ozone. However, in the near term the Agency anticipates a period of transition in which some people continue to use equipment that occupies class I substances. To meet the needs of people with equipment designed for class I controlled substances after the phaseout, EPA presumes market demand will engender a service industry to recover the phased out substances from existing equipment, such as building chillers, commercial refrigeration units, and automobile air conditioners as this equipment is retrofitted with alternative chemicals or is taken out of commission. EPA anticipates that much of the recovered controlled substances will be recycled or reclaimed and stored (banked) to meet the near term needs of people still using equipment that requires phased out substances. At this point in time, it is difficult to project what the future supply and demand for controlled substances will be once the post-phaseout period begins (January 1, 1996) and how long the transition period will last. EPA is proposing destruction credits to encourage the destruction of controlled substances when the supply of these substances exceeds the demand. In time, the demand for class I controlled substances should fall as the majority of equipment is converted to alternative chemicals or new systems replace old systems. The Agency presumes this will occur as alternative substances, retrofits and new equipment are brought into wider use throughout all sectors, obviating the need for banked class I controlled substances. Under this scenario, when the supply of a class I substance being banked for the period of transition exceeds the demand, the price will drop and the existing stocks will become ``unneeded,'' as mentioned in Decision IV/24 of the Parties to the Protocol cited above. When the substances are unneeded, the demand for phased out controlled substances may no longer even warrant storage. A person with a stored quantity of class I controlled substance that no longer has a market due to the conversion and replacement of equipment should be encouraged through a meaningful incentive system to destroy the substance. Without such an incentive, individuals may continue storing these controlled substances, increasing the risk of leaks, accidental releases or intentional releases to the atmosphere. EPA believes destruction should be encouraged to prevent such releases into the atmosphere. The proposed system encourages the destruction of controlled substances that are unneeded as demand shifts from one specific substance to alternatives or other types of equipment. The system of granting destruction credits allows market flexibility in meeting demand by allowing inter-pollutant transfers of destruction credits at the same time that it provides an incentive to destroy the excess supply of a given substance that might potentially be released into the atmosphere. As a hypothetical example, CFC&hyph;11 might be recovered from several use systems and banked during the first years after the phaseout (January 1, 1996) to meet demand during the period of transition. But as alternative substances and/or equipment are brought to market to replace the need for CFC&hyph;11, the supply of CFC&hyph;11 that was banked would become unnecessary. Today's proposed destruction credits would encourage the destruction of this excess supply of CFC&hyph;11 and the credits could be used, through an inter-pollutant transfer, to produce or import a different controlled substance in the same Group of controlled substances, such as CFC&hyph;12, to satisfy a still unmet demand for CFC&hyph;12. As under the current regulation, the Agency will grant credits equal to 100 percent of the volume destroyed (minus the offset) for controlled substances that are completely destroyed (using the current definition of completely destroy). For controlled substances destroyed at less than a 98 percent destruction efficiency, EPA will grant allowances commensurate with that percent of destruction efficiency that is actually achieved (minus the offset). Another factor considered in proposing an incentive system was the general technical destruction characteristic of the chlorinated and brominated compounds regulated under the current rule. Due to the chemical composition of these ozone-depleting substances, the by-products of destruction are often corrosive acids. The corrosivity of these destruction by-products may influence the maintenance costs for approved destruction technologies. Increased rates of destruction of controlled substances could increase the frequency with which operators of approved incineration technologies would need to replace the liners of their incineration units. Therefore, operators will probably continue to charge high prices for the destruction of controlled substances.
