FR940207-1-00018 FR940207-1-00002 •Accounts held by parents for a child under the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act •Accounts established by a tenant for apartment lease payments pending resolution of a landlord-tenant dispute 3. Retirement plans . Individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and simplified employee pension (SEP) accounts are consumer accounts to the extent that funds are invested in accounts subject to the regulation. Keogh accounts, like sole proprietor accounts, are not subject to the regulation. 4. Unincorporated associations . An account held by or offered to an unincorporated association of natural persons is a consumer account if the account is primarily for a nonbusiness purpose. The following factors may be considered: •The institution may rely on the declaration of the person representing the association as to whether the account is held for a business or nonbusiness purpose. •Whether the association has paid employees, which would indicate a business purpose for the account. For example, an account held by a religious organization that has payroll obligations is not covered by the regulation. (j) Depository Institution and Institution 1. Foreign institutions . Branches of foreign institutions located in the United States are subject to the regulation if they offer consumer accounts. Edge Act and Agreement corporations, and agencies of foreign institutions, are not depository institutions. (k) Deposit Broker 1. General . A deposit broker is any person in the business of placing or facilitating the placement of deposits in an institution, as defined by the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 29(g)). (n) Interest 1. Relation to Regulation Q . While bonuses are not interest for purposes of this regulation, other regulations may require that bonuses be treated as the equivalent of interest. For example, Regulation Q identifies payments of cash or merchandise that violate the prohibition against paying interest on demand accounts. (See 12 CFR §217.2(d).) (p) Passbook Savings Account 1. Relation to Regulation E . Passbook savings accounts include accounts accessed by preauthorized electronic fund transfers to the account (as defined in 12 CFR 205.2(j)), such as an account credited by direct deposit of social security payments. Accounts that permit access by other electronic means are not ``passbook saving accounts,'' and any statements that are sent four or more times a year must comply with the requirements of §230.6. (q) Periodic Statement 1. Examples . Periodic statements do not include: •Additional statements provided solely upon request •Information provided by computer through home banking services •General service information such as a quarterly newsletter or other correspondence that describes available services and products (r) State 1. General . Territories and possessions include Guam, the Mariana Islands, and the Marshall Islands. (t) Tiered-rate Account 1. Time accounts . Time accounts that pay different rates based solely on the amount of the initial deposit are not tiered-rate accounts. (u) Time Account 1. Relation to Regulation D . Regulation D permits in limited circumstances the withdrawal of funds without penalty during the first six days after a ``time deposit'' is opened. (See 12 CFR §204.2(c)(1)(i).) Withdrawals without penalty from a time account made in accordance with Regulation D do not disqualify the account from being a time account for purposes of this regulation. (v) Variable-rate Account 1. General . A certificate of deposit that permits one or more rate adjustments prior to maturity at the consumer's option is a variable-rate account. Section 230.3_General Disclosure Requirements (a) Form
