FR940930-2-00152 FR940930-2-00051 Antitrust Division United States and State of Florida v. Morton Plant Health System, Inc. and Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc.; Public Comments and Response on Proposed Final Consent Judgment Pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h), the United States publishes below the comments received on the proposed Final Consent Judgment in United States and State of Florida v. Morton Plant Health System, Inc., and Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc. Civil No. 94&hyph;748&hyph;CIV&hyph;T&hyph;23E, United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, together with the United States' response to the comments. Copies of the public comments and the response are available on request for inspection and copying in Room 3235 of the Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Tenth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20530, and at the Office of the Clerk of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, United States Courthouse, 611 North Florida Avenue, Room B&hyph;100, Tampa, Florida 33602. Joseph H. Widmar, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division. The United States' Response To Public Comments Pursuant to Section 2(d) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h) (the ``APPA''), the United States hereby submits and responds to the public comments it has received regarding the proposed Final Consent Judgment (``Judgment'') in this civil antitrust proceeding. This action began on May 5, 1994, when the United States and the State of Florida filed a Verified Complaint alleging that the proposed consolidation of Morton Plant Health System, Inc. and Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc. would tend to substantially lessen competition in the provision of acute inpatient hospital services in North Pinellas County, Florida in violation of Section 7 of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. ยง18. On June 17, 1994, the parties filed a Stipulation and a proposed Judgment, and on July 1, the United States filed a Competitive Impact Statement regarding the proposed Judgment. As explained in the Competitive Impact Statement, the proposed Judgment permits Morton Plant and Mease to achieve cost savings by consolidating some hospital and administrative services, but it enjoins the proposed consolidation and requires Morton Plant and Mease to continue competing in the provision of inpatient hospital services as separate corporate entities, thus preserving that competition upon which consumers have relied to reduce the cost of hospital care.
