FR940418-0-00010 FR940418-0-00005 Commenters were also opposed to the proposal stating the inability of the City of Chicago, and the lack of personnel available, to move the mass of boaters in or out of the Chicago River System in a timely manner. Many of the commenters requested that the Coast Guard, when considering a final regulation, protect their right to navigate on a federally controlled waterway in a safe and timely manner, and develop a regulation that meets the interests of all parties, both land and waterborne traffic. From the comments and data received in support of not opening the City of Chicago bridges for the passage of recreational vessels on weekdays during the day, the proposed Central Area Circulator was a point considered for not opening the bridges during this period of time. However, this light rail system is still in the planning and funding stages and, at this point in time, daytime bridge openings will have no effect on a transportation system not yet in place. Of the 32 oral statements and data submitted at the Public Hearing, 8 were in support of limiting the openings of the Chicago bridges for recreational vessels, and 23 were opposed to limiting the openings of bridges for recreational vessels. After a review of the comments, the Coast Guard, to maintain safety on a navigable water of the United States, and to protect the economic benefit of the river infrastructure, has added a Wednesday daytime opening period (11 a.m.&hyph;2 p.m.), 117.391(b)(1) during the Spring Breakout (April 15 through June 15). The Wednesday daytime opening will give recreational boaters the opportunity to transit through the Chicago River System during daylight during the week. Also, the Wednesday daytime opening will give the mariner the alternative to transit the river during the week if a scheduled daytime trip on Saturday or Sunday is delayed or postponed due to a special event bridge closure, bridge failure, or bad weather. One of the primary concerns of this rulemaking is the regulation on the draws during the Spring Breakout period, from April 15 through June 15. The Coast Guard has determined that delay in implementing this rule would be contrary to the public interest, and that good cause exists to make this rule effective in fewer than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . In order that the new regulations be fully implemented during the 1994 Spring Breakout, this rule is being made effective on April 18, 1994. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not major under Executive Order 12886 and not significant under the Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a Regulatory Evaluation is unnecessary. This change to the operating regulations for bridges over the Chicago River System allows recreational vessels to navigate the Chicago River System during the times specified by these regulations, after having given an advance notice to the City of Chicago. Small Entities This rule will provide boaters with adequate windows of time to transit to and from their respective boatyards while providing the City of Chicago with relief during times when there is more than normal activity in the City. Therefore, the Coast Guard certifies under 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) that this proposal will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This proposal contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this final rule under the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
