FR940721-2-00152 FR940721-2-00086 Economic Development •Establishment or expansion of businesses and jobs in areas such as tourism, specialty agriculture, light and/or heavy manufacturing, construction, housing and fisheries or aquaculture; •Stabilizing and diversifying a Native community's economic base through business development ventures; •Creation of microenterprises or private sector development; and •Establishment or expansion of businesses and jobs that utilize Indian tax incentives passed in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. Social Development •Enhancing tribal capabilities to design or administer programs aimed at strengthening the social environment desired by the local community; •Developing local and intertribal models related to comprehensive planning and delivery of services; •Developing programs or activities to preserve and enhance tribal heritage and culture; and •Establishing programs which involve extended families or tribal societies in activities that strengthen cultural identity and promote community development or self-esteem. D. Eligible Applicants Current ANA SEDS grantees whose project period terminates in fiscal year 1995 (October 1, 1994&hyph;September 30, 1995) are eligible to apply for a grant award under this program announcement. (The Project Period is noted in Block 9 of the ``Financial Assistance Award'' document). Additionally, provided they are not current ANA SEDS grantees, the following organizations are eligible to apply under this competitive area: •Federally recognized Indian Tribes (as listed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in an October 21, 1993 Federal Register notice, 58 Fed. Reg. 54. 364(1993)); •Consortia of Indian Tribes; •Incorporated non-Federally recognized Tribes; •Incorporated nonprofit multi-purpose community-based Indian organizations; •Urban Indian Centers; •National or regional incorporated nonprofit Native American organizations with Native American community-specific objectives; •Alaska Native villages as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) and/or nonprofit village consortia; •Incorporated nonprofit Alaska Native multi-purpose community-based organizations; •Nonprofit Alaska Native Regional Corporations/Associations in Alaska with village specific projects; •Nonprofit Native organizations in Alaska with village specific projects; •Public and nonprofit private agencies in Hawaii serving Native Hawaiians; •Public and nonprofit private agencies serving native peoples from Guam, American Samoa, Palau, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. (These agencies may be located on these islands or in the United States); and •Tribally Controlled Community Colleges, Tribally Controlled Post-Secondary Vocational Institutions, and colleges and universities located in Hawaii, Guam, American Samoa, Palau, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands which serve Native American Pacific Islanders. Proof of an applicant's nonprofit status, such as an IRS determination of nonprofit status under IRS Code 501(c)(3), must be included in the application. Under each competitive area, ANA will only accept one application which serves or impacts a reservation. If a Tribe chooses not to submit an application under a specific competitive area, it may support another applicant's project (e.g., a tribal organization) which serves or impacts the reservation. In this case, the applicant must include a Tribal resolution which clearly demonstrates the Tribe's support of the project and the Tribe's understanding that the other applicant's project supplants the Tribe's authority to submit an application under that specific competitive area for the duration of the approved grant period.
