FR940719-2-00102 FR940719-2-00062 A1␣Circumstances That Make The Collection of Information Necessary The statutory language establishing the MTO demonstration specifies that HUD must report to Congress on the progress of the demonstration and the status of participants. 4 Topics that are to be covered include: a comparison of the costs associated with implementing the MTO program (including the costs of counseling, supportive services, and housing assistance payments) with the costs of routine implementation of the Section 8 program; the number of persons served; the level of counseling and services provided under MTO; and updates on the employment records of families assisted under the program. The legislation also directs HUD to provide any other information that may be necessary in evaluating the demonstration. 4 See Title I, Subtitle C, Section 152 (d)(1) and (2), Housing and Community Development Act of 1992. A final report to Congress is due in 2004. At that time, HUD is required to: (1) Report on the long-term housing, employment, and educational achievements of the families assisted under the demonstration; and (2) assess such achievements for a comparable population of Section 8 recipients not assisted under MTO. 5 5 This request for OMB clearance focuses on the data collection forms used for the initial reporting and monitoring of the demonstration. With the exception of the Participant Baseline Survey, this request does not include data collection materials required for the long-term impact evaluation. Request for clearance of the remaining evaluation instruments will be made by HUD at a later date. The MTO demonstration builds on several existing efforts designed to reduce racial segregation in publicly assisted housing and increase the mobility of families receiving Section 8 assistance. 6 Court-ordered programs in Chicago and Cincinnati, and a voluntary program in Hartford, Connecticut, have been the subject of recent studies. 7 These studies suggest that a combination of Section 8 and housing counseling assistance can facilitate the movement of low- income families to areas of low minority concentration or low poverty, and ultimately increase their educational and employment opportunities. 6 While there has been no extensive research on where recipients of Section 8 assistance move, it is conventional wisdom that they tend to stay in their current neighborhoods or move to areas substantially similar in economic and racial composition. In particular, it is believed that these households tend to stay in neighborhoods with concentrations of the poor, and that those who are members of racial minorities tend to stay in racially concentrated neighborhoods. 7 See, among others: Mary Davis, ``The Gautreaux Assisted Housing Program,'' in Housing Markets and Residential Mobility, G. Thomas Kingsley and M. Turner, eds. (Washington, DC: The Urban Institute Press, 1993), pp. 243&hyph;253; Paul B. Fischer, ``Is Housing Mobility an Effective Anti-Poverty Strategy? An Examination of the Cincinnati Experience'' (Cincinnati, OH: The Stephen H. Wilder Foundation, 1991); Shaun Donovan, ``Moving to the Suburbs: Section 8 Mobility and Portability in Hartford,'' unpublished Harvard University paper (May 1993). A study of the Gautreaux program in Chicago by James Rosenbaum of Northwestern University has received much recent attention. 8 Rosenbaum studied the mothers and children of families who moved to suburban locations under the Gautreaux program, comparing their educational and employment status with those who moved to other in-city locations. He found that outcomes for adult suburban movers were very positive in terms of employment; suburban movers were 25 percent more likely than city movers to have a job after the move. Among the children of Gautreaux families, he found that children in suburban locations had higher satisfaction with teachers and better attitudes about schools. He also found that high school drop-out rates were much lower for suburban children_5 percent compared with 20 percent among those in city neighborhoods. It should be noted that Rosenbaum's work has been criticized for serious methodological problems. One of the most serious criticisms is that Rosenbaum's reference group was not a strict control group since it consisted of other Gautreaux participants placed in units within the City of Chicago. Thus, the selection of a suburban and urban location was partly voluntary rather than a matter of random assignment. 8 James E. Rosenbaum, Nancy Fishman, Alison Brett, and Particia Meaden. ``Can the Kerner Commission's Housing Strategy Improve Employment, Education, and Social Integration for Low-Income Blacks?''' North Carolina Law Review. 71 (June) 1993:1519&hyph;1556. The MTO demonstration differs from its predecessor programs in a number of ways. First, while the Gautreaux and Cincinnati programs focus on moving families to areas with low minority concentrations, MTO focuses on moving its participants to areas of low poverty. MTO participants must move to low-poverty census tracts (defined as tracts where fewer than 10 percent of the people had incomes below the poverty level in 1989, as measured by the 1990 Census). Second, the MTO demonstration is designed to serve a broad range of families, including those who may have difficulty making moves, notably larger families and those without automobiles. Third, the Section 8 certificates and vouchers will be allocated to the central city PHAs for the MTO demonstration; in other mobility programs, Section 8 assistance has been administered by the organizations that provide housing counseling services. The MTO demonstration requires collaboration between a PHA, to administer the Section 8 assistance, and a nonprofit agency to provide housing counseling, assist families in finding units, and work to develop landlord support for the program. Finally, to overcome the methodological problems associated with other research on mobility programs, HUD has embedded a randomized experiment in the MTO demonstration. Applicants for the program will be assigned randomly to one of three groups: •An experimental group, which will receive a Section 8 certificate or voucher plus special counseling and search assistance in order to locate and move to housing only in low-poverty areas;
