FR941212-0-00084 FR941212-0-00019 (4) Except when they arise in countries for which single-service responsibility is assigned in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, single-service claims responsibility for claims involving, or generated by the U.S. Central Command or units assigned or attached thereto, is assigned to the Department of the Air Force. The addresses of United States sending State offices and single-service offices are contained in DA Pam 27&hyph;162, figure 7&hyph;1. (c) When claims responsibility has not been assigned. On an interim basis prior to receiving confirmation and approval from the appropriate office in DOD, the appropriate unified commander may, when necessary to implement contingency plans, assign single-service responsibility for processing claims in countries where such assignment has not already been made. §536.12 Cross-servicing of claims (DODD 5515.3). (a) Where another military department has single-service claims responsibility. Claims, claims by and against the United States resulting from Army activities or caused by members or employees of the DA in a country where another department has been assigned single-service claims responsibility will be investigated by the Army and referred to that department for settlement. (b) Where claims responsibility has not been assigned. Claims, claims cognizable under the FCA or the MCA generated by another military department in a foreign country where single-service claims responsibility has not been assigned may, upon request of the department concerned, be settled by the Army. Conversely, Army claims may, in appropriate cases, be referred to another department for settlement. (c) Claims generated by the Coast Guard. Claims resulting from activities, or generated by members or employees, of the Coast Guard while operating as a service of the Department of Transportation may, upon request, be settled under this part by a foreign claims commission appointed as authorized herein, but will be paid from appropriations of the Coast Guard (10 U.S.C. 2734(g) and 2734a(c)). Subpart B_Investigation and Processing of Claims Investigation §536.13 Importance of the claims investigation. Because evidence developed during an investigation provides the basis for every subsequent step in the administrative settlement of a claim or the defense of a lawsuit, a prompt and thorough investigation will be conducted on all potential and actual claims for or against the government. Adverse as well as favorable information must be collected and recorded and the legal and factual findings of the claims JA/attorney must be preserved in the format specified in §536.22. §536.14 Reasons for investigation. (a) The investigation is performed to ascertain the facts of an incident. Which facts are relevant will often depend on the law and regulations applicable to the conduct of the parties involved, but as general guidance, the investigation should develop definitive answers to such questions as ``When,'' ``Where,'' ``Who,'' ``What,'' and ``How.'' Generally, the time, place, persons, and circumstances involved in an incident may be established by a simple report, but the cause and the resulting damage may require extensive effort to obtain all the pertinent facts. (b) The object of the investigation is to gather, with the least possible delay, the best available evidence without accumulating excessive evidence concerning any particular fact. The claimant is often an excellent source of such information and should be contacted early in the investigation. The investigative file should include medical records, witness interviews, photographs, and expert opinions. §536.15 Immediate investigation requirement. (a) Immediate investigation of an incident is required when_ (1) Property other than Government property is damaged, lost, or destroyed. Damage resulting directly or indirectly from combat need only be investigated to the extent necessary to confirm that the combat exclusion of the appropriate statute is applicable. (2) Government property is damaged, lost, or destroyed under circumstances that may give rise to a claim in favor of the Government under subpart N. (3) The incident results in injury to or death of, any civilian other than to a civilian of the Army while in performance of duty an employee of the United States or its instrumentalities while acting within the scope of their employment. For deaths or injuries resulting directly or indirectly from combat activities of our forces, the investigation merely has to develop sufficient information to verify that the combat exception of the appropriate claims statute is applicable. (4) A claim is made. (5) Investigation is requested by another armed service of the United States. (6) A member of the uniformed services, a dependent, or any other person who is eligible for medical care at Army medical treatment facilities is injured under circumstances that permit recovery of the cost of hospital and medical care under subpart N. (7) An incident occurs in CONUS involving foreign nationals who are members of a foreign military force or civilian components of parties to the Agreement Regarding the Status of Forces of Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty, resulting in personal injury, death, or property damage (subpart G). (8) A patient, other than potential claimants excluded by §536.51(j), §536.75(r) through (t) and §536.95, while under treatment by the Army Medical Service, dies, is injured, or otherwise disabled physically, mentally, or emotionally due to_ (i) A medical or surgical accident; or
