FR940406-2-00153 FR940406-2-00090 F. Application Selection Timeframe The Department will complete its review and selection process within 60 days of the deadline date for intermediaries. Once intermediaries are selected and agreements are executed, intermediaries will have 30 days to make grant funds available to eligible technical assistance applicants. Grants from technical assistance applicants will be accepted on a rolling basis by the intermediaries administering such grants. G. Intermediary Information The Department will publish in the Federal Register the list of selected Intermediaries within 30 days of the date that the Department's intermediary selection process is completed. That publication will include information for potential technical assistance applicants on how to obtain application kits and will list contact names at the Intermediary organizations selected to administer the grants. VI. Other Matters Environmental Impact In accordance with 40 CFR 1508.4 of the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality and 24 CFR 50.20(b) of the HUD regulations, the policies and procedures contained in this notice relate only to technical assistance and, therefore, are categorically excluded from the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act. Federalism Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that the policies contained in this notice will not have substantial direct effects on States or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the federal government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. As a result, the notice is not subject to review under the Order. Specifically, the funds available under this NOFA will be used to select intermediaries that will administer technical assistance grants to eligible recipients. The grants to eligible recipients will be for technical assistance activities related to the preservation of low-income housing. Family Executive Order The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive order 12606, The Family, has determined that this notice does not have potential for significant impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being, and, thus, is not subject to review under the Order. No significant change in existing HUD policies or programs will result from promulgation of this notice, as those policies and programs relate to family concerns. Section 102 of the HUD Reform Act: Documentation and Public Access Requirements; Applicant/Recipient Disclosures Documentation and Public Access Requirements HUD will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted pursuant to this NOFA are sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. This material, including any letters of support, will be made available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of the assistance. Material will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. In addition, HUD will include the recipients of assistance pursuant to this NOFA in its quarterly Federal Register notice of all recipients of HUD assistance awarded on a competitive basis. (See 24 CFR 12.14(a) and 12.16(b) for further information on these documentation and public access requirements.) Disclosures HUD will make available to the public for five years all applicant disclosure reports (HUD Form 2880) submitted in connection with this NOFA. Update reports (also Form 2880) will be made available along with the applicant disclosure reports, but in no case for a period generally less than three years. All reports_both applicant disclosures and updates_will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. (See 24 CFR part 12, subpart C, for further information on these disclosure requirements.) Section 103␣HUD Reform Act HUD's regulation (24 CFR part 4) implementing section 103 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3537a) (Reform Act) applies to the funding competition announced today. The requirements of the rule continue to apply until the announcement of selection of successful applicants. Both HUD and intermediary employees involved in the review of applications and in the making of funding decisions are limited by 24 CFR part 4 from providing advance information to any person (other than an authorized employee of HUD) concerning funding decisions, or from otherwise giving any applicant an unfair competitive advantage. Persons who apply for assistance in this competition should confine their inquiries to the subject areas permitted under 24 CFR part 4. Applicants who have questions should contact the HUD Office of Ethics (202) 708&hyph;3815 (voice/TDD). (This is not a toll-free number.) The Office of Ethics can provide information of a general nature, as well. However, a HUD employee who has specific program questions, such as whether particular subject matter can be discussed with persons outside the Department, should contact his or her Regional or Field Office Counsel, or Headquarters counsel for the program to which the question pertains.
