FR941005-1-00027 FR941005-1-00005 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Customs Service 19 CFR Parts 101 and 122 Establishment of New Port_Rockford, IL AGENCY: U.S. Customs Service, Treasury. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This document proposes to amend the Customs Regulations pertaining to Customs field organization by establishing a new port of entry in the Customs District of Chicago, Illinois, North Central Region. The new port of entry would be designated as Rockford, Illinois and would include Greater Rockford Airport, which is currently operated as a user-fee airport. This change will assist the Customs Service in its continuing efforts to achieve more efficient use of its personnel, facilities, and resources, and to provide better service to carriers, importers, and the general public. DATES: Comments must be received on or before December 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments (preferably in triplicate) may be addressed to the Regulations Branch, Office of Regulations and Rulings, U. S. Customs Service, 1301 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, D. C. 20229. Comments submitted may be inspected at the Regulations Branch, Office of Regulations and Rulings, Franklin Court, 1099 14th Street, Suite 4000, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Brad Lund, Office of Inspection and Control, (202) 927&hyph;0540. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background To achieve more efficient use of its personnel, facilities, and resources, and in order to provide better service to carriers, importers and the public in the North Central Region, Customs proposes to amend ยง122.15, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 122.15), by removing Greater Rockford Airport from the list of user-fee airports and ยง101.3, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 101.3) to add Rockford, Illinois, as a port of entry. The new port would be designated as Rockford, Illinois and would include Greater Rockford Airport. The criteria used by Customs in determining whether to establish a port of entry are found in T. D. 82&hyph;37 (47 FR 10137), as revised by T. D. 86&hyph;14 (51 FR 4559) and T. D. 87&hyph;65 (52 FR 16328). Under these criteria, a community requesting a port of entry designation must: (1) Demonstrate that the benefits to be derived justify the Federal Government expense involved; (2) Be serviced by at least two major modes of transportation (rail, air, water or highway); (3) Have a minimum population of 300,000 within the immediate service area (approximately a 70 mile radius); and (4) Make a commitment to make optimal use of electronic data transfer capabilities to permit integration with Customs Automated Commercial System (ACS), which provides a means for electronic processing of entries of imported merchandise. Further, the actual or potential Customs workload (minimum number of transactions per year) at the proposed port of entry must meet one of several alternative minimum requirements, one of which is the condition that no more than half of the required 2,500 consumption entries can be attributable to one private party. Lastly, facilities at the proposed port of entry must include cargo and passenger facilities, warehousing space for the secure storage of imported cargo pending final Customs inspection and release, and administrative office space, inspection areas, storage areas and other space necessary for regulatory Customs operations. The proposal set forth in this document originated as a request from the Rockford Airport Authority that Rockford, Illinois be designated as a port of entry. With regard to the above criteria, the Rockford Airport Authority has stated that the Federal Government would benefit from the port of entry designation because Rockford, Illinois would thus be available to share the workload presently handled at the port of entry at Chicago, Illinois. According to a memorandum from the Regional Commissioner, North Central Region, in addition to the airport, Rockford has two other transportation modes, rail and highway. According to the Rockford Chamber of Commerce, the 1990 census figures indicate that the population of the city of Rockford is 139,426 and that of the Rockford metropolitan area is stated to be 283,719. A 70 mile radius would include several Illinois and Wisconsin cities and several northwestern suburbs of Chicago. Counting the communities within a 70 mile radius would bring the area population to well over 300,000. The number of formal Customs entries in fiscal year 1992 was 3539, with a representation that no more than 8.4% were attributable to one private party. Regarding electronic data transfer capability, the Greater Rockford Airport Authority is committed to making optimal use of electronic data transfer capability to permit integration with ACS. Lastly, according to the Regional Commissioner's office, since Greater Rockford Airport is currently a Customs user-fee airport, it already has a workload. It is likely that Rockford will continue to grow. The District Director at Chicago has verified that Rockford's entries for the year 1992 exceeded 2,500 formal entries, and the Regional Commissioner for the North Central Region has advised that Rockford appears to meet the criteria for port of entry status. Based on the above, Customs believes that there is sufficient justification for the establishment of the requested port of entry. Rockford, Illinois meets an appropriate combination of the workload criteria specified. Description of Port Entry Limits The geographical limits of the proposed Port of Rockford, Illinois, which would include the Greater Rockford Airport, would be as follows:
