FR940512-2-00182 FR940512-2-00078 (2) Applicant must assure that the facility used for housing, whether a shelter, host family home and/or supervised apartment, shall accommodate no more than 20 youth at any given time; shall have a sufficient number of staff to ensure on-site supervision at each shelter option that is not a family home including periodic, unannounced visits from project staff; and is in compliance with State and local licensing requirements. (3) Applicant must assure, if applicable, that the applicant meets the requirements of the RHY Act for the lease of surplus Federal facilities for use as transitional living shelter facilities. Each surplus Federal facility used for this purpose must be made available for a period not less than two years, and no rent or fee shall be charged to the applicant in connection with use of such a facility. Any structural modifications or additions to surplus Federal facilities become the property of the government of the United States. All such modifications or additions may be made only after receiving prior written consent from the appropriate Department of Health and Human Services official. b. Services (1) Applicant must include a description of the core services to be provided. The description must include the purpose and concept of the service, its role in both the overall program design and the individual client TLP plan. The services to be provided must include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: (a) Basic life skills information and counseling, including budgeting, money management, use of credit, housekeeping, menu planning and food preparation, consumer education, leisure-time activities, transportation, and obtaining vital documents (Social Security card, birth certificate). (b) Interpersonal skill building, such as developing positive relationships with peers and adults, effective communication, decision making, and stress management. (c) Educational advancement, such as GED preparation and attainment, post-secondary training (college, technical school, military, etc.), and vocational education. (d) Job preparation and attainment, such as career counseling, job preparation training, dress and grooming, job placement and job maintenance. (e) Mental health care, such as counseling (individual and group), drug abuse education, prevention and referral services, and mental health counseling. (f) Physical health care, such as routine physicals, health assessments, family planning/parenting skills, and emergency treatment. (g) The substantive participation of youth in the assessment and implementation of their needs, including the development and implementation of the individual transitional living plan and in decisions about the services to be received. The applicant must specifically describe programmatic efforts planned and/or implemented to encourage awareness of and sensitivity to the particular needs of runaway and homeless youth who are members of ethnic and racial minority groups and/or who are street youth. c. Administration (1) Applicant must describe the procedures to be employed in the development, implementation and monitoring of an individualized, written transitional living plan for each program client which addresses the provision of services, and is appropriate to the individual needs of the client.
