FR940719-0-00055 FR940719-0-00018 §2.22 Regional Offices. (a) Mission. The Regional Offices implement FEMA's policies and programs at the regional level. (b) Functions. The principal functions of the Regional Offices are: (1) Liaison, within the regions, with other Federal agencies, State and local governments, voluntary and other private organizations, and the public; (2) Recommendations to the Director on implementation of policy and improvement of the administration of FEMA's programs; (3) Administration of Comprehensive Cooperative Agreements, grants, and other financial assistance to State and local governments; (4) Response to disasters and emergencies declared under the Stafford Act, through Regional Response Teams; (5) Recovery activities under the Stafford Act; (6) Implementation of floodplain management aspects of the National Flood Insurance Program; (7) Management of training and field exercises; and (8) Technical assistance to Federal agencies, State and local governments, and voluntary and other private organizations regarding emergency response planning, preparedness, mitigation, response, and recovery. (c) Delegated authorities. In general, Regional Directors are authorized, within their respective regions, to exercise the duties and powers of the Administrators and Associate Directors as set forth in §§2.32 through 2.44. However, the authorities of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7701 et seq., are not delegated to Regional Directors (except for the authority of 42 U.S.C. 7704(b)(2)(A)(i), which is delegated). In addition, the authorities of the Federal Insurance Administrator as set forth in §2.31 are not delegated to the Regional Directors. Administrations §2.31 Federal Insurance Administration. (a) Mission. The Federal Insurance Administration markets, issues, and services insurance policies under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and the Federal Crime Insurance Program (FCIP), with assistance from private insurance companies and servicing contractors. (b) Functions. The principal functions of the Federal Insurance Administration are: (1) Establishment of regulations, policy guidelines, standard contracts of insurance, and insurance rates for the NFIP and FCIP; (2) Establishment of policy, plans, and procedures for evaluation, payment, and review of insurance claims; (3) Oversight of servicing contracts for the NFIP and FCIP and the issuance and servicing of flood insurance policies by Write-Your-Own (WYO) carriers; (4) Studies of the costs and feasibility of proposed extensions of the National Flood Insurance Program or of the proposed establishment of Federal insurance programs for other natural hazards; and (5) Administration of the National Flood Insurance Fund and National Insurance Development Fund. (c) Delegated authorities. The Federal Insurance Administrator is authorized to exercise the duties and powers of the Director as set forth in Section 1&hyph;104 of E.O. 12127 insofar as it pertains to the marketing, issuance, and servicing of insurance under the NFIP and FCIP. §2.32 United States Fire Administration. (a) Mission. The United States Fire Administration works to reduce deaths, injuries, and property loss caused by fires in the United States. (b) Functions. The principal functions of the United States Fire Administration are: (1) Education of the public about fire problems and high fire risk behaviors; (2) Providing training and technical assistance to fire and emergency services providers in incident response, mitigation and management; (3) Collection and analysis of fire incident information; (4) Investigation of technologies, equipment, and strategies for fire and emergency services providers; (5) Coordination with State and local fire and emergency agencies concerning arson investigation and mitigation, use of building and fire codes, fire protection and multi-agency cooperation; and (6) Management and operation of the National Emergency Training Center, Emmitsburg, Maryland. (c) Delegated authorities. The United States Fire Administrator is authorized to exercise the duties and powers of the Director as set forth in Section 1&hyph;103 of E.O. 12127. Directorates §2.41 Mitigation Directorate. (a) Mission. The Mitigation Directorate administers programs to reduce or eliminate loss of life and property from natural and technological hazards. (b) Functions. The principal functions of the Mitigation Directorate are: (1) Identifying and assessing the risks posed by natural and technological hazards, except that, on issues of technological risk assessment, FEMA will defer to the Agency having primary responsibility in the specific area, notably the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) regarding accidents at commercial nuclear power plants, and the United States Army regarding chemical weapons;
