FR941110-1-00092 FR941110-1-00011 To deter the import of virgin or off-spec virgin controlled substances that are mislabelled as reclaimed, EPA is proposing that importers identify, at the point of entry into U.S. jurisdiction, the name and address of the overseas reclamation facility to verify that the substance was indeed previously used and reclaimed. There are a limited number of reclamation facilities for controlled substances worldwide, and as a Party to the Protocol, the United States can identify those Parties capable of reclamation. Through the continued cooperation with U.S. Customs, EPA plans to develop coordinated procedures for reviewing import documents at the point of entry into U.S. Customs territory that will identify controlled substances suspected of being mislabelled virgin or off-spec virgin entering the U.S. as used, recycled or reclaimed. The specific reporting requirements (in addition to any recordkeeping requirements that may be established under Section B. of this preamble) that EPA is proposing, which would accompany the bill of lading and the bill of sale for the import of used, recycled or reclaimed controlled substances, are: (i) For imports of used or recycled controlled substance, the previous use of each substance, and the intended reclamation destination of the controlled substances in the United States, or (ii) For imports of reclaimed controlled substances, the country of origin of the used controlled substance, and the foreign reclamation facility (reclamation equipment used) where the substance was reclaimed. d. Reporting and recordkeeping for article 5 exports. The current regulation asks producers to report quarterly on the amount of potential production allowances that are converted to production allowances and the amount of unexpended potential production allowances. Today's proposal changes the name of potential production allowances to Article 5 allowances but does not change the reporting requirements. Instead of requiring the quarterly reporting of converted and unexpended potential production allowances, today's proposal requires the producer to indicate the amount of Article 5 allowances expended quarterly in production for export to Article 5 countries. Today's proposed amendments to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements are made to anticipate the phaseout of class I controlled substances (except methyl bromide) in January 1, 1996. EPA proposes simplifying the quarterly reporting beginning January 1, 1996, so that producers indicate which of the production exceptions applies (i.e., essential-use allowances, Article 5 allowances, destruction credits, transformation credits, transformation or destruction) for a given quantity of controlled substance. EPA is proposing many of the changes to the requirements to address issues and concerns raised by industry regarding the maintenance of a transparent and openly competitive market in controlled substances during the transition to the phaseout. EPA requests comments on today's proposed amendments to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements. III. Summary of Supporting Analysis A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether this regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant'' regulatory action as one that is likely to lead to a rule that may: (1) have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely and materially affect a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. It has been determined by OMB and EPA that this proposed amendment to the final rule is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under the terms of Executive Order 12866 and is therefore not subject to OMB review under the Executive Order. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;602, requires that Federal agencies examine the impacts of their regulations on small entities. Under 5 U.S.C. 604(a), whenever an agency is required to publish a general notice of proposed rulemaking, it must prepare and make available for public comment an initial regulatory flexibility analysis (RFA). Such an analysis is not required if the head of an agency certifies that a rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b). The Agency originally published an RFA to accompany the August 12, 1998 final rule (53 FR 30566) that placed the initial limits on the production and consumption of CFCs and halons. That RFA was also updated as Appendix G of the Regulatory Impact Analysis for the regulations implementing the phaseout schedule of section 604 of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. The Addendum to the Regulatory Impact Analysis was further updated in 1993 to examine the impact of the acceleration of the phaseout and the phaseout of HCFCs on small businesses. The analysis in the Addendum indicated that the actions were not expected to have a substantial impact on small entities. Today's proposed amendments to the current regulation do not significantly change the current requirements, and in many cases reduce reporting or recordkeeping burdens that might possibly impact small businesses. However, almost all businesses participating in the phaseout program for ozone-depleting substances are large companies. Therefore, today's proposed amendments are expected to have minimal if any impact on small entities. Under section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605, I certify that the regulation promulgated in this notice will not have any additional negative economic impacts on any small entities. C. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements in this proposed rule have been submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act , 44 U.S.C. 3501 et. seq. An Information Collection Request document has been prepared by EPA (ICR No. 1432.15) and a copy may be obtained from Sandy Farmer, Information Policy Branch, U.S. EPA, 401 M St., SW., (2136), Washington, DC 20460 or by calling (202)&hyph;260&hyph;2740. The information collection requirements for this proposed action has an estimated reporting burden averaging 23.3 hours per response. This estimate includes time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed and completing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate of any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden to Chief, Information Policy Branch, U.S. EPA, 401 M St., SW., (2316), Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.'' The final rule will respond to any OMB or public comments on the information collection requirements contained in this proposal. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 82 Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution control, Chemicals, Chlorofluorocarbons, Exports, Hydrochlorofluorocarbons, Imports, Ozone layer, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Stratospheric ozone layer. Dated: October 25, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
