FR941025-0-00022 FR941025-0-00005 Several commenters also suggest that the installation of an additional safety feature, in addition to the fact that no failures of the system have occurred, should allow tests at ``C'' check intervals. Another commenter states that accomplishment of the tests at ``2B'' check intervals (or 1,100 hours time-in-service) would be more appropriate. One of these commenters states that a trial test period of the installation by several airlines would be in order. The FAA has reconsidered the compliance time specified in paragraph (d) of the proposal [identified in paragraph (e) of the final rule] for accomplishment of an initial operational test, as well as the interval specified for accomplishment of repetitive operational tests. In light of the safety implications of the unsafe condition addressed and the practical aspects of accomplishing orderly operational tests of the fleet during regularly scheduled maintenance where special equipment and trained maintenance personnel will be readily available, the FAA finds that the compliance times specified in paragraph (e) of the AD may be extended without compromising safety. The FAA has determined that an interval of 4,000 hours time-in-service corresponds more closely to the interval at which most of the affected operators conduct regularly scheduled ``C'' checks. Therefore, paragraph (e) of the final rule has been revised to require accomplishment of the initial test within 4,000 hours time-in-service and accomplishment of repetitive tests at intervals not to exceed 4,000 hours time-in-service. One commenter requests that the FAA review the requirement for periodic operational tests specified in paragraph (d) of the proposal because these tests only address a sync-lock failing in the unlocked state. The commenter states that the sync-lock will be totally transparent to the flight crew. Therefore, if a sync-lock fails in the ``locked'' state, the only indication the flight crew will receive is that when reverse thrust is applied, the reverser handles will be stopped by the interlock system and not allowed to move into reverse thrust. The FAA considers that the operational tests required by paragraph (d) of this AD are adequate to address both the unlocked state and the locked state. The design of the sync-lock is fail-safe in the locked state; its failure in that state during flight would not result in deployment of a thrust reverser. In addition, failure of a sync-lock in the locked state during landing of the airplane does not present an unsafe condition. The airplane can be stopped within the distance specified in the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) without the use of thrust reversers. The stopping distance specified in the AFM does not take credit for the additional stopping capabilities of the thrust reverser. Three commenters request revisions to the compliance times specified in paragraph (a) of the proposal for accomplishment of initial and repetitive adjustments and tests of the thrust reverser system. One of these commenters requests that the proposed 30-day compliance time for the initial adjustments and tests be extended to 60 days to accomplish these actions on all of the airplanes in its fleet. The commenter believes that a compliance time of 60 days is more appropriate in light of the fact that no major thrust reverser anomalies have been found. Two of these commenters request that the proposed compliance time for accomplishment of the repetitive adjustments and tests specified in paragraph (a) of the proposal be revised to ``3,000 hours time-in-service, or at each `C' check, whichever occurs later.'' One of the commenters believes that the compliance interval specified in the proposal is overly restrictive, and that the suggested revision would allow for accomplishment of testing and repairs at a time that coincides with regularly scheduled maintenance. The FAA concurs with these commenters' requests to revise the compliance times for the initial and repetitive adjustments and tests required by paragraph (a) of the final rule. The FAA's intent was that these adjustments and tests be conducted during a regularly scheduled maintenance visit for the majority of the affected fleet, when the airplanes would be located at a base where special equipment and trained personnel would be readily available, if necessary. In light of this consideration, the FAA has determined that an extension of the compliance time for the initial adjustments and tests to 60 days, and an extension of the repetitive interval to 4,000 hours time-in-service, will not affect safety adversely. Paragraph (a) of the final rule has been revised accordingly. Several commenters question the references to certain pages of the Boeing 737 Maintenance Manual cited in paragraphs (a) and (d) of the proposal. ATA requests that a statement be added to those paragraphs to allow operators to use later versions of the Maintenance Manual, provided that no substantive change is included in those later versions. One commenter points out that since certain Maintenance Manual pages referenced in the proposal have already been revised, operators must seek approval from the FAA for an alternative method of compliance in order to deviate from the Maintenance Manual pages cited in the AD. One commenter mentions that the Maintenance Manual page numbers cited in paragraph (d) of the proposal do not exist. Two commenters state that the specific Maintenance Manual pages referenced in the proposal include a number of tests that are redundant and unnecessary. One commenter states that the tests specified in paragraph (a) are normally performed after component replacement or after a system error has occurred. The commenter indicates that performing the ``Normal Operation Test'' and the ``Auto-Restow Test,'' in addition to using the thrust reverser during normal flight operations, will satisfy all testing requirements for the thrust reverser. Boeing requests specifically that the proposal be revised to include copies of the procedures for the required tests so that reference to the Maintenance Manual is not necessary. Boeing explains that the Maintenance Manuals are customized for each operator to reflect all of the equipment in that operator's fleet. Therefore, the number of pages for any given procedure is variable, depending on the number of different equipment configurations documented in an operator's Maintenance Manual. Boeing also indicates that Maintenance Manual procedures are revised periodically for non-technical reasons. Boeing adds that changes to the structure of the procedures are necessary to accommodate an upgrade of the publishing system that is currently under way, which, in addition to repagination, will necessitate the issuance of revised Maintenance Manual pages.
