FR940713-2-00047 FR940713-2-00032 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION Public Information Collection Requirement Submitted to Office of Management and Budget for Review July 11, 1994. The Federal Communications Commission has submitted the following information collection requirement to OMB for review and clearance under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3507). Copies of this submission may be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, Inc., 2100 M Street, NW., Suite 140, Washington, DC 20037, (202) 857&hyph;3800. For further information on this submission contact Judy Boley, Federal Communications Commission, (202) 632&hyph;0276. Persons wishing to comment on this information collection should contact Timothy Fain, Office of Management and Budget, Room 10236 NEOB, Washington, DC 20503, (202) 395&hyph;3561. Note: The Commission requested expedited review of this item by July 11, 1994, under the provisions of 5 CFR 1320.18. OMB Number: None. Title: Voluntary Customer Survey for Private Land Mobile Radio Users. Action: New collection. Respondents: Individuals or households, state or local governments, federal agencies or employers, non-profit institutions, and businesses or other for-profit (including small businesses). Frequency of Response: One time survey. Estimated Annual Burden: 30 responses; 2 hours average burden per response; 60 hours total annual burden. Needs and Uses: The FCC will conduct a voluntary customer survey to improve customer service to Private Land Mobile Radio applicants and licensees. The FCC will conduct focus groups as well as administering written questionnaires. Focus groups will provide the Commission with preliminary data which will be used to develop questions for the written questionnaire. Licensees, frequency coordinators, law firms, vendors, and license groups from the Metropolitan area will be invited to participate in the focus groups. Three two-hour focus groups will be conducted whereby participants will be asked nine open-ended questions. Participants will respond verbally. Participants will not be given these questions in advance. Out-of-pocket expenses that result from focus group participation will not be reimbursed. During the focus groups, data will be gathered on (1) problems, (2) suggestions to improve services, (3) services customers would like, and (4) services customers do not want. This data will be used to develop customer service standards. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. Language for Customer Segment Hello, my name is XXXXXX and I am calling from the FCC. The Federal Communications Commission is conducting a survey of their customers to determine the kind and quality of services they want and their level of satisfaction with existing services. You've been identified as having recently been through the FCC's licensure application process. Is this correct? (If yes, continue, if no, indicate we are only looking for people who have been through the licensure process and thank them for their time.) As a customer of the Private Radio Bureau within the FCC, we would like to share your comments and ideas at a focus group. We are inviting various types of customers, like yourself, that have recently gone through the licensure process at FCC. We've hired the consulting firm of Booz, Allen & Hamilton to conduct these focus groups. We hope that you will come and comment on the experiences you have had while obtaining a license from the FCC and to describe the kind of quality of services you need from the Private Radio Bureau. We will use the results of the focus groups to set customer service standards and to develop a customer service plan. We will be holding the focus groups at the Booz, Allen & Hamilton offices in Bethesda, MD on the following dates XXXX . During the focus groups, you will be asked a series of questions relating to the licensure application process at the FCC, your particular experiences with the FCC and what types of improvements you would recommend. We expect the focus groups to last approximately two hours. Will you be able to attend? Which date is best for you? We will send you a confirmation letter that includes directions to the Booz, Allen & Hamilton offices. Thank you for your time. We look forward to hearing your suggestions. June XXX , 1994. ␣Dear Thank you for agreeing to participate in the FCC Customer Service Focus Group to be held on July XXX , 1994. As we mentioned during our phone call, FCC is conducting a survey of their customers to determine the kind and quality of services they need and their level of satisfaction with existing services. We have hired the consulting firm of Booz, Allen & Hamilton to conduct the focus groups. The focus group will begin at XXX at the Booz, Allen & Hamilton offices located at 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland. We have enclosed directions for your convenience. Please go to the North tower of East-West Towers and report to the receptionist located on the 10th floor. We look forward to hearing your suggestions. ␣␣␣Sincerely, Focus Groups Questions for Five PRB Customer Groups (Licensees, Frequency Coordinators, Law Firms, Vendors, and Licensee Representatives) Introduction Why FCC is surveying customers: _National Performance Review _Executive Order # 12862 _Align services with customer needs What this surveying entails: _Talking with customers directly to assess their customer service needs _Obtaining customer evaluation of current FCC services provided _Developing customer service standards to ensure appropriate level of service to customers Question 1: What services have you required from the FCC? Question 2: During what points of the license application process did you interact directly with the FCC? Question 3: Which office at the FCC did you interact with? Question 4: What positive experiences have you had in your interactions with the FCC? Question 5: Have there been any issues or significant problems with the services provided to you by the FCC? If so, with what services? Question 6: How would you suggest the FCC improve their services? Question 7: What kinds of services should the FCC provide for you? Question 8: Do you currently have any need of services not currently provided by the FCC? Question 9: Does the FCC currently provide a service that is not particularly useful to you? Wrap-up of discussion and thank-you for participating. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17108 Filed 7&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
