FR940602-2-00061 FR940602-2-00038 (b) ``This result is not typical. You may not do as well.'' (c) ``This result is not typical. You may be less successful.'' (d) `` XXXX 's success is not typical. You may not do as well.'' (e) `` XXXX 's experience is not typical. You may achieve less.'' (f) ``Results not typical.'' (g) ``Results not typical of program participants.'' provided, further, that if the endorsements or testimonials covered by this paragraph are made in a broadcast medium, any disclosure required by this paragraph must be communicated in a clear and prominent manner, and in immediate conjunction with the representation that triggers the disclosure; provided, however, that: (i) For endorsements or testimonials about weight loss success, respondents can satisfy the requirements of subparagraph I.E. (1) by accurately disclosing the generally expected success in the following phrase: ``Doctors Medical Weight Loss Centers, Inc./Doctors Weight Loss Centers, Inc. participants lose an average of XXXX pounds over an average XXXX -week treatment period''; and (ii) If the weight loss success or weight loss maintenance success depicted in the advertisement is representative of what participants of a group or subset clearly defined in the advertisement generally achieve, then, in lieu of the disclosures required in either subparagraphs I.E. (1) or (2) herein, respondents may substitute a clear and prominent disclosure of the percentage of all of respondents' customers that the group or subset defined in the advertisement represents. F. Representing, directly or by implication, that the price at which any weight loss program can be purchased is the only cost associated with losing weight on that program, unless such is the case. G. Representing, directly or by implication, the price at which any weight loss program can be purchased, unless respondents disclose, clearly and prominently, either: (1) In close proximity to such representation, the existence and amount of all mandatory fees associated with the program offered; or (2) In immediate conjunction with such representation, one of the following statements: (a) ``Plus the cost of [list of products or services that participants must purchase at additional cost]''; or (b) ``Purchase of [list of products or services that participants must purchase at additional cost] required''; provided, further, that in broadcast media, if the representation that triggers any disclosure required by this paragraph is oral, the required disclosure must also be made orally. H. Failing to disclose over the telephone, for a period beginning with the date of any advertisement of the price at which any weight loss program can be purchased and ending no sooner than 180 days after the last dissemination of such advertisement, to consumers who inquire about the cost of any weight loss program, or are told about the cost of any weight loss program, the existence and amount of any and all mandatory costs or fees associated with participation in the program; provided, however, that respondents may satisfy this requirement by directing their weight loss centers to disclose the information, by providing the center personnel with suggested language to be used when responding to phone inquiries and by making their best efforts to ensure compliance with their directive to disclose price information over the telephone. I. Representing, directly or by implication, that prospective participants in respondents' weight loss programs will reach a specified weight within a specified time period, unless at the time of making such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence substantiating the representation. J. Representing, directly or by implication, the average or typical rate or speed at which any participant on any weight loss program has lost or will lose weight, unless at the time of making any such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. K. Failing to disclose, clearly and prominently, either (1) to each participant who, after the first two weeks on the program, is experiencing average weekly weight loss that exceeds two percent (2%) of said participant's initial body weight, or three pounds, whichever is less, for at least two consecutive weeks, or (2) in writing to all participants when they enter the program, that failure to follow the program protocol and eat all of the food recommended may involve the risk of developing serious health complications.
