FR940524-2-00132 FR940524-2-00068 3. Are proposed by non-profit organizations with the capacity, qualifications and staff necessary to undertake successfully the intended activities. In addition, priority consideration will be given to applications that: 4. Demonstrate the capability and intent of enlisting small and mid-sized U.S. firms as members of the consortium. 5. Provide a reasonable assurance that the proposed project can be continued on a self-sustained basis after expiration of the Federal award. 6. Present a reasonable and realistic, itemized budget for the proposed activities and reflect an appropriate balance between program support (e.g., establishing a commercial office in the NIS, providing export trade services to U.S. firms, conducting on-site conferences, seminars, etc.) and operational expenses (e.g., personnel salaries, consulting fees, domestic travel, overhead, etc.). Evaluation criteria factors 1 through 3 will be weighted equally and will take precedence over priority consideration factors 4 through 6. Priority consideration factors 4 through 6 will be weighted equally. The Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union share a demand for U.S. equipment, instrumentation, services, and technology (e.g., products, services and technology related to aerospace, agriculture, banking systems, defense conversion, distribution systems, energy [including mining and oil and gas fields], machine tools, and medical and pharmaceutical industries). Some NIS locations, however, demand products and services unique to their region (e.g., mining, oil and gas field equipment). Countries eligible for consideration are: Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Other Requirements: All applicants are advised of the following: 1. Delinquent Federal Debts: No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either the delinquent account is paid in full, a negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received, or other arrangements satisfactory to the Department of Commerce are made. 2. Primary Applicant Certifications: All primary Applicants must submit a completed Form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying,'' and the following explanations are hereby provided: Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension: Prospective participants (as defined at 15 CFR Part 26, Section 105) are subject to 15 CFR Part 26, ``Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement)'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies. Drug-Free Workplace: Grantees (as defined at 15 CFR Part 26, Section 605) are subject to 15 CFR Part 26, Subpart F, ``Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies. Anti-Lobbying: Persons (as defined at 15 CFR 28, Section 105) are subject to the lobbying provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1352, ``Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions,'' and the lobbying section of the certification form prescribed above applies to applications/bids for grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for more than $100,000, and loans and loan guarantees for more than $150,000, or the single family maximum mortgage limit for affected programs, whichever is greater; and Anti-Lobbying Disclosures: Any applicant that has paid or will pay for lobbying using any funds must submit an SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,'' as required under 15 CFR Part 28, Appendix B. 3. Lower Tier Certifications: Recipients shall require applicants/bidders for subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other lower tier covered transactions at any tier under the award to submit, if applicable, a completed Form CD&hyph;512, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying'' and disclosure form, SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.'' Form CD&hyph;512 is intended for the use of recipients and should not be transmitted to the Department of Commerce. SF&hyph;LLL submitted by any tier recipient or subrecipient should be submitted to the Department of Commerce in accordance with the instructions contained in the award document. 4. False Statements: A false statement on the application is grounds for denial or termination of funds and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001.
