FR941104-2-00071 FR941104-2-00039 Geological Survey Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC); Application Notice Establishing the Closing Date for Transmittal of Applications Under the FGDC National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI) Competitive Cooperative Agreements Program for Fiscal Year (FY) 1995 agency: U.S. Geological Survey, Interior. action: Notice inviting applications for competitive cooperative agreement awards for fiscal year 1995. summary: The purpose of the FGDC National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI) Competitive Cooperative Agreements Program is to facilitate and foster partnerships and alliances within and among various public and private entities to assist in building the NSDI. The NSDI consists of policies, standards, agreements, and partnerships among a variety of sectors and disciplines that will promote more cost-effective production, ready availability, and greater use of high quality geospatial data. The NSDI Competitive Cooperative Agreements Program is intended to encourage resource-sharing projects, between and among the public and private sector through the use of technology, networking, and enhanced interagency coordination efforts. Proposals must involve two or more organizations and participants are expected to cost share in the project. Activities initiated under this program will promote access to data sets that are needed for national, regional, state, and local analyses. Authority for this program is contained in the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1995. Applications may be submitted by State and local government agencies, educational institutions, private firms, private foundations, and Federally acknowledged or state-recognized Native American tribes or groups. dates: The program announcement and applications forms are expected to be available on or about November 15, 1994. Applications must be received on or before February 15, 1995. addresses: Copies of Program Announcement 8110 may be obtained by writing to Nedra Stallone, U.S. Geological Survey, Office of Procurement and Contracts, Mail Stop 205A, 12201 Sunrise Valley Drive, Reston, Virginia 22092, (703) 648&hyph;7364. for further information contact: Jennifer Snyder, FGDC, U.S. Geological Survey, 590 National Center, 12201 Sunrise Valley Drive, Reston, Virginia 22092; telephone number (703) 648&hyph;5514; facsimile (703) 648&hyph;5755. Internet ``gdc@usgs.gov''. supplementary information: Under this FY 1995 program announcement, proposals are to be directed towards two components of the NSDI. The first component deals with creation of a distributed clearinghouse for finding and accessing geospatial data. The second component involves development and promulgation of the use of standards in data collection, documentation, transfer, and search and query. The following list of efforts is considered within the scope of the two aforementioned activities. Development and implementation of the National Geospatial Data Clearinghouse: Create (inventory, evaluate, catalog data, and establish Internet access) and manage a node on the National Geospatial Data Clearinghouse that provides users with a means for finding, accessing, and sharing data; establish, develop, or expand programs or projects, through development of training programs, information guides and other explanatory materials, that increase the contributions of local, regional, or national data sets to the National Geospatial Data Clearinghouse; and, design, develop, or implement tools to assist in the inventory, evaluation, documentation, cataloging, serving, maintaining, and sharing of geospatial data. Develop and further the implementation of FGDC-endorsed standards: Conduct programs to increase user comprehension and adoption of the FGDC Content Standards for Digital Geospatial Metadata and the Spatial Data Transfer Standard; and, stimulate the development of applicable geospatial data standards in partnership with the FGDC Subcommittees and Working Groups. Develop software tools or techniques to aid the evaluation of geospatial metadata or data through the National Geospatial Data Clearinghouse; develop means of displaying the quality of geospatial data; and, develop means of speeding comparison and evaluating data for using metadata. Dated: October 26, 1994. William Gossman, Acting Assistant Director for Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27322 Filed 11&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;31&hyph;M
