FR940825-0-00092 FR940825-0-00016 (b) When it imposes any additional requirements, the HHS awarding agency must notify the recipient in writing as to the following: (1) The nature of the additional requirements; (2) The reason why the additional requirements are being imposed; (3) The nature of the corrective actions needed; (4) The time allowed for completing the corrective actions; and (5) The method for requesting reconsideration of the additional requirements imposed. (c) The HHS awarding agency will promptly remove any additional requirements once the conditions that prompted them have been corrected. ยง74.15 Metric system of measurement. The Metric Conversion Act, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act, 15 U.S.C. 205, declares that the metric system is the preferred measurement system for U.S. trade and commerce. The Act requires each Federal agency to establish a date or dates in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, when the metric system of measurement will be used in the agency's procurements, grants, and other business-related activities. Metric implementation may take longer where the use of the system is initially impractical or likely to cause significant inefficiencies in the accomplishment of federally-funded activities. HHS awarding agencies will follow the provisions of E.O. 12770, ``Metric Usage in Federal Government Programs.'' ยง74.16 Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), Section 6002 of Public Law 94&hyph;580 (codified at 42 U.S.C. 6962). Under the Act, any State agency or agency of a political subdivision of a State which is using appropriated Federal funds must comply with section 6002 of the RCRA. This section requires that preference be given in procurement programs to the purchase of specific products containing recycled materials identified in guidelines developed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (40 CFR parts 247&hyph;254). Accordingly, State and local institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other nonprofit organizations that receive direct HHS awards or other Federal funds shall give preference in their procurement programs funded with Federal funds to the purchase of recycled products pursuant to the EPA guidelines. ยง74.17 Certifications and representations. Unless prohibited by statute or codified regulation, each HHS awarding agency is authorized and encouraged to allow recipients to submit certifications and representations required by statute, executive order, or regulation on an annual basis, if the recipients have ongoing and continuing relationships with the HHS awarding agency. Annual certifications and representations shall be signed by the responsible HHS official(s) with the authority to ensure recipients' compliance with the pertinent requirements. Subpart C_Post-Award Requirements Financial and Program Management ยง74.20 Purpose of financial and program management. Sections 74.21 through 74.28 prescribe standards for financial management systems, methods for making payments, and rules for satisfying cost sharing and matching requirements, accounting for program income, budget revision approvals, making audits, determining allowability of cost, and establishing fund availability.
