FR940606-1-00057 FR940606-1-00008 The proposed standards would allow certain hand-wipe cleaning operations to be exempt; that is, cleaning solvents that do not comply with the approved composition requirements or with vapor pressure greater than 45 mm Hg at 20 ○C (24.1 in. H 2 O at 68 ○F) can be used for these exempt cleaning operations. Therefore, affected facilities will have both compliant and non-compliant cleaning solvents in use. The EPA, therefore, believes it is necessary to ensure that cleaning solvents with vapor pressures greater than 45 mm Hg at 20 ○C (24.1 in. H 2 O at 68 ○F) are only used for the exempted cleaning operations. To this end, the EPA is proposing that each owner or operator keep daily records of the name and volume of each cleaning solvent used in each exempt hand-wipe cleaning operation, as well as the parts, assemblies, or subassemblies on which it is used. The EPA is requiring daily recordkeeping for these non-compliant solvents so that adequate records exist to determine that the solvents are used only in the exempt operations. The EPA is also proposing that records be kept of each leak found when visually inspecting enclosed spray gun systems. These records would consist of source identification, the date of discovery of the leak, and the date of repair in order to ensure that repairs are completed within 15 days as required by the proposed standard. For those portions of the cleaning operation standards that require containers to be closed when not in use, the EPA is not proposing any recordkeeping requirements. Nor is the EPA proposing any recordkeeping requirements for the cleaning of spray guns (other than for enclosed spray gun cleaners) or flush cleaning. b. Primer and topcoat application operations. For all primer and topcoat application operations, regardless of which methods are used to comply with the proposed standards, the EPA is proposing that each owner or operator keep records of the name of each coating and its organic HAP and VOC content as received. In addition, the EPA is proposing different levels of recordkeeping requirements depending on how the organic HAP and VOC content levels are being met. If an owner or operator is using compliant coatings to meet the organic HAP or VOC content levels, the EPA is proposing that the owner or operator keep records that identify for each coating (primer, topcoat) used each calendar month, the volume of each coating formulation used each month, the masses of organic HAP and VOC emitted per unit volume as applied, and the manufacturer's data, calculations, and test results (including Method 24 results taken during an enforcement inspection) used to determine organic HAP and VOC content of each as applied. Daily records are not necessary since, if the coatings are compliant, the emissions from the coatings will not exceed the emission limitation in the proposed standards on a daily basis. Monthly records, however, are necessary to maintain a check that compliance is being maintained. If an owner or operator elects to meet the organic HAP or VOC content level by averaging, the EPA is proposing that records of the daily volume-weighted average organic HAP and VOC contents for primers and topcoats be kept as well as all of the data and calculations used to calculate these values. This would include the volume, organic HAP content as applied, and VOC content as applied of each coating. This level of information is required for an inspector to determine whether the facility was in compliance and whether the proper data and calculations were being used. If a control device is used, each owner or operator would be required to keep a record (or, where allowed in the proposed standards, daily averages) of the various control device operating parameters being monitored. Since for some control devices compliance with the proposed standards is dependent on the control device being operated properly, these records are necessary to determine compliance. Specifically, a source would be out of compliance if the recorded parameters were out of range. As noted earlier, for incinerators, this would be continuous records of the operating temperature(s), while no operating parameters are required for carbon adsorbers. Thus, the EPA is requiring these records for compliance determinations.
