FR941128-2-00129 FR941128-2-00076 2. Evaluation Each grantee must establish a process whereby eligible dislocated workers are referred, after an assessment of individual needs, to a treatment group which will be served through the use of career management accounts. As described in Sections III.F and III.G of this solicitation, project designs will be expected to address both quantitative and qualitative measures of participant outcomes, including customer satisfaction. Under a separate announcement, DOL will select and fund separate evaluation contractors to: (1) provide technical assistance to selected grantees in establishing appropriate data collection methods and processes; and (2) conduct an independent evaluation of the outcomes, impacts and benefits of the demonstration projects. Grantees will be expected to make available participant records and access to personnel, as specified by the evaluation contractor. In addition, DOL will establish, for each demonstration project site, an oversight group made up of federal, State and substate staff. 3. Eligible Participants Workers eligible for assistance under these demonstration grants are those individuals who are ``eligible dislocated workers'' in accordance with Section 301(a) or Section 314(h) of the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA). 4. Allowable Activities Grant funds awarded under this demonstration may be used to provide the services described in JTPA Section 314(c), Section 314(d) and Section 314(e). These services are more fully described in the statute. In addition, funds may be used to cover the costs of developing and implementing processes or mechanisms by which an individual worker can manage his/her ``career account'' and access payments for the costs of reemployment and retraining services at qualified providers. Funds may also be used to cover administrative costs, including the costs associated with establishing coordination with the unemployment compensation system, as described at Section 314(f). 5. Cost Limitations Demonstration grants are not subject to the cost limitations for formula-funded Title III grants at Section 315 of the JTPA. However, any offeror proposing administrative costs that exceed 15 percent of the budget or needs-related payments and supportive services that exceed 25 percent of the funds requested in the application shall provide a narrative justification. D. Demonstration Topic DOL is soliciting applications for demonstrations of the feasibility of establishing career management accounts for individual workers. Career management accounts are funding commitments, which can be accessed by eligible individuals, to pay for the cost of training and other career or employment transition services allowable under the grant. The career management account is intended to provide maximum flexibility to the individual worker in selecting the types, timing and sources of career and employment transition assistance. The account is tied to the individual worker. However, to optimize the use of resources available from other funding sources, the account should provide the means to accept credits or deposits from multiple sources. Part II. Application Process A. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants for demonstration projects funded under this announcement are States and Title III substate grantees. States and substate grantees are defined at Section 301 of the Act. An application from a State agency shall be submitted by the Governor. An application from a substate grantee shall include written comments from the Governor. An application from a state should include comments, or a letter of support, from each substate area in which the Career Management Account System is to be implemented. To adequately test the career management account concept, applicants must be able to serve at least 200 individuals during the grant period of performance. It is expected that funds under this grant will provide no more than 50% of the funding support for the career management accounts. Other public and private funds, including JTPA Title III formula funds, should be used to provide the additional funding support. DOL expects that, in such cases where more than one eligible entity (e.g., State and SSG, two or more adjacent SSGs) wishes to apply for a grant to serve the same target population, applicants will establish appropriate linkages and submit a single application under a single proposed administrative entity. B. Submission of Proposals An original and three (3) copies of the proposal shall be submitted. The proposal shall consist of two (2) separate and distinct parts_Part I, the Financial Proposal, and Part II, the Technical Proposal. 1. Financial Proposal. The Financial Proposal, Part I, shall contain the SF&hyph;424, ``Application for Federal Assistance'' (Appendix No. 1), and SF 424&hyph;A, ``Budget'' (Appendix No. 2). The Federal Domestic Assistance Catalog number is 17.246. The budget shall include on separate pages: a cost analysis of the budget, identifying in detail the amount of each budget line item attributable to each of the Title III cost categories at Section 314 of JTPA for funds requested through this grant; and an identification of the amount of each budget line item which will be covered by other funds, and the sources of those funds (including employer funds, in-kind resources, secured and unsecured loans, grants, and other forms of assistance, public and private). Federal funds cannot be used to support training which an employer is in a position to, and would otherwise, provide. Federal funds may not be used for acquisition of production equipment. The only type of equipment that may be acquired with Federal funds is equipment necessary for the operation of the grant. Grant funds may cover only those costs which are appropriate and reasonable. In the instance of a purchase, the cost of the equipment is to be prorated over the projected life of the equipment to determine the cost to the grant. Awardee must receive prior approval from the Department of Labor/Employment and Training Administration's Property Officer for the purchase and/or lease of any property and/or equipment with a per unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more, and a useful life of more than one year as defined in OMB Circulars A&hyph;102 and A&hyph;110. This includes the purchase of ADP equipment. The request must be directed through your GOTR and must include a detailed description and cost of the items to be acquired. Applicants may budget limited amounts of grant funds to work with technical expert(s) to provide advice and develop more complete project plans.
