FR941216-0-00007 FR941216-0-00001 (10) Reductions-in-Force (RIF): Students in the Student Temporary Employment Program are covered by the regulations in 5 CFR 351.502 for purposes of RIF. Students, provided they have completed 1 year of current continuous service are in excepted service Tenure Group III. (11) Conversion to Student Career Experience Program: Students may be noncompetitively converted to the Student Career Experience Program whenever they meet the requirements of that program and the agency has an appropriate position available. (i) Work experience related to the student's academic program and career goals, gained while under the Student Temporary Employment Program, may be credited towards the 640 hour work experience necessary for non-competitive conversion to a career conditional or career appointment. (ii) Conversions would not be subject to requirements of subparts C and D of 5 CFR part 302. (d) Student Career Experience Program: (1) This program provides experience that is directly related to the student's educational program and career goals. Programs developed under this component provide for a schedule of periods of attendance at an accredited school combined with periods of career-related work in a Federal agency. The work experience with the agency MUST be related to his/her academic/career goals. (2) Appointment Authority: Students shall be appointed under Schedule B 213.3202(b). This is the appointment authority regardless of the academic program being pursued. (i) Appointments to the Student Career Experience Program are subject to all the requirements and conditions governing career or career conditional employment, including investigation to establish an appointees's qualifications and suitability. (ii) Appointments of participants who have met all the requirements of the program may be non-competitively converted to career or career conditional appointments at any time within 120 days after satisfactory completion of the requirements for his/her diploma/certificate/ or degree. (3) Program requirements for non-competitive conversion: (i) Students appointed under ยง213.3202(b) may be non-competitively converted to a career or career-conditional appointment under Executive Order 12015 when students have: (A) Completed within the preceding 120 days, at an accredited school, course requirements conferring a diploma, certificate, or degree; (B) Completed at least 640 hours of career-related work (agencies have the option of increasing this requirement for some or all of its occupational fields), before completion of or concurrently with, the course requirements; (C) Been recommended by the employing agency in which the career-related work was performed; and (D) Met the qualification standards for the targeted position to which the student is appointed. (ii) Conversions must be to an occupation related to the student's academic training and career related work experience. (iii) The non-competitive conversion may be to a position within the same agency or any other agency within the Federal Government. (4) Agreement by all parties. The Student Career Experience Program is a formally structured program and requires a written agreement by all parties (agency, school, student) as to the: (i) Nature of work assignments (ii) Schedule of work assignments and class attendance (iii) Evaluation procedures (iv) Requirements for continuation and successful completion of the program. (5) Schedule: Agencies, participating educational institutions, and students should agree on a formally-arranged schedule of school and work to ensure that: (i) Work responsibilities do not interfere with academic performance; (ii) Completion of the educational program (awarding of diploma/certificate/degree) and completion of the Student Career Experience Program are accomplished in a reasonable and appropriate timeframe; (iii) The agency is informed and prepared for the students' periods of employment; and (iv) Requirements for non-competitive conversion to career conditional employment are understood by all parties. (6) Financial need: There is no requirement for students to meet any economic or income criteria to be eligible for this program. However, agencies may establish their own criteria if they wish. (7) Classification: Students appointed under this component will be classified as student trainees, to the &hyph;99 series of the appropriate occupational group. (8) Qualifications: Students may be evaluated by either agency developed standards or by the OPM qualifications requirements for the target position. Any OPM test requirements are waived. Students are eligible for promotion. (9) Benefits: Students appointed under this program: (i) Earn annual and sick leave. (ii) With no prior service or with less than 5 years of prior civilian service, are generally covered by the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS). Refer to 5 CFR part 842. (iii) For life insurance and health benefits coverage refer to 5 CFR 870.202 and 890.102. (10) Tuition assistance: Agencies may use their training authority in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 41 and 5 CFR part 410 to pay all or part of the students training expenses. (11) Travel and transportation: Agencies may pay for other expenses directly related to training, such as travel and transportation between duty station and school, for participants in the Student Career Experience component only. (12) Reduction-in-force: Students in the Student Career Experience Program are in excepted service Tenure Group II for purposes of 5 CFR 351.502. (i) They are accorded the same retention rights as excepted service employees. (ii) They may qualify for severance pay if involuntarily separated under 5 CFR part 550, subpart G. PART 338_QUALIFICATIONS REQUIREMENTS (GENERAL) 1. The authority citation for part 338 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 3301, 3302; E.O. 10577, 3 CFR, 1954&hyph;1958 Comp., p. 218. ยง338.202 [Amended] In ยง338.202 of subpart B, paragraph (a) is removed and reserved. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30887 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;M
