FR940110-2-00102 FR940110-2-00075 (3) Meets the requirements found in 13 CFR part 121 concerning Standard Industrial Classification codes and size standards. If you are not sure whether or not you meet the definition of a small business, you may want to contact your local district office or regional office of the Small Business Administration (SBA) for advice. If you are unable to locate those offices you may call the SBA's Office of Size Standards at (202) 205&hyph;6618. Q. May an application including a business partner that is a small local affiliate of a larger corporation receive the small business priority points? A. The overall size of the business partner and its affiliates will determine the answer. Size determinations must include the business partner and all its domestic and foreign affiliates regardless of whether the affiliates are organized for profit. 13 CFR 121.401 describes affiliating circumstances for size determination purposes and establishes exceptions thereto. Q. May an application including a business partner that operates as the small local franchisee or licensee of a larger corporation receive the small business priority points? A. Small business priority points may be awarded when a business partner meets the following three conditions: It (1) is a local franchisee or licensee within the size determination standards, (2) has the right to profit from its efforts and (3) bears the risk of loss commensurate with ownership. Exceptions to this general interpretation may arise where affiliation results from other means than the franchise or license agreement such as common ownership, common management or excessive restrictions on the sale of the franchise interest. See §121.401(m) of 13 CFR. Q. Must a small business participant be a partner for the application to qualify for the small business priority points? A. Yes. The small business participant must be a partner who has signed the Partnership Agreement for the application to qualify for the extra points. Q. Must an applicant provide the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code for the small business partner in order to receive the small business priority points? A. Yes. The SIC code must be entered on the line provided on the Partnership Agreement form. Q. What is meant by a required percent of non-Federal cost-sharing or matching funds? A. In this program, the recipient of Federal funds is required to ``match'' the Federal grant by paying at least a minimum percentage of total program costs. Total program costs include both the Federal funds received and the non-Federal contribution. For example, a partnership that is required to pay 30 percent of total program costs of $100,000 would have to contribute $30,000 to match a Federal award of $70,000 ($30,000 = 30 percent of $100,000 ($30,000 plus $70,000)). All partnerships must contribute at least 30 percent of total program costs, except that partnerships may receive full reimbursement for their necessary and reasonable administrative costs incurred in establishing a project during the project start-up period. That period should be minimized and may not exceed six months, at which time the project is expected to provide services to adult workers. Q. What costs may be included in the 30 percent match (cash or in-kind)? A. Any cost that can be paid with Federal funds from this program is allowable as match (see Education Department General Administrative Regulations, 34 CFR 74.50&hyph;74.57 and 34 CFR 80.24). Q. What costs are not allowed using project funds (Federal or non-Federal match)? A. The following items are not allowable costs in the National Workplace Literacy Program: •Life skills such as balancing a checkbook, learning to read to children, writing personal correspondence, etc. •Personal counseling such as counseling for alcoholism, mental health, health, domestic problems, or housing issues. • Job skills or vocational training such as direct training in statistical process control (SPC) rather than literacy skills needed for SPC. •Computer literacy, defined as any training above the level of computer competence needed to operate a computer-assisted program of instruction used in a workplace literacy project. Non-allowable costs include teaching of word processing, WordPerfect, Lotus, dBase, etc. •Stipends or tuition payments. •Training of supervisors, other than those one step up from targeted workers such as maintenance crew supervisors. •Construction costs. •Institutional allowance. •Any unreasonable or unnecessary cost. Q. May a project provide vocational or job training activities? A. No. Projects must provide adult education programs that teach literacy skills needed in the workplace. Workplace literacy activities include only the adult education activities listed in the Description of Program section of the Notice Inviting Applications. This list does not include vocational or job training activities such as auto mechanics, dye casting, tailoring, and statistical process control. Workplace literacy instruction, however, may enable individuals to benefit subsequently or simultaneously from advanced vocational skills training provided from other funds. If you are not sure whether a particular activity is eligible under this program, please call one of the program officers listed as information contacts in the application notice. Q. May a project provide training in operating a computer? A. Training to operate a computer that is part of the performance of a job is a form of vocational or job training and is not an eligible activity under this program. However, computers could be used as a means of instruction if this were necessary and reasonable under the circumstances of a particular project. In such a context, it would be permissible to ensure that students possessed those rudimentary skills that are necessary to interact with computer-assisted literacy instruction.
