FR940616-2-00042 FR940616-2-00030 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Federal Energy Regulatory Commission [Docket No. CP94&hyph;292&hyph;000] Riverside Gas Storage Co.; Intent To Prepare an Environmental Assessment for the Proposed Riverside Gas Storage Field Project and Request for Comments on Environmental Issues June 10, 1994. The staff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC or the Commission) will prepare an environmental assessment (EA) that will discuss environmental impacts of the construction and operation of facilities proposed in the Riverside Gas Storage Field Project. 1 This EA will be used by the Commission in its decision-making process to determine whether an environmental impact statement is necessary and whether or not to approve the project. 1 Riverside Gas Storage Company's (Riverside) application was filed with the Commission under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act and Part 157 of the Commission's regulations. Summary of the Proposed Project Riverside Gas Storage Company (Riverside) wants Commission authorization to construct and operate a new underground natural gas storage field in Greene and Fayette Counties, Pennsylvania. Riverside proposes to convert a nearly depleted gas field to gas storage use. The proposed storage facility would have 5.1 billion cubic feet (BCF) of storage capacity (3.1 BCF working gas capacity). To develop the Riverside Gas Storage Field, Riverside would: •Recomplete 21 existing wells as injection/withdrawal wells; •Recomplete one existing well as an observation well; •Plug and abandon 9 existing gas wells (all remaining wells in field); •Construct 3.42 miles of 12-inch-diameter gathering pipeline; •Construct 2.44 miles of 6-inch-diameter pipeline (22 segments of various lengths to attach wells to the gathering pipeline); •Construct a new 3,150-horsepower compressor station; and •Construct ancillary facilities at the compressor station including meters, dehydrator trains, storage tanks for oil and glycol, access roads, and water and electric utilities. The general location of these facilities is shown in appendix 1. 2 2 The appendices referenced in this notice are not being printed in the Federal Register . Copies are available from the Commission's Public Reference Branch, room 3104, 941 North Capitol Street NE., Washington, DC 20426, or call (202) 208&hyph;1371. Copies of the appendices were sent to all those receiving this notice in the mail. Land Requirements for Construction Riverside would use 101.3 acres of land for the Riverside Gas Storage Field Project. Of this total, 10 acres would be used for the compressor station, 43.4 acres would be associated with well pads (1.4 acres per well) and 47.9 acres would be associated with the right-of-way for the storage pipelines. Following completion of construction, approximately 12.6 acres associated with the nine plugged and abandoned wells would be allowed to revert to the land use desired by the property owner. Riverside proposes to use a an 85-foot-wide construction right-of-way for its 12-inch-diameter pipeline and a 50-foot-wide construction right-of-way for its 6-inch-diameter pipeline. Riverside proposes to use an 85 to 100-foot-wide right-of-way for construction across streams. The EA Process The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires the Commission to take into account the environmental impacts that could result from an action whenever it considers the issuance of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity. NEPA also requires us to discover and address concerns the public may have about proposals. We call this ``scoping''. The main goal of the scoping process is to focus the analysis in the EA on the important environmental issues. By this Notice of Intent, the Commission requests public comments on the scope of the issues it will address in the EA. All comments received are taken into account during the preparation of the EA. The EA will discuss impacts that could occur as a result of the construction and operation of the proposed project under these general headings: •Geology and soils; •Water resources; •Vegetation and wildlife; •Pipeline safety; •Land use; •Cultural resources; •Air quality and noise. We will also evaluate possible alternatives to the proposed project or portions of the project, and make recommendations on how to lessen or avoid impacts on the various resource areas. Our independent analysis of the issues will be in the EA. Depending on the comments received during the scoping process, the EA may be published and mailed to Federal, state, and local agencies, public interest groups, interested individuals, affected landowners, newspapers, libraries, and the Commission's official service list for this proceeding. A comment period will be allotted for review if the EA is published. We will consider all comments on the EA before we recommend that the Commission approve or not approve the project. Currently Identified Environmental Issues We have already identified several environmental issues that we think deserve attention based on a preliminary review of the proposed facilities and the information provided by Riverside. Keep in mind that this is a preliminary list. The list of issues will be added to, subtracted from, or changed based on your comments and our analysis. The list of environmental issues: •Riverside would recomplete 22 existing wells in Greene and Fayette Counties, Pennsylvania: one observation well and 21 injection/withdrawal wells. These wells and drilling operations have potential groundwater impacts. •Riverside may affect up to five wetlands in the project area while constructing its pipelines. •There may be noise concerns at residences surrounding Riverside's new compressor station. •There may be federally listed threatened or endangered species in the project area.
