FR941213-0-00046 FR941213-0-00010 Response: To accept this comment would conflict with the statute, which places ``other appropriate qualified personnel'' as equals in qualifications of registered nurses and social workers. Indeed, these personnel may be more suited for discharge planning by virtue of credentials or training and in some cases, such as in a rural hospital, it may be a physician who does the discharge planning. We would like to note that in any event it is a management function of the hospital to assure proper supervision of its employees and we do not wish to interfere with this function. Comment: One commenter thought HCFA should devise a certification program with time-limited certificates. Response: We do not believe such a certification program is warranted or intended by the legislation. It is not our view that this regulation should enfranchise people with certain credentials at the expense of others who have the requisite abilities to do the job, regardless of how the abilities were acquired. Comment: One commenter believed the regulation should explicitly reaffirm existing Medicare legal requirements that all Medicare beneficiaries have the freedom to choose the vendor for post-hospital care. Response: Section 1802 of the Social Security Act guarantees free choice by Medicare patients. It provides that any individual entitled to Medicare may obtain health services from any institution, agency, or person qualified to participate under the Medicare law if the institution, agency, or person undertakes to provide him or her those services. We do not believe it is necessary to reaffirm this requirement in the standard for discharge planning evaluation. There is nothing in this rule that prevents a Medicare beneficiary from exercising freedom of choice of a post-hospital vendor of services. Comment: One commenter thought that we should specify that the evaluation include an assessment of biopsychosocial needs, the patient's and family's understanding of discharge needs, and the identification of health and social care resources needed to assure high-quality post-hospital care. Response: We do not believe that this specificity is needed in the regulation. Our approach is consistent with that used in the June 17, 1986 regulatory revision to the conditions of participation for hospitals, which avoided prescriptive administrative requirements and use of specific details. Although the factors mentioned by the commenter are relevant, it is not our intention to create an ``all-inclusive'' list in the regulation. We will consider these, as well as other factors, when formulating interpretive guidelines. Comment: One commenter believed that it would be more meaningful if the regulation required the discharge evaluation to specify the type of post-hospital services that a given patient would require and the availability of those services from vendors in the community. Response: We believe the current language of the final regulation, which is stated in terms of expected outcomes, provides hospitals with sufficient flexibility and is in accord with the philosophy of the June 17, 1986 revision to the conditions of participation for hospitals. We do not agree that the degree of specificity desired by the commenter is needed in the regulation. His comments will, however, be considered for inclusion in the interpretive guidelines. Comment: Three commenters addressed the inclusion of ยง482.43(b)(4), which requires an evaluation of the patient's capacity for self-care or of the possibility of the patient being cared for in the environment from which he or she entered the hospital. Two commenters believed paragraph (b)(4) to be a positive addition and supported inclusion of this element in the evaluation. The third commenter stated that ยง482.43 (b)(3) and (b)(4) are duplicative. Response: We disagree with the third commenter. The intent of the two paragraphs is as follows: ยง483.43(b)(3) reproduces the statutory provision, while (b)(4) specifies an element that must be included in the evaluation that is not necessarily apparent from the text of the statute. Comment: One commenter believed that we should require that more than a patient's capacity for self-care be considered. The commenter urged that we consider the patient's wishes as well, as some persons with limited capacity for self-care may be cared for at home. Also, the commenter indicated that emphasis on capacity for self-care can lead to an overemphasis on care in a skilled nursing facility (SNF) rather than by a home health agency (HHA). Response: The patient's wishes are an integral aspect of the capacity for self-care, since the capacity includes not only the patient's ability for self-care, but also the willingness for such care. There are a variety of services that are provided equally well by both SNFs and HHAs. A determination of which provider is appropriate depends necessarily on other conditions such as ability, availability, and willingness of caregivers, the availability of resources in the community, and patient preference. All these factors need to be considered. Comment: One commenter believed we should emphasize that the hospital should give each beneficiary the full range of options to consider for post-hospital care rather than focusing on returning him or her to his or her prehospitalization environment, particularly when the prehospitalization environment is an SNF. Response: In most instances the focus on a return to the prehospitalization environment is a valid one, serving the interests of the patient within available community resources. Alternatively, the regulations call for an assessment of the patient's ability for self-care. We do not believe these alternative elements of the evaluation preclude a patient from being offered a full range of options to consider for post-hospital care and we see no need to change the regulation. To allay the commenter's concern, however, we will include a statement in the interpretive guidelines to assure that patients admitted to a hospital from an SNF are not shortchanged by the hospital discharge planning process. We would like to point out that sometimes a patient's expectations of where he or she wants to go after hospital discharge (e.g., a return to the patient's former residence rather than to the SNF from which he or she was admitted) are not realistic due to the patient's physical or mental condition, available community resources, or any one or more of these three. Comment: Two commenters thought we should delete the phrase, ``to the greatest extent possible,'' from the requirements for making appropriate arrangements for post-hospital care before discharge, as this is contrary to the statute and waters it down. Response: We are removing the phrase as requested. It was not our intent to weaken this statutory provision. Comment: One commenter believed that the patient should be consulted in the process of the evaluation and not simply after the fact. Three commenters believed we should require the involvement of the patient and family in the discharge plan. One commenter believed we should require a meeting with the patient or patient representative for input and plan approval.
