FR941017-2-00091 FR941017-2-00057 In order to enhance the ability of the Exchange to surveil for violations of Rule 11.1 for expiring equity options, the proposed rule change would alter the existing exercise instruction procedures by requiring that final exercise decisions also be submitted to the Exchange. The clearing members would still be responsible for delivering exercise notices to the OCC, however, the proposed rule change would allow the Exchange to accurately document when each exercise instruction was received by a member organization or clearing member, or delivered by a clearing member to the OCC. 14 The Exercise Cut-Off Time will still be 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T.) on the business day immediately prior to the expiration date. Pursuant to the proposal, however, there will be two means of exercising an expiring equity option: (1) Take no action and allow exercise determinations to be made in accordance with OCC Rule 805; 15 or (2) the market maker, floor broker, or clearing member, as applicable, must submit a contrary exercise advice ( i.e., a notice committing an option holder either to exercise an option that would not otherwise be exercised automatically pursuant to OCC Rule 805, or not exercise an option that otherwise would be exercised automatically pursuant to OCC Rule 805) (``Contrary Exercise Advice''). Contrary Exercise Advice would be submitted by a market maker, floor broker, or clearing member either: (1) In such form or manner prescribed by the Exchange to a place designated by the Exchange; or (2) to the Exchange via the OCC in a format prescribed by the OCC. 16 In those instances where OCC Rule 805 has been waived by the OCC, 17 the proposal requires that a Contrary Exercise Advice be submitted prior to the Exercise Cut-Off Time by member organizations wishing to exercise an option that would not have been automatically exercised had the exercise-by-exception procedures been in place, or not to exercise an option that would have been automatically exercised had the exercise-by-exception procedure been in place. 18 The applicable underlying security price in such instances will normally be the last sale price in the primary market for the underlying security. 14 Because the OCC's rules are not changing, the reporting of final exercise decisions as contemplated by the revised rule does not serve to substitute as the effective exercise notice to OCC for the exercise or non-exercise of expiring options. The Commission also notes that the proposed procedures discussed herein are in addition to the Exchange's existing procedures regarding the submission of exercise instructions to clearing members, which for the most part, are not being amended by this proposal. See CBOE Rule 11.1. 15 OCC Rule 805 provides for automatic exercise of in-the-money options at expiration without the submission of an exercise notice to the OCC if the price of the security underlying the option is at or above a certain price (for calls) or at or below a certain price (for puts); and the non-exercise of an option at expiration if the price of the security underlying the option does not satisfy such price levels. See OCC Rule 805. 16 Even though this may be accomplished by submitting exercise decisions directly to the Exchange, the more likely manner of accomplishing this will be to submit the exercise decisions to the Exchange through C/MACS. Due to the burden that would be placed on members of having to manually process every exercise decision for delivery directly to the Exchange, the procedures and rules being approved herein will not be implemented by the CBOE until the OCC submits a written representation to the Commission that C/MACS has been modified as necessary, fully tested, and ready to go on-line, to allow members to submit exercise decisions to the Exchange through C/MACS. This process is expected to be completed in time for the November 1994 expirations. 17 The could happen where an underlying security is not traded on its primary market on the trading day immediately preceding an expiration date and, as a result, the OCC determines not to fix a closing price for that security. See OCC Rule 805(l). 18 When the OCC waives the exercise-by-exception procedure, the OCC's rules require submission of an affirmative exercise notice for all excercises even in circumstances where a Contrary Exercise Advice is not required to be submitted to the Exchange. See Amendment No. 2, supra note 4. The proposal would also require that members properly communicate to the Exchange final exercise decisions in respect of positions for which they are responsible. 19 Member organizations may establish an internal processing cut-off time prior to 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T) at which time final exercise decisions from their customers will no longer be accepted by them for expiring options. 19 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. The proposal maintains the current exceptions to Rule 11.1. The proposal, however amends Rule 11.1(b) to provide that the Exercise Cut-Off Time is the latest time at which an exercise instruction may be submitted by a market maker or floor broker to (rather than accepted by) a clearing member. As a result of this change, the CBOE will interpret Rule 11.1(b) as placing the burden of establishing an exception to the Exercise Cut-Off Time solely on the member organization seeking to rely on such exception. 20 20 Telephone conversation with Jeffrey Schroer, Vice President, Market Regulation, Regulatory Services Division, CBOE, and Brad Ritter, Senior Counsel, OMS, Division, Commission, on July 27, 1994. In the event a member organization makes a final exercise decision after the Exercise Cut-Off Time in reliance on one of the above exceptions, the responsible member organization must prepare a written memorandum describing the surrounding circumstances and must promptly file a copy of the memorandum with the Exchange. Furthermore, in order to highlight the seriousness of violating Rule 11.1, the proposed rule language would expressly state that affecting an exercise decision in an expiring equity option on the basis of material information obtained after the Exercise Cut-Off Time is considered to be activity inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. The proposal also provides that the failure of any member to follow the proposed procedures may be referred to the Exchange's Business Conduct Committee and result in the assessment of a fine, which may include, but is not limited to, disgorgement of potential economic gain obtained or loss avoided by the subject exercise, as determined by the Business Conduct Committee.
