FR941107-2-00011 FR941107-2-00005 On August 10, 1994, the Department provided interested parties with the opportunity to submit published, publicly-available information for consideration in valuing factor inputs. Petitioners submitted information on September 7, 1994; respondents submitted information on September 22, 1994. Respondent Selection In addition to sending the Ukrainian Embassy the questionnaire, the Department independently attempted to identify other possible exporters of Ukrainian pure magnesium to the United States during the POI based on information obtained from petitioners, and through examination of PIERS data and other sources of information. Our efforts consisted of issuing an August 8, 1994, survey requesting information on exports to the United States of the subject merchandise; issuing the antidumping questionnaires (limited to Sections A and C) to trading companies operating in various European countries (on August 19, September 7, and September 13, 1994); and a September 15, 1994, follow-up letter to unresponsive questionnaire recipients. We sent either the survey, the questionnaire, or both documents to 56 companies, with the following results. •Two companies, Gerald Metals and MG Metals, provided responses to Sections A and C of the questionnaire. •Twenty-five other companies, meanwhile, indicated that they did not export the subject merchandise to the United States during the POI. The companies that did not export were Intreid; Kemokomplex; Nobel Trading; Raba Company; Alamet; Compagnie de Mines et Metals; Expromptorg; Fred Lonner & Co., Inc.; Metal Exchange Corporation; Minmeta S.A., Minmetals Canada, Inc.; Scandinavian Steel AB; Stena Metall Atervinning AB; Sinex AG; Maks Trade Kft.; Sassoon Metals and Chemicals; Seleb; Weko Food Trading; IMEX Consulting Sprl; W&O Bergmann; Steinweg Handelsveem; A. Hartrodt; C. Steinweg Handelsveem B.V.; J. Oosterom & Zoom; and Siegfried Kahn AG. •Seven companies indicated that they were related to companies who had provided information as to whether or not they had made U.S. sales. •Eighteen companies provided either no response or an inadequate response. The Department received no response from the following 16 contacted companies: Derek Raphael & Co. Ltd.; Marco Trading; Wogen Group Ltd.; Alex; Mages; and 11 other companies whose names cannot be disclosed in this notice because their identities has been deemed business proprietary information. We have designated these 11 companies as companies ``A'' through ``K'' in the ``Suspension of Liquidation'' section of this notice, below. We will, however, identify them to the Customs Service for enforcement of this determination. Additionally, F&S and Alusuisse-Lonza indicated that they made POI sales to the United States, but provided inadequate responses to our requests for information. •Finally, surveys or questionnaires sent to four companies were returned as undeliverable.
