FR940404-1-00033 FR940404-1-00014 The Level III review process is outlined here and consists of nine points that the inventory must include. For a base year emission inventory to be acceptable, it must pass all of the following criteria: (1) An approved Inventory Preparation Plan (IPP) must be provided and the Quality Assurance contained in the IPP must be performed and its implementation documented; (2) Adequate documentation must be provided that enables the reviewer to determine the emission estimation procedures and the data sources used to develop the inventory. Summary emissions by categories of source type must be provided; (3) The point source inventory must be complete; (4) Point source emissions must have been prepared or calculated according to the current EPA guidance; (5) The area source inventory must be complete; (6) The area source emissions must have been prepared or calculated according to the current EPA guidance; (7) The methods used to develop vehicle miles traveled (VMT) estimates (e.g., a network transportation planning model) must follow EPA guidance. The VMT methods must be adequately described and documented in the inventory report; (8) The MOBILE model must be correctly used to produce emission factors for each of the vehicle classes; and (9) Nonroad mobile emissions must be prepared according to current EPA guidance for all of the source categories. The base year emission inventory will be approved if it passes Levels I, II, and III of the review process. Detailed Level I and II review procedures can be found in the following document_``Quality Review Guidelines for 1990 Base Year Emission Inventories,'' U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards (OAQPS), Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, July 27, 1992. Level III review procedures are specified in a memorandum from John S. Seitz to the Regional Air Division Directors, entitled ``Emission Inventory Issues,'' June 24, 1993. 3 3 Memorandum from John S. Seitz, Director, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, to the Regional Air Division Directors, entitled ``Emission Inventory Issues,'' U.S. EPA, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, June 24, 1993. The TACB submitted the El Paso CO inventory on November 17, 1992. EPA Region 6, EPA's OAQPS Emissions Inventory Branch, and contractor's reviewed the inventory. Comments were sent to the TACB, and the TACB responded with a resubmittal. The resubmittal underwent a second review. The review directive comments were given to Texas and discussed during an on-site visit to Austin, Texas, on September 2, 1993. The EPA Office of Mobile Sources (OMS) comments on El Paso ozone were also considered, where applicable. Texas addressed the final directive comments and the OMS comments and submitted revised submittal documentation to Region 6 on October 4, 1993, along with documents responding to the directive comments and the OMS comments. Region 6 compared the Texas responses with the deficiencies noted in the final directive review and OMS comments and concluded that Texas had adequately addressed the remaining deficiencies so that Region 6 could verify that Texas had satisfied the Level III criteria for El Paso CO.
