FR940216-0-00259 FR940216-0-00010 (iii) Unadjusted and adjusted baseline fuel parameters, emissions and volume for the facility; and (iv) Narrative, per §80.91 (e)(5). (8) Extenuating circumstances. All of the following must be included in support of an extenuating circumstance adjustment (per §80.91 (e)(6) through (e)(7)): (i) Petition including identification of the allowable circumstance, per §80.91 (e)(6) through (e)(7); (ii) Showing that all applicable criteria, per §80.91 (e)(6) through (e)(7), are met; (iii) Unadjusted and adjusted baseline fuel parameters, emissions and volume for the facility; and (iv) Narrative, per §80.91. (9) Other baseline information. Narrative discussing any aspects of the baseline determination not already indicated per the requirements of this paragraph (c) shall be provided. (10) Refinery information. The following information, on a summer or winter basis, shall be provided: (i) Refinery block flow diagram, showing principal refining units; (ii) Principal refining unit charge rates and capacities; (iii) Crude types utilized (names, gravities, and sulfur content) and crude charge rates; and (iv) Information on the following units, if utilized in the refinery: (A) Catalytic Cracking Unit: conversion, unit yields, gasoline fuel parameter values (per §80.91(a)(2)); (B) Hydrocracking Unit: unit yields, gasoline fuel parameter values (per §80.91(a)(2)); (C) Catalytic Reformer: unit yields, severities; (D) Bottoms Processing Units (including, but not limited to, coking, extraction and hydrogen processing): gasoline stream yields; (E) Yield structures for other principal units in the refinery (including but not limited to Alkylation, Polymerization, Isomerization, Etherification, Steam Cracking). §§80.94&hyph;80.100 [Reserved] §80.101 Standards applicable to refiners and importers. Any refiner or importer of conventional gasoline shall meet the standards specified in this section over the specified averaging period, beginning on January 1, 1995. (a) Averaging period. The averaging period for the standards specified in this section shall be January 1 through December 31. (b) Conventional gasoline compliance standards_ (1) Simple model standards. The simple model standards are the following: (i) Annual average exhaust benzene emissions, calculated according to paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, shall not exceed the refiner's or importer's compliance baseline for exhaust benzene emissions; (ii) Annual average levels of sulfur shall not exceed 125% of the refiner's or importer's compliance baseline for sulfur; (iii) Annual average levels of olefins shall not exceed 125% of the refiner's or importer's compliance baseline for olefins; and (iv) Annual average values of T&hyph;90 shall not exceed 125% of the refiner's or importer's compliance baseline for T&hyph;90. (2) Optional complex model standards. Annual average levels of exhaust benzene emissions, weighted by volume for each batch and calculated using the applicable complex model under §80.45, shall not exceed the refiner's or importer's 1990 average exhaust benzene emissions. (3) Complex model standards. Annual average levels of exhaust toxics emissions and NO X emissions, weighted by volume for each batch and calculated using the applicable complex model under §80.45, shall not exceed the refiner's or importer's 1990 average exhaust toxics emissions and NO X emissions, respectively. (c) Applicability of standards. (1) For each averaging period prior to January 1, 1998, a refiner or importer shall be subject to either the Simple Model or Optional Complex Model Standards, at their option, except that any refiner or importer shall be subject to: (i) The Simple Model Standards if the refiner or importer uses the Simple Model Standards for reformulated gasoline; or (ii) The Optional Complex Model Standards if the refiner or importer used the Complex Model Standards for reformulated gasoline. (2) Beginning January 1, 1998, each refiner and importer shall be subject to the Complex Model Standards for each averaging period.
