FR940503-1-00046 FR940503-1-00010 U. Section 59.21␣Post-Hearing Submissions The Presiding Officer may request a written statement from each party following the conclusion of the hearing. Such statements are limited to those matters raised at the hearing. V. Section 59.22␣Recommended Decision This section describes the procedural requirements for preparing, transmitting, and filing a recommended decision. W. Section 59.23␣Decision of the Regional Administrator The Regional Administrator must issue a final decision that either affirms, reverses, or modifies the recommended decision, or remands the case to the Presiding Officer for further proceedings. This section describes the procedures the Regional Administrator shall follow in concluding actions taken under this part. The Regional Administrator's decision must be based on applicable law and the administrative record, which includes the recommended decision of the Presiding Officer. The final decision becomes effective thirty days following the date of issuance. X. Section 59.24␣Sua Sponte Review This section describes the role of the Environmental Appeals Board in reviewing the Regional Administrator's decision. The thirty-day period for this review coincides with the thirty-day period before a final decision becomes effective. Y. Section 59.25␣Payment of Assessed Penalty This section outlines the deadline and method of payment for civil penalties assessed pursuant to this part. VI. Administrative Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that this rule is a ``significant regulatory action.'' As such, this action was submitted to OMB for review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations will be documented in the public record. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., whenever an agency is required to publish a general notice of rulemaking for any proposed or final rule, it must prepare and make available for public comment a regulatory flexibility analysis that describes the impact of the rule on small entities (i.e., small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions). The Administrator may certify, however, that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. In such circumstances, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. The expected impact of this proposed rule is negligible. The rule creates no new requirements, small or large, and is procedural in nature. Accordingly, I hereby certify that these proposed regulations will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. These regulations, therefore, do not require a regulatory flexibility analysis. C. Paperwork Reduction Act These proposed rules do not contain any information collection requirements subject to OMB review under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 59 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution control, Labeling, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: April 15, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
