FR941216-1-00146 FR941216-1-00012 (b) Policing. Personnel shall be prohibited from touching or in any way disturbing dud ammunition. Unfuzed or inert-fuzed live ammunition or ammunition components that have failed to function during a test shall be recovered only in accordance with the SOP developed by the contractor. (c) Destruction. All types of ammunition and explosives shall be disposed of in accordance with this part, contract requirements, or instructions provided by the contracting officer. §184.183 Personnel shelters. (a) General. Responsible personnel shall require all within the danger zone to take cover during tests where fragmentation might occur. The person charged with attaching the lanyard shall be the last to leave the gun emplacement, and shall advise the responsible person that all personnel are clear before any firing. (b) Portable bombproofs for fire observation. All portable bombproofs used for fire observation shall be on the gun side of the impact point; no closer than 200 yards from the impact point; and in the sectors between compass headings 45 and 80 degrees and between 280 and 315 degrees (compass centered on impact point with 0 and 360 degrees at the firing point). When the impact will result in fragmentation, the bombproof should be located behind the firing line in the sectors between compass headings 100 and 135 degrees and between 225 and 260 degrees (compass centered on firing point with 0 and 360 degrees at the impact point). It should be so oriented with respect to the impact that no wall surface is presented to fragmentation at an angle greater than 60 degrees. This can usually be done by centering one intersection of the walls of a square or U type bombproof, or pointing the apex of a pointed V type, toward the impact point. Under no circumstances shall the orientation expose the rear of the bombproof to gunfire and fragmentation. Observations from bombproofs shall be indirect, using mirrors, periscopes, or other suitable devices. Refer to Appendix I to this subpart. ␣ 1Type 1Location and use 1Wall Portable reinforced concrete bombproof (open back)1 At firing fronts when alongside or to rear of gun and offset from line of fire for any class of fire 12 inches. Armored railway mounts At firing fronts when alongside or to rear of gun and offset from line of fire for any class of fire armorplate. Portable boiler-plate barrier At firing fronts for inert shrapnel or low explosive up to and including 155 mm and all small-arms ammunition 3/4-inch steel plate. Portable armor-plate barrier At firing fronts when to rear and offset from line of fire for any classes except high explosive or plate firing 3-inch armorplate. Armorplate sheets At firing fronts for grenades, primer detonators, and ground troop signals 1/2-inch armorplate. 1This type may be used for fire observation in the field, provided the bombproof is offset from the line depending upon the caliber of guns used, and in accordance with §184.182(c). §184.184 Testing of ammunition or devices for small arms.
