FR941122-1-00065 FR941122-1-00016 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 90-Day and 12-Month Findings for Eleven Petitions to List Three Blind Harvestmen, Three Micro-blind Harvestmen, One Spider, Two Butterflies, One Moth, Two Crickets, Three Katydids, and Five Grasshoppers AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of petition findings. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service), announces negative 90-day and 12-month findings on 11 petitions to list 20 invertebrates under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended. After careful assessment of the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the present and future threats facing the petitioned species, the Service either finds that the petitioners have not presented substantial information indicating the requested actions may be warranted (90-day finding) or determines that the petitioned action is not warranted at this time (12-month finding). DATES: These findings announced in this notice were made on November 3, 1994. Comments and materials related to these petition findings may be submitted to the Field Supervisor at the address below until further notice. ADDRESSES: Comments, questions, or information concerning the status of the petitioned species should be submitted to the Field Supervisor, Sacramento Field Office, Fish and Wildlife Service, 2800 Cottage Way, Room E-1823, Sacramento, California, 95825&hyph;1846. The petitions, finding, supporting data, and comments are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Chris Nagano at the above address or at 916/978&hyph;4866. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1533 et seq. ), requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information indicating the petitioned action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of the receipt of the petition, and the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . If the Service finds that a petition presents substantial information indicating the requested action may be warranted, then the Service initiates a status review on that species. Section 4(b)(3)(B) of the Act requires that for any petition that presents substantial scientific and commercial information, a finding be made within 12 months of the date of receipt of the petition on whether the petitioned action is (a) not warranted, (b) warranted, or (c) warranted but precluded from immediate proposal by other pending proposals to list, delist, or reclassify species. Such 12-month findings are to be published promptly in the Federal Register . The Service has made negative 90-day findings on 7 of the 11 petitions to list 16 invertebrates; the Marin blind harvestman, Anza Borrego blind harvestman, Silver Creek blind harvestman, Ross micro-blind harvestman, Ubick's gnaphosid spider, unsilvered fritillary butterfly, Jacalitos jerusalem cricket, Berkeley ground cricket, Jacalitos shield-backed katydid, splendid shield-backed katydid, Antioch shield-backed katydid, San Bernardino Mountains grasshopper, Lompoc grasshopper, Santa Monica Mountains grasshopper, Central Valley grasshopper, and Mexicali lubber grasshopper. The Service finds that the petitioners have not presented substantial information indicating the requested actions for these 16 taxa may be warranted. In addition, the Service has made negative 12-month findings on 4 of the 11 petitions for 4 invertebrates; the Fairmont micro-blind harvestman, Edgewood Park micro-blind harvestman, Yontocket ringlet butterfly, and Opler's longhorn moth. The Service has been assessing the status of these four taxa since their designation as category 2 candidates. Minimal new information was received or available to the Service beyond that used to assign these invertebrates to category 2. As a result, the Service determines that the petitioned action is not warranted at this time. These four taxa will be retained in category 2.
