FR940705-2-00188 FR940705-2-00091 Appendix C-III. Saccharomyces Host-Vector Systems Experiments involving Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Saccharomyces uvarum host-vector systems, with the exception of experiments listed in Appendix C-III-A, are exempt from the NIH Guidelines. For these exempt experiments, BL1 physical containment is recommended. For large scale fermentation experiments, the appropriate physical containment conditions need be no greater than those for the host organism unmodified by recombinant DNA techniques; the Institutional Biosafety Committee can specify higher containment if deemed necessary. Appendix C-III-A. Exceptions The following categories are not exempt from the NIH Guidelines: (i) Experiments described in Section III-A which require Institutional Biosafety Committee approval, RAC review, and NIH approval before initiation, (ii) experiments described in Section III-B which require Institutional Biosafety Committee and NIH/ORDA approval before initiation, (iii) experiments involving DNA from Class 3, 4, or 5 organisms (see Appendix C-VI-A) or cells known to be infected with these agents may be conducted under containment conditions specified in Section III-C&hyph;2 with prior Institutional Biosafety Committee review and approval, (iv) large scale experiments (e.g., more than 10 liters of culture), and (v) experiments involving the deliberate cloning of genes coding for the biosynthesis of molecules toxic for vertebrates (see Appendix F). Appendix C-IV. Bacillus subtilis or Bacillus licheniformis Host-Vector Systems Any asporogenic Bacillus subtilis or asporogenic Bacillus licheniformis strain which does not revert to a spore-former with a frequency greater than 10 ^7 may be used for cloning DNA with the exception of those experiments listed in Appendix C-IV-A. For these exempt laboratory experiments, BL1 physical containment conditions are recommended. For large scale fermentation experiments, the appropriate physical containment conditions need be no greater than those for the host organism unmodified by recombinant DNA techniques; the Institutional Biosafety Committee can specify higher containment if it deems necessary. Appendix C-IV-A. Exceptions The following categories are not exempt from the NIH Guidelines: (i) Experiments described in Section III-A which require Institutional Biosafety Committee approval, RAC review, and NIH approval before initiation, (ii) experiments described in Section III-B which require Institutional Biosafety Committee and NIH/ORDA approval before initiation, (iii) experiments involving DNA from Class 3, 4, or 5 organisms (see Appendix C-VI-A) or cells known to be infected with these agents may be conducted under containment conditions specified in Section III-C&hyph;2 with prior Institutional Biosafety Committee review and approval, (iv) large scale experiments (e.g., more than 10 liters of culture), and (v) experiments involving the deliberate cloning of genes coding for the biosynthesis of molecules toxic for vertebrates (see Appendix F). Appendix C-V. Extrachromosomal Elements of Gram Positive Organisms Recombinant DNA molecules derived entirely from extrachromosomal elements of the organisms listed below (including shuttle vectors constructed from vectors described in Appendix C), propagated and maintained in organisms listed below are exempt from these NIH Guidelines. Bacillus amyloliquefaciens Bacillus amylosacchariticus Bacillus anthracis Bacillus aterrimus Bacillus brevis Bacillus cereus Bacillus globigii Bacillus licheniformis Bacillus megaterium Bacillus natto Bacillus niger Bacillus pumilus Bacillus sphaericus Bacillus stearothermophilis Bacillus subtilis Bacillus thuringiensis Clostridium acetobutylicum Lactobacillus casei Listeria grayi Listeria monocytogenes
