FR940505-1-00490 FR940505-1-00012 (iii) For replacement equipment only, the emission limitation that is based on the maximum degree of reduction achievable, taking into account environmental, energy, and economic impacts by each class or category of source. (2) In making a BACT determination for a nonattainment pollutant, the EPA may consider the overall effect on other nonattainment pollutants. In some cases the lowest emission rates may be required for one or more nonattainment pollutants at the cost of not achieving the lowest emission rate for other nonattainment pollutants. The EPA shall discuss these considerations in the Preliminary Decision prepared pursuant to the provisions of ยง52.3001(d)(3). (3) Under no circumstances shall BACT be determined to be less stringent than the emission control required by an applicable provision of district, state or federal laws or regulations unless the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the EPA that such limitations are not achievable. Best available retrofit control technology (BARCT) means an emission limitation that is based upon the maximum degree of reduction achievable, taking into account environmental, energy, and economic impacts by each class or category of source. The criteria for BARCT are specified in ``California Clean Air Act Guidance for the Determination of Reasonably Available Control Technology and Best Available Retrofit Control Technology,'' California Air Resources Board, April 1990. California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) means the California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code, Section 21000, et seq. Cargo carriers means trains dedicated to a specific source and marine vessels while docked at a specific source. Certified means emission reduction credits which have been evaluated under the requirements of a district banking rule. Commence means that the owner or operator has all of the necessary permits or approvals required under state and federal air quality control laws, district rules and regulations, and those air quality control laws and regulations which are part of the California State Implementation Plan or any applicable Federal Implementation Plan, and has: (1) Begun, or caused to begin, a continuous program of on-site construction of the source, to be completed in a reasonable time; or (2) Entered into binding agreements or contractual obligations which cannot be cancelled or modified without substantial loss to the owner or operator, to undertake a program of actual construction of the source to be completed within a reasonable time. Complete application means an application for an Authority to Construct a new or modified emission unit that, on the basis of the criteria of 40 CFR part 70.5(c) of the Federal Operating Permit Program and the applicable requirements of this section, contains adequate information for the EPA to evaluate the application for compliance with the applicable requirements of this section. Such determination shall be made after receipt of payment of an application filing fee, as determined by the EPA, that reflects the costs to the EPA to review the application and issue permits. Construction means any physical change or change in the method of operation (including fabrication, erection, installation, demolition, or modification of an emissions unit) which would result in a change in actual emissions. Contiguous property means two or more parcels of land with a common boundary or separated solely by a public roadway or other public right-of-way. Cost-effective means a cost per unit of emissions reduction which is lower than or equivalent to the maximum unit costs, for the regulated pollutant or source category, of the same emission reduction through the use of Best Available Control Technology, calculated in current year dollars in accordance with methodology and criteria specified in the EPA OAQPS Control Cost Manual (EPA 450/3&hyph;90&hyph;006). District means the local air pollution permitting agency with jurisdiction within the area in which this section applies. ``District'' may also refer to the geographic area in which the local permitting agency has jurisdiction. Emission decrease means any modification which would result in a decrease of actual emissions. The emission decrease shall be calculated by subtracting the proposed emissions from the historic actual emissions. Emission reduction credits (ERC) means reductions of actual emissions from an emission unit that are registered with the district in accordance with the requirements of a district banking rule. Emissions limitation means one or a combination of permit conditions specific to an emissions unit which restricts its maximum emissions, at or below the emissions associated with the maximum design capacity. An emissions limitation shall be: (1) Contained in the latest Authority to Construct and contained in or enforceable by the latest district or federal permit to operate for the emission unit; and (2) Enforceable on a daily basis or quarterly basis pursuant to provisions of ยง52.3001(d)(7)(ii). Emission limitations should be stated in a manner consistent with testing procedures. Emission limitations may be expressed as enforceable design, operational, or equipment standard pursuant to provisions of ยง52.3001(d)(7)(iii); and (3) No less stringent that the applicable emission standards given at 40 CFR part 60, Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources, and 40 CFR part 61, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants. Emissions unit means an identifiable operation or piece of process equipment such as an article, machine, or other contrivance which controls, emits, may emit, or results in the emissions of any regulated air pollutant or hazardous air pollutant (HAP), directly or as fugitive emissions. An emissions unit shall not include the open burning of agricultural biomass. Enforceable means verifiable and legally binding. Enforceable, for the purposes of federal requirements, means all federally enforceable limitations and conditions enforceable by the EPA, including NSPS; NESHAP; requirements within any applicable State Implementation Plan; any permit requirement established pursuant to 40 CFR 52.21, 40 CFR 51.160 through 166, or 40 CFR 70. EPA means an official of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or his or her authorized representative.
