FR940204-0-00048 FR940204-0-00020 Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary designate critical habitat concurrently with determining a species to be endangered or threatened. Furthermore, the Service is to designate critical habitat on the basis of the best scientific and commercial data available after taking into consideration the economic and other relevant impacts of specifying an area as critical habitat (16 U.S.C. 1533(b)(2)). In the case of the tidewater goby, critical habitat is not presently determinable. A final designation of critical habitat requires detailed information on the possible economic effects of such a designation. The Service does not currently have sufficient information needed to perform the economic analysis. A delay in the determination to list the species to gather additional information and perform analyses would not serve the needs of the species. Information is needed on actions that may be proposed within tidewater goby habitat and the degree to which a designation of critical habitat may affect these actions over and above effects associated with listing the goby as endangered (i.e., the jeopardy standard alone). It will also be necessary to determine how and to what extent application of the destruction/adverse modification standard will change various Federal actions. These data will be used in the economic analyses to determine the economic effects of critical habitat designation. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain activities. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Endangered Species Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the States and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against taking and harm are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to ensure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. A number of Federal agencies or departments control lands that support the tidewater goby. These include the Department of Defense (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, and U.S. Marine Corps), Department of Agriculture (U.S. Forest Service), and Department of the Interior (National Park Service and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service). Federal actions that may be affected by this determination would be the funding or authorization of projects within the species' habitat, including the construction of roads, bridges, and dredging projects subject to section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1344 et seq. ) and section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 (33 U.S.C. 401 et seq. ), and special use permits. Other Federal actions that are subject to environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act would also require consultation with the Service. Projects on federally owned land would also be subject to the provisions of section 7 of the Endangered Species Act.
