FR940916-1-00005 FR940916-1-00002 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 20 RIN 3150&hyph;AF08 Frequency of Medical Examinations for Use of Respiratory Protection Equipment AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) proposes to amend its regulations concerning the frequency at which medical examinations are required to ensure the safe use of respiratory protection equipment. Section 10 CFR 20.1703 (a)(3)(v) currently requires the determination by a physician prior to initial fitting of respirators, and at least every 12 months thereafter, that the individual user is physically able to use the respiratory protection equipment. The proposed revision would require determination by a physician prior to initial fitting of respirators and either every 12 months thereafter or periodically at a frequency determined by a physician, that the individual user is medically fit to use the respiratory protection equipment. DATES: Comment period expires November 15, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but the Commission is able to assure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Mail written comments to: Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Service Branch. Deliver comments to: 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm Federal workdays. Copies of public comments received may be examined at: the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Alan K. Roecklein, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 415&hyph;6223. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The requirement for an annual medical examination to ensure safe use of respiratory equipment has been in the regulations for some time. The need for these examinations was reconfirmed by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) in ANSI Z88.2&hyph;1992. However, considerable experience with implementation of the requirement has indicated that the annual frequency of medical examinations is costly and could be reduced significantly with no adverse impact on health and safety. The NRC Regulatory Review Group reviewed the existing requirement and concluded that the frequency of medical examinations could be reduced without adverse impact on worker safety. This change was recommended to the Commission as a candidate for licensee burden reduction in SECY&hyph;94&hyph;003 and supported by the Commission by memorandum from Samuel J. Chilk to James R. Taylor dated February 14, 1994. The ANSI reviewed this issue and, in ANSI Z88.6 1984, published a recommendation that the frequency of medical examination should be determined by a physician and should be reduced based on age of the worker. ANSI recommended an examination every 5 years up to age 35, every 2 years up to age 45, and annually thereafter. ANSI also recommended special additional evaluations after prolonged absence from work for medical reasons or whenever a functional disability has been identified. These ANSI recommendations were reconfirmed in ANSI Z88.2&hyph;1992. Consideration was given to changing the time of medical examination to before first field use instead of before initial fitting of respirators, to provide additional relief of regulatory burden. Consideration was also given to codifying the ANSI frequencies as the minimum acceptable frequencies for reexamination. Comment is specifically requested on these considerations. The proposed rule would provide for periodic medical examinations at either the 12-month interval as currently required or optionally at a frequency determined by a physician. Under this proposed rule, licensees could elect to have the physician include in the initial medical examination or at the next 12-month reexamination, a determination of when each individual would need to be reexamined. Part 20 requires written procedures for use of respiratory protection equipment. Consequently, current procedures and license conditions likely include the annual frequency and a change in procedures or license conditions would be needed to implement a change in frequency of reexamination. The recommended frequencies contained in the ANSI standard may provide guidance on determining an appropriate frequency of reexamination which may be useful to physicians in determining frequency of reexamination. However, the Commission is not endorsing this standard. Rather the Commission believes that the frequency of reexamination should be determined by the examining physician. The proposed rule uses the terminology ``medically fit'' rather than ``physically able'' to use a respirator. This terminology has been substituted because it more accurately reflects the purpose of the medical examination. ANSI Z88.6&hyph;1984 provides guidelines for the scope of an examination which would demonstrate that a worker was medically fit to use respiratory protection devices. The guidelines include consideration of pulmonary function, cardiovascular factors, neurological and psychological conditions, among others. The NRC staff believes that these guidelines provide an acceptable working definition of the term ``medically fit.''
