FR940613-2-00085 FR940613-2-00052 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste; Meeting The Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste (ACNW) will hold its 65th meeting on Wednesday and Thursday, June 29 and 30, 1994, in Room P&hyph;110, 7920 Norfolk Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance. The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows: Wednesday, June 29, 1994_8:30 a.m. until 6 p.m. Thursday, June 30, 1994_8:30 a.m. until 6 p.m. During this meeting the Committee plans to consider the following: A. Proposed Amendments to 10 CFR part 60, on Disposal of High-Level Radioactive Wastes in Geologic Repositories_Design Basis Events for the Geologic Repository Operations Area_ Review the proposed amendments with emphasis on the definition of ``important to safety'' for certain structures, systems, and components. B. Problems in the Siting of the Proposed Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Facility at Martinsville, IL _Discuss the failed attempt to site a LLW Disposal facility at Martinsville, IL with participants in the process, with a focus on lessons learned from the experience. C. Substantially Complete Containment _Hear a briefing by the NRC staff on this topic; interest lies in exploring current views on reliance placed on geologic versus engineered barriers in an HLW repository. D. Tectonics of the Proposed HLW Repository at Yucca Mountain _Hear a briefing from representatives of the State of Nevada on its concerns related to and investigations of tectonic and magmatic processes at the proposed Yucca Mountain site. E. Update on the Systematic Regulatory Analysis _Discuss with the NRC staff the current status of the systematic regulatory analysis and current products from this effort such as the License Application Review Plan and the Standard Format and Content Guide for an HLW Repository. F. Compatibility and Adequacy of Agreement States Programs _Discuss among the ACNW issues associated with the disposal of LLW in Agreement States. G. Preparation of ACNW Reports _Prepare ACNW reports on issues considered during this and previous meetings. H. Future Activities _Discuss topics proposed for consideration by the full Committee and working groups. I. Miscellaneous _Discuss miscellaneous matters related to the conduct of Committee activities and organizational activities and complete discussion of matters and specific issues that were not completed during previous meetings, as time and availability of information permit. Procedures for the conduct of and participation in ACNW meetings were published in the Federal Register on June 6, 1988 (53 FR 20699). In accordance with these procedures, oral or written statements may be presented by members of the public, electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public, and questions may be asked only by members of the Committee, its consultants, and staff. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the ACNW Executive Director, Dr. John T. Larkins, as far in advance as practicable so that appropriate arrangements can be made to allow the necessary time during the meeting for such statements. Use of still, motion picture, and television cameras during this meeting may be limited to selected portions of the meeting as determined by the ACNW Chairman. Information regarding the time to be set aside for this purpose may be obtained by contacting the ACNW executive Director prior to the meeting. In view of the possibility that the schedule for ACNW meetings may be adjusted by the Chairman as necessary to facilitate the conduct of the meeting, persons planning to attend should check with the ACNW Executive Director if such rescheduling would result in major inconvenience. Further information regarding topics to be discussed, whether the meeting has been cancelled or rescheduled, the Chairman's ruling on requests for the opportunity to present oral statements and the time allotted therefor can be obtained by contacting the ACNW Executive Director, Dr. John T. Larkins (telephone 301&hyph;492&hyph;4516), between 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. e.s.t. Dated: June 7, 1994. Andrew L. Bates, Advisory Committee Management Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14257 Filed 6&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
