FR941107-1-00028 FR941107-1-00007 Many legal proceedings based on violations of federal, state or other laws or rules or SRO rules result in orders or sanctions that remain in place for indefinite periods. For example, many injunctions, cease-and-desist orders and industry bars are imposed permanently and remain in force until further judicial or administrative action is taken to vacate the order. 110 Should the current five-year disclosure period be maintained, with the exception that any injunction, cease-and-desist order, industry bar or other continuing order or bar would be required to be disclosed for as long as the designated person is subject to the order or sanction, even when the order or sanction was imposed more than five years ago? Would that have the effect of providing sufficient disclosure of the conduct most relevant to investors' voting decisions? If such a provision were adopted, would it be appropriate to provide some outer limit (such as 10 or 15 years) after which disclosure could be discontinued? 110 For a discussion of disclosure where a court grants relief from a permanent injunction based on conduct occurring after imposition of the order, see n. 65, above. F. Form and Schedule Amendments As outlined above, 111 legal proceedings disclosure requirements vary among certain forms and schedules. The Commission proposes to amend the requirements found in Schedules 13D, 13E&hyph;3, 14A 112 and 14D&hyph;1 and the Regulation A offering circular (Model B) to conform with those of Regulation S&hyph;K Item 401. 113 The Commission solicits comment as to whether any schedule or form identified above should not be conformed with proposed legal proceedings requirements, and requests that commenters provide the specific rationale for any exclusion recommended. 111 Section II, above. 112 This proposed change would only affect disclosure relating to participants in election contests, which currently requires disclosure only of criminal convictions within the past 10 years. See current Item 5(b)(1)(iii) of Schedule 14A. Of course, all proxy statements involving the election of directors would be affected by the rule proposals generally because Item 7(b) requires that the information specified in Item 401 be included with respect to directors, officers and director nominees. 113 The changes to these forms and schedules are found in proposed Item 2(d) of Schedule 13D; proposed Item 2(e) of Schedule 13E&hyph;3; proposed Item 5(b)(1)(iii) of Schedule 14A; proposed Item 2(e) of Schedule 14D&hyph;1; and proposed Part II, Offering Circular Model B, Item 8(d) of Form 1&hyph;A. As discussed above, the Item, forms and schedules identify persons for whom the legal proceedings disclosure is required; 114 the proposed amendments would specify that disclosure is required where the function performed by a designated person is performed by others, directly or indirectly, pursuant to a management or service contract, or otherwise. 115 Comment is requested as to whether there is any class of persons not currently subject to legal proceedings disclosure that should be. For example, should disclosure relating to promoters or control persons be required beyond the current 12 month period following an initial public offering, thus requiring disclosure in Exchange Act annual reports? Is there any class of persons currently identified as designated persons that should not be? Should the Regulation S&hyph;K Item 401 provisions be expanded to require disclosure relating to persons participating in the offering of a penny stock if the disclosure document is furnished in connection with such an offering? 116 114 See n. 22, above. 115 For a discussion of disclosure obligations relating to registrants that are partnerships or trusts, or whose management services are provided by outside parties pursuant to management contracts, service agreements or otherwise, see introduction to Section III, above. 116 Section 504 of the Penny Stock Reform Act [Title V of the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act, Pub. L. No. 101&hyph;429] amended Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(6)] to authorize the Commission to bar or take other administrative action against a ``person participating in the offering of penny stock.'' As amended, Section 15(b)(6) defines a person participating in the offering of a penny stock to include ``any person acting as any promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer, or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.'' Finally, the Commission solicits comment as to whether legal proceedings disclosure provisions should be added to any forms, schedules or other documents where not required currently. For example, should legal proceedings involving persons issuing securities pursuant to an exemption under Regulation B, 117 relating to fractional undivided interests in oil and gas rights, be required to be disclosed in the offering sheet delivered to investors? 117 17 CFR 230.300&hyph;230.346.
