FR940722-0-00134 FR940722-0-00019 199. Anchorage Telephone Company argues in a petition for reconsideration of the Second Report and Order that our definition of a rural telephone company should include telephone companies that are owned by governmental authorities. Anchorage contends that Congress meant to mandate special consideration not only for telephone carriers serving rural areas but also for all municipally-owned telcos, even those with wholly or predominantly urban service areas. 176 This argument is based on its interpretation of the Senate bill that was antecedent to the enacted Budget Act. Anchorage argues that the Senate bill containing the prototype of a mandate for special consideration for rural telephone companies directed the FCC to grant ``rural program licenses'' to ``qualified'' common carriers and explicitly said that the category of ``qualified'' carriers included all state-owned and municipally-owned telephone companies. Anchorage further states that the report of the conference committee that drafted the Budget Act declares that the Senate's ``findings'' are incorporated by reference. 177 Anchorage also asserts that without the aid of special assistance it and most other state-owned and municipal telcos won't be able to purchase spectrum licenses at auction because it is politically infeasible for them to generate and retain enough surplus revenue to fund such investments, due to popular aversion to increases in taxes or telephone rates. 178 176 Anchorage Petition at 2&hyph;3. 177 Id. 178 Id. at 4&hyph;5. 200. We find no merit in Anchorage's arguments. There is no specific evidence that Congress intended the term ``rural telephone companies'' to include all state or municipally-owned telephone companies. To the contrary, the fact that an antecedent bill contained an explicit mandate for preferential treatment of government-owned telephone companies that was deleted from the enacted bill could just as easily be interpreted as an indication that Congress rejected such a rule. Further, we disagree that state and municipal governments lack the means to participate successfully in auctions. Such governments have substantial capabilities to raise funds through private financing, bond offerings and taxation. Therefore, our definition of a rural telephone company will not encompass telephone companies that are owned by government authorities. 5. Definition of an Affiliate 201. Many of the eligibility criteria set forth above are based on the size of the entity applying for a broadband PCS license and/or seeking special treatment under our designated entity policies. Each of these size standards ($125 million gross revenues/$500 million total assets/$100 million personal net worth, $40 million gross revenues/$40 million personal net worth, and 100,000 access lines) requires applicants to include, among other parties, ``affiliates'' when calculating their attributable gross revenues, total assets, net worth or access lines. This affiliation requirement is intended to prevent entities that, for all practical purposes, do not meet these size standards from receiving benefits targeted to smaller entities. 179 We adopt specific affiliation rules for purposes of applying these eligibility criteria based in part on the Small Business Administration's affiliation rules. 180 179 See, e.g., Second Report and Order at ¶272. 180 See 13 CFR §121.401 (1993) (formerly at 13 CFR §121.3 (1989)). 202. In the Second Report and Order, we referenced the SBA's affiliation rules for purposes of defining generally whether an entity qualifies as a small business and gave examples of how the affiliation rules would be applied. We continue to believe that the SBA's affiliation rules provide a solid foundation on which to build our own affiliation rules for purposes of the small business definition for broadband PCS and for the other size standards adopted in this order. 181 Accordingly, for purposes of these eligibility restrictions, we will again borrow from the SBA's rules for outside affiliations. In addition, to ensure that applicants have clear guidance concerning these matters, we shall include in our rules more detailed information concerning the circumstances in which an entity will be deemed an affiliate of the applicant. 181 SBA's affiliation rules were promulgated under the authority in Section 3 of the Small Business Act of 1953, as amended, 15 U.S.C. §632, which provides that, to be eligible for benefits provided by SBA and other agencies, a ``small-business concern'' must be ``independently owned and operated.'' See Small Business Size Standards, 54 FR 52634 (December 21, 1989). 203. Like the eligibility rules we have adopted here governing size limitations for broadband PCS, the SBA's rules provide that size determinations shall include the applicant and all of its ``affiliates.'' 182 At the outset, before considering in more detail all the types of affiliations that might exist when guided by the SBA rules, we review briefly our own rules described above, concerning attributable interests. Those rules provide that, so long as a control group is established, the gross revenues, assets or net worth of an investor in a PCS applicant or licensee will be attributed to the applicant or licensee only if the investor holds more than 25 percent of the applicant's passive equity or is part of a control group that controls the applicant. Therefore, only where an investor has such attributable interests in the broadband PCS applicant or licensee do we need to examine whether the investor has a relationship with other persons or outside entities that rises to the level of an affiliation with the PCS applicant, and if so, whether the affiliate's revenues or net worth, when aggregated with the applicant's, exceed our size eligibility thresholds. 182 See 13 CFR §121.401(a). 204. General Principles of Affiliation. When such an attributable interest exists, an affiliation under the SBA rules would arise, first, from ``control'' of an entity or the ``power to control it.'' Thus, under the SBA rules, entities are affiliates of each other when either directly or indirectly (i) one concern controls or has the power to control the other, or (ii) a third party or parties controls or has the power to control both. 13 CFR §121.401(a)(2)(i), (ii). In determining control, the SBA's rules provide generally that every business concern is considered to have one or more parties who directly or indirectly control or have the power to control it. The rules, in addition, provide specific examples of where control resides under various scenarios, such as through stock ownership or occupancy of director, officer or management positions. The rules also articulate general principles of control, and note, for example, that control may be affirmative or negative and that it is immaterial whether control is exercised so long as the power to control exists. 13 CFR §121.401(c)(1). Second, an affiliation, under SBA rules, may also arise out of an ``identity of interest'' between or among parties. 13 CFR §121.401(a)(2)(iii), (d). We shall adopt these same general provisions in our affiliation rules for broadband PCS.
