FR940324-2-00081 FR940324-2-00044 Consequences of Late Submission: Applications must be received by the above receipt date to be accepted for review. An application received after the deadline may be acceptable if it carries a legible proof-of-mailing date (assigned by the carrier) and that date is not later than one week prior to the deadline date. However, private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing. Part III_Program Priority Areas Module A: High Risk Youth Introduction: CSAP will provide support in the high risk youth priority area for projects that will demonstrate and assess the effectiveness of comprehensive strategies to prevent and/or reduce the use of alcohol, tobacco and other drugs (ATOD), including inhalants and steroids, among youth at high risk for such behaviors. This program priority area takes several major steps forward from CSAP's earlier High Risk Youth Demonstration Grants Program. Specifically: All programs in this priority area are to include strategies for the prevention and reduction of tobacco and alcohol use among high risk youth in addition to strategies for the prevention of use of any other drugs that may be included or emphasized in the program. It strongly recommends a multiple risk factor approach for designing prevention programs. With the understanding that substance use is a function of multiple factors in multiple risk factor domains (viz., the individual, the family, the school, the peer group, the neighborhood/community, and society), a multiple risk factor approach is considered necessary to respond comprehensively and effectively to the problem of substance use among youth. The program further differs from its predecessor in that applicants are asked to involve youth and others in the community both in identifying the relevant risk factors for ATOD use that are to be addressed and in selecting appropriate interventions to address these risk factors. It also requires all programs that serve youth 12 years of age and over to ascertain the effectiveness of their intervention strategies in reducing the incidence and prevalence of alcohol, tobacco, and/or other drug use. Programs serving youth 12 years and over are required to obtain incidence measures in addition to assessing the effectiveness of the intervention strategies in reducing the risk factors or enhancing the protective factors on which the project is focused. This will be the first time CSAP will be receiving data on common outcome variables, specifically on the incidence and reduction of use for alcohol and tobacco and other drugs. These common outcomes will be generated by programs using culturally tailored strategies and addressing different combinations of risk factors. It also tests the hypothesis that factors that place youth at risk for ATOD use may also place them at risk for engaging in violent acts. The high risk youth priority area also has a special interest in effective strategies that are designed to positively influence youth by the time they reach 8th grade. Recent studies lead us to believe that it is important to intervene with prevention programs prior to 8th grade because the inception of substance use frequently occurs at about this age. CSAP also has a special interest in youth residing in public housing. Program Goals and Objectives: One of CSAP's most fundamental program goals is the prevention of ATOD use among high risk youth. This implies the elimination of the problems associated with such use, such as engaging in acts that interfere with the achievement, maintenance, and restoration of optimal health at the individual, family, and community levels. As part of its mission to decrease the incidence and prevalence of ATOD use and resulting problems, CSAP is dedicated to identifying and disseminating strategies that prevent or delay the use of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and other drugs among children and youth. To fulfill this goal, CSAP has established the following outcome objectives to demonstrate the effectiveness of the projects supported under this Announcement: 1. To decrease the incidence of ATOD use among high risk youth by (a) Identifying and reducing factors in the individual, the family and significant others, the school, the peer group, the neighborhood/community, and society that place youth at high risk for ATOD use; (b) Enhancing factors in the individual, the family and significant others, the school, the peer group, the neighborhood/community, and society that may strengthen youth resiliency and protect youth from using alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs. 2. To delay and reduce the consumption of alcoholic beverages, and the use of tobacco products and other drugs among high risk youth.
