FR940826-1-00077 FR940826-1-00012 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 575 [Docket No. 91&hyph;68; Notice 04] RIN 2127&hyph;AC64 Consumer Information Regulations; Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Rollover Prevention AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking; notice to extend comment period. SUMMARY: In response to petitions submitted by Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety and the American Automobile Manufacturers Association, this notice extends the comment period for a proposal to require manufacturers of passenger cars, light multipurpose passenger vehicles, and light trucks to provide consumers with information on the resistance of those vehicles to rollover. NHTSA believes that commenters need more time to formulate their responses because of the complexity of the issues in the NPRM. Moreover, to the extent that persons commenting on a series of public meetings on consumer safety information issues discuss rollover resistance information, preparation of those comments and the comments on the proposal will be facilitated by specifying the same comment closing date for both. Accordingly, the agency has decided to extend the comment period from August 29, 1994 to October 21, 1994, the current comment closing date on the public meeting issues. DATES: Comments on the notice of proposed rulemaking, Docket 91&hyph;68, Notice 4 must be received by October 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to Docket No. 91&hyph;68, Notice 3 and be submitted to: Docket Section, Room 5109, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street S.W., Washington, D.C. 20590. Docket hours are 9:30 to 4 pm. Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Gayle Dalrymple, Office of Rulemaking, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590 (202&hyph;366&hyph;5559). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On June 28, 1994, NHTSA published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) in the Federal Register that would require vehicle manufacturers to provide consumers with information on the vehicle's resistance to rollover, in the form of a label that would be affixed to the vehicle and information in the owner's manual (59 FR 33254). The notice contained an analysis of methods for objectively measuring vehicle stability. It also referenced an extensive discussion of rollover statistics in an ``Addendum to Technical Assessment Paper'' that was placed in the docket. In addition to proposing methods to be used to generate the information on the label, the NPRM requested comments on the size, location, permanence, and content of the information label. The notice requested comments on the proposed regulation and specified a comment due date of August 29, 1994. On July 26, 1994, NHTSA published a notice (59 FR 38025) announcing a series of four public meetings on the general subject of vehicle safety information for consumers. The agency is seeking comment at those meetings on what kinds of safety information would be useful to consumers and how that information should be presented. The last of the public meetings will be held on October 6, 1994. The comment due date for public comments on the issues raised at those meetings is October 21, 1994. Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety (Advocates) submitted a petition dated August 4, 1994, asking that the comments period for the NPRM be extended to October 21. Advocates requested the extension primarily because it believes that the public meetings are ``substantively connected'' to the rollover rulemaking. Advocates believes that the commenters on the June 28 NPRM should have the benefit of the statements presented at each of the public meetings. It suggested that the agency will receive better submissions from commenters who desire to file comments in both dockets. In addition, Advocates requested the extension because it needs additional time to resolve the ``highly technical'' issues raised by the use of engineering metrics for generating consumer information. The American Automobile Manufacturers Association (AAMA) submitted a petition dated August 9, 1994, also asking the agency to extend the comment period for the NPRM. The AAMA requested the extension because it believes that the NPRM and other available agency information are insufficient to permit a meaningful analysis of the proposal. The AAMA requested additional information and an extension of the comment period to the date 60 days after the information is provided. After reviewing the petitions, NHTSA agrees with the petitioners that extending the comment closing date is desirable, given the complexity of the issues underlying the NPRM. NHTSA also accepts Advocates' reasoning that the public meeting may generate issues and information that would aid the public in preparing comments on this rulemaking. Based on the above considerations, the agency believes that there is good cause to extend the comment period an additional 53 days and that this decision is consistent with the public interest. Accordingly, the agency has decided to extend the comment period until October 21, 1994. However, the agency wants to stress that persons commenting about issues raised at the public meetings should not focus on the limited issue of how to present rollover information. Instead, they should address the larger issues of what additional safety information NHTSA can provide to the public and how NHTSA can better present consumer information from all the agency's safety activities. Comments focusing on rollover information should be addressed to the docket for this rulemaking. NHTSA believes that it is unnecessary to grant a further extension in response to AAMA's petition. The extension to October 21 should provide sufficient additional time to complete analysis of even the complex issues presented in the NPRM. The additional information that the AAMA sought in its petition is, and has always been, publicly available, either by careful reading of the documents in Docket 91&hyph;68, Notices 1 and 3, or through direct correspondence with the NHTSA personnel who conducted the statistical analyses. Further, much of this information is comparatively minor and does not significantly affect commenters' ability to conduct analysis or prepare meaningful comments on the agency's proposal. Issued on: August 22, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21011 Filed 8&hyph;22&hyph;94; 4:32 pm] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
