FR940513-2-00242 FR940513-2-00096 (4) A RC/RMC/RO that represents more than one project may apply on behalf of some or all of the projects it represents. In that case, an individual project represented by the organization may not apply for technical assistance funding for the same activities that are included in the application submitted by the larger organization. (5) A city-wide/tribal-wide organization (consisting of members from RCs/RMCs/ROs who reside in housing projects that are owned and operated by the same HA) may represent more than one RC/RMC/RO within a HA. In that case, an individual project represented by the city-wide/tribal-wide organization that has received technical assistance funding of $100,000 in a previous year may not receive additional funding based on the application submitted by the organization. (6) A NRO/SRO/RRO that is organized to provide technical assistance to RCs/RMCs/ROs may receive grants up to $100,000. H. Eligible Activities Activities that may be funded and carried out by an eligible RC/RMC/RO or NRO/RRO/SRO include any combination of, but are not limited to, the following: (1) Resident Capacity Building: (a) Training Board members in community organizing, Board development and leadership training, and (b) Determining the feasibility of the Tenant Opportunity Program initiatives for a specific project or projects. (2) Resident Management: (a) Start-up activities for a RC/RMC/RO, as well as building and strengthening its capacity as an organization (e.g., conduct democratic elections for officers of the organization, establish operating/planning committees and block building captains to carry out specific organizational tasks, develop by-laws, etc.); developing a cohesive relationship between the residents and the local community; and building a partnership with the HA. (b) Training residents, as potential employees of an RMC, in skills directly related to the operation, management, maintenance and financial systems of a project; (c) Training of residents with respect to fair housing and equal opportunity requirements; and (d) Gaining assistance in negotiating management contracts and designing a long-range planning system. (3) Resident Management Business Development (a) Economic development training related to resident management and technical assistance for job training and placement in RMC developments; (b) Technical assistance and training in business development related to resident management through: •Feasibility and market studies; •Development of business plans; •Affirmative outreach activities; •Innovative financing methods including revolving loan funds; and (c) Legal advice in establishing resident management required business entities. (4) Partnerships: (a) Establish and provide training related to the Partnership Paradigm Technical Assistance (PPTA) model to residents in each community. This partnership would bring together residents, the HA, and HUD in an effort to create a community-based process that offers technical assistance and training related to building the partnership between the residents, the HA, and HUD, and to oversee and carry out activities in the TOP program. (b) Other partnerships developed by the local residents/HA in the community are also allowed under this program. (5) Social Support Services (such as self-sufficiency and youth initiatives): (a) Feasibility studies to determine training and social services needs; (b) Coordination of social services; (c) Resident management training for programs such as child care, early childhood development, parent involvement, volunteer services, parenting skills, and before- and after-school programs; (d) Resident management training programs on health, nutrition, and safety; (e) Resident management workshops for youth services, child abuse and neglect prevention, and tutorial services, in partnership with community-based organizations, such as local Boys and Girls Clubs, YMCA/YWCA, Boys/Girls Scouts, Campfire and Big Brother/Big Sisters, etc. (f) Resident management training in the development of strategies to successfully implement youth programs. For example, assessing the needs and problems of the youth, improving existing youth programs, and training youth and RMCs/RCs/ROs on youth initiatives. (6) General: (a) Training in resident management-related skills, such as computer skills, clerical (payroll clerk/records management); (b) Resident management-related employment training and counseling; (c) Training in accessing other funding sources; (d) Hiring trainers or other experts (resident grantees must ensure that any training is provided by a qualified housing management specialist, a community development specialist, the HA, or other sources knowledgeable about the program);
