FR940217-1-00040 FR940217-1-00008 _The amount and nature of investment in the national telecommunications infrastructure expected as a result of the use of the band for the particular service(s); _The kind and number of jobs that would be created as a result of the licensing of particular services; _Any other available data concerning the economic growth expected to result from the allocation for the particular service(s). Other issues may be included by the parties. All recommendations or proposed rules must comply with International Telecommunication Union treaty obligations. III. Potential Interests and Participants The Commission has identified the following interests as those most likely to be significantly affected by the proposed rules: (a) Developers, manufacturers, and licensees of Local Multipoint Distribution Service; (b) Pending mobile-satellite applicants in the 1610&hyph;1625.5/2483.5&hyph;2500 MHz band filing by the June 2, 1991 cutoff date for these applications; (c) Fixed-satellite service applicants and service providers. The following have tentatively been identified as potentially affected interests should the Commission proceed with a negotiated rulemaking: Suite 12 Group, Bell Atlantic Companies, Video/Phone Systems, Inc., Endgate Company, Gigahertz Equipment Company, David Sarnoff Research Center, The University of Texas System, NASA, Ellipsat Corporation, Motorola Satellite Communications, Inc., Constellation Communications, Inc., Loral/Qualcomm Satellite Service, Inc., TRW, Inc., American Mobile Satellite Corporation, Hughes Space and Communications Company, a representative of public television and educational parties commenting in CC Docket 92&hyph;297, Comsearch, Inc., and the Domestic Facilities Division, Common Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications Commission. IV. Formation of the Negotiating Committee A. Procedure for Establishing an Advisory Committee Under FACA, an Advisory Committee may be established only after consultation with the General Services Administration (GSA) and the filing of a charter with Congress. The Commission will prepare a charter and initiate the requisite consultation process prior to formation of the Committee and the commencement of negotiations. B. Participants The number of participants in the group is estimated to be about 20 and should not exceed 25. A number larger than this could make it difficult to conduct efficient negotiations. Each interest will have the opportunity to be adequately represented, although this does not necessarily mean that each potentially affected entity will have its own representative. Further, we must be satisfied that the group, as a whole, reflects a proper balance and mix of interests. In this respect, we are especially interested in receiving nominations to participate from public interest advocacy groups, users groups, and educators and academics. Entities that will be significantly affected by the proposed rules and which believe that their interests will not be adequately represented by any entity specified in paragraph 8 above, may apply for, or nominate another entity for, membership on the Committee. Each application for nomination must include: (a) The name of the applicant or nominee and a description of the interests the entity will represent, (b) Evidence that the applicant or nominee is authorized to represent parties related to the interests the entity proposes to represent, (c) A written commitment that the applicant or nominee shall actively participate in good faith in the development of the rules under consideration, (d) The reasons that the entities specified in paragraph 8 do not adequately represent the interests of the entity submitting the application or nomination. If, in response to this Notice, any additional entities request membership or representation in the negotiating group, the Commission will determine whether that entity should be added to the group. The Commission will make that decision based on whether the entity would be substantially affected by the rule and whether that entity is already adequately represented in the negotiating group.
