FR940912-1-00025 FR940912-1-00010 Each treatment process or waste management unit used to comply with the treatment processes standards would be required to provide a design analysis and supporting documentation of the operating characteristics of the treatment process or waste management unit that is based on operation at a representative wastewater stream flow rate and volatile organic concentration under which it would be most difficult to demonstrate compliance (i.e., when air emissions are expected to be highest). Alternatively, the owner or operator may conduct performance tests using the test methods and procedures specified in the proposed rules to demonstrate compliance. In addition, all openings are subject to periodic inspection and repair schedules and monitoring requirements. The proposed rule provides several exceptions to the standards for treatment processes. The owner or operator is considered to be in compliance with the treatment requirements and is exempt from the demonstration that the treatment process achieves the required conditions if the treatment process is one of the following: (1) A hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 70 and 40 CFR part 264, subpart O, or (2) an industrial furnace or boiler burning hazardous waste for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and 40 CFR part 266, subpart H or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H. In addition, if the affected wastewater stream or residual is discharged to an underground injection well for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and 40 CFR part 122, the owner is considered in compliance with the treatment provisions. 7. Standards for Control Devices The proposed standards would require that each control device achieve at least a 95-percent reduction in the total organic content of the vapor stream vented to the device or, in the case of an enclosed combustion device, a reduction of the total organic content of the vapor stream to a level less than or equal to 20 ppmw on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, or provide a minimum residence time and temperature as specified in the proposed standards. Flares would be required to comply with the requirements in 40 CFR part 60, subpart A. With certain exceptions (e.g., some boilers and process heaters and flares), compliance would either be demonstrated through a design analysis that addresses vent stream characteristics and control device operating parameters or performance tests would be conducted using the methods and procedures specified in the proposed rules. In addition, each control device is subject to the enhanced monitoring and continued compliance requirements of section 114(a) of the CAAA, as well as to periodic inspection and specified repair periods. The standards would not require the use of any specific type of equipment or add-on control device. An owner or operator would be allowed the flexibility of choosing the control device that can achieve the performance requirements and is best suited for a control application based on the types and characteristics of the particular organic vapor stream. Furthermore, the standards would not require that each affected waste management unit be vented to a separate control device dedicated to that particular unit. Vent streams from several units can be combined and discharged to a single control device that achieves the required level of performance. H. Modification and Reconstruction Provisions of the proposed standards would apply to existing facilities that are modified or reconstructed after the date of proposal. It is possible that at some facilities, feedstock, catalyst, or reactant substitutions; process equipment changes; or combinations of these two classes of changes above could trigger the part 60 General Provisions related to modification or reconstruction of facilities. Changes of this nature are likely to require both equipment and process changes as well as significant capital expenditures. See section IV.H for a more detailed discussion of these considerations. I. Compliance Testing Test methods and procedures would be required to ensure compliance with the standards proposed for SOCMI wastewater sources. The proposed standards include requirements for demonstrating that an emission point or wastewater stream is being controlled in compliance with control requirements or would not be required to be controlled. Also included are provisions for an initial test for no detectable emissions (i.e., leaks as defined in the standards) from tanks, containers, surface impoundments, closed-vent systems, and process wastewater collection and treatment systems.
