FR941227-1-00022 FR941227-1-00006 A public hearing has been scheduled for Tuesday, April 25, 1995, at 10:00 a.m. in the IRS Auditorium. Because of access restrictions, visitors will not be admitted beyond the Internal Revenue Building lobby more than 15 minutes before the hearing starts. The rules of 26 CFR 601.601(a)(3) apply to the hearing. Persons that wish to present oral comments at the hearing must submit written comments by March 28, 1995, and submit an outline of the topics to be discussed and the time to be devoted to each topic (signed original and eight (8) copies) by April 4, 1995. A period of 10 minutes will be allotted to each person for making comments. An agenda showing the scheduling of the speakers will be prepared after the deadline for receiving outlines has passed. Copies of the agenda will be available free of charge at the hearing. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Alan B. Munro, Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Financial Institutions and Products). However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects in 26 CFR Part 1 Income Taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Proposed Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR part 1 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣* Par. 2. Section 1.1258&hyph;1 is added to read as follows: §1.1258&hyph;1 Netting rule for certain conversion transactions. (a) Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide taxpayers with a method to net certain gains and losses from positions of the same conversion transaction before determining the amount of gain treated as ordinary income under section 1258(a). (b) Netting of gain and loss for identified transactions_ (1) In general. If a taxpayer disposes of or terminates all the positions of an identified netting transaction (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) within a 14-day period in a single taxable year, all gains and losses on those positions realized within that period (other than built-in losses as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) are netted solely for purposes of determining the amount of gain treated as ordinary income under section 1258(a). A taxpayer is treated as disposing of any position that is treated as sold under any provision of the Code or regulations thereunder (for example, under section 1256(a)(1)). (2) Identified netting transaction. For purposes of this section, an identified netting transaction is a conversion transaction (as defined in section 1258(c)) that the taxpayer identifies as an identified netting transaction on its books and records. Identification of each position of the conversion transaction must be made before the close of the day on which the position becomes part of the conversion transaction. No particular form of identification is necessary, but all the positions of a single conversion transaction must be identified as part of the same transaction and must be distinguished from all other positions. (c) Definition of built-in loss. For purposes of this section, built-in loss can arise in two situations. First, built-in loss as defined in section 1258(d)(3)(B) is built-in loss. Second, if a taxpayer realizes gain or loss on any one position of a conversion transaction (for example, under section 1256) and, as of the date that gain or loss is realized, there is unrealized loss in any other position of the conversion transaction that is not disposed of, terminated, or treated as sold under any provision of the Code or regulations thereunder within 14 days of and within the same taxable year as the realization event, that unrealized loss is built-in loss. See paragraph (d) Example 3 of this section.
