FR941202-2-00165 FR941202-2-00098 1.7.1␣Self Supported NELAC The NELAC should be self-sustaining financially insofar as possible. The Interim meetings and Annual Conferences expenses should be financed by registration fees and annual dues for Members and Contributors. These dues and registration fees should be set by the Conference Management and Funding Committee. Other expenses of committee members shall be paid by their organizations. 1.7.2␣EPA Program Support The EPA should provide support for the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program. This program includes oversight and evaluation of accreditation authorities, evaluation and approval of state and federal laboratories, administrative support for the Conference, and publications in the Federal Register . 1.7.3␣Fee Supported State Programs All costs of state accreditation programs may be covered through the collection of application fees from the applicant organizations. Such fees would cover the cost of application and processing, performance evaluation, site assessments, staff training, Conference membership and participation, and other appropriate activities, whether such activities were carried out directly by the state accrediting authority or by contract to a third party. It is recommended that a dual fee structure be implemented by the state authorities. A full fee should be charged applicants for which the state is the primary accreditor. A reduced fee should be charged applicants for which the state is the secondary accreditor. This fee structure is based on the principle that fees shall cover the actual cost of an accreditation. The primary accrediting authority shall incur the full cost of accreditation. The secondary accrediting authority, having accepted the accreditation of another authority through reciprocity, shall only incur the cost of registration of the accredited organization. Costs incurred by a secondary accrediting authority related to supplemental requirements, as described in section 1.8.2, should be reflected in supplemental fees. 1.8␣Reciprocity All member accrediting authorities shall grant reciprocity to all other member accrediting authorities which have met the national standard. This principle of reciprocity is an element of the national accreditation standard, to which all member accrediting authorities are held. Reciprocity among the environmental laboratory accrediting authorities is essential to the success of a national program. The principal accrediting authorities shall be the states. The states or federal agencies which act as accrediting authorities, must accept accreditation from other accrediting authorities in order for a national uniform program to succeed. Three policy issues are presented which are key to acceptance of the reciprocity principle by accrediting authorities. 1.8.1␣Fair Representation of Accrediting Authorities The accrediting authorities must have a fair and representative voice in the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Conference. NELAC shall establish the basic scope, structure, and standards of the national program. Acceptance of the national program, in lieu of state programs, shall be significantly enhanced by fair and meaningful participation of state accrediting authorities in the establishment of the national program. 1.8.2 Scope and Essential Quality Standards The national program (the national consensus standard) adopted by NELAC shall have a scope and essential quality standards which meet or exceed the requirements of the existing state accrediting authorities. NELAC must consider the range of scope and quality systems requirements of the state accrediting authorities in the adoption of a national program. A national program which falls significantly short of the existing state program requirements, shall either not be accepted by state authorities, or shall require such extensive state supplementary requirements as to make the national program irrelevant. It is recognized that certain state authorities shall have special requirements which arise from a unique statutory, economic, or ecological situation. Reciprocity shall be possible if state mandated supplementary requirements are limited in number and complementary to the national program.
