FR940317-1-00154 FR940317-1-00013 (2) Dollars obligated for personnel and tort claims during the prior month and the number of personnel and tort claims paid. (3) Dollars obligated for personnel and tort claims fiscal year to date (through the end of the prior month) and the total number of personnel and tort claims paid fiscal year to date. (4) Dollars deposited during the prior month. Note: Ensure that the report of dollars deposited for the month and year to date includes only funds deposited in one of the claims appropriation accounts. Do not include money recovered through the affirmative claims program and deposited with miscellaneous receipts of the U.S. Treasury. (5) Dollars deposited year to date through prior month. (See note at paragraph (a) (4) of this section.) (b) The report submitted at the beginning of August every year will also include the following: (1) The total CEA furnished to that office up to that time (initial CEA plus or minus any changes). (2) The CEA balance. (3) The amount the office expects to be able to obligate in the remaining 2 months of the fiscal year if sufficient funds are available. (4) The expected surplus or shortfall. (5) A proposed CEA for the next fiscal year and the rationale for any unusual increases. (c) Reports may be submitted telephonically or by facsimile. ยง536.244 Solatia payment. Payment of solatia in accordance with local custom as an expression of sympathy toward a victim or his or her family is common in overseas commands (see DA Pam 27&hyph;162, chap 8). Such payments are not to be made from the claims CEA. These payments are made from local operation and maintenance funds pursuant to directives established by the appropriate commander for the country concerned. This applies even where a command claims service is directed to administer the command's solatia program. Appendix A to Part 536_References Publications and forms referenced in this appendix may be obtained from the National Technical Information Services, U.S. Department of Commerce, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. Required Publications A required publication is a publication that the reader must have to understand the subject. AR 15&hyph;6 Procedures for Investigating Officers and Boards of Officers. AR 27&hyph;40 Litigation. DA Pam 27&hyph;162 Claims. DOD 4500.34&hyph;R Personal Property Traffic Management Regulation. Related Publications A related publication is merely a source of additional information. The user does not have to read it to understand this regulation. AFARS Army Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement AR 1&hyph;75 Administrative and Logistical Support of Oversea Security Assistance Organizations AR 10&hyph;72 Field Operating Agencies of the Judge Advocate General AR 25&hyph;400&hyph;2 The Modern Army Recordkeeping System (MARKS) AR 27&hyph;3 Legal Assistance AR 27&hyph;60
