FR940418-2-00103 FR940418-2-00058 F. Period of Performance The period of performance will be 12 months from the date of grant execution. G. Funding DOL has set aside up to $500,000 to be disbursed. It is anticipated that multiple grant awards will be made with the maximum award amount to be $100,000. H. Option To Extend Based on the availability of funds, effective program operation, and the needs of the Department, the grant(s) may be extended for up to one (1) additional year. Part III_Statement of Work The Department of Labor is soliciting proposals for the development or enhancement of interfirm networks of companies focused on human resource development and related workplace practices in member small businesses. The proposals should discuss the following items: 1. The applicant's vision of how the project will contribute to the Department of Labor's mission to ensure that all Americans have access to the resources they require to successfully manage their job lives, and that U.S. businesses have access to the skilled workers and technical assistance (training, labor-management relations, work restructuring, basic skills, workplace practices) resources they need to successfully compete in a global economy. 2. An analysis of economic, technological and workplace trends, within a consortium's geographic region or industrial sector, that require specific skills or workers in consortium small businesses and demonstrate the need for the learning consortium. 3. Clear articulation of workforce and workplace development goals of the consortium and its member organizations, as tied to identified economic, technological and workplace trends; and a justification of the consortium approach as the best vehicle for accomplishing these goals. 4. The identification of ``best practice'' examples of successful learning consortia both in the U.S. and abroad and suggested incorporation of ``lessons learned'' from those examples in the proposed project. 5. A plan for the development of a learning system for the member firms linked to the internal training and workplace practices needs of the firms as well as to the collective goals and objectives of the network. 6. Identification of training and technical assistance providers involved in the consortium learning system, that can address member firms' workforce and workplace development needs. 7. A plan for the evaluation of outcomes related to the consortium's workforce and workplace development and training goals. 8. The role of the learning consortium in the development and implementation of broader regional economic development strategies. 9. The role of the consortium in the retraining and reemployment of dislocated workers. 10. The proposal should explain its commitment to maintaining the workforce and workplace development focus of the consortium through a contribution of resources to these activities during the grant period, as well as in the future. The role of the network broker and the host organization is key to successful planning and implementation of the project. The network broker and host organization must be able to assist the consortium in identifying its workforce and workplace development goals, help choose the targeted companies, facilitate the needs assessment, coordinate program development with the service providers, prepare the development plan, serve as a liaison between the consortium and service providers, monitor the training and the workplace change process, and prepare the evaluation and dissemination of results. Part IV_Evaluation Criteria Prospective offerors are advised that the selection of the grantee for the award is to be made after careful evaluation of proposals by a panel within DOL. Each panelist will evaluate the proposals based on the factors enumerated below. A. Basic Soundness of Proposal (40 Points): The degree to which the proposal demonstrates an understanding of, and incorporates, each of the following items:
