FR940208-2-00162 FR940208-2-00092 (c) in all briefs, references to evidence in the administrative record shall be made by page and, where practicable, by line. Part III: A statement of the issues: (a) in the brief of a complainant or of a participant filing a brief pursuant to subrule 60(1), this Part shall contain a concise statement of the issues; and (b) in the brief of an investigating authority or of a participant filing a brief pursuant to subrule 60(2), this Part shall contain a concise statement of the position of the investigating authority or the participant with respect to each issue relevant to its case. Part IV: Argument This Part shall consist of the argument setting out concisely the points of law relating to the issues with applicable citations to authorities and the administrative record. Part V: Relief This part shall consist of a concise statement precisely identifying the relief requested. (2) Paragraphs in Parts I to V of a brief may be numbered consecutively. (3) A reply brief filed pursuant to rule 60(3) shall include a table of contents and a table of authorities, indicating those principally relied upon in the argument. Appendix to the Briefs 62A. (1) Authorities referred to in the briefs shall be included in an appendix, which shall be organized as follows: a table of contents, copies of all treaty and statutory references, references to regulations, cases primarily relied on in the briefs, set out alphabetically, and all other references except documents from the administrative record. (2) The appendix required under subrule 60(4) shall be compiled by a participant who filed a brief under subrule 60(1) and who was so designated by all the participants who filed a brief. Each participant who filed a brief under subrule 60(2) shall provide the designated participant with a copy of each authority on which it primarily relied in its brief that was not primarily relied on in any other brief filed under subrule 60(1). Each participant who filed a brief under subrule 60(3) shall provide the designated participant with a copy of each authority on which it primarily relied in its brief that was not primarily relied on in briefs filed pursuant to subrule 60 (1) or (2). (3) The costs for compiling the appendix shall be borne equally by all participants who file briefs. Motions 63. (1) A motion shall be made by Notice of Motion in writing (model form provided in the Schedule) unless the circumstances make it unnecessary or impracticable. (2) Every Notice of Motion, and any affidavit in support thereof, shall be accompanied by a proposed order of the panel (model form provided in the Schedule) and shall be filed with the responsible Secretariat, together with proof of service on all participants. (3) Every Notice of Motion shall contain the following information: (a) the title of the panel review, the Secretariat file number for that panel review and a brief descriptive title indicating the purpose of the motion; (b) a statement of the precise relief requested; (c) a statement of the grounds to be argued, including a reference to any rule, point of law or legal authority to be relied on, together with a concise argument in support of the motion; and (d) where necessary, references to evidence in the administrative record identified by page and, where practicable, by line. (4) The pendency of any motion in a panel review shall not alter any time period fixed in these rules or by an order or decision of the panel. (5) A Notice of Motion to which all participants consent shall be entitled a Consent Motion. 64. Subject to subrules 20(2) and 77(5), unless the panel otherwise orders, a participant may file a response to a Notice of Motion within 10 days after the Notice of Motion is filed.
