FR940407-2-00037 FR940407-2-00025 Currently Identified Environmental Issues We have already identified several issues that we think deserve attention based on a preliminary review of the proposed facilities and the environmental information provided by Algonquin. Keep in mind that this is a preliminary list. The list of issues will be added to, subtracted from, or changed based on your comments and our analysis. Issues are: •The construction right-of-way for the lateral would be within 50 feet of 10 residences. •The pipeline would cross one perennial stream (Herring River) and two wetlands. •The entire project would be within the Plymouth/Carver Sole Source Aquifer and about 90 percent of the proposed route crosses a ``high yield'' area. •The pipeline would cross three roads and be within four roads. •The project may have an impact on a state-listed Area of Critical Environmental Concern, and several state-listed rare flora and fauna. •The project would cross or be near 19 known prehistoric and 1 historic sites. There is high potential for additional cultural resources concerns within the project area. •The project would require a coastal zone consistency determination. Public Participation You can make a difference by sending a letter addressing your specific comments or concerns about the project. You should focus on the potential environmental effects of the proposal, alternatives to the proposal (including alternative routes), and measures to avoid or lessen environmental impact. The more specific your comments, the more useful they will be. Please follow the instructions below to ensure that your comments are received and properly recorded: •Address your letter to: Lois Cashell, Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol St., NE., Washington, DC 20426; •Reference Docket No. CP94&hyph;260&hyph;000; •Send a copy of your letter to: Mr. Jeff Shenot, EA Project Manager, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol St., NE., room 7312, Washington, DC 20426; and •Mail your comments so that they will be received in Washington, DC on or before May 2, 1994. If you wish to receive a copy of the EA, you should request one from Mr. Shenot at the above address. Becoming an Intervenor In addition to involvement in the EA scoping process, you may want to become an official party to the proceeding or become an ``intervenor''. Among other things, intervenors have the right to receive copies of case-related Commission documents and filings by other intervenors. Likewise, each intervenor must provide copies of its filings to all other parties. If you want to become an intervenor you must file a Motion to Intervene according to rule 214 of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.214) attached as appendix 2. The date for filing timely motions to intervene in this proceeding has passed. Therefore, parties now seeking to file late interventions must show good cause, as required by §385.214(b)(3), why this time limitation should be waived. Environmental issues have been viewed as good cause for late intervention. You do not need intervenor status to have your scoping comments considered. Additional information about the proposed project is available from Mr. Jeff Shenot, EA Project Manager, at (202) 208&hyph;2269. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8302 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
