FR940323-1-00071 FR940323-1-00008 (1) Repackages or otherwise changes the container, wrapper, or labeling of a device in furtherance of the distribution of the device from the original place of manufacture to the person who makes final delivery or sale to the ultimate user or consumer; (2) Initiates specifications for devices that are manufactured by a second party for subsequent distribution by the person initiating the specifications; or (3) Manufactures components or accessories which are devices that are ready to be used and are intended to be commercially distributed and are intended to be used as is, or are processed by a licensed practitioner or other qualified person to meet the needs of a particular patient. (g) Removal means the physical removal of a device from the point of use to some other location for repair, modification, adjustment, relabeling, destruction, inspection, or replacement. (h) Risk to health means that the risk of harm to a person for whom a device is intended exists, and the harm is not trivial. This risk to health may result from a fault or defect in the device, deficient labeling, or error in the use of the device. (i) Routine servicing means any regularly scheduled maintenance of a device, including the replacement of parts at the end of their normal life expectancy, e.g., calibration, replacement of batteries, and responses to normal wear and tear. Repairs of an unexpected nature, replacement of parts earlier than their normal life expectancy, or identical repairs or replacements of multiple units of a device are not routine servicing. (j) U.S. designated agent means the person designated by the owner or operator of a foreign establishment responsible for the annual certification of the number of medical device reports (MDR's) submitted. (k) Correction or removal report number means the number that uniquely identifies each report submitted. Manufacturers, importers, or distributors shall use their seven digit registration number, the calendar year that the report is made, a sequence number, and the report type designation ``C'' or ``R''; for example, the complete number will appear as follows: 1234567&hyph;1993&hyph;001&hyph;C for correction, or 1234567&hyph;1993&hyph;001&hyph;R for removal. Subpart B_Reports and Records ยง806.10 Reports of corrections and removals. (a) Each device manufacturer or distributor shall submit a written report to FDA of any correction or removal of a device undertaken by such manufacturer or distributor if the correction or removal was undertaken: (1) To reduce a risk to health posed by the device; or, (2) To remedy a violation of the act caused by the device which may present a risk to health. (b) The manufacturer or distributor shall submit any report required by paragraph (a) of this section within 10 calendar days of initiating such correction or removal. The report shall be submitted to the appropriate FDA district office listed in ยง5.115 of this chapter. A foreign manufacturer or distributor that ships devices to the United States shall submit its own reports of corrective or removal actions through the U.S. designated agent on its behalf. The U.S. designated agent shall submit such reports to the district office in which the agent's office is located. (c) The manufacturer or distributor shall include the following information in the report: (1) The name, address, and telephone number of the manufacturer or distributor, (including foreign manufacturer), and the name, title, address, and telephone number of the manufacturer's or distributor's representative responsible for conducting the device correction or removal. (2) The brand name and the common name, classification name, or usual name of the device and the intended use of the device. (3) Marketing status of the device, i.e., any applicable premarket notification number, premarket approval number, or indicate if a preamendments device, and the device listing number. (A manufacturer or distributor that does not have an FDA establishment registration number must indicate in the report whether it has ever registered with FDA). (4) The correction or removal report number. (5) The model, catalog, or code number of the device and the manufacturing lot or serial number of the device or other identification number. (6) The manufacturer's name, address, telephone number, and contact person if different from that of the person submitting the report. (7) A complete description of the event(s) giving rise to the information reported and the corrective or removal actions that have been, and are expected to be, taken. (8) Any illnesses or injuries that have occurred with use of the device. If applicable, include the medical device report numbers. (9) The total number of devices manufactured or distributed and the number in the same batch, lot, or equivalent unit of production subject to the correction or removal. (10) The date of manufacture or distribution and the device's expiration date if applicable. (11) The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all domestic and foreign consignees of the device and the dates and number of devices distributed to each such consignee. (12) A copy of all communications regarding the correction or removal, and the names and addresses of all recipients of the communications if the number of recipients of the communications is different than paragraph (c)(11) of this section.
