FR940325-2-00244 FR940325-2-00115 B. Eligible Applicants The governing body of any federally recognized Indian tribe or tribes may apply individually or as a consortium for a grant under this announcement. A consortium is created by an agreement or association between two or more eligible applicants. Under a consortium application, each eligible consortium applicant (tribe) must identify the amount of ICWA funds for which it is eligible. An applicant may not submit more than one application nor be the beneficiary of more than one grant under this grant announcement. C. Purpose of Tribal Government Indian Child Welfare Act Grant Programs The objective of every Indian child and family services program shall be to: Ensure that measures intended to prevent the breakup of Indian families are followed in child custody proceedings; ensure that the permanent removal of an Indian child from the custody of his/her Indian parent or Indian custodian shall be a last resort; comply with the ICWA out-of-home placement preferences when such placements are deemed necessary; and implement procedures and practices which reflect the unique values of Indian culture, and which promote the stability and security of Indian children, Indian families and Indian communities. Tribal ICWA programs funded pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 1931 are for the specific purposes delineated in the statute and may include the programs and activities listed at revised 25 CFR 23.22. These purposes are further defined in Public Law 95&hyph;608 (Section 201, 25 U.S.C. 1931). During FY 1994, first-time tribal government ICWA program applicants may expend a portion of their ICWA funds to plan, design, or develop a comprehensive, developmental tribal ICWA program. Part II_Available Funds In FY 1994, eligible federally recognized Indian tribes will apply for $22,905,000 in ICWA grant funds nationwide. However, no FY 1994 contract support funds are available for tribal government ICWA grant programs. Tribes must satisfy and comply with the application requirements specified at revised 25 CFR part 23 in order to access their share of ICWA funds. The ICWA grant funds will be awarded noncompetitively to eligible Indian tribes or consortiums of tribes with approved three-year (FY 1994&hyph;FY 1996) grant applications, and will be distributed through the tribe's/agency's tribal priority allocation budget process. Under a consortium application, each eligible consortium applicant (tribe) must identify the amount of ICWA funds for which it is eligible in its own right. No additional funds will be awarded to consortium grants other than the combined total of the funding amounts for which each eligible consortium applicant (i.e., individual tribe) may apply. However, under no circumstances may any tribe or consortium of tribes or subgrantee receive ICWA grant funds greater than the maximum grant amount of $750,000, either through a direct grant or through subgranting arrangements with approved applicants. The $750,000 ``cap'' has been established to ensure that funds are available to maintain grants at adequate funding levels for all eligible tribes. In addition to the 374 tribes awarded FY 1992/FY 1993 ICWA grants, a total of 160 more tribes will be eligible to receive grants under the noncompetitive tribal ICWA grant system being initiated in FY 1994.
