FR941116-1-00038 FR941116-1-00009 (b) *␣*␣* (1) In no case may an eligible non-student borrower receive a loan that is greater than the sum of the borrower's insurance premium plus the interest that must be paid on the borrower's HEAL loans during the period for which the new loan is intended. * * * * * §60.13 [Amended] 5. Section 60.13 is amended by removing paragraph (a)(4). 6. Section 60.14 is revised to read as follows: §60.14 Risk-based insurance premiums. (a) General. The Secretary insures each lender or holder for the losses of principal and interest it may incur in the event that a borrower dies; becomes totally and permanently disabled; files for bankruptcy under chapter 11 or 13 of the Bankruptcy Act; files for bankruptcy under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Act and files a complaint to determine the dischargeability of the HEAL loan; or defaults on his or her loan. For this insurance, the Secretary charges an insurance premium to the borrower, and to the school, lender, and subsequent holder, if any, in accordance with the procedures outlined in this section. (b) Rate of insurance premium. The rate of the HEAL insurance premium charged to a HEAL borrower, school, lender, and holder shall be determined in accordance with the procedures outlined in this paragraph. (1) Borrower insurance premium. (i) Low-risk rate. A borrower attending a school with a default rate of not to exceed 5 percent, or attending a school for which the volume of HEAL loans made for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less, shall be assessed a risk-based premium in an amount equal to 6 percent of the principal amount of the loan. (ii) Medium-risk and high-risk rate. A borrower attending a school with a default rate in excess of 5 percent but not exceeding 20 percent (excluding schools for which the volume of HEAL loans made for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less) shall be assessed a risk-based premium in an amount equal to 8 percent of the principal amount of the loan. (iii) Reduction of borrower premium. A borrower shall have his or her insurance premium reduced by 50 percent if a credit worthy parent or other responsible party co-signs the loan note. (2) School insurance premium. (i) Low-risk rate. A school with a default rate of not to exceed 5 percent, or for which the volume of HEAL loans made for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less, shall not be assessed an insurance premium. (ii) Medium-risk rate. A school with a default rate in excess of 5 percent but not exceeding 10 percent (excluding schools for which the volume of HEAL loans made for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less) shall be assessed a risk-based premium in an amount equal to 5 percent of the principal amount of each HEAL loan approved by the school and disbursed to the borrower. (iii) High-risk rate. A school with a default rate in excess of 10 percent but not exceeding 20 percent (excluding schools for which the volume of HEAL loans made for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less) shall be assessed a risk-based premium in an amount equal to 10 percent of the principal amount of each HEAL loan approved by the school and disbursed to the borrower. (iv) Special consideration for Historically Black Colleges and Universities. An Historically Black College or University with a default rate in excess of 20 percent may continue to make HEAL loans to its borrowers until October 13, 1995. A borrower at such a school will be subject to the high-risk insurance premium rate set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, and the school will be subject to the high-risk insurance premium rate set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section. (3) Lender insurance premium. (i) Low-risk rate. A lender with a default rate of not to exceed 5 percent, or for which the volume of HEAL loans made for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less, shall not be assessed an insurance premium. (ii) Medium-risk rate. A lender with a default rate in excess of 5 percent but not exceeding 10 percent (including lenders for which the volume of HEAL loans made for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less) shall be assessed a risk-based premium in an amount equal to 5 percent of the principal amount of each HEAL loan made. (iii) High-risk rate. A lender with a default rate in excess of 10 percent but not exceeding 20 percent (excluding lenders for which the volume of HEAL loans made for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less) shall be assessed a risk-based premium in an amount equal to 10 percent of the principal amount of each HEAL loan made. (4) Holder insurance premium. (i) Low-risk rate. A holder with a default rate of not to exceed 5 percent, or for which the volume of HEAL loans held for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less, shall not be assessed an insurance premium. (ii) Medium-risk rate. A holder with a default rate in excess of 5 percent but not exceeding 10 percent (excluding holders for which the volume of HEAL loans held for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less) shall be assessed a risk-based premium in an amount equal to 5 percent of the principal amount of each HEAL loan purchased. (iii) High-risk rate. A holder with a default rate in excess of 10 percent but not exceeding 20 percent (excluding holders for which the volume of HEAL loans held for purposes of the default rate calculation is 50 or less) shall be assessed a risk-based premium in an amount equal to 10 percent of the principal amount of each HEAL loan purchased.
