FR940228-1-00164 FR940228-1-00010 2. What supporting information should be submitted to establish that an institution has the administrative resources to comply with its program responsibilities? •The financial information concerning each branch campus of an institution should be evaluated, without simply relying on the financial information of an institution as a whole. [New York] •Employee biographies with social security numbers should be provided. [San Francisco] 3. What level of financial resources are needed to demonstrate that an institution can meet potential refund and repayment obligations, and should institutions be required to set aside funds for these purposes? •An institution should be able to provide for the payment of refunds that could occur over a 30-day period, but the institution should not be required to set aside funds specifically for this purpose. [Kansas City] •The statutory provisions for institutions to maintain cash reserves unless they are covered by State tuition recovery plans should be sufficient. [New York] •No requirements are necessary. The Department should have the discretion to review and establish amounts when necessary. [San Francisco] C. Section 498(c)(2) requires that, notwithstanding section 498(c)(1), if an institution fails to meet the criteria prescribed by the Secretary with respect to operating losses, net worth, asset-to-liabilities ratios, or operating fund deficits, the institution must provide the Secretary with satisfactory evidence of its financial responsibility in accordance with section 498(c)(3). Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. What standards should be set for each of these criteria? •One standard should not be applicable to all institutions. [New York] •Institutions should be allowed to explain their financial statements before decisions in this area are reached. [New York] •The institutions financial condition should be examined over a certain time period so that decisions regarding its financial responsibility are based on a trend. [New York] •The Department should particularly consider an institution's statement of cash flow. [New York] •Ratios that are used to measure stability in the business world should be used. [New York] •Current standards should be used with Departmental discretion. [San Francisco] •Standards for these criteria should be: a ratio of assets to liabilities of 1:1, showing a positive net worth, and not having two consecutive years of negative operating cash flow or its equivalent for fund accounting purposes. These should be indicators of financial responsibility, not absolute minimums. The importance of each criteria should be given its proper weight. [Atlanta] D. Section 498(c)(3) provides that the Secretary may find an institution to be financially responsible, notwithstanding failure under 498(c)(1) and 498(c)(2), if the institution; (1) Provides third-party guarantees of at least one-half of annual potential liabilities, (2) is backed by the full faith and credit of a State or its equivalent, (3) establishes that it is a going concern capable of meeting all its obligations, or (4) has met comparable standards set by the Secretary. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. What type of third-party guarantees will be acceptable to the Secretary? •Acceptable third-party guarantees should include bonds, institutional collateral, or a tuition recovery fund. [New York] •Acceptable third-party guarantees should include performance bonds, letters of credit, or other comparable instruments. [Kansas City, Atlanta]
