FR940621-2-00086 FR940621-2-00053 (2) Supplementary Information. a. Asset Sale Transaction. SBI explains that the transaction by which Smith Barney Harris Upham & Company, Inc. (Smith Barney) acquired Shearson Lehman and its Asset Management Divisions was an asset sale and not a merger. Accordingly, SBI suggests that the fourth sentence of the third paragraph under the heading ``Supplementary Information,'' read as follows: ``As a result of the transaction, most of the assets and business of the Shearson divisions were transferred to Smith Barney, which was renamed `Smith Barney Shearson Inc.''' b. Fees Paid to Transfer Agent. SBI represents that in the seventh paragraph under the heading ``Supplementary Information,'' the Notice states that The Shareholder Services Group (TSSG), as transfer agent, will charge a fee of $8.50 to $9.50 per plan for its transfer agency services. While these are the current expected fee levels, SBI notes that such fees may increase or decrease in the future. Because TSSG is no longer an affiliate, SBI requests that the paragraph be amended to provide that TSSG as transfer agent will receive a reasonable fee for its services rather than specifying a precise dollar amount. (3) General Conditions. a. Written Disclosures. Section II(k)(1)(F) of the General Conditions of the Notice states that SBI will provide copies of PTE 92&hyph;77 and documents pertaining to the proposed replacement exemption to each Plan participating in the TRAK Program. SBI wishes to clarify that the ``documents pertaining to the proposed replacement exemption'' refer to copies of the Notice and, when issued, the final exemption. The Department concurs with the above supplemental clarifications to the Notice that have been made by SBI and hereby incorporates these changes, as well as the substantive changes also described above, by reference into the Notice and, where applicable, into this final exemption. Department's Comment Section III of the Notice, which is captioned ``Definitions,'' provides several meanings of the term ``Independent Plan Fiduciary'' in subparagraph (b). For purposes of the exemption, the term ``Independent Plan Fiduciary'' may include a Plan administrator, a participant in a Keogh Plan, an individual covered under a self-directed IRA or a trustee of a Title I Plan that does not permit participant-directed investments as contemplated under section 404(c) of the Act. However, due to an oversight, the definition does not extend to a participant in a Section 404(c) Plan. Because the TRAK Program is being marketed as an investment alternative to Section 404(c) Plans and the individual participant of such Plan makes the decision on whether to invest therein, the Department has amended the definition of the term ``Independent Plan Fiduciary'' by providing a new subparagraph (b)(5) which includes a Section 404(c) Plan participant.
