FR940616-2-00131 FR940616-2-00091 7. Institution Reputation/Ability: Proposal should demonstrate an institutional record of successful exchange programs, including responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts. The Agency will consider the past performance of prior recipients and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. 8. Follow-on Activities: Proposals should provide a plan for continued follow-on activity (without USIA support) which ensures that USIA supported programs are not isolated events. 9. Evaluation Plan: Proposals should provide a plan for a thorough and objective evaluation of the program/project by the grantee institution. 10. Cost-Effectiveness: The overhead and administrative components of the proposal, including salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. 11. Cost-Sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as institutional direct funding contributions. 12. Support of Diversity: Proposal should demonstrate the recipients' commitment to promoting the awareness and understanding of diversity throughout the program. This can be accomplished through documentation (such as a written statement or account) summarizing past and/or on-going activities and efforts that further the principle of diversity within both their organization and their activities. Notice The need of the program may require the award to reduced, revised, or increased. The terms and conditions published in the RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by USIA that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by the Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about December 1, 1994. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: June 8, 1994. John P. Loiello, Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14510 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
