FR940628-1-00023 FR940628-1-00001 ยง82.12 Other interstate movements and special permits. (a) A special permit is required for the interstate movement of birds, poultry, or other items whose movement is restricted under this subpart, from a quarantined area in a manner or to a destination other than is specifically prescribed by this subpart, under special conditions determined by the Administrator to be necessary to prevent the dissemination of END. A special permit is required for the disposal of dead birds or dead poultry that are infected with END, or manure generated by or eggs from birds or poultry infected with END, in a manner other than is specifically prescribed in this subpart, and for cleaning and disinfection carried out in a manner other than is specifically prescribed in this subpart, under special conditions determined by the Administrator to be necessary to prevent the dissemination of END. To apply for a special permit, contact the Administrator, c/o the Veterinarian in charge 9 for the State in which the birds, poultry, or other items are located. The Administrator may, at his or her discretion, issue special permits if he or she determines that the activity authorized will not result in the interstate dissemination of END. 9 See footnote 4 to ยง82.5. (b) The special permit will list the name and address of the person to whom the special permit is issued, and the special conditions under which the interstate movement, disposal, or cleaning and disinfection may be carried out. (1) For an interstate movement, the special permit will also include the following: (i) The name and mailing address of the person who will receive the birds, poultry, or other items; (ii) The addresses of both the origin and destination of the birds, poultry, or other items; (iii) The number and type of birds, poultry, or other items to be moved interstate; and (iv) The reason for the interstate movement. (2) For destruction or cleaning and disinfection, the special permit will also include the following: (i) The address of the place where the dead birds, dead poultry, manure, or eggs are located; and (ii) The number and type of birds, poultry, or other items involved. (c) For an interstate movement, a copy of the special permit must accompany the items moved, and copies must be submitted so that a copy is received by the State animal health official and the Veterinarian in charge for the State of destination within 72 hours of the arrival of the birds, poultry, or other items at the destination listed on the special permit. ยง82.13 Denial and withdrawal of permits and special permits. (a) Denial. If the Administrator determines that the applicant for a permit or special permit is not complying with or could not comply with this subpart or any special conditions needed to prevent the dissemination of END, or, in the case of a special permit, that the special permit is not required under this subpart, the Administrator may deny the request for a permit or special permit. If the request is denied, the Administrator will send the applicant a written notice explaining why the permit or special permit was denied. (b) Withdrawal. The Administrator may withdraw a permit or special permit, orally or in writing, if he or she determines the person to whom the permit or special permit has been issued is violating either this subpart or some condition specified in the permit or special permit. The Administrator may withdraw the permit or special permit without advance notice if he or she determines that the person to whom the permit or special permit has been issued is violating either this subpart or some condition specified in the permit or special permit in a way that threatens the public health, interest, or safety. The Administrator will send the person to whom the permit or special permit has been issued a written explanation of why the permit or special permit is to be or was withdrawn. (c) Appeals. Denial or withdrawal of a permit or special permit may be appealed to the Administrator within 10 days after receipt of the written notice of denial or withdrawal. The appeal must be in writing 10 and must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the permit or special permit was wrongfully denied or withdrawn. The Administrator will grant or deny the appeal, in writing, explaining all of the reasons for the decision, as promptly as circumstances allow. In cases where there is a conflict as to any material fact, the person denied a permit or special permit, or from whom a permit or special permit is withdrawn, shall be given an opportunity for a hearing with respect to the merits of the validity of the denial or withdrawal in accordance with rules of practice adopted for the proceeding. 10 Written appeals should be sent to the Administrator, c/o Emergency Programs Staff, Veterinary Services, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. ยง82.14 Removal of quarantine. An area will be removed from quarantine only when all of the following requirements have been met: (a) All birds and poultry exposed to END in the quarantined area have been found to be free of END; (b) All birds and poultry infected with END in the quarantined area have been euthanized; (c) All birds and poultry, including any parts of the birds and poultry, euthanized in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, and all birds and poultry in the quarantined area, including any parts of the birds and poultry, that died from any cause other than slaughter, have been buried, reduced to ashes by incineration, rendered, or reduced to dust by composting;
