FR940405-2-00070 FR940405-2-00038 a. Collect population-based information on race, incidence, staging at diagnosis, and mortality from breast and cervical cancers. b. Identify population segments at higher risk for disease and for failure to be screened. c. Identify factors that contribute to disease burden and limited or inequitable access to early detection and treatment services. d. Monitor the number and characteristics of women screened and outcomes of screening. e. Monitor screening resources, including the number of mammography facilities, cytology laboratories, and providers of cytology screening. f. Design and conduct case studies and other epidemiologic investigations to determine factors associated with avoidable morbidity and mortality. g. Publish a yearly report summarizing the population status with respect to these conditions. 6. Evaluation Attention should be given to the development, establishment, and design of individual components to ensure that there can be meaningful evaluation. The evaluation plan should assess the performance and effectiveness of intervention components, including: a. Coalition development. b. Cancer plan development. c. Public education. d. Professional education. e. Quality assurance. f. Surveillance. At a minimum, the evaluation plan should assess the existing State breast and cervical cancer control program and should include the following: a. A description of the evaluation plan and how evaluation results will be used. b. A description of methods used to assess the development of program activities in all program components. B. CDC Activities 1. Convene meetings for representatives of States receiving awards for workshops and sharing information. 2. Convene meetings for representatives of States receiving awards for training purposes. 3. Disseminate to State health departments relevant state-of-the-art research findings and public health recommendations that relate to early detection, diagnosis, and treatment for breast and cervical cancer. 4. Collaborate with recipients in planning, operating, and evaluating program activities and coordinating projects' participation in all components of the cancer program. 5. Collaborate with recipients in developing surveillance and data systems and in the States' analysis and evaluation of data. 6. Provide technical assistance in the development of public and professional education components. 7. Collaborate with recipients in disseminating outcome indicators and their integration into program operation. 8. Provide guidance in the development and establishment of specific morbidity reduction objectives. 9. Provide technical information and guidelines in the development of quality assurance procedures for mammography and cervical cytology. 10. Provide technical assistance and direction in the development of evaluation efforts.
