FR941202-2-00198 FR941202-2-00098 (d) MF Analysis _5% of all positive environmental samples analyzed and at least 10 of the sheen colonies for drinking water by membrane filter shall be verified per method requirements. (e) Duplicates _At least 5% of the positive samples shall be duplicated. In laboratories with more than one analyst, have each make parallel analyses on at least one positive sample per month. (f) Positive and Negative Controls _Positive and negative control cultures shall be analyzed for the microorganisms under test for each lot of media used with each analytical procedure. 5.3.4␣Radiochemistry (a) Instrument Blanks _Instrument blanks are blanks at the background levels for any of the nuclide emission of interest. Instrument blanks consist of a clean planchet, ampule or sealed canister that is placed in the instrument to duplicate sample counting geometry. The purpose of the instrument blank is to verify instrument operation and ensure that no contamination has occurred in the counting chamber. Instrument blanks are used for calculation of lower limits of detection. The frequency of instrument analysis depends on the type of instrument. Essential frequencies for analysis of instrument blanks on typical instruments are: ␣ 1Instrument 1Frequency Gamma spectrometers Monthly. Low background proportional counters Daily. Low level liquid scintillation counters Daily. Scintillation counters Weekly. Alpha spectrometers Weekly. Radon flask counters Monthly. (b) Method Blanks_ The required frequency for method blanks shall be at least once each batch or one out of every 20 samples, whichever is greater. These specifications are applicable to all radiochemistry techniques except for gamma spectroscopy where no chemical separation or other chemical manipulation is performed. (c) Laboratory Control Samples (LCS)_ At least one LCS shall be included with each batch or one out of every 20 analytical samples, whichever is greater. (d) Matrix Spikes_ Matrix spikes shall be included with each sample batch where chemical manipulations and separations are performed. The frequency for measurement of matrix spikes shall be at least one per batch or one out of every 20 samples, whichever is greater. The following criteria is recommended for spiking: i. Samples should be spiked at random within each batch. There should be adequate samples available for duplicate analysis, if necessary. ii. Spikes should be prepared in a manner to minimize alteration of the original matrix (i.e., minimize dilution of the sample during the spiking). iii. Spikes should be prepared at a level that is at least two times the concentration of the analyte of interest. (e) Laboratory Duplicates_ Sample analysis shall be duplicated on a randomly selected sample (not field blanks) within every batch or one per 20 samples, whichever is greater. 5.3.5␣Air Testing_To be added as document undergoes review.
