FR941007-1-00113 FR941007-1-00009 (2) Do(es) not arbitrarily exclude low- and moderate-income geographies, taking into account the bank's size and financial condition and the extent of its branching network, as appropriate; and (3) Consist(s) only of whole census tracts or block numbering areas. (b) Banks that are not wholesale or limited purpose banks. The service area(s) for a bank that is not a wholesale or limited purpose bank (as defined in §228.12 of this part): (1) Shall include those geographies in the local areas around a bank's branches and deposit-taking ATMs in which the bank has originated or had outstanding, during the previous calendar year, a significant number and amount of home mortgage, small business and small farm, and (if the bank chooses to have them considered in its CRA evaluation) consumer loans and any other geographies equidistant from its branches and deposit-taking ATMs, taking into account political boundaries or significant geographic barriers; and (2) Shall not extend substantially across MSA boundaries or state boundaries unless the service area is located in a multistate MSA. If the bank serves areas that extend substantially across state boundaries or extend substantially across boundaries of an MSA, the bank shall delineate separate service areas for the areas in each state and for the areas inside and outside the MSA. (c) Wholesale or limited purpose banks. The service area for a wholesale or limited purpose bank (as defined in §228.12 of this part) shall be delineated as an area or areas around its offices (including its main office and branches) or a broader statewide or regional area that includes the area or areas. (d) Banks serving military personnel. Notwithstanding paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, a bank whose business predominantly consists of serving the needs of military personnel or their dependents who are not located within a defined geographic area may delineate its entire deposit customer base as its service area. (e) Maintaining list and map. Each bank shall compile and maintain a list of all the geographies within its service area or areas and a map of each service area showing the geographies contained therein. §228.42 Data collection and reporting. (a) Mandatory data collection and reporting_ (1) Loan data. Each bank, except small banks, shall collect and report to the Board the following data pertaining to its home mortgage, small business, small farm, and community development loans: (i) Home mortgage loans. If the bank is subject to reporting under HMDA, the location of each home mortgage loan located outside the MSAs in which the bank has a home or branch office (or outside any MSA) in accordance with Regulation C, Home Mortgage Disclosure (12 CFR Part 203); (ii) Small business and small farm loan data. All small business and small farm loan data required to be collected and reported on the Board's Small Business and Small Farm Loan Register (CC&hyph; XXX &hyph; XXX ), set forth in Appendix C of this part, in accordance with the instructions in Appendix C of this part; and (iii) Community development loan data. All community development loan data required to be collected and reported on the Board's Community Development Report Form (CC&hyph; XXX &hyph; XXX ), set forth in Appendix C of this part, in accordance with the instructions in Appendix C of this part. (2) Service area data. Each bank shall collect and report to the Board by April 1 of each year a list of the areas the bank considers to be its service area(s), a list of the geographies it considers to be within its service area(s), and a map of each service area showing the geographies contained therein. (b) Optional data collection. (1) If a bank elects to have its consumer lending considered under the lending test (as described in §228.22 of this part), the bank shall collect the consumer loan data requested on the Board's Consumer Loan Register (CC&hyph; XXX &hyph; XXX ), set forth in Appendix C of this part, in accordance with the instructions in Appendix C of this part. (2) At its option, a bank may: (i) Provide information concerning outstanding small business, small farm, or consumer loans throughout the year to account for seasonal variations in lending for use in the evaluation of the bank under the lending test described in §228.22 of this part; and (ii) Provide any other information concerning its lending performance, including additional loan distribution data. (c) Data on affiliate lending. A bank that wishes to have the Board consider lending by its affiliates for purposes of the lending test shall be prepared to identify the particular home mortgage loans reported under HMDA which it wishes the Board to consider, and shall collect or report, pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the requisite data concerning the small business, small farm, or consumer loans made by its affiliates that it wishes Board to consider. (d) Data on consortia and third-party lending. A bank that wishes to have the Board consider community development lending through consortia in which the bank participates or through third parties in which the bank has invested shall report, pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the requisite data concerning the community development loans made through consortia and third parties that it wishes the Board to consider. §228.43 Public file and disclosure by banks. (a) Public availability. Each bank shall maintain a file that is readily available for public inspection containing the information required by this section. (b) Current information. Each bank shall include in its public file the following information:
