FR940203-2-00054 FR940203-2-00029 [FRL&hyph;4833&hyph;7] Revision of the Vermont National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Program To Authorize the Issuance of General Permits AGENCY: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of Approval of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System General Permit Program of the State of Vermont. SUMMARY: On August 26, 1993, the Regional Administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Region I, approved the State of Vermont's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) General Permit Program. On April 22, 1993, the Vermont Agency of Natural Resources (Vermont ANR) submitted a formal request for approval to revise its NPDES Permit Program to authorize the issuance of general NPDES permits. This action authorizes the State of Vermont to issue general permits in lieu of individual NPDES permits. Based on its review of Vermont's legal authority, EPA determined that no statutory or regulatory changes were necessary for the State to administer a general permit program. EPA has thus determined Vermont's program modification to be non-substantial. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William Wandle, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region I (WMN), John F. Kennedy Federal Building, Boston, Massachusetts 02203, (617) 565&hyph;3585. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background EPA regulations at 40 CFR 122.28 provide for the issuance of general permits to regulate the discharge of wastewater which results from substantially similar operations, are of the same type wastes, require the same effluent limitations or operating conditions, require similar monitoring and are more appropriately controlled under a general permit rather than by individual permits. Vermont was authorized to administer the NPDES program on March 11, 1974. As previously approved, the State's program did not include provisions for the issuance of general permits. A number of categories of discharges can be appropriately regulated by general permits. For these reasons, the Vermont ANR requested a revision of the State's NPDES program to provide for the issuance of general permits. The categories proposed for coverage under the general permit program include: Storm water discharges, non-contact cooling water, non-pollution discharges and classes of discharges where individual permits for such a class would be substantially similar. Each general permit will be subject to EPA review and approval as provided by 40 CFR 123.44. Public notice and opportunity to request a hearing is also provided for each general permit. II. Discussion The State of Vermont submitted in support of its request a program description, an Amendment to the Memorandum of Agreement, and copies of the relevant statutes and regulations for implementing the program. In addition, the State submitted a statement, dated November 20, 1992, by the Attorney General certifying, with appropriate citations to the statutes and regulations, that the State has adequate legal authority to administer the general permit program as required by 40 CFR 123.23(c). The program description supplementing the original application for the NPDES program authority to administer the general permit program includes the authority to perform each of the activities set forth in 40 CFR 122.28. The Amendment to the Memorandum of Agreement between the State of Vermont ANR and EPA, Region I designates the procedures through which general permits will be issued and administered by the State. Based upon Vermont's program description and upon its experience in administering an approved NPDES program, EPA has concluded that the State will have the necessary procedures and resources to administer the general permit program. III. Federal Register Notice of Approval of State NPDES Programs or Modifications Today's Federal Register notice announces the approval of Vermont's authority to issue general permits. EPA provides Federal Register notice of actions by the Agency approving or modifying a State NPDES program. The following table provides the public with a current listing of the status of NPDES permitting authority throughout the country. IV. Review Under Executive Order 12291 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this rule from the review requirements of Executive Order 12291 pursuant to section 8(b) of that Order. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, EPA is required to prepare a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis for all rules which may have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Pursuant to section 605(d) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), I certify that this State General Permit Program will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Approval of the Vermont NPDES State General Permit Program establishes no new substantive requirements, nor does it alter the regulatory control over any industrial category. Approval of the Vermont NPDES State General Permits Program merely provides a simplified administrative process. Dated: January 25, 1994. Patricia L. Meaney, Acting Regional Administrator.
