FR940603-1-00044 FR940603-1-00009 §1726.26 Payment to contractor for material delivered. When construction is performed under a labor and materials contract, the contractor is responsible for ensuring that sufficient equipment and materials are on hand at the construction site to allow construction to continue to completion in an orderly and expeditious manner. However, under certain circumstances beyond the control of the contractor, it may be necessary to halt construction for an extended period. (a) Conditions. When for reasons which are beyond the control and not the fault of the contractor it becomes necessary to suspend construction for such an extended period (usually over 30 days), the owner may, at the request of the contractor, consider an amendment to a construction contract providing for the payment to the contractor of 90 percent of the invoice cost to the contractor of the equipment or materials delivered to the project site but not installed, provided the contractor warrants that such materials or equipment are: (1) Actually on the site of the project and will remain there until installed in the project. (2) In conformance with the contract specifications and not in excess of the quantity required for the project. (3) Properly stored and protected from weather, theft, and hazards. (4) Capable of being easily inventoried as to the original quantity and each month as to the remaining quantity. (b) Form of request. Requests by contractors for this type of amendment to construction contracts must be submitted by the contractor to the borrower on REA Form 800, Construction Contract Amendment for Payment. The requests must be prepared in triplicate, and each copy signed by an authorized agent of the surety. (c) Approval of request. If the borrower agrees to the request, the borrower will sign all three copies in the space provided, and, if the underlying contract was made subject to REA approval, the borrower will forward all copies to REA for approval. (d) Payments. Payments made under this section are to be made within thirty days after the final approval of the REA Form 800, Construction Contract Amendment for Payment, provided that the contractor has submitted the proper releases of liens from the supplier covering such equipment and materials. After construction has resumed, as the contractor is paid for monthly estimates of assembly units installed, a deduction must be made equal to the invoice cost of equipment and materials included in such estimates of assembly units installed and for which payment has been made to the contractor pursuant to the REA Form 800. §§1726.27&hyph;1726.34 [Reserved] §1726.35 Submission of documents to REA. (a) Where to send documents. Documents required to be submitted to REA under this part are to be sent to the office of the borrower's respective REA Regional Director, the Power Supply Division Director, or such other office of REA as designated by REA (see part 1700 of this chapter.) (b) Borrower certification. When a borrower certification is required by this part, it must made be by the borrower's manager unless the board of directors specifically authorizes another person to make the required certification. In such case, a certified copy of the specific authorizing resolution must accompany the document or be on file with REA. (c) Contracts requiring REA approval. The borrower shall submit to REA three copies of each contract that is subject to REA approval under subparts B through F of this part. At least one copy of each contract must be an original signed in ink (i.e., no facsimile signature). Each contract submittal must be accompanied by: (1) A bid tabulation and evaluation and, if applicable, a written recommendation of the architect or engineer. (2) For awards made under the informal competitive bidding procedure or the multiparty negotiation procedure, a written recommendation and certification of the contracting committee (See §§1726.202 and 1726.203). (3) Three copies of an executed contractor's bond on REA approved bond forms as required in the contract form (at least one copy of which must be an original signed in ink), proof of insurance coverage where required in the contract form, and one copy of the bid bond or facsimile of the certified check. (4) A certification by the borrower or chairperson of the contracting committee, as applicable, that the appropriate bidding procedures were followed as required by this part. (5) A certified copy of the board resolution awarding the contract.
