FR941117-0-00052 FR941117-0-00009 (b) After completion of discussions, each finalist shall be afforded an opportunity to revise its offer to support and clarify its offer. A reasonable amount of time (normally less than 5 working days) will be afforded for the revision. The amount of time given shall be the same for each finalist. 1871.604&hyph;4 Selection of ``Best Value'' Offer. (a) The procurement team member shall be the source selection official. (b) The BVS source selection is based on the premise that, if all offers are of approximately equal qualitative merit, award will be made to the offer with the lowest evaluated price (fixed-price contracts) or the Government-determined most probable cost (cost type contracts). However, the Government will consider awarding to an offeror with higher qualitative merit if the difference in price is commensurate with added value. Conversely, the Government will consider making award to an offeror whose offer has lower qualitative merit if the price (or cost) differential between it and other offers warrant doing so. (c) Documentation. Rationale for selection of the successful offeror shall be recorded in a selection statement which succinctly records the value characteristics upon which selection was made. The statement need not and should not reveal details of the successful offer that are proprietary or business sensitive. Since the value characteristics are expressed in performance terms, the reasons for selection can focus on results to be achieved, rather than the detailed approach the offeror will use. The statement shall also comment on the rationale used to equate cost and qualitative merit. Little or no comment would be required when the selected offeror possessed the highest merit and lowest price. When a marginal analysis is made between value characteristics and price (or cost)_in most cases this will be a subjective, integrated assessment of all pertinent factors_specific rationale should be provided to the extent possible. It is expected that the statement will not ordinarily exceed one page. Where the procurement is closely contested, it would be prudent to expand on the rationale provided in the statement. (d) The name of the offeror(s) selected for award and the selection statement shall be electronically transmitted to the offerors which will serve as a notification to those offerors that were not selected (see 1871.505). 1871.605 Negotiation methods and procedures. (a) Policy. (1) The buying team may choose to conduct parallel negotiations of complete contracts with those offerors determined to be finalists or with all acceptable offerors. Parallel negotiation may also be used where more than one offeror is selected for negotiations after discussions. Use of parallel negotiations takes advantage of the competitive atmosphere and the responsiveness of offerors in completing negotiations. It also provides the selection official a higher confidence in the offer, since only the contracting officer's signature is required to make the offer a binding contract. (2) When the selection official has chosen to make selection in lieu of conducting parallel negotiations, negotiations may be conducted with the successful offeror(s) to resolve any open issues necessary to effect a binding contract(s). This may be typical of R&D and service contracts where the Government desires to negotiate changes in emphasis or orientation in an otherwise superior offer(s). (b) Procedure. (1) Upon conclusion of parallel negotiations with each offeror, the offeror shall be asked to submit a revised offer (in full or amended) reflecting the results of the negotiations, and including the offeror's signature on the negotiated contract. A reasonable amount of time (normally less than 5 working days) will be afforded for the revision. The amount of time given shall be the same for each offeror. Upon receipt of all offers, the procurement member of the buying team shall make selection and document as required in 1871.604&hyph;4(c). Upon selection, the contracting officer shall execute the selected contract. (2) If negotiation is conducted after selection, the buying team shall first select the offer and document as required in 1871.604&hyph;4(c), then negotiate the terms of the contract. The offeror shall be asked to submit a revised offer reflecting the results of negotiation, and including the offeror's signature on the negotiated contract. A reasonable amount of time (normally less than 5 working days) will be afforded for the revision. After receipt of the revised offer, the contracting officer shall execute the contract. 1871.606 Debriefings. In addition to electronically transmitting the selection statement to the offerors, a debriefing, a debriefing will be provided by the buying team procurement member to any offeror submitting a written request. The debriefing will concentrate on the reasons why the successful offeror was selected. If the contract is unclassified, the debriefer may reveal any aspect of the contract and how it relates to the merits used to select the successful offer. If the successful offer had value characteristics which are proprietary or business sensitive, and had an impact on the selection, the debriefer should so state and summarize the results which are expected to accrue to the Government. The debriefer shall not divulge the details of the proprietary or business sensitive information. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28169 Filed 11&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7510&hyph;01&hyph;M
