FR940222-2-00072 FR940222-2-00061 Developing and Updating Simulation Models The Contractor will develop and update models (programs) that simulate payments to hospitals under PPS and additional models related to PPS or other Medicare payment systems (for example simulation of alternative payment systems for payments to hospitals for ambulatory surgery or radiology provided on an outpatient basis). These models will incorporate policy parameters such as payments for medical education and capital; changes in hospital labor market area definitions and wage indexes; changes in the DRG classification system; and changing from national to regional limits on allowable costs for payments to SNFs. Submission of Proposals Applicants will be given approximately 30 days to submit a formal proposal. Review of Proposals Proposals will be reviewed by a panel of at least four (4) individuals. Reviewers will score applications, basing their scoring decisions and approval recommendations on the criteria established in the RFP. Foremost consideration will be given to the technical evaluation, however, a proposal must be fairly and reasonably priced to win the award. General Information Number and Size of Project One contract will be awarded in response to this RFP. The period of performance of the basic contract will be for one year from the date of award. At the option of the government, the period of performance may be extended for up to two additional one-year periods. Authority The Commission's authority for issuing this RFP is based on Section 1886(e)(6)(c)(iii) of the Social Security Act. Submission Address For a copy of this RFP, all interested sources must submit a written request to the following address: Prospective Payment Assessment Commission, 300 7th Street, SW., Suite 301B, Washington, DC 20024, ATTN: Mrs. Jeannette A. Younes. Obligation This notice in no way commits ProPAC to obligate funds to any offeror. Dated: February 15, 1994. Donald A. Young, Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3838 Filed 2&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;BW&hyph;M
