FR941031-1-00006 FR941031-1-00002 In proposed §618.8010 (``Related Services Authorization Process''), the FCA replaces the prior approval in the existing regulation in part, by communicating to all institutions those services it has approved, which may then be offered without further regulatory approval. The proposed regulation also describes the process for the FCA's review of new services. Proposed §618.8015 (``Policy Guidelines'') requires each institution offering related services to adopt a policy addressing related services. Proposed §618.8020 (``Feasibility Requirements'') contains criteria for the feasibility analysis that must be performed in conjunction with developing a new service program. Proposed §618.8025 (``Feasibility Reviews'') addresses the statutory requirement for the board of directors of each funding bank to determine that association-related service programs are feasible. The proposed regulation requires the association to perform a feasibility analysis and requires the bank's board of directors to verify that this analysis has been done, and limits the scope and frequency of reviews that the bank must perform. The final section in subpart A, §618.8030 (``Out-of-Territory Related Services''), establishes a regulatory basis for providing out-of-territory related services. The FCA's policy statement and bookletter on offering services outside an institution's chartered territory would be superseded by these provisions. The proposed Member Insurance regulation in subpart B remains largely unchanged with two exceptions: (1) The requirement for a debtor/creditor relationship would no longer be necessary for sales of certain types of insurance; and (2) employee compensation for insurance sales would be allowed within certain limits. IV. Section-by-Section Analysis A. Subpart A_Related Services 1. Section 618.8000_Definitions Section 618.8000 of the proposed regulation would define the term ``program'' to mean the method or procedure by which an institution provides a related service. The purpose of the definition is to distinguish between the concept or type of activity that will be provided, such as farm business consulting, and the manner in which an institution will provide the particular service. The distinction between the type of related service and the institution's program for providing the service will be addressed further in the discussion of proposed §618.8010. ``Related services'' would be defined to mean any activity provided by a System bank or association that pertains to the recipient's on-farm, aquatic or cooperative operation, including control of related financial matters. The definition is intended to be broadly construed in order to encompass services, other than the making of loans, that an institution may want to offer to persons or entities eligible to borrow. It should be noted that the proposed definition does not rely upon whether the institution charges fees or makes a profit from offering a service in making a determination as to whether it is considered a ``related service.'' The FCA recognizes that institutions may offer related services at cost or at a slight loss in order to increase customer satisfaction or attract new customers. Such decisions are considered business decisions that will be reviewed in the examination context. The proposed definition of related services is not intended to include advertising or purely promotional activities. Although other terms, such as ``technical assistance,'' ``financial and technical assistance,'' and ``financially related services,'' are referenced in the Act, the distinction among these types of services has become negligible. In fact, the legislative history for the enactment of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 1 does not distinguish among these terms. Therefore, in order to reduce any confusion, the proposed definition would include all services referred to above. 1 Pub. L. 92&hyph;181, Dec. 10, 1971. The PPC work group commented that the on-farm requirement should not be interpreted to limit authorized related services to only those services that relate to the physical operations of the farm. The FCA agrees that Congress did not intend the on-farm requirement to be interpreted in such a restrictive manner and, historically, the FCA has not done so in approving related service programs. The FCA interprets the on-farm requirement to mean that related services must pertain to the farming or aquatic operations of the recipients or be useful in managing the financial matters of such operations. In fact, many of the services specifically mentioned by Congress when it enacted the related services authority in 1971 are related to farming and aquatic operations and controlling the risks associated with such operations rather than being a direct part of the physical operation. Those services specifically mentioned in the statute or legislative history include insurance, estate planning, and tax services.
