FR941230-2-00126 FR941230-2-00072 Simultaneously, protective factors must be increased to counter risk factors. A key strategy to counter risk factors in young people's lives is to enhance protective factors that fall into three basic categories: (1) Individual characteristics (having a resilient temperament or a positive orientation), (2) bonding (positive relationships that promote close bonds), and (3) healthy beliefs and clear standards. The Comprehensive Strategy's intervention component is based on the recognition that an effective model for the treatment and rehabilitation of delinquent offenders must combine accountability and sanctions with increasingly intensive treatment and rehabilitation. The community must be protected and the offender held responsible for the harm suffered by the victim. The family must be integrated into treatment and rehabilitative efforts at each stage of this continuum. Aftercare must be a formal component of all residential placements, actively involving the family and the community in supporting and reintegrating the juvenile into the community. The intervention component calls for establishing a range of graduated sanctions that provides both immediate interventions and intermediate sanctions, including extensive use of nonresidential community-based programs. Intermediate sanctions use both nonresidential and residential programming, including intensive supervision programs for serious and for some first-time violent offenders. The criminal behavior of many serious, violent, and chronic offenders will require the use of secure detention to protect the community and provide a structured treatment environment. Implementing a comprehensive strategy at the local level requires that all sectors of the community participate in determining local needs and in planning and implementing programs to meet those needs through a continuum of care. To expand implementation of the Comprehensive Strategy, OJJDP intends to fund additional competitive grants in fiscal year 1995 in urban and rural communities. The National Council on Crime and Delinquency, in partnership with Development Research and Programs, is completing a joint review of program models to identify the most effective, promising programs for use in implementing the Comprehensive Strategy. Reports will be published on: •Effective prevention strategies from birth to age six. •A review of evaluations of selected prevention strategies in childhood, adolescence, and the community. •Effective and promising graduated sanctions programs for serious, violent, and chronic juvenile offenders. •Risk assessment and classification for serious, violent, chronic juvenile offenders. The reports on effective programs will be combined with an operations manual, which communities can use as a blueprint to assess their juvenile justice system and design and implement improvements that respond to community needs. OJJDP and the Department of Justice are working closely with the Departments of Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Treasury, Labor, and Education, the Office of National Drug Control Policy, and other Office of Justice Programs bureaus and offices to develop solutions to youth violence. These agencies cosponsored the 1994 national conference Solving Youth Violence: Partnerships That Work. The OJJDP is providing technical assistance and training to four pilot jurisdictions in an interdepartmental initiative called Project PACT (Pulling America's Communities Together). The Denver metropolitan area, the District of Columbia, the Atlanta metropolitan area, and the State of Nebraska are developing coordinated solutions to violence. Key officials and community leaders are being trained and assisted in assessing the local adult and juvenile violence problem and mobilizing their justice system responses and resources to develop systemwide solutions. Staff are being trained in establishing effective delinquency prevention programs using a risk-focused strategy and in intervention efforts employing a range of graduated sanctions for juveniles in the juvenile justice system. OJJDP is participating in a collaborative effort with the Bureau of Justice Assistance through the Comprehensive Communities Program. Under this program, cities or counties faced with high rates of drug-related crime and violence are developing a comprehensive strategy for crime- drug-control that requires law enforcement and other government agencies to work in partnership with the community to address these problems by focusing on the environment that fosters them. Each strategy must include a jurisdiction-wide commitment to community policing, coordination among public and private agencies (including social services, public health, etc.), and efforts that encourage citizens, including crime victims, to take an active role in problem solving.
