FR940516-0-00007 FR940516-0-00003 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;98&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8872; AD 94&hyph;08&hyph;01] Airworthiness Directives; British Aerospace Model ATP Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to all British Aerospace Model ATP airplanes, that requires revising the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to prohibit flight in certain freezing precipitation conditions. This AD also provides an optional terminating action for the AFM revision. This amendment is prompted by reports of engine power rollback (loss of engine power) that occurred in environmental conditions involving freezing precipitation. The actions specified by this AD are intended to prevent loss of multiple engine power during flight in freezing precipitation. DATES: Effective June 15, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of June 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Jetstream Aircraft, Inc., P.O. Box 16029, Dulles International Airport, Washington, DC 20041&hyph;6029. This information may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William Schroeder, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2148; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations to include an airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to all British Aerospace Model ATP airplanes was published in the Federal Register on September 3, 1993 (58 FR 46916). That action proposed to require revising the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to prohibit flight in certain freezing precipitation conditions. Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received. One commenter supports the proposed rule, but suggests that the action should have been issued to require immediate compliance to reduce the traveling public's exposure to the potential risk of loss of multiple engine power during flight in freezing precipitation and possible unplanned landings. The commenter also requests that, since the AD was issued as a proposal, the time required for publication of the final rule in the Federal Register be kept to a minimum so as not to induce an additional administrative delay that would only delay compliance. The FAA does not concur with the commenter's suggestion that the final rule be issued to require immediate compliance. At the time of issuance of the proposal, the FAA could not justify that an immediate safety of flight problem existed, especially in light of the fact that the single operator of the entire U.S. fleet of Model ATP airplanes already had added an operating restriction similar to that required by this AD to its FAA-approved operation specifications and had agreed to operate in accordance with that restriction until further corrective action could be identified and incorporated. Moreover, the operating limitation was proposed by the FAA since, at that time, the airplane manufacturer, the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), which is the airworthiness authority for the United Kingdom, and the FAA were uncertain as to the cause of the engine power rollback problem described in the preamble to the proposal. However, considerable information was available at that time to indicate that the problem was due to ice ingestion into the engines during certain meteorological conditions. That data, however, had not yet been confirmed through testing conducted by the manufacturer and the CAA. Consequently, the FAA determined that a requirement to prohibit flight in certain freezing precipitation conditions would provide an acceptable level of safety until terminating action could be identified and developed. In developing this AD action, the FAA considered all of these items, and determined that, since the continued operational safety of the U.S. fleet could be assured during the interim, it was not impracticable to provide notice and the opportunity for public comment on the proposed rule. Two commenters, the CAA and Jetstream, request that the proposed rule be revised to require establishing a life limit on the engine igniter plugs, installing a bypass duct outlet eductor, and incorporating other changes to the airplane flight manual (AFM), in lieu of the proposed AFM revision. The commenters contend that, if such interim measures are taken, an acceptable level of safety would be assured pending longer term corrective action. The commenters explain that service information has been issued that describes procedures for those actions, as follows: 1. Jetstream Service Bulletin ATP&hyph;80&hyph;06, Revision 1, dated October 22, 1993, which describes procedures for placing a life limit on the engine igniter plugs and replacing those parts at staggered periods in order to improve ignition reliability.
