FR940712-1-00012 FR940712-1-00003 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;56&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Airbus Industrie Model A300&hyph;600 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Airbus Industrie Model A300&hyph;600 series airplanes. This proposal would require inspections to detect cracks in certain bolt holes where certain parts of the main landing gear (MLG) are attached to the rear spar, and repair, if necessary. This proposal is prompted by a report that cracks emanating from certain bolt holes in the rear spar were found during full scale fatigue testing. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent unnecessary degradation of the structural integrity of the airframe due to cracks in the rear spar. DATES: Comments must be received by August 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;56&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Airbus Industrie, 1 Rond Point Maurice Bellonte, 31707 Blagnac Cedex, France. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Stephen Slotte, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113; FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2797; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;56&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;56&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion The Direction Générale de l'Aviation Civile (DGAC), which is the airworthiness authority for France, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain Airbus Industrie Model A300&hyph;600 series airplanes. The DGAC advised that, during full-scale fatigue testing, cracks were discovered in the rear spar emanating from certain bolt holes where the main landing gear (MLG) forward pick-up fitting and the MLG rib 5 aft are attached to the rear spar on Model A300&hyph;600 series airplanes. This condition, if not corrected, could result in degradation of the structural integrity of the airframe. Airbus Industrie has issued Service Bulletin A300&hyph;57&hyph;6017, dated November 22, 1993, that describes procedures for repetitive high frequency eddy current (HFEC) rototest inspections to detect cracks in certain bolt holes where the MLG forward pick-up fitting and the MLG rib 5 aft are attached to the rear spar. This service bulletin also references Airbus Industrie Service Bulletin A300&hyph;57&hyph;6020, dated November 22, 1993, as an additional source of service information for accomplishment of certain repair and inspection procedures. The DGAC has classified Airbus Service Bulletin A300&hyph;57&hyph;6017 as mandatory and has issued French airworthiness directive 94&hyph;031&hyph;155(B), dated February 2, 1994, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in France. This airplane model is manufactured in France and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.29) and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, the DGAC has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of the DGAC, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, the proposed AD would require repetitive HFEC rototest inspections to detect cracks in certain bolt holes where the MLG forward pick-up fitting and the MLG rib 5 aft are attached to the rear spar, and repair, if necessary. The inspections would be required to be accomplished in accordance with Airbus Industrie Service Bulletin A300&hyph;57&hyph;6017. The FAA estimates that 25 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD, that it would take approximately 240 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed actions (including time to gain access and close up), and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $330,000, or $13,200 per airplane. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the proposed requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The FAA recognizes that the proposed inspections and repair would require a large number of work hours to accomplish. However, the compliance times in this proposed AD should allow ample time for the inspection and repair to be accomplished coincidentally with scheduled major airplane inspection and maintenance activities, thereby minimizing the costs associated with special airplane scheduling. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
