FR940805-2-00128 FR940805-2-00067 Coast Guard [CGD8&hyph;94&hyph;017] Houston/Galveston Navigation Safety Advisory Committee; Solicitation for Membership AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of solicitation for new members. SUMMARY: The U.S. Coast Guard has extended the deadline for applications for appointment to membership on the Houston/Galveston Navigation Safety Advisory Committee. DATES: Requests for applications should be received no later than August 19, 1994. Completed applications should be returned no later than September 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Persons interested in applying should write to Commander, Eighth Coast Guard District (oan), Hale Boggs Federal Building, 501 Magazine Street, New Orleans, LA 70130&hyph;3396. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Mr. Monty Ledet, USCG, Executive Secretary, Houston/Galveston Navigation Safety Advisory Committee, c/o Commander Eighth Coast Guard (oan), Room 1211, Hale Boggs Federal Building, 501 Magazine Street, New Orleans, LA 70130&hyph;3396, telephone number (504) 589&hyph;4686. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Committee shall consist of eighteen members, who have particular expertise, knowledge, and experience regarding the transportation, equipment, and techniques that are used to ship cargo and to navigate vessels in the inshore and the offshore waters of the Gulf of Mexico: (1) Two members who are employed by the Port of Houston Authority or have been selected by that entity to represent them. (2) Two members who are employed by the Port of Galveston or the Texas City Port Complex or have been selected by those entities to represent them. (3) Two members from organizations that represent shipowners, stevedores, shipyards, or shipping organizations domiciled in the State of Texas. (4) Two members representing organizations that operate tugs or barges that utilize the port facilities at Galveston, Houston, and Texas City Port Complex. (5) Two members representing shipping companies that transport cargo from the Ports of Galveston and Houston on liners, break bulk, or tramp steamer vessels. (6) Two members representing those who pilot or command vessels that utilize the Ports of Galveston and Houston. (7) Two at-large members who may represent a particular interest group but who utilize the port facilities at Galveston, Houston, and Texas City. (8) One member representing labor organizations which load and unload cargo at the Ports of Galveston and Houston. (9) One member representing licensed merchant mariners other than pilots, who perform shipboard duties on vessels which utilize the port facilities of Galveston and Houston. (10) One member representing environmental interests. (11) One member representing the general public. To achieve the balance of membership required by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the Coast Guard is especially interested in receiving applications from minorities and women. The purpose of the committee is to provide local expertise on such matters as communications, surveillance, traffic control, anchorages, aids to navigation, and other related topics dealing with navigation safety in the Houston/Galveston area as required by the Coast Guard. The committee normally meets three times a year at various locations in the Houston/Galveston area. Members serve voluntarily, without compensation from the Federal Government for salary, travel, or per diem. Term of membership will not exceed the expiration of the charter, October 1, 1996. Dated: July 20, 1994. R.C. North, Rear Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Commander, Eighth Coast Guard District. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19175 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
