FR940505-2-00044 FR940505-2-00034 2. Additional Eligibility Criteria Additional Criteria: to be eligible for funding under this Program Announcement an applicant must also: a. Contain within its service area a community or communities which as of the closing date for application under this Program Announcement has filed with HUD or USDA a Notice of Intent to Participate indicating an intent to apply for designation as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community; and b. Of the agencies meeting the criteria set out in subparagraph (1), above, have a CSBG funding level in FY 1994 which is one of the 200 smallest among those submitting an otherwise acceptable application in response to this announcement. (OCS estimates that agencies which received FY 1994 CSBG grants of less than approximately $350,000 should be eligible, although the final figure will not be known until all applications are received.) Part B_Type of Project Eligible for Funding OCS is interested in providing funds to eligible applicants with limited resources whose service areas have a high incidence of poverty. The purpose of this set-aside is to provide capacity-building grants that will enable eligible applicants to strengthen their staffs or obtain other resources that will enable them to participate, in partnership with others in their communities, in the development of Strategic Plans for their service areas which will be submitted to USDA and HUD seeking designation as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities. OCS looks to the participation in this planning process made possible by these grants as a way of achieving the following goals: (1) That low income people will be involved in the design and implementation of these Strategic Plans and as beneficiaries of the programs they propose, (2) that the Plans will include provision for independent third-party evaluation that will verify such involvement and assess its benefits, and (3) that the Plans will provide a vehicle for replication of past successful Demonstration Partnership Programs. Funds under this set aside may be used to acquire additional staff and/or to contract for necessary expertise or resources in order to enable the applicant to develop partnership arrangements through which it can contribute effectively to the development of a Strategic Plan that will embody the goals outlined above. Reasonable and necessary travel costs, including those necessary to facilitate low income participation in the strategic planning process, may also be paid for with grant funds. The end result should be a comprehensive, finely-tuned Strategic Plan that will include innovative approaches to provide for greater self-sufficiency of the poor. A maximum of $10,000 will be granted to eligible applicants which submit acceptable applications as described below. OCS has set aside a total of up to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to fund these grants, which will have project periods of six months. Funds not obligated by grantees at the end of the project period will lapse. It should be noted that under the terms of the authorizing legislation recipients of these TA/Planning grants will not be eligible to receive any other grants under the Demonstration Partnership Program in FY 1994. Part C_Application Requirements 1. Limitation on Use of Funds Grant funds under this Program Announcement may only be used for Salaries, Travel, and Contract/Consultant Services. (Categories a, c, and f on SF 424A) 2. Prohibition on the Use of Funds The use of funds for the purchase, construction or improvement of real property is prohibited. This prohibition includes expenditures for weatherization and home repairs. 3. Eligibility Applicant must be an eligible entity as defined in Part A. As part of establishing eligibility, the application must contain a letter signed by the State Director of the Community Services Block Grant program certifying that the applicant meets the Basic Eligibility Criteria set out in Part A, Paragraph 1 of this Announcement, and that it has the capacity to operate the proposed project. The application must also contain, as part of the Project Narrative, a statement certifying that a Notice of Intent to Participate has been submitted from the applicant's service area to either HUD or USDA indicating an intent to apply for designation as an Empowerment Zone or an Enterprise Community. The statement must identify the entity which submitted the Notice and its location, and must indicate that to the best of the applicant's knowledge and belief the submission was based on the existence of eligible census tracts within the applicant's community or service area. 4. Matching Funds An applicant is required to obtain commitment of at least one private or public sector dollar or equivalent in-kind contribution for each dollar of OCS funds awarded for under this Program Announcement. Public sector resources that can be counted toward the minimum match include funds from State and local governments, and funds from certain block grants allocated to the States by the Federal Government, provided that the authorizing legislation for these grants permits such use. (CDBG legislation permits such use; CSBG legislation does not.) Funds identified by the applicant as those to be counted toward the minimum match requirement may be in the form of grantee-incurred costs, cash or third-party in-kind contributions fairly valued. 5. Partnership Agreement
