FR940620-1-00107 FR940620-1-00012 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: All timely comments received by the Access Board on its guidelines published December 21, 1992 (57 FR 60612), and on its interim rule published today in the Federal Register will be deemed by the Department to have been submitted in response to this proposed rule and will be thoroughly analyzed and considered by the Department prior to the adoption of any final rule. Therefore, it is not necessary for any comments submitted to the Board on its proposed or interim rules to be resubmitted to the Department. Background On July 26, 1991, the Department published its final rules implementing titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, Pub. L. 101&hyph;336, 42 U.S.C. 12131&hyph;12134 and 12181&hyph;12189, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability by public entities and in places of public accommodation and commercial facilities. 56 FR 35694, 35544. The Department's implementing regulations were codified at 28 CFR, parts 35 and 36. Subtitle A of title II of the ADA protects qualified individuals with disabilities from discrimination on the basis of disability in the services, programs, or activities of all state and local governments. It extends the prohibition of discrimination in federally assisted programs established by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 794, to all activities of state and local governments, including those that do not receive federal financial assistance, and incorporates specific prohibitions of discrimination on the basis of disability from titles I, III, and V of the ADA. Title III of the ADA protects qualified individuals with disabilities from discrimination on the basis of disability by public accommodations and in commercial facilities. This proposed rule would amend 28 CFR 35.151 and 36.406 to adopt the ADA Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities (ADAAG), as revised by the Access Board in their interim rule that is published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , as the ADA Standards for Accessible Design (ADA Standards) for new construction and alterations covered by the Department's title II regulation. The ADA Standards would apply to facilities designed, constructed, or altered after the effective date of the amendment to ยง35.151. The proposed rule would also remove the original ADA Standards for Accessible Design, 28 CFR part 36, Appendix A; add the ADA Standards, as amended by the Access Board's interim rule, as Appendix A to part 37; and amend parts 35 and 36 to correctly reference the redesignated ADA Standards. Finally, the proposed rule would amend the Compliance Procedures in subpart F of part 35 to incorporate procedures used under agency regulations implementing section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act for federally assisted programs and activities. Accessibility Standard Section 504 of the ADA requires the Access Board to issue supplemental Minimum Guidelines and Requirements for Accessible Design of buildings and facilities subject to the ADA, including titles II and III. Sections 204(c) and 306(c) of the ADA provide that the Attorney General shall promulgate regulations implementing titles II and III that are consistent with the Access Board's ADA guidelines. In issuing its final title II regulation, the Department explained that it intended to amend the regulation to adopt the new accessibility standards for title II after the Access Board had amended its ADA Accessibility Guidelines to include specific requirements applicable to buildings and facilities operated by entities subject to title II. The Access Board is now publishing its interim guidelines for title II elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , and this proposed rule would adopt those guidelines. Rather than having the ADA Standards for Accessible Design published twice, as an appendix to both parts 35 and 36, this proposed rule would adopt the revised ADA Standards as Appendix A to part 37. Parts 35 and 36 are amended to reference those standards. The Access Board received public comments on its proposed guidelines, published on December 21, 1992, and is soliciting comments on its interim rule, which is published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register . The Department, as a member of the Access Board, will be actively involved in the review and analysis of the comments that the Access Board receives on its interim guidelines and in making any revisions to the guidelines in response to those comments. Therefore, the Department has proposed to adopt the guidelines, as revised by the Access Board in its final rule, as the ADA Standards for Accessible Design. Comments submitted to the Access Board in response either to its Notice of Proposed Rulemaking or its Interim Rule, therefore, will also be considered by the Department as comments on this proposed rule, and need not be separately submitted to the Department. Comments previously received by the Access Board concerning provision of unisex restrooms will be considered by the Department of Justice through future rulemaking or other action.
