FR940325-1-00034 FR940325-1-00007 (5) Proposing modifications to the plan required by §128.300 to correct its deficiencies and satisfy the security requirements of the terminal; (6) Encouraging vigilance, as well as general awareness of security, at the terminal; (7) Reporting all occurrences or suspected occurrences of unlawful acts and related activities in accordance with §128.250; and (8) Coordinating implementation of the plan required by §128.300 with the ship security officer of each vessel that embarks or disembarks passengers at the terminal. §128.230 Training. (a) Training for security at each passenger terminal is the responsibility of the operator and the terminal security officer of the terminal. (b) This training must be provided to all security personnel of the terminal and must emphasize measures to take when advised by the COTP of an increased threat to the passenger terminal, a passenger vessel subject to Part 120 of this chapter moored at the terminal, or persons on the vessel or terminal. (c) Subjects for training must include, but need not be limited to_ (1) Communications; (2) Control of access; (3) Patrol; (4) Response to emergencies; (5) Reporting; (6) Characteristics and behavior of persons who may commit unlawful acts; (7) Review of security standard operating procedures (SSOPs) for the terminal; and (8) Support from the vessel relative to security; (d) A record of the date and kind of training for security at the terminal provided to each employee of the terminal receiving training must stay at the terminal for the duration of the employee's employment plus six months. The operator shall make all such records available to the COTP upon request. §128.240 Coordination with vessel security. (a) Before a passenger vessel subject to Part 120 of this chapter embarks or disembarks passengers at a passenger terminal, the operator of the terminal shall, where practicable, work with the operator of the vessel, to provide security for the passengers and the terminal. The operator of the terminal need not duplicate any provisions of this part fulfilled by the operator of the vessel. (b) The operator of the terminal shall_ (1) Agree as far as possible, in writing, with the operator of the vessel which responsibilities of the vessel will fulfill and which the terminal will; (2) Establish communications with the vessel immediately after mooring; (3) Obtain from the vessel a list of passengers and a list of all scheduled deliveries and services to the vessel; and (4) Obtain a copy of the ship security plan. §128.250 Reporting of unlawful acts and related activities. (a) Any security personnel of the terminal having knowledge of an unlawful act, a suspicious activity, a breach of security, or a threat against the passenger terminal or against a passenger vessel subject to Part 120 of this chapter destined for or moored at the terminal, shall notify the operator or the terminal security officer of the terminal, or another representative of the terminal operator. If none of these can be notified, the person shall notify the COTP. (b) The operator of the terminal or the operator's representative shall report each unlawful act, breach of security, or threat of an unlawful act, against the terminal, a passenger vessel subject to Part 120 of this chapter destined for or moored at that terminal, or persons on the terminal or vessel, to the COTP, to the local office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and to the local police agency having jurisdiction over the terminal. (c) Each report of such an activity must include, as applicable_ (1) The terminal's name; (2) The terminal's address; (3) The name of the terminal security officer; (4) If any such vessel is moored at the terminal, the names of the vessel and its master; (5) An account of the incident; (6) The date, time, and place of the incident; (7) The number of alleged offenders; (8) The method used to introduce any prohibited weapon, incendiary, or explosive into the terminal;
