FR940927-0-00085 FR940927-0-00012 (v) Significant liquid assets; (vi) Downpayment or the existence of equity in refinancing loans; (vii) Little or no increase in shelter expense; (viii) Military benefits; (ix) Satisfactory homeownership experience; (x) High residual income; and (xi) Low debt-to-income ratio. (6) The list in paragraph (c)(5) is not exhaustive and the items are not in any priority order. Valid compensating factors should represent unusual strengths rather than mere satisfaction of basic program requirements. Compensating factors must be relevant to the marginality or weakness. (d) Debt-to-income-ratio. A debt-to-income ratio that compares the veteran's anticipated monthly housing expense and total monthly obligations to his or her stable monthly income will be computed to assist in the assessment of the potential risk of the loan. The ratio will be determined by taking the sum of the monthly Principal, Interest, Taxes and Insurance (PITI) to the loan being applied for, homeowners and other assessments such as special assessments, condominium fees, homeowners association fees, etc., and any long-term obligations divided by the total of gross salary or earnings and other compensation or income. The ratio should be rounded to the nearest two digits; e.g., 35.6 percent would be rounded to 36 percent. The standard is 41 percent or less. If the ratio is greater than 41 percent, (unless it is larger due solely to the existence of tax free income which should be noted in the loan file) the steps cited in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(6) of this section apply. (e) Residual income guidelines. The guidelines provided in this paragraph for residual income will be used to determine whether the veteran's monthly residual income will be adequate to meet living expenses after estimated monthly shelter expenses have been paid and other monthly obligations have been met. The guidelines for residual income are based on data supplied in the Consumer Expenditure Survey (CES) published by the Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics. Regional minimum incomes have been developed for loan amounts up to $69,999 and for loan amounts of $70,000 and above. It is recognized that the purchase price of the property may affect family expenditure levels in individual cases. This factor may be given consideration in the final determination in individual loan analyses. For example, a family purchasing in a higher-priced neighborhood may feel a need to incur higher than average expenses to support a lifestyle comparable to that in their environment, whereas a substantially lower-priced home purchase may not compel such expenditures. It should also be clearly understood from this information that no single factor is a final determinant in any applicant's qualification for a VA guaranteed loan. Once the residual income has been established, other important factors must be examined. One such consideration is the amount being paid currently for rental or housing expenses. If the proposed shelter expense is materially in excess of what is currently being paid, the case may require closer scrutiny. In such cases, consideration should be given to the ability of the borrower and spouse to accumulate liquid assets; such as cash and bonds, and to the amount of debts incurred while paying a lesser amount for shelter. For example, if an application indicates little or no capital reserves and excessive obligations, it may not be reasonable to conclude that a substantial increase in shelter expenses can be absorbed. Another factor of prime importance is the applicant's manner of meeting obligations. A poor credit history alone is a basis for disapproving a loan, as is an obviously inadequate income. When one or the other is marginal, however, the remaining aspect must be closely examined to assure that the loan applied for will not exceed the applicant's ability or capacity to repay. Therefore, it is important to remember that the figures provided below for residual income are to be used as a guide and should be used in conjunction with the steps outlined in paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section. The residual income guidelines are as follows:
