FR940317-1-00108 FR940317-1-00013 Claims in Favor of the United States §536.129 Scope. (a) Title 10, United States Code, section 4803, provides for agency settlement or compromise of claims for damage to_ (1) DA accountable properties of a kind that are within the admiralty jurisdiction of a district court of the United States. (2) Claims for damage caused by a vessel or floating object to property under the jurisdiction of the DA or property for which the DA has assumed an obligation to respond in damages, where the net amount payable to the United States does not exceed $500,000. (b) Title 10, United States Code, section 4804, provides for the settlement of compromise of claims in any amount for salvage services (including contract salvage and towage) performed by the DA. Claims for salvage services are based upon labor costs, per diem rates for the use of salvage vessels and other equipment, and upon repair or replacement costs of materials and equipment damaged or lost during the salvage operation. The sum claimed is intended to compensate the United States for operational costs only, reserving, however, the right of the Government to assert a claim on a salvage bonus basis in accordance with commercial practice, in appropriate cases. (c) The United States has three years from the date a maritime claim accrues under this section to file suit against the responsible parties. The Army's authority to settle or compromise a suit under this section terminates when the statute of limitations has run. Efforts to compromise a claim under this section should not extend more than two years past the date the claim accrues unless it is clear that an administrative settlement is likely. As a general rule, affirmative claims which are likely to be resolved through litigation should be referred to the Department of Justice within two years of the date the claims accrue. §536.130 Claims exceeding $500,000. Maritime claims in favor of the United States, except claims for salvage services, may not be settled or compromised under this section at a net amount exceeding $500,000 payable to the United States. However, all such claims otherwise within the scope of this section will be investigated in accordance with the procedures in subpart B and reported to the Commander, USARCS. The Commander, USARCS will forward the claim to the Secretary of the Army, the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management) as designee of the Secretary or other designee of the Secretary who will then certify it to Congress. §536.131 Civil works activities. Rights of the United States to fines, penalties forfeitures, or other special remedies in connection with the protection of navigable waters, the control and improvement of rivers and harbors, flood control, and other functions of the Corps of Engineers involving civil works activities are not dealt with in this section. However, claims for money damages that are civil in nature, arising out of civil works activities of the Corps of Engineers and otherwise under this section, for which an adequate remedy is not available to the COE, may be processed under this section. §536.132 Delegation of authority. (a) The Secretary of the Army, the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management) as designee of the Secretary or other designee of the Secretary may compromise an affirmative claim by the United States under this subpart subject only to the statutory limit (presently $500,000) on the amount to be received (10 U.S.C. 4803(a)(2)). (b) TJAG, TAJAG and the Commander, USARCS or his designee within USARCS may settle, or compromise, and receive payment on a claim by the United States under this subpart if the amount to be received does not exceed $100,000. They may also terminate collection of claims for the convenience of the government in accordance with the standards specified by the Department of Justice (see 4 CFR parts 103 and 104), regardless of the amount claimed. (c) Chiefs of command claims services, the Chief Counsel, Corps of Engineers, heads of Corps of Engineers area claims offices, and heads of other area claims offices designated by the Commander, USARCS may receive payment in full or compromise any claim by the United States under this subpart provided: (1) The amount of the government's claim does not exceed $100,000, and (2) The amount to be received does not exceed $25,000. The authority delegated in this paragraph to Corps of Engineers claims offices is subject to such limitations as may be imposed by the Chief Counsel, Corps of Engineers. (d) The head of any claim office may assert and receive payment for the full amount of a claim not exceeding $100,000 by the United States under this subpart. §536.133 Demands. (a) It is essential that demands for payment or notice of intention to make such demands be made as soon as possible following receipt of information of damage to Army property where legal liability to respond is present or possibly present. Except in cases falling under §536.132(b), copies of the initial demand/notice of intention to make demand letters, as well as copies of subsequent correspondence will be promptly provided to the Commander, USARCS, who will monitor the progress of such claims. (b) Where, in response to any demand made by a field claims office, a respondent denies liability, fails to respond within a reasonable period, or offers a compromise settlement, the file will be promptly forwarded to the Commander, USARCS, except in cases where proposed compromise settlement is deemed acceptable and the claim is otherwise within the authority delegated in §536.132(b). Investigations and Reports §536.134 Procedure. Claims under this subpart will be investigated and reported in accordance with subpart B of this part, AR 55&hyph;19 or other applicable regulations. §536.135 Reports.
