FR941205-2-00129 FR941205-2-00073 The above-stated application deadline is firm as to date and hour. In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, the Department will treat as ineligible for consideration any application that is not received by 4:00 p.m. on, or postmarked by, February 3, 1995. Applicants should take this procedure into account and make early submission of their materials to avoid any risk of loss of eligibility brought about by unanticipated delays or other delivery-related problems. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Stephen Rhodeside, State and Small Cities Division, Office of Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Room 7184, 451 Seventh Street SW, Washington, DC 20410. Telephone (202) 708&hyph;1322 (voice) or (202) 708&hyph;2565 (TDD). (These are not toll-free numbers.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Paperwork Reduction Act Statement. The information collection requirements related to this CDBG program have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been assigned OMB approval number 2506&hyph;0020. Contents I. Purpose and Substantive Description A. Authority and Background 1. Authority 2. Background 3. Statutory Changes a. Principal Benefit Certification b. Program Income c. Microenterprises and Small Business Development d. Lump Sum Drawdowns e. Eligible Activities (1) Changes Affecting Existing Categories (a) Assistance to For-Profit Businesses (b) Direct Homeownership Assistance (c) Code Enforcement (d) Loans to Subrecipients (e) Public Service Cap (f) Neighborhood-Based Nonprofit Organizations (2) New Categories of Eligibility (a) Nonprofit Capacity Building (b) Institutions of Higher Education (c) Acquisition by Tax Foreclosure (d) Microenterprises (e) Housing Services (f) Lead-Based Paint (3) Changes Concerning National Objectives (a) Low/Mod Jobs Presumption f. Housing Strategies g. Section 3 4. Accountability in the Provision of HUD Assistance a. HUD Responsibilities (1) Documentation and Public Access (2) Disclosures b. Units of Local Government Responsibilities (1) Disclosures (2) Documentation and Public Access (3) Disclosures B. Allocation Amounts 1. Total Available Funding 2. Imminent Threats C. Eligibility 1. Eligible Applicants 2. Previous Grantees 3. Eligible Activities and National Objectives 4. Environmental Review Requirements D. Types of Grants 1. Comprehensive Grants a. General b. Grant Limits and Funding Requirements 2. Single Purpose Grants a. General b. Grant Limits and Funding Requirements c. Applications with Multiple Projects 4. Multiyear Plans a. General b. Grant Limits and Funding Requirements E. Selection Criteria/Ranking Factors and Final Selection 1. General 2. Performance Evaluation a. Community Development Activities b. Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations c. Performance Assessment Reports 3. Four Factor Rating a. Need_Absolute Number of Persons in Poverty b. Need_Percent of Persons in Poverty c. Program Impact_General (1) Program Impact_Single Purpose Grants (a) Program Impact_Single Purpose_Housing (i) Housing Rehabilitation (ii) Creation of New Housing (iii) Direct Homeownership Assistance (b) Program Impact_Single Purpose_Public Facilities Affecting the Public Health and Safety
