FR940407-0-00012 FR940407-0-00002 (2) Description of Potential Benefits of the Rule The most significant areas of benefits to business obtaining small business status as a result of this final rule are in the Federal government's procurement arena and the SBA's business loan program. The SBA estimates that businesses gaining small business status could potentially obtain Federal contracts worth approximately $200 million under the small business set-aside program or the 8(a) program. The additional competition for many of these procurements may also result in a lower price to the government for its procurements which have been set aside, but the SBA is not able to quantify this benefit. In the SBA's 7(a) Loan Program, it is estimated that 250 loans amounting to $100 million could be made to the newly defined small businesses. The rule will also make various SBA programs available to business concerns who would otherwise be eligible for such programs but for an increase in their revenues due to inflation. In other words, the rule reinstates business concerns as small that lost their small business status due solely to inflation. As such, those firms which would again be eligible for SBA assistance and for small business procurement preference programs will benefit greatly from this rule. (3) Description of Potential Costs of the Rule The changes in size standards as they impact on government procurement should not add any element of cost to the government and, in fact, as described above, may reduce the cost to a procuring Federal agency. Similarly, the rule should not result in any extra costs with respect to the 7(a) loan program. The amount of lending authority SBA can make or guarantee is established by appropriation. The competitive effects of size standards revisions differ from those normally associated with regulations affecting key economic factors such as the price of goods and services, costs, profits, growth, innovation, mergers, and foreign trade. The change to size standards is not anticipated to have any appreciable effect on any of these factors, although smaller-sized small businesses or 8(a) firms may be unsuccessful in competing for some Federal procurement opportunities due to the presence of larger, newly defined small businesses, some of which may well be more competitive in winning Federal procurements. (4) Description of the Potential Net Benefits from the Rule From the above discussion, SBA believes that, because the potential costs of this rule are minimal, the potential net benefits would approach fairly closely the total potential benefits. The impact of the new size standard will appear predominantly in the Federal procurement area. (5) Description of Reasons Why This Action is Being Taken and Objectives of Rule SBA has provided above a statement of the reasons why the new size standards are established and a statement of the reasons for and objectives of this rule. (6) Legal Basis for Rule The legal basis for this rule is sections 3(a) and 5(b)(6) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 632(a) and 634(b)(6). (7) Federal Rules There are no Federal rules which duplicate, overlap or conflict with this rule. SBA has statutorily been given exclusive jurisdiction in establishing size standards. (8) Significant Alternatives to the Rules This final rule establishes the most appropriate individual size standard by which to define those small businesses that are eligible for SBA's assistance programs. There are no significant alternatives to defining a small business. The SBA certifies that this final rule will not have federalism implications warranting the preparation of a Federal Assessment in accordance with Executive Order 12612. The SBA further certifies that this final rule will not add any new reporting or record keeping requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C., Chapter 35. For purposes of Executive Order 12778, the SBA certifies that this final rule is drafted, to the extent practicable, in accordance with the standards set forth in section 2 of that order. List of Subjects in 13 CFR Part 121 Government procurement, Government property, Grant programs_business, Loan programs_business, Small business. Accordingly, part 121 of 13 CFR is amended as follows: PART 121_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation of part 121 continues to read as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 632(a), 634(b)(6), 637(a), and 644(c). ยง121.601 [Amended] 2. Section 121.601 is amended by revising the table of ``Size Standards by SIC Industry'' to read as follows:
