FR940413-2-00160 FR940413-2-00071 It eliminates two provisions from rule G&hyph;19. Rule G&hyph;19 generally requires that before making any recommendations to a customer, a dealer must first determine that the proposed transaction is suitable for the customer. One provision of the rule in its current form, which is in effect an exemption to it, permits a dealer to make a recommendation when a customer fails to provide sufficient information about himself, as long as the dealer has no reasonable grounds to believe and does not believe that the recommendation is unsuitable. The Board proposes deleting the provision to avoid any ambiguities regarding a dealer's obligation to make a suitability determination and to prevent any future use of the provision as an excuse for unsuitable recommendations. As a result of this rule change, a dealer who lacks specific information regarding a customer's financial status or investment objective, but reasonably believes that an investment is suitable for the customer, would not be permitted to go forward with the recommendation. A second exemptive provision of the current rule allows dealers to recommend specific municipal securities to investors who want to invest in those securities even after being informed by the dealer that, based on their financial circumstances, investments in those securities would not be suitable. The Board also proposes deleting this provision to strengthen the suitability rule. The proposed rule change also amends rule G&hyph;19 to clarify the information that municipal securities dealers must obtain from customers and when it must be obtained. For non-institutional customers, the rule change clarifies that dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain the following information: The customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and such other information used or considered to be reasonable and necessary by the dealer in making recommendations to the customer. 10 The proposal does not establish a specific list of items that must be requested from institutional accounts. 10 The proposed rule change also clarifies rule G&hyph;8 to require that customer suitability information used to make a suitability determination be recorded in the customer account record. The suitability rule itself applies equally to institutional and non-institutional accounts, irrespective of the different information gathering requirements. It states that for each recommendation of a municipal securities transaction, a broker or dealer shall have reasonable grounds, based upon information available from the issuer and facts disclosed by the customer or otherwise known about the customer, to believe that the recommendation is suitable. The proposed rule change also revises the definition of ``institutional account'' contained in rule G&hyph;8. The new definition would add the accounts of savings and loan associations, investment advisers registered under Section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and other entities (whether a natural person, corporation, partnership, trust, or otherwise) with total assets of at least $50 million to those of banks and registered investment companies under the definition of ``institutional accounts.'' This amendment would make the Board's definition of ``institutional account'' the same as that established by Article III, section 21(c)(4) of the National Association of Securities Dealers (``NASD'') Rules of Fair Practice for purposes of suitability determinations. III. Discussion Since the adoption of suitability rules in the late 1970's, there have been significant changes in the municipal securities markets. The number of retail investors has increased and the introduction of more complex, and in some cases, speculative municipal securities has become a characteristic of today's market. In addition, there have been a number of defaults in municipal securities in recent years, including some defaults in unrated and conduit bonds. 11 11 Examples include the defaults engendered by the failures of Tucson Electric Power and Washington (State) Public Power Supply System, and the bankruptcies arising out of the Colorado Special Districts. See, e.g., Stamas, ``Rep. Dingell Asks SEC to Investigate Defaults by Special Assessment Districts in Colorado,'' The Bond Buyer at 1 (Jan. 25, 1991); Doyle, ``SEC Chief Tells Congress Muni Market Probe Still Underway,'' Associated Press (September 9, 1993). As a result of these developments, the Commission believes it is critical that dealers have clear policies to ensure that sales personnel do not recommend securities to customers without proper regard to the nature of the security being recommended and the customer to whom it is being recommended. Furthermore, because of the lack of available information regarding prices and risk of municipal securities, brokers and dealers have an information advantage relative to their customers. Particularly in such an environment, it is wholly appropriate to hold brokers and dealers to high professional standards when making recommendations to their customers. 12 12 As part of its overall effort to improve customer protection in the municipal securities market, the Commission also recently published for comment a proposed amendment to Rule 15c2&hyph;12 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This amendment would, inter alia, make it unlawful for a broker or dealer to recommend the purchase or sale of a municipal security, without having reviewed the information the issuer of the municipal security has undertaken to provide. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to further deter fraud and manipulation in the municipal securities market by prohibiting the underwriting and subsequent recommendation of securities for which adequate information is not available.
