FR940505-1-00011 FR940505-1-00005 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 165 [COTP Jacksonville Regulation 94&hyph;027] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone Regulations; St. Johns River, Jacksonville, FL AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes to establish a permanent safety zone in the St. Johns River around barges launching fireworks located between the Hart and Acosta Bridges. The permanent safety zone will relieve the need to establish temporary safety zones for the purpose of regularly scheduled fireworks displays. The zone will be placed into effect during fireworks displays to protect vessels in the vicinity from safety hazards associated with the storage, preparation and launching of fireworks. It will automatically terminate at the conclusion of the fireworks display unless terminated earlier by the Captain of the Port of District Commander. DATES: Comments must be received on or before June 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Commanding Officer, Coast Guard Marine Safety Office, 2831 Talleyrand Avenue, Jacksonville, FL 32206&hyph;3497. The comments will be available for inspection and copying at MSO Jacksonville, Room 222. Normal office hours are between 7:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Comments may also be hand delivered to this address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant A. Varamo, Tel: (904) 232&hyph;2648. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Interested persons are invited to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written views, data or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this notice (94&hyph;027) and the specific section of the proposal to which their comments apply, and give reasons for each comment. The regulations may be changed in light of comments received. All comments received before the expiration of the comment period will be considered before final action is taken on this proposal. No public hearing is planned, but one may be held if written requests for a hearing are received and it is determined that the opportunity to make oral presentations will aid the rulemaking process. Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are Lieutenant A. Varamo, project officer for the Captain of the Port Jacksonville, and Lieutenant J. Losego, project attorney, Seventh Coast Guard District Legal Office. Discussion of Proposed Regulations The events requiring this regulation are fireworks displays which necessitates that an area within 500 yards of fireworks barges remain clear of all vessels. The safety zone will be in effect around the barges when fireworks are prepared and launched. Vessels are prohibited from anchoring, mooring, or transiting the St. Johns River within the prescribed area while the safety zone is in effect to avoid potential hazards associated with the fireworks display. The need to establish this permanent safety zone is based on the number of safety zones issued for fireworks displays in this area over the last year. Between April 1993 and April 1994, 15 safety zones were established in this area of the St. Johns River. The creation, review, and submission of the large number of individual field regulations for these safety zones presents a significant administrative burden. The permanent safety zone would alleviate this burden. This regulation is issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 1231 as set out in the authority citation for all of part 165. Federalism This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that the proposed rulemaking does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Environmental Assessment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this proposal consistent with section 2.B.2.C of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B and the establishment of safety zones has been determined to be categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. Economic Assessment and Certification This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866 on Federal Regulation and is nonsignificant under the Department of Transportation regulatory policies and procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979). The economic impact of this proposal is expected to be so minimal that a full regulatory evaluation is unnecessary. The safety zone will only be in effect during the preparation and launching of fireworks. The Coast Guard will notify the public of the activation of the safety zone by transmitting a Broadcast Notice to Mariners on appropriate VHF&hyph;FM radio frequencies in advance of each fireworks display. The exact time of each safety zone will be included in the Broadcast Notice to Mariners. Each safety zone is expected to last for approximately one hour, which includes the time immediately prior to, during, and after the fireworks display. Since the impact of this proposal is expected to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies that, if adopted, it will not have significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. List of Subjects in 33 CFR part 165 Harbors, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Safety measures, Waterways. Proposed Regulations In consideration of the foregoing, subpart C of title 33, Code of Federal Regulations, is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 165_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 165 continues to read as follows: Authority: 33 U.S.C. 1231; 50 U.S.C. 191; 49 CFR 1.46 and 33 CFR 1.05&hyph;1(g), 6.04&hyph;1, 6.04&hyph;6, and 160.5. 2. A new ยง165.721 is added to read as follows: ยง165.721 Safety Zone: St. Johns River, Jacksonville, Florida. (a) Location. The following area is established as a safety zone during the specified conditions: The waters within a 500 yard radius of the fireworks barge or barges during the storage, preparation, and launching of fireworks in the St. Johns River between the Hart and Acosta Bridges. (b) Effective dates. This section becomes effective upon activation by the Captain of the Port by the broadcasting of a local Notice to Mariners on appropriate VHF&hyph;FM radio frequencies. It terminates at the conclusion of the fireworks display unless terminated earlier by the Captain of the Port. (c) Regulations_ (1) In accordance with the general regulations in 165.23 of this part, anchoring, mooring or transiting in this zone is prohibited unless authorized by the District Commander or Captain of the Port. (2) This section does not apply to authorized law enforcement agencies operating within the Safety Zone. Dated: April 12, 1994. A. Regalbuto, Captain, U.S. Coast Guard, Captain of the Port, Jacksonville, Florida. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10857 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
