FR940825-1-00018 FR940825-1-00002 7. Number of Exits (a) A single means of egress from an ATCT is permitted where: (1) the exit is protected by a smokeproof enclosure as set forth in section j.13, or a pressurized enclosure as set forth in section j.13.(d). (2) An automatic fire detection and alarm system is provided. (3) ATCTs are not used for living or sleeping purposes. (4) ATCTs are occupied by only able-bodied persons. (5) No combustible materials are located in, under, or in the immediate vicinity of the ATCT except necessary furniture and equipment. (6) The tower is subject to occupancy by no more than 20 persons per floor and not more than 80 persons total. (7) Other requirements and exceptions specified in this standard for existing ATCTs are satisfied. (b) Base buildings shall have as a minimum two exits remote from each other so arranged as to minimize the possibility that both may be blocked by any one fire or other emergency condition. Exception: A single means of egress is permissible for those base buildings consisting of a single story, above ground and having less than 350 square feet gross floor area, and where all other requirements of this standard are met. (c) Neither elevators nor ladders are acceptable as an approved exit component or a means of egress from an ATCT facility. Exception: Ladders may be used for access to or egress from normally unoccupied roof areas. 8. Exit Access Passageways and Corridors (a) Every corridor shall be not less than 44 inches in width. Exception: Exit access passageways and corridors in existing ATCTs shall be no less than 28 inches provided they meet the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems). (b) Aisles shall not be less than 28 inches in width. 9. Means of Egress Doorways (a) Every door which is required to serve as an exit shall be so designed and constructed that the way of exit travel is obvious and direct. Windows that, because of their physical configuration or design and the materials used in their construction, could be mistaken for doors shall be made inaccessible to the occupants by barriers or railings. (b) Any door in a means of egress shall be of the side-hinged, or pivoted-swinging type. The door shall be so designed and installed that it is capable of swinging from any position to the full use of the opening in which it is installed. Doors shall swing in the direction of exit travel where serving a room or area with an occupant load of 50 or more, where used in an exit enclosure, and where serving a high hazard area. Exception: Horizontal sliding doors may be used in means of egress provided they comply with the criteria established in NFPA 101_Life Safety Code Section 5&hyph;2.1.14. Exception: Revolving doors may be used in means of egress provided they comply with NFPA 101_Life Safety Code Section 5&hyph;2.1.10. (c) Every required exit doorway shall be of a size to permit the installation of a door not less than 36 inches in width. (d) Exit doors shall be capable of opening at least 90 degrees and shall be mounted so as to provide a clear width of exit not less than 28 inches. (e) A means of egress door shall be so arranged as to be readily opened from the side from which egress is to be effected at all times when the building is occupied. No lock or fastening to prevent free escape from the inside of an ATCT facility shall be installed. (f) Doors shall latch upon closing except that a latch or other fastening device on a door shall be provided with a knob, handle, panic bar, or other simple type of releasing device. (g) Doors required to be fire rated shall be marked by the manufacturer with a label indicating the fire resistive rating of the door and the approved testing laboratory. Door hardware shall be labeled appropriately. (h) Automatic or self-closing doors shall operate so that in the event that the fire alarm is activated either manually or automatically, the ``hold open device'' automatically releases and the door automatically closes and latches. (i) All doors shall be equipped with hardware which can be instantly reopened manually by some simple type of releasing device. 10. Stairways (a) ATCT stairways serving an occupant load of more than 50 shall be not less than 44 inches in width. Stairways serving an occupant load of 50 or less may be 36 inches wide. Handrails may project from each side of a stairway at a distance of 31/2 inches into the required width. A stringer may project inside the measured width not more than 11/2 inches. Exception: The width of a stairway may be 28 inches in existing ATCTs provided the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems).
