FR940505-1-00028 FR940505-1-00012 (5) California's Nonroad Program/Preemption b. Federal Nonroad Requirements (1) Federal Requirements for Compression Ignition Engines at or above 37kw (a) Applicability (b) Standards (c) Compliance Dates (d) Certification and Test Procedures (2) Federal Requirements for Spark Ignited Engines at or under 19kw (a) Background (b) Overview of Program to Control Emissions from SI Engines under 19 kW (c) Standards (d) Regulatory Scheme (3) Federal Requirements for Spark Ignited Marine Engines (a) Overview of Requirements for Spark-Ignition Marine Engines (b) Definition of Spark Ignited Marine Engine (c) Applicability (d) Emission Standards (e) General Enforcement Provisions (f) Compliance Dates for Certifications (g) Averaging, Banking, and Trading c. Special FIP Measures (1) On-Highway Motorcycles and Nonroad Engines Used in Recreational Vehicles and Nonroad Motorcycles (a) Overview (b) Definition of On-Highway and Nonroad Motorcycles (c) Applicability (d) Standards (e) Certification and Test Procedures (f) Authority (2) Fees on Marine Pleasure Craft (3) Nonroad Compression Ignition Engines under 37kw and Nonroad Spark Ignited Engines over 19kw and less than 37kw d. Enhanced In-Use Compliance Program for Nonroad Engines over 37 kW e. National Transportation Sources (1) Introduction (2) Civil and Military Aviation (a) General Description of Category ( 1 ) Aircraft Operational Classes ( 2 ) Related Mobile Sources ( 3 ) Need for Control ( 4 ) Level of Control (b) Commercial Aircraft Operations ( 1 ) Overview ( a ) Airline Focus and Specific Sources Covered ( b ) Geographic Scope ( c ) Control Period ( 2 ) Key Regulatory Elements ( a ) Summary ( b ) Pounds per PEU Scheme ( c ) Fee System ( d ) Averaging and Trading ( e ) Reporting and Recordkeeping ( f ) Exemptions ( 3 ) Legal Authority and Regulatory Interactions ( 4 ) Ground Access Vehicles Controlled by Other FIP Elements ( 5 ) Issues for Comment ( 6 ) Aviation Working Group Issues/Concerns (c) Military Aviation ( 1 ) Overview ( a ) Military Air Base Operations ( b ) Control Strategy ( c ) Geographic Scope ( d ) Control Period ( 2 ) Key Regulatory Elements ( a ) Summary ( b ) Baseline Inventory and Emissions Cap ( c ) Averaging and Trading ( d ) Annual Compliance Determinations ( e ) Reporting Recordkeeping ( f ) Exemptions ( 3 ) Legal Authority ( 4 ) Issues for Specific Comment (d) General Aviation ( 1 ) Source Description ( 2 ) Overall Control Strategy ( 3 ) Key Regulatory Elements ( 4 ) Issues for Specific Comment (e) Public Aviation (3) Locomotives (a) Introduction (b) Freshly Manufactured Locomotives (c) Remanufactured Locomotives ( 1 ) Option I_National Regulations ( 2 ) Option II_California Only Requirements (d) Additional Measures for the South Coast ( 1 ) Fleet Average Standard Program ( 2 ) Compliance Program ( 3 ) Authority ( 4 ) Emission Reductions ( 5 ) Other Options (4) Marine Vessels/Ports (a) Background and Program Description (b) Control Strategies_Fee System Based on Emission Levels ( 1 ) Fee Categories ( 2 ) Emission Reduction Technologies (c) Control Strategies_Discount for Using Port Facilities while Hotelling (d) Control Strategies_Discount for Staying outside of the Region (5) Non-Aircraft Military Installations 5. Impact of Economic Incentive Program Rule on Fee Programs in the FIP a. Introduction b. Requirements under the EIP (1) Surplus (2) Quantifiable (3) Enforceable (4) Consistent with SIP attainment and RFP demonstrations (5) Permanent (6) Uncertainty Provisions (7) Auditing (8) Reconciliation Procedures (9) Implementation Schedule (10) Administrative Procedures E. Fuels Programs 1. Reformulated Fuels a. Reformulated Gasoline b. California Reformulated Gasoline (Phase II) c. California Reformulated Diesel Fuel F. Severe Area Requirements for Sacramento 1. Introduction 2. Employee commute options program a. Introduction and statutory requirements b. Program requirements and implementation approach c. Employer and compliance plan requirements d. ECO rule development issues. 3. RACT for 25 ton per year sources a. Applicable requirements 4. New source review a. Background b. Overview of Rule Requirements
