FR940826-2-00068 FR940826-2-00055 Stipulation United States of America, Plaintiff v. AT&T Corp. and McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc., Defendants. Civil Action No. 1:94&hyph;CV01555 Judge Harold Greene Filed: 7/15/94. It is stipulated by and between the undersigned parties, by their respective attorneys, that: 1. The parties consent that a Final Judgment in the form hereto attached may be filed and entered by the Court, upon the motion of any party or upon the Court's own motion, at any time after compliance with the requirements of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16, and without further notice to any party or other proceedings, provided that plaintiff has not withdrawn its consent. 2. The parties shall abide by and comply with the provisions of the proposed Final Judgment pending entry of the Final Judgment, unless AT&T or McCaw certify to the Department that this transaction has been abandoned, and withdrew its applicable filing made under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act, 15 U.S.C. 18a, in which case the proposed Final Judgment or Final Judgment will be withdrawn or vacated and the action dismissed. 3. Plaintiff may withdraw its consent to this proposed Final Judgment at any time before the entry of the proposed Final Judgment by serving notice thereof on defendants and by filing that notice with the Court. In the event plaintiff withdraws its consent or if the proposed Final Judgment is not entered pursuant to this Stipulation, this Stipulation will be of no effect whatsoever, and the making of this Stipulation shall be without prejudice to any party in this or any other proceeding. 4. In the event of a final and unappealable order determining that entry of this Final Judgment would be contrary to the public interest, or otherwise constituting a decision on the merits that the proposed Final Judgment should not be entered, and absent other agreement between these parties, the parties will continue to abide by and comply with Section III of this Final Judgment until this action is finally adjudicated or dismissed. 5. The Stipulation by the United States to entry of this Final Judgment is not intended to, does not, and shall not be deemed to constitute a statement of position by the United States as to the appropriate scope of local cellular service areas. Notwithstanding any provision of the Final Judgment, the United States may at any appropriate time seek orders from the Court eliminating one or more of the exception to the general definition of Local Cellular Service Areas contained in Section II.Q of the Final Judgment. 6. AT&T and McCaw hereby stipulate that it will not move to modify the Final Judgment, if entered in the form attached hereto, for eighteen months following commencement of this action, except with the consent of the United States. 7. AT&T hereby irrevocably waives any right it may have to appeal or otherwise challenge in any court any determination by the United States or by any independent fact-finder pursuant to Section V.E. of the Final Judgment, if entered in the form attached hereto. Dated: July 15, 1994. Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General. Steven C. Sunshine, Deputy Assistant Attorney General. Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530. Richard L. Rosen, Chief. Richard Liebeskind, Assistant Chief. Luin P. Fitch, Jr., Jonathan E. Lee, Deborah R. Maisel, Brent E. Marshall, Patrick J. Pascarella, Don Allen Resnikoff, N. Scott Sacks, Kathleen M. Soltero, Robert J. Zastrow, Attorneys. Communications and Finance Section, Antitrust Division, 555 Fourth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001, (202) 514&hyph;5621. Attorneys for the United States. John D. Zeglis, Mark C. Rosenblum, AT&T Corp., 295 North Maple Avenue, Basking Ridge, New Jersey 07920, (908) 221&hyph;3539. Attorneys for AT&T Corp. Douglas I. Brandon, McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc., 1150 Connecticut Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20036, (202) 223&hyph;9222. Attorneys for McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc.
