FR940805-2-00015 FR940805-2-00011 DOE Rocky Flats Public Reading Room, Front Range Community College Library, 3645 West 112th Avenue, Westminster, CO 80030, 1-303-469-4435 Rocky Flats Citizens Advisory Board, 9035 Wadsworth Parkway, Suite 2250, Westminster, CO 80021, 1-303-420-7855 Standley Lake Library, 8485 Kipling Street, Arvada, CO 80005, 1-303-456-0806 U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, Superfund Records Center, 999 18th Street, 5th Floor, Denver, CO 80202-2405, 1-303-293-1807 DOE will prepare a SWEIS Implementation Plan after completion of the public scoping process. The SWEIS Implementation Plan will be placed in the public reading rooms for review, and copies will be made available to the public upon request. The Implementation Plan will be a brief document that will provide guidance for the preparation of the SWEIS in accordance with 10 CFR 1021.312 and will include a discussion of the intended scope and content of the SWEIS; a summary of the comments received and their disposition; and target dates for completion of the Draft SWEIS, Final SWEIS, and issuance of a Record of Decision. Preliminary Alternatives: This section describes three preliminary alternatives that represent the spectrum of options available for future actions at Rocky Flats. Each alternative represents a broad direction regarding materials management, waste management, and site cleanup that DOE could take during the ten-year period after the issuance of a Record of Decision. DOE recognizes that there may be a need to redefine these alternatives and welcomes comments on the best way to accomplish this. The actions DOE chooses to implement, through the Record of Decision, may be composites of actions analyzed in the SWEIS alternatives. Proposed future actions that are not well enough defined to be analyzed in the SWEIS will be subject to separate NEPA review tiered from the SWEIS. Alternative 1_No Action: Analysis of the no action alternative provides a reference point for comparison with the environmental effects of the other alternatives analyzed. The No Action alternative would include ongoing activities and planned activities for which decisions have already been made to proceed. DOE will continue to conduct these activities as the SWEIS is being prepared. The ongoing activities included in the no action alternative are site cleanup and minor facility upgrades. Examples include: •Transfer of non-nuclear weapons manufacturing to Kansas City •Continuation of remediation under the Interagency Agreement •Treatment and storage of onsite wastes up to currently approved limits •Shipping wastes offsite to permitted disposal facilities that have agreed to accept the waste •Maintenance activities •Activities needed to support ongoing site programs and to safeguard nuclear material DOE is also considering certain proposed actions for which NEPA review may be completed during the preparation of the SWEIS. DOE may decide to proceed with actions for which NEPA review has been completed and which are allowable as interim actions during the preparation of the SWEIS (see limitations stated in 40 CFR 1506.1, for example). These actions would then become a part of the No Action alternative. Such planned activities may include: •Consolidation of fissile materials storage locations •Rehabilitation of site drainage ditches •Actinide solution processing •Construction of a storage facility for investigation-derived material The no action alternative would not include cleanup activities and waste management activities that require new permits or facility upgrades that involve major expansions or modifications to existing buildings. Transfer of buildings or property to private ownership (economic conversion) would not be included in the no action alternative. Excluding these actions from this alternative provides the reference point that shows the effects of site operations with no major improvements or modifications. Analysis of the no action alternative is required by Council on Environmental Quality and DOE regulations.
