FR940720-2-00100 FR940720-2-00068 3. Does the proposed amendment involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety? Response: The proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety because a program controlled by Administrative Procedures using designated technical reviewers approved by the Department Managers will be in place to review new procedures and procedure changes. A 10 CFR 50.59 screening of each new procedure and permanent procedure change will be performed by a qualified safety reviewer, and PORC will continue to review 10 CFR 50.59 Safety and Environmental Impact Evaluations associated with procedures and procedure changes. Cross disciplinary reviews will be conducted as appropriate. Thus, the margin of safety will be maintained by implementing the new procedure review and approval process. The proposed change to the PORC membership requirements would not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety since the level and quality of PORC review will be maintained and there will not be an adverse change to the collective educational background and work experience of PORC. [There will not be an adverse loss of PORC effectiveness as a result of this change.] The PORC quorum is currently composed of five members including up to two designated alternates and a Chairman. [*␣*␣*] [This composition is not changed by the proposed changes.] The miscellaneous administrative changes not related to the procedure review and approval process or PORC membership program cannot reduce any margin of safety because they do not affect any safety related activity or equipment. These changes increase the probability that the Technical Specifications are correctly interpreted by clarifying information. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: White Plains Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue, White Plains, New York 10601. Attorney for licensee: Mr. Charles M. Pratt, 10 Columbus Circle, New York, New York 10019. NRC Project Director: Michael L. Boyle. Power Authority of the State of New York, Docket No. 50&hyph;333, James A. FitzPatrick Nuclear Power Plant, Oswego County, New York Date of amendment request: June 17, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed changes would revise Section 6.5, ``Review and Audit,'' of the Technical Specifications (TSs) to modify the composition of the Plant Operating Review Committee (PORC) and delete review and audit responsibilities for the Emergency and Security Plans from the TSs. The review and audit responsibilities would be relocated to the respective Emergency and Security Plans consistent with Generic Letter 93&hyph;07, ``Modification of the Technical Specification Administrative Control Requirements for Emergency and Security Plans.'' The proposed changes would also revise Section 6.5 and Section 6.8, ``Procedures,'' of the TSs to delegate a portion of the PORC's procedure review responsibilities for nuclear safety related procedures to the line organizations. The PORC would continue to perform safety reviews associated with procedures that are of safety significance. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: Operation of the FitzPatrick plant in accordance with the proposed amendment would not involve a significant hazards consideration as defined in 10 CFR 50.92, since the proposed changes would not: 1. involve a significant increase in the probability of an accident or consequence previously evaluated. The proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated since: 1) PORC will continue to review environmental impact and 10 CFR 50.59 safety evaluations associated with procedures and procedure changes; 2) Only personnel knowledgeable in the affected functional areas will review procedures and procedure changes; 3) Review and approval personnel (designated technical reviewers, and responsible procedure owners) will be identified in the appropriate administrative procedures. Designated technical reviewers shall meet or exceed the qualifications described in section 4 of ANSI N18.1&hyph;1971 for applicable positions. Designated technical reviewers are designated by the Department Managers. The responsible procedure owners are designated by the Resident Manager; 4) The designated technical reviewers will be responsible for identifying whether additional cross-disciplinary reviews are required; 5) The qualified safety reviewers will be responsible for reviewing the procedure changes from a safety perspective; and 6) The responsible procedure owners will be responsible for verifying that procedure reviews are performed in accordance with the administrative procedure governing the procedure review and approval process. The proposed changes (1) will add more detailed requirements regarding procedure review and approval to the Technical Specifications which will strengthen the controls over the process, and (2) will free PORC from reviewing items that are outside the charter of a ``safety review'' committee because non-safety significant items can reduce the time that PORC members can spend on matters that are safety significant. The proposed Technical Specification change establishes a highly structured review and approval program for procedures. The proposed change to the PORC Membership requirements would not significantly increase the probability or consequences of an accident because it does not adversely affect the level of expertise applied to the PORC review function. There will not be an adverse loss of PORC effectiveness as a result of this change. The PORC quorum is currently composed of five members including up to two designated alternates and a Chairman. This composition is not changed by the proposed amendment. The miscellaneous administrative changes not related to the procedure review and approval process or the PORC Membership requirements cannot affect the probability or consequences of an accident because they do not affect operations, equipment, or any safety-related activity. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from those previously evaluated. No physical changes to the plant or changes in plant equipment operating procedures are being proposed. The changes are administrative and will not have any direct effect on equipment important to safety. Changing the process by which procedures are reviewed and approved cannot in itself create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident. Furthermore, a documented safety review, utilizing screening criteria, will be performed for all nuclear safety related procedures and procedure changes. The proposed change establishes detailed controls while allowing PORC to spend more time on safety significant issues. The proposed change to the PORC Membership requirements would not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated since no physical alterations of plant configuration or changes to setpoints or operating parameters are proposed. The miscellaneous administrative changes not related to the procedure review and approval or the PORC Membership requirements cannot create the possibility of an accident because they do not affect operations, equipment or any safety-related activity. 3. Involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety because a program controlled by Administrative Procedures using designated technical reviewers approved by the Department Managers will be in place to review new procedures and procedure changes. A 10 CFR 50.59 screening of each new procedure and permanent procedure change will be performed by a qualified safety reviewer and PORC will continue to review 10 CFR 50.59 Safety and Environmental Impact Evaluations associated with procedures and procedure changes. Cross-disciplinary reviews will be conducted as appropriate. Thus the margin of safety will be maintained by implementing the new procedure review and approval process. The proposed change to the PORC Membership requirements would not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety since the level and quality of PORC review will be maintained and there will not be an adverse change to the collective educational background and work experience of PORC. There will not be an adverse loss of PORC effectiveness as a result of this change. The PORC quorum is currently composed of five members including up to two designated alternates and a Chairman. This composition is not changed by the proposed changes. The miscellaneous administrative changes not related to the procedure review and approval process or PORC Membership program cannot reduce any margin of safety because they do not affect any safety-related activity or equipment. These changes increase the probability that the Technical Specifications are correctly interpreted by clarifying information. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Reference and Documents Department, Penfield Library, State University of New York, Oswego, New York 13126. Attorney for licensee: Mr. Charles M. Pratt, 1633 Broadway, New York, New York 10019. NRC Project Director: Michael L. Boyle.
