FR941220-2-00011 FR941220-2-00010 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Privacy Act of 1974; Amendments to a Notice of a New System of Records for the National Student Loan Data System AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of changes to a system of records. SUMMARY: On June 29, 1994, the Department of Education published a notice of a new system of records for the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS). The Department solicited comments on the routine uses for the system and submitted a report of the system to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Congress. The Department received comments from one commenter and some suggestions from OMB regarding improvements to the notice. Several changes have been made to the system as a result of this input and are discussed in the supplementary information portion of this notice. DATES: This amended system of records becomes effective December 20, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan Pentecost; Branch Chief, National Student Loan Data System; U. S. Department of Education; 600 Independence Avenue, SW.; GSA Regional Office Building 3, Room 4640; Washington DC 20202&hyph;5175; (202) 708&hyph;8125. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department published in the Federal Register on June 29, 1994 (59 FR 33491) a notice of a new system of records for the National Student Loan Data System (18&hyph;40&hyph;0039). The Department received comments from one commenter and some suggestions for improvement to the system notice from OMB. As a result, several changes have been made to the system notice. Those changes are discussed below. Regarding the categories of individuals clause, it was noted that the phrase ``borrowers who have applied for loans under the FFEL (Federal Family Education Loan) Program will be tracked on this new system␣.␣.␣.'' implies that the system will maintain data on all students who have applied for aid under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (Title IV, HEA) not just those who have received aid. The Department did not intend to cover under this system applicants who may apply for but do not receive aid and this clause has been modified to refer to individuals who applied for and received certain Title IV loans. In addition, because the system notice only covers individuals, references to persons who have died are removed, because persons who have died are not considered individuals under the Privacy Act. However, as a practical matter, the Department will maintain information about these persons as necessary to manage the Title IV program. Regarding the categories of records clause, the entry ``an applicant's demographic background'' has been removed because it was only descriptive of the categories of information that followed. Regarding the routine uses for the system, the following paragraphs discuss the changes the Department is making to the system and issues raised by the comments. Routine use (a): Program purposes. Paragraph (2) has been removed and the entities for which each disclosure is appropriate have been included with the program purpose disclosures. A number of program purpose routine uses were dropped from the notice because the Department does not disclose individually identifiable information in connection with certain purposes that were included in the original Privacy Act notice. The program purposes have been broken out into a series of eight (8) separate routine uses. Also, the program purpose routine uses are recast to focus on the purpose of each disclosure rather than the end results of the disclosure. Disclosure to OMB under the Credit Reform Act (CRA) is removed from the program purpose routine uses and stated as a separate routine use. The General Accounting Office (GAO) is removed as a recipient under the program purpose routine uses because it can get records under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(10) in the course of performing its duties. Finally, consistent with the preamble of the initial notice of this system and as stated in the purposes of the system, disclosures from this system of records may be made to enforce the terms of a loan and to collect a loan. This purpose for disclosure is clarified now in routine use (a). Routine use (b)(2): Litigation Disclosure. OMB suggested that the Department clarify the routine use permitting disclosure to counsel to clearly indicate that this routine use authorized disclosure only to opposing counsel. OMB also asked that the Department clarify the distinctions among the various types of disclosures made under routine use (b)(2). Routine use (b) has been restructured to address these concerns. OMB commented that a routine use was not appropriate for disclosures to a court, as specified in (b)(2) of the notice, because these disclosures should be made under a court order, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(11). Therefore, disclosure to courts has been removed from this routine use. One of the commenters was concerned that disclosure to opposing counsel and other parties in administrative proceedings under (b)(2) would be inappropriate because these disclosures should be obtained under a court order. The Assistant Secretary disagrees because he believes that such a requirement would create an unnecessary burden on the public and the Department. For example, if the Department is involved in administrative litigation with a school regarding the school's default rate calculation, the school would have access to information pursuant to the program purpose routine use. However, the school may need to disclose to its outside counsel certain individually identifiable information obtained from the Department. Disclosure to the school's counsel in this case, in the interest of ensuring proper adjudication of default rate challenges, would certainly be consistent with the purposes for which the records in this system are maintained. However, if the school had to obtain a court order from the district court before it could make such a disclosure, the administrative litigation would be unnecessarily burdened. Thus, the Assistant Secretary has decided to keep in this routine use disclosures to opposing counsels and other representatives of parties in administrative litigation with the Department.
