FR941003-0-00123 FR941003-0-00018 (3) Apply USPAP Standard 2, Real Property Appraisal Reporting; except that under the Supplemental Standards Provision of USPAP, reports by appraisers or consultants shall be in writing using the following forms: (i) HUD&hyph;92264, HUD&hyph;92264(RCF) or HUD&hyph;92264B, with attachments as required; (ii) Trial form HUD&hyph;92264A. (4) Analyze and report in reasonable detail all prior sales of the property being appraised within three years preceding the date when the appraisal is prepared, or beyond three years if necessary to include the last arms-length transaction. (5) Analyze and report data on current revenues, expenses, and vacancies for the property if it currently is, and will continue to be, income-producing. (6) Analyze and report a reasonable marketing period for the subject property. (7) Analyze and report on current market conditions and trends that will affect income or the absorption period, to the extent they affect the value of the property. (8) Contain sufficient supporting documentation with all pertinent information reported so that the appraiser's logic, reasoning, judgment, and analysis in arriving at a conclusion indicate to the reader the reasonableness of the value reported or of the consulting recommendations or conclusions provided. (9) Include in the certification required by USPAP a statement that the appraisal is not based on a requested minimum valuation, a specific valuation or range of values, or the approval of the loan. The certification shall also include a statement that the racial/ethnic composition of the neighborhood surrounding the property in no way affected the appraisal determination. (10) Follow a reasonable valuation method that: (i) With respect to a program based on market value, addresses the direct sales comparison, income, and cost approaches to market value, reconciles or explains any differences those approaches yield in determining the value of the property in question, and gives the reason(s) for rejecting each approach that was not used; (ii) With respect to a program based on replacement cost, determines the acceptable risk using estimated replacement cost together with supplemental standards set forth in HUD handbooks and other program directives. (b) Unavailable information. If information required by this section is not available, that fact shall be disclosed and explained in the appraisal report. (c) Additional standards. In addition to the minimum standards set forth in paragraph (a) of this section: (1) HUD may, in instances where the Appraisal Subcommittee has determined that the policies, practices, and procedures of a certifying or licensing state are inconsistent with FIRREA, impose such supplementary requirements as may be appropriate.
