FR941004-2-00081 FR941004-2-00050 d. Directing action to correct equipment upsets or emergency conditions; e. Assuring operating and maintenance records are maintained and reports are prepared as required; f. Assuring noncompliance incidents and corrective action items are reported to management or regulatory agencies; g. Assuring a safe workplace. The operator supervisor may also directly perform the duties and responsibilities of the operator. 3. Classes of Certification This includes establishment of various classes for which operator certification is appropriate. The level of knowledge needed to properly operate and minimize emissions varies considerably depending on the type of facilities. Therefore, the level of knowledge will vary depending on job duties and responsibilities. Different classes of certification within each level developed under (2) should be considered. A boiler system may have any combination of fuel type, boiler type and air pollution control system, and an operator should be certified in the class designation equivalent to or more comprehensive than the type of equipment operated. Example operator class designations are: Class A - certified to operate a coal-fired boiler with air pollution control systems Class B - certified to operate a coal-fired boiler without air pollution control systems Class C - certified to operate a gas or oil-fired boiler with air pollution control systems Class D - certified to operate a gas or oil-fired boiler without air pollution control systems 4. Qualifications The following are the recommended qualifications that should be met by an operator/operator supervisor to complete certification: a. Minimum age requirement; b. Training; c. Minimum level of experience under the direct supervision of a certified operator or operator supervisor who must verify the proficiency of the applicant in all aspects of the job; d. Pass a written examination, as discussed in item 5 below, administrated by the State or a State-approved certification organization. The acceptable demonstration of skills and ability should be performed on a boiler system equivalent to, or higher than, the class of boiler equipment for which certification is being sought.
