FR940812-2-00193 FR940812-2-00068 Model Technical Specifications The model technical specifications are based on the ``Standard Technical Specifications (STS) for Westinghouse Pressurized Water Reactors,'' NUREG&hyph;0452, Revision 4a. The indicated changes are identified in italics. Note that the model technical specification changes described below also include an example change to reduce reactor coolant system specific activity. The model technical specifications identified below should be adopted consistent with the licensing basis. It should be noted that in the improved STS, some of these surveillance requirements have been relocated to the Administrative Controls section. 3/4.4.5␣Reactor Coolant System 4/4.5.2␣ Steam Generator Tube Selection and Inspection [add the following paragraphs] b.4. Tubes left in service as a result of application of the tube support plate plugging criteria shall be inspected by bobbin coil probe during all future refueling outages. d. Implementation of the steam generator tube/tube support plate plugging criteria requires a 100 percent bobbin coil inspection for hot-leg tube support plate intersections and cold-leg intersections down to the lowest cold-leg tube support plate with known outside diameter stress corrosion cracking (ODSCC) indications. The determination of tube support plate intersections having ODSCC indications shall be based on the performance of at least a 20 percent random sampling of tubes inspected over their full length. 4.4.5.4␣Acceptance Criteria a. As used in this specification: 6. Plugging Limit 4 means the imperfection depth at or beyond which the tube shall be removed from service and is equal to 40 percent of the nominal wall thickness. This definition does not apply to tube support plate intersections for which the voltage-based plugging criteria are being applied. Refer to 4.4.5.4.a.10 for the plugging limit applicable to these intersections. 4 For plants that have approved sleeving, ``plugging'' can be replaced with ``repair'' to allow tubes to be either plugged or sleeved when indications exceed applicable repair limits. 10. Tube Support Plate Plugging Limit is used for the disposition of a steam generator tube for continued service that is experiencing outside diameter stress corrosion cracking confined within the thickness of the tube support plates. At tube support plate intersections, the repair limit is based on maintaining steam generator tube serviceability as described below: a. Degradation attributed to outside diameter stress corrosion cracking within the bounds of the tube support plate with bobbin voltage less than or equal to [Note 1] will be allowed to remain in service. b. Degradation attributed to outside diameter stress corrosion cracking within the bounds of the tube support plate with a bobbin voltage greater than [Note 1] will be repaired or plugged except as noted in 4.4.5.4.a.10.c below. c. Indications of potential degradation attributed to outside diameter stress corrosion cracking within the bounds of the tube support plate with a bobbin voltage greater than [Note 1] but less than or equal to [Note 2] may remain in service if a rotating pancake coil inspection does not detect degradation. Indications of outside diameter stress corrosion cracking degradation with a bobbin voltage greater than [Note 2] volts will be plugged or repaired. d. [If applicable] Certain intersections as identified in [reference report] will be excluded from application of the voltage-based repair criteria as it is determined that these intersections may collapse or deform following a postulated LOCA + SSE event. e. If a result of leakage due to a mechanism other than ODSCC at the tube support plate intersection, or some other cause, an unscheduled mid-cycle inspection is performed, the following repair criteria apply instead of 4.4.5.4.10.c. If bobbin voltage is within expected limits, the indication can remain in service. The expected bobbin voltage limits are determined from the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEN12AU94.000 where: V=measured voltage V BOC =voltage at BOC D t=time period of operation to unscheduled outage CL=cycle length (full operating cycle length where operating cycle is the time between two scheduled steam generator inspections) V SL =4.5 volts for 3/4-inch tubes and 9.6 volts for 7/8-inch tubes Note 1._1.0 volt for 3/4-inch diameter tubes or 2.0 volts for 7/8-inch diameter tubes. Note 2._2.7 volts for 3/4-inch diameter tubes or 5.6 volts for 7/8-inch diameter tubes.
