FR940318-0-00003 FR940318-0-00002 9 CFR Parts 145 and 147 [Docket No. 92&hyph;151&hyph;2] National Poultry Improvement Plan and Auxiliary Provisions AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the National Poultry Improvement Plan (the Plan) and its auxiliary provisions by providing new administrative and laboratory procedures for examining and testing participating flocks and preventing and responding to disease outbreaks. The changes, which were voted on and approved by the voting delegates at the Plan's 1992 Biennial Conference, will keep the provisions of the Plan current with changes in the poultry industry, allow the use of state-of-the-art laboratory procedures, and allow the Plan to better respond to disease emergencies. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 18, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Andrew R. Rhorer, Senior Coordinator, Poultry Improvement Staff, National Poultry Improvement Plan, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 205, Presidential Building, 6525 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7768. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The National Poultry Improvement Plan (referred to below as ``the Plan'') is a cooperative Federal-State-industry mechanism for controlling certain poultry diseases. The Plan consists of a variety of programs intended to prevent and control egg-transmitted, hatchery-disseminated poultry diseases. Participation in all Plan programs is voluntary, but flocks, hatcheries, and dealers must qualify as ``U.S. Pullorum-Typhoid Clean'' before participating in any other Plan program. Also, regulations in 9 CFR part 82.34 require that no hatching eggs or newly hatched chicks from egg-type chicken breeding flocks may be moved interstate unless they are classified ``U.S. Sanitation Monitored'' under the Plan or they meet the requirements of a State classification plan determined by the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) to be equivalent to the Plan, in accordance with 9 CFR 145.23(d). The Plan identifies States, flocks, hatcheries, and dealers that meet certain disease control standards specified in the Plan's various programs. As a result, customers can buy poultry that has tested clean of certain diseases or that has been produced under disease-prevention conditions. The regulations in 9 CFR parts 145 and 147 (referred to below as ``the regulations'') contain the provisions of the Plan. APHIS amends these provisions from time to time to incorporate new scientific information and technologies within the Plan. On August 25, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 44782&hyph;44793, Docket No. 92&hyph;151&hyph;1) a proposal to amend the regulations by: 1. Adding definitions of Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, serial, and suspect flock; 2. Clarifying the recordkeeping requirements for flocks maintained primarily for the production of hatching eggs; 3. Providing for U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) approval of pullorum-typhoid tube agglutination antigens; 4. Allowing a sample of at least 500 birds, in lieu of the entire flock, to be tested by the State Inspector to qualify certain succeeding flocks for participation in the Plan's pullorum-typhoid program; 5. Removing provisions that allow two consecutive generations in egg-type chicken breeding flocks, meat-type chicken breeding flocks, and waterfowl, exhibition poultry, and game bird breeding flocks to go without testing for pullorum-typhoid; 6. Providing for the Plan to investigate any multi-State outbreak of a Plan disease; 7. Allowing the use of a federally licensed Salmonella enteritidis bacterin to vaccinate birds in egg-type chicken multiplier breeding flocks; 8. Providing for various sample sizes of live birds for bacteriological examination under the U.S. Sanitation Monitored program for egg-type chickens; 9. Changing the name of the U.S. Sanitation Monitored program for egg- type chickens to U.S. S. enteritidis Monitored; 10. Adding a USDA-approved polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based DNA procedure as a method of diagnosing mycoplasma; 11. Adding the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) as a basic screening test for mycoplasma;
