FR940426-1-00144 FR940426-1-00018 Eligible organization means an organization which is legally capable of receiving and using Federal funds under the Act and entering into a grant or other agreement with the Department to carry out provisions of title V. [Section 502(b)(1).] Employment and training program(s) means publicly funded efforts designed to offer employment, training and/or placement services which enhance an individual's employability. The term is used in this part to include, but not be limited to, the JTPA or similar legislation and State or local programs of a similar nature. Enrollee means an individual who is eligible, receives services, and is paid wages for engaging in community service employment assignments under a project. Greatest economic need means the need resulting from an income level at or below the poverty line based on guidelines provided by the Department. Greatest social need, as defined at section 102(a)(30) of the Act, means the need caused by noneconomic factors which include: (1) Physical and mental disabilities; (2) Language barriers; and (3) Cultural, social, or geographical isolation, including isolation caused by racial or ethnic status. Host agency means a public agency or a private non-profit organization, other than a political party or any facility used or to be used as a place for sectarian religious instruction or worship, exempt from taxation under the provisions of section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, which provides a work site and supervision for an enrollee. Individual development plan means a plan for an enrollee which shall include an employment goal, achievement objectives, and appropriate sequence of services for the enrollee based on an assessment conducted by the recipient or subrecipient and jointly agreed upon by the enrollee. JTPA means the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501, et seq. ). Low income means an income which, during the preceding 6 months on an annualized basis or the actual income during the preceding 12 months, whichever is more beneficial to the applicant, is not more than 125 percent of the poverty levels established and periodically updated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. In addition, an individual who receives, or is a member of a family which receives, regular cash welfare payments shall be deemed to have a low income for purposes of this part. Poor employment prospects means the unlikelihood of an otherwise eligible individual obtaining employment without the assistance of this or other employment and training programs. Persons with poor employment prospects include, but are not limited to, those without a substantial employment history, basic skills, English-language proficiency, or are displaced homemakers, school dropouts, disabled veterans, or homeless. Program year means the one-year period covered by a grant agreement beginning July 1 and ending on June 30. Project means an undertaking by a recipient or subrecipient, pursuant to a grant agreement between the Department and a recipient, which provides for community service employment opportunities for eligible individuals and the delivery of associated services. Reallocation means a redistribution of funds by a recipient. Reallotment means the redistribution of allotted title V funds by the Department from one State to another State(s) or from one recipient to another recipient. Recipient means an eligible organization which has entered into a grant agreement with the Department under this part. Residence means an individual's declared permanent dwelling place. No requirement pertaining to length of residency prior to enrollment shall be imposed. SCSEP means the Senior Community Service Employment Program as authorized under title V of the Act. State agency on aging means that sole State agency designated by the State, in accordance with regulations of the Assistant Secretary on Aging, pursuant to section 305(a)(1) of the Act. Subrecipient means the legal entity to which a subgrant is awarded by a recipient and which is accountable to the recipient (or higher tier subrecipient) for the use of the funds provided. Title V means title V of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq. Subpart B_Grant Planning and Application Procedures ยง641.201 Allotment and allocation of title V funds. (a) Allotment. The Secretary shall allot funds for projects in each State in accordance with the distribution requirements contained in section 506(a) of the Act. (b) Within-State apportionment. The amount allotted for projects within a State shall be apportioned among areas within the State in an equitable manner, taking into consideration:
