FR941207-2-00047 FR941207-2-00034 Source of Foreign Law Information CITES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Python regius specimens from Togo. Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, Togo has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing Committee. Specifically, the Management Authority of Togo should advise the CITES Secretariat of the following: the establishment of a scientifically based sustainable-use management program including export controls for Pythron regius. Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Python regius may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from Togo, unless an exemption in CITES Article VII applies. K. Subject: Ukraine: ban on imports of specimens of Eurasian lynx ( Flexis lynx ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Felis lynx specimens from Ukraine. Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, Ukraine has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing Committee. Specifically, the government of Ukraine must comply with the primary recommendation of the CITES Animals Committee for Felis Lynx, which is designated as a significant trade species. Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Felis lynix may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from Ukraine, unless an exemption in CITES Article VII applies. L. Subject: United Republic of Tanzania: ban on imports of specimens of Fishers Lovebird ( Agapornis fisheri ) and Pancake tortoise ( Malacochersus tornier ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Agapornis fischeri and Malaco-chersus tornieri specimens from the United Republic of Tanzania. Furthermore, reference is made to regulatory improprieties by Tanzania as regards trade in specimens of Agapornis species (Doc 8.19, No. 54), and trade in specimens of Malacochersus tornieri (Doc 81.9, No. 90). Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, the United Republic of Tanzania has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing Committee. Specifically, the Management Authority of the United Republic of Tanzania must advise the CITES Secretariat of the following: the initiation of population surveys for Agapornis fischeri and Malacochersus tornieri and, the introduction of a moratorium on trade of Malacochersus tornieri pending the results of the population survey and the establishment of a sustainable-use management program for Malacochersus tornieri . Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Agapornis fischeri and Malacochersus tornier may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from the United States Republic of Tanzania. In addition, the Wild Bird Conservation Act of 1992 already prohibits the importation of specimens of Agapornis fischeri without the required permits being issued by the Service. Shipments of Malacochersus tornieri that are covered by, and comply with, the terms of an exemption in CITES Article VII may be imported if all other requirements of Federal law are satisfied. Dated: October 28, 1994. George T. Frampton, Jr., Assistant Secretary of Fish and Wildlife and Parks. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30053 Filed 12&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
