FR941006-0-00015 FR941006-0-00004 Uniformly, commenters were strongly opposed to reducing the WIC eligibles data by the CSFP caseload, particularly with no reduction for non-WIC eligibles participating in CSFP. Commenters felt that deducting CSFP caseload from the WIC eligibles would improperly reduce estimates of income eligibles. They also stated that it was inequitable to no longer adjust the deduction to account for non-WIC eligible CSFP recipients. Most commenters suggested retaining the method used in the current formula. However, several commenters suggested perhaps there are States that could report WIC eligibles actually served by CSFP and then that data could be used to determine income eligibles. In view of the concerns raised by commenters, the Department has decided not to adopt the proposed rule. Instead, the method used in the current regulations for deducting the CSFP participants eligible for WIC from the WIC income eligible data base will be retained. Performance Standard The Department also proposed to revise the 95 percent performance standard which reduces the current year grant for any State agency that does not spend at least 95 percent of its food grant. The Department is concerned that expenditure of only 95 percent of the grant is too generous in the context of a fully funded program. While the Department is sympathetic to the difficulties of rapidly growing States in meeting the 95 percent expenditure level, State agencies with relatively stable funding and participation do not face the same difficulties. For State agencies at or exceeding their fair share level, expending less than the 95 percent of allocated food funds is likely to indicate they have funds they cannot use. The Department proposed to retain the 95 percent standard for State agencies receiving less than their fair share allocation, and to increase the performance standard to 98 percent for those at or over their fair share level. The majority of commenters were adamantly opposed to two different performance standards for over and under fair share State agencies. Additionally, most commenters felt the 98 percent performance standard was much too stringent and unrealistic due to food cost fluctuations, infant formula rebates, variations in participation and other factors not directly controlled by the WIC State agency. In view of these comments, the final rule deletes the proposed two-tier performance standard for over and under fair share State agencies. However, the Department continues to be concerned that unspent funds be directed to States with documented need, especially as State demographic and socioeconomic situations fluctuate from year to year. This is particularly critical in a full funding environment. Therefore, the Department has decided to retain a uniform performance standard, and to gradually increase it over time. Accordingly, paragraph 246.16 (e)(2)(i) in the final rule establishes a 96 percent performance spending standard in fiscal years 1995 and 1996, and a 97 percent standard for fiscal year 1997 and beyond for all WIC State agencies. Additionally, prior to applying the performance standard, the current regulations in section 246.16(e)(3)(i) allow for exclusion from the grant of food funds that are spent forward into a succeeding fiscal year as authorized by section 246.16(b)(3)(ii), and (iv) and (v). Since spentforward funds are merely unspent funds that the State agency can retain, the Department proposed that they should no longer be excluded when assessing spending performance. A few commenters opposed this provision, but the Department continues to believe that spendforward funds should not be deducted when calculating the performance standard. This deduction has led to the current situation in which there are significant amounts of unspent money moving from one fiscal year to another. If not rectified, this will compound the extreme pressure that will be placed on all Departmental discretionary spending in order to meet the commitment to WIC full funding. Therefore, the final rule retains this provision as proposed. Any food funds backspent under section 246.16(b)(3)(i) or converted to nutritional services and administration (NSA) funds under section 246.16(g) will continue to be excluded from the food grant for purposes of applying the performance standard. These two reductions are appropriate in that they reflect food funds actually expended in the current year, and not merely reserved for future use.
