FR940324-1-00075 FR940324-1-00021 (i) Mandatory forbearance. _(1) Medical or dental interns or residents. Upon receipt of a written request and sufficient supporting documentation from a borrower serving in a medical or dental internship or residency program, a lender shall grant forbearance renewable at 12-month intervals to a borrower who has exhausted his or her eligibility for a deferment under ยง682.210(n), or whose promissory note does not provide for such a deferment_ (i) For the length of time remaining in the borrower's medical or dental internship or residency that must be successfully completed before the borrower may begin professional practice or service; or (ii) For the length of time that the borrower is serving in a medical or dental internship or residency program leading to a degree or certificate awarded by an institution of higher education, a hospital, or a health care facility that offers postgraduate training. (2) Borrowers who are not medical or dental interns or residents, and endorsers. Upon receipt of a written request and sufficient supporting documentation from an endorser, or from a borrower (other than a borrower who is serving in a medical or dental internship or residency described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section), a lender shall grant forbearance in increments of up to one year, for periods that, collectively, do not exceed three years, if the borrower or endorser_ (i) Is currently obligated to make payments on Title IV loans; and (ii) The amount of such payments each month (or a proportional share if the payments are due less frequently than monthly) is collectively equal to or greater than 20 percent of the borrower or endorser's monthly disposable income. (3) Documentation. Before granting a forbearance to a borrower or endorser under paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the lender shall require the borrower or endorser to submit at least the following documentation: (i) Evidence showing the amount of the borrower or endorser's most recent monthly disposable income, as defined in ยง682.200(b). (ii) A copy of the borrower or endorser's Federal income tax return if the borrower or endorser filed a tax return within six months prior to the date the forbearance is requested. (iii) Evidence showing the most recent monthly amount due on the borrower or endorser's Title IV loans. (j) Mandatory administrative forbearance. (1) The lender shall grant a mandatory automatic forbearance for the periods specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section until the lender is notified by the Secretary or a guaranty agency that the forbearance period no longer applies. The lender may not require a borrower who is eligible for an automatic forbearance under this paragraph to submit a request or supporting documentation. (2) The lender is not required to notify the borrower (or endorser, if applicable) at the time the forbearance is granted, but shall grant a forbearance to a borrower or endorser during a period, and the 30 days following the period, when the lender is notified by the Secretary that_ (i) Exceptional circumstances exist, such as a local or national emergency or military mobilization; or (ii) The geographical area in which the borrower or endorser resides has been designated a disaster area by the president of the United States or Mexico, the prime minister of Canada, or by a governor of a state. (3) As soon as feasible, or by the date specified by the Secretary, the lender shall notify the borrower (or endorser, if applicable) that the lender has granted a forbearance and the date that payments should resume. The lender's notification shall state that the borrower or endorser_ (i) May decline the forbearance and continue to be obligated to make scheduled payments; or (ii) Consents to making payments in accordance with the lender's notification if the forbearance is not declined. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1077, 1078, 1078&hyph;1, 1078&hyph;2, 1078&hyph;3, 1080, 1082) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6944 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
