FR940912-0-00068 FR940912-0-00013 (iv) Incorporation by reference. With the approval of the Director of the Federal Register given in the limited instances authorized in 1 CFR Part 51 and 32 CFR 336.5(c), the requirement for publication in the Federal Register may be satisfied by reference in the Federal Register to other publications containing the information which must otherwise be published in the Federal Register . In general, matters eligible for incorporation by reference are restricted to materials in the nature of published data, criteria, standards, specifications, techniques, illustrations, or other published information which are reasonably available to members of the class affected. (b) Public inspection. When feasible, Department of the Navy and Department of Defense documents published in the Federal Register should be made available for inspection and copying, along with available indexes of such documents, in the same locations used for public inspection and copying of the documents contemplated in ยง701.65. ยง701.65 Availability, public inspection, and indexing of other documents affecting the public. (a) Discussion. Section 552(a) of title 5, United States Code, requires the Department of the Navy to make available for public inspection and copying documents which have precedential significance on those Department of the Navy decisions which affect the public. These documents must be kept readily available for public inspection and copying at designated locations, unless they are promptly published and copies are offered for sale. Additionally, documents issued after July 4, 1967, are required to be indexed on a current basis. These indexes, or supplements thereto, must be published at least quarterly in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. In determining whether a particular document is subject to the requirements of this paragraph, consideration should be given to the statutory purposes and legal effect of the provisions. (1) Statutory purposes. In general, the purpose of the requirement to provide members of the public with essential information is to enable them to deal effectively and knowledgeably with Federal agencies; to apprise members of the public of the existence and contents of documents which have potential legal consequences as precedents in administrative determinations which may affect them; and to permit public examination of the basis for administrative actions which affect the public. (2) Legal effect. If a document is required to be indexed and made available under this paragraph, it may not be used or asserted as a precedent against a member of the public unless it was so indexed and made available, or unless the person against whom it is asserted had actual and timely notice of its contents. (b) Classes of documents affected. (1) Subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b) which exempt specified matters from the requirements of public disclosure, the following classes of Department of the Navy documents are included in the requirements of this paragraph: (i) Final adjudicative opinions and orders _opinions (including concurring and dissenting opinions) and orders which are issued as part of the final disposition of adjudication proceedings (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551) and which may have precedential effect in the disposition of other cases affecting members of the public; (ii) Policy statements and interpretations _statements of policy and interpretations of less than general applicability (i. e., applicable only to specific cases; organizations, or persons), which are not required to be published in the Federal Register , but which may have precedential effect in the disposition of other cases affecting members of the public; (iii) Manuals and instructions _administrative staff manuals, directives, and instructions to staff, or portions thereof, which establish Department of the Navy policy or interpretations of policy that serve as a basis for determining the rights of members of the public with regard to Department of the Navy functions. In general, manuals and instructions relating only to internal management aspects of property or fiscal accounting, personnel administration, and most other ``proprietary'' functions of the department are not within the scope of this provision. This provision also does not apply to instructions for employees on methods, techniques, and tactics to be used in performing their duties; for example: (A) Instructions or manuals issued for audit, investigation, and inspection purposes; (B) Those which prescribe operational tactics; standards of performance; criteria for defense, prosecution, or settlement of cases; or negotiating or bargaining techniques, limitations, or positions; and (C) Operations and maintenance manuals and technical information concerning munitions, equipment, and systems, and foreign intelligence operations. (2) In determining whether a document has precedential effect, the primary test is whether it is intended as guidance to be followed either in decisions or evaluations by the issuing authority's subordinates, or by the issuing authority itself in the adjudication or determination of future cases involving similar facts or issues. The kinds of orders or opinions which clearly would have precedential effect are those that are intended to operate both as final dispositions of the questions involved in the individual cases presented, and as rules of decision to be followed by the issuing authority or its subordinates in future cases involving similar questions. By contrast, many adjudicative orders and opinions issued within the Department of the Navy operate only as case-by-case applications of policies or interpretations established in provisions of manuals or directives and are not themselves used, cited, or relied on as rules of decision in future cases. In these instances, the underlying manual or directive provisions obviously would have precedential effect, but the orders and opinions themselves would not have. A recommendation by an official who is not authorized to adjudicate, or to issue a binding statement of policy or interpretation in a particular matter would not have precedential effect, though an order, opinion, statement of policy, or interpretation issued by an authorized official pursuant to such recommendation might have that effect. (c) Deletion of identifying details. (1) Although the exemptions from public disclosure described in 5 U.S.C. 552 and subpart B of this part are applicable to documents which are required to be indexed and made available for public inspection and copying under this paragraph, there is no general requirement that any segregable portions of partially exempt documents be so indexed and made available for public inspection and copying. As a general rule, a record may therefore be held exempt in its entirety from the requirements of this paragraph if it is determined that it contains exempt matter and that it is reasonably foreseeable that disclosure would be harmful to an interest protected by that exemption. An exception to this general rule does exist with regard to a record which would be exempt only because it contains information which, if disclosed, would result in a clearly unwarranted invasion of privacy.
