FR940616-0-00049 FR940616-0-00009 71. RAM Mobile Data USA Limited Partnership (RMD) states that 900 MHz SMR licensees should be required to pay a fee based upon their total number of licensed Designated Filing Areas (DFA) rather than their number of base station and frequencies individually licensed with a DFA. RMD contends that an assessment based upon total DFAs licensed is more consistent with Congress' intention that regulatory fees be ``reasonably related to the benefits provided to the payor of the fee by the Commission's activities.'' 47 U.S.C. 159(b)(1)(A). Further, RMD states that section 9(g)'s fee requirements will compel a consolidation of its licenses in order to minimize its fee payments. Similarly, the Utilities Telecommunications Council (UTC) objects to the requirement that 220 MHz licensees submit fees on a per license basis. 72. We decline to consider amending the section 9(g) fee schedule for FY 1994. As we have stated, Congress did not intend that we adjust any aspect of the fee schedule for FY 1994. RMD and UTC may submit their proposals for amending the fee schedule in our proceeding to establish regulatory fees for FY 1995. 30 30 RMD asks that we waive our requirement that SMR licensees pay their fees in advance and, instead, permit them to submit these fees on an annual basis. RMD contends that the overall fees that may be imposed on SMR systems are not ``small'' and, therefore, fall outside the category of fees that Congress authorized us to collect in advance. We decline to allow RMD to pay its fees on an annual basis because Congress specifically indicated that fees for private radio services licensees, including licensees of SMR systems, would be considered small and subject to the payment of fees in advance. See H.R. Rep. No. 207, 102d Cong., 1st Sess. 11 (1991). Of course, RMD and any other licensee may surrender or modify their licenses and other authorizations in order to minimize their regulatory fee burden. 2. Marine (Coast and Ship Stations) 73. Numerous formal and informal commenters, including the United States Coast Guard, raise concerns about our proposal to collect a regulatory fee from licensees in the marine service, including licensees using radio equipment voluntarily installed on small vessels, such as recreational boats. 31 These parties contend that a waiver, or exemption, for vessels that voluntarily carry radio equipment would enhance maritime safety and promote the public interest. As support, the parties state that marine radio provides a vital link between recreational boaters and emergency safety entities, as well as an important source for weather and navigational information. Further, they contend that the regulatory fee, added to the existing application fee, will act as a substantial disincentive for recreational boaters to carry, maintain and operate marine communications equipment. 31 In addition to the USCG, the commenters include the National Marine Electronics Association, Radio Technical Commission for Maritime Services, State of Nevada, Division of Wildlife and the United States Power Squadrons. We also received and considered informal comments filed by numerous parties concerned about the regulatory fee required from recreational boaters. 74. We recognize that radio communication between recreational boaters and various emergency safety entities provides an important public service. However, our authority to waive a fee requirement is limited to ``narrow'' and ``compelling circumstances.'' 2 FCC Rcd 947, 961 (1987); H.R. 3128, H.R. Rep. No. 453, 99th Cong., 1st Sess. 39&hyph;42, 423 (1985). In view of this strict Congressional limitation, we do not believe that a ``blanket waiver'' granted to boaters operating marine radios is permissible, absent legislative amendment. 3. General Mobile Radio Service 75. The Personal Radio Steering Group (PRSG) requests that we lower the annual fee for licensees in the General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS). PRSG states that, because the Schedule of Regulatory Fees does not explicitly include a fee for GMRS, we have authority to reduce its fee. Moreover, PRSG contends that the service should be subject to a lower fee than that for other shared use services because it is intended primarily for personal communications, similar to the Amateur Radio Service. 76. We agree with PRSG that section 9(g)'s fee schedule contains no explicit terms regarding the GMRS. However, that section does require the payment of a fee by ``shared use'' services in the private radio service. GMRS is within that category of service and was explicitly mentioned in the House Report as a service that would be subject to a fee. Therefore, we conclude that GMRS licensees are subject to a $7.00 fee for each year of the license term, payable in advance upon the filing of a GMRS application. We decline to rule on the merits of PRSG's argument that its fees should be lowered because, as discussed above, we conclude that Congress for FY 1994 intended us to assess fees in accordance with its Schedule. B. Mass Media Services 1. Broadcast Stations 77. The regulatory fees in the Schedule for Mass Media services generally include broadcast licensees, permittees and other regulatees. As discussed above, we have exempted noncommercial educational broadcasters from regulatory fees. To the extent possible, we intend to use the Bureau's computer data bases to verify the identity of regulatees subject to regulatory fees in the Mass Media services.
