FR940819-0-00015 FR940819-0-00006 Background and Purpose The Cape Fear and Northeast Cape Fear Rivers carry commercial and public vessels laden with increasing of amounts hazardous materials. The area is also experiencing rapid growth in the recreational vessel, barge, and other maritime traffic. The hazards of the materials transported range from fire and explosion to public health hazards. These materials, essential to the military, and to the petrochemical and textile industries are routinely transported in a safe manner. However, maritime traffic which could interfere with the safe movement of a vessel carrying hazardous materials would create a condition of unacceptable risk to the maritime community. The shipping channel within the rivers is normally only 400 feet wide and maneuvering room for a deep draft vessel is limited. Additionally, most of the facilities which handle these materials are about 30 miles upstream from the mouth of the river. The safety zone will be enacted by a Broadcast Notice to Mariners prior to the vessel's arrival into the river and will be terminated by another broadcast. Maritime traffic will not be significantly impacted because of the small percentage of vessels needing this safety zone, and the limited duration of the zone, typically less than three hours during transit and only for initial hookups and cargo operations. Other piloted commercial traffic would not normally be affected because meeting situations between two piloted vessels are not normally scheduled by the pilots. Other commercial traffic not under a pilot's control would be regulated and safe passage would be arranged by the vessel identified in the safety zone, Coast Guard enforcement personnel, and the non-piloted commercial vessel's master. Recreational vessels would be directed to the safe limits of the river out of the zone while the vessel passed and would be able to resume normal operation when the vessel identified in the safety zone has passed. The actual dates this safety zone would be in effect are not known at this time, but the public will be given notice through a Broadcast Notice to Mariners when the Captain of the Port Wilmington invokes the safety zone. This safety zone is needed to protect the public from the hazards associated with the passage of these vessels as well as the movement of other maritime traffic around these vessels. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. Small Entities Because it expects the impact of this rule to be so minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Environmental Assessment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this rule consistent with section 2.B.2.c of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B (National Environmental Protection Act), and actions to protect the public safety have been determined to be categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. Federalism This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this rule will not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 165 Harbors, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Security measures, Waterways. Regulation In consideration of the foregoing, Part 165 of Title 33, Code of Federal Regulations, is amended as follows: PART 165_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for Part 165 continues to read as follows: Authority: 33 U.S.C. 1231; 50 U.S.C. 191; 33 CFR 1.05&hyph;1(g), 6.04&hyph;1, 6.04&hyph;6, and 160.5; 49 CFR 1.46. 2. A new section 165.530 is added, to read as follows: ยง165.530 Safety Zone: Cape Fear and Northeast Cape Fear Rivers, NC. (a) Location. The following area is a moving safety zone during the specified conditions: The waters of the Cape Fear and Northeast Cape Fear Rivers for 500 yards ahead and astern, and 75 yards abeam of a vessel carrying hazardous materials when designated by the Captain of the Port Wilmington, North Carolina. (b) General Information. (1) The Captain of the Port and the Duty Officer at the Marine Safety Office, Wilmington, North Carolina, can be contacted at telephone number (910) 343&hyph;4895. The Coast Guard Patrol Commander enforcing the safety zone can be contacted on VHF&hyph;FM channels 16 and 81. (2) The Captain of the Port may authorize and designate any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer to act on his behalf in enforcing this safety zone. (3) The Marine Safety Office Wilmington will notify the maritime community of periods during which this safety zone will be in effect by providing advance notice of scheduled arrivals and departures of loaded hazardous materials vessels via a marine broadcast Notice to Mariners. (c) Regulation. The general regulations governing safety zones contained in ยง165.23 apply. Dated: August 5, 1994. T.L. Rice, Captain, U.S. Coast Guard, Captain of the Port Wilmington, NC. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20190 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
