FR941005-2-00026 FR941005-2-00021 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Office of Procurement and Assistance Management Award, Renewal, and Extension of Management and Operating Contracts AGENCY: Department of Energy ACTION: Notice of interim policy statement SUMMARY: The Department of Energy today publishes an interim Acquisition Letter for public comment that sets forth new interim policies regarding the competition and extension of the Department's management and operating contracts. The policies supersede Department of Energy Acquisition Regulation Subparts 917.605 and 970.0001, pending the issuance of a rule. Supporting deviations have been authorized by the Procurement Executive. DATES: The effective dates are set forth in the interim Acquisition Letter. Comments are due on or before November 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted to Richard Langston, Office of Procurement and Assistance Management (HR&hyph;521.1), U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. 20585. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard Langston, Office of Procurement and Assistance Management (HR&hyph;521.1), U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, D.C. 20585 (202) 586&hyph;8247. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of Energy (Department), through its Contract Reform initiative, has concluded that the Department's policies and practices regarding the extension of its management and operating contracts need to be revamped. Existing policies favor indefinite extensions of incumbent contractors and, in practice, few competitions for management and operating contracts historically have been undertaken. Such policies and practices effectively preclude the introduction of new companies and best management practices into the Department's laboratory and weapons production complex. This new policy establishes competition for performance-based management contracts (a new form of management and operating contract) as the norm. Exceptions to competition will be made, on a case by case basis, only in exceptional circumstances and only when authorized by the Head of the Agency. The underlying intent of the new policy is to balance the benefits of a competitive environment with the recognition that long-term contractual relationships can facilitate superior performance. Accordingly, the policy permits contract terms of up to five years with an option to extend the term for an additional five years for competitively awarded performance-based management contracts. Contracts awarded on a noncompetitive basis, however, will require justification and approval by the Head of the Agency prior to any extension. In view of the foregoing, the Department has issued the Acquisition Letter set forth below as an interim policy, the effective dates of which are set forth below. It is essential that these interim policies and procedures be effected immediately so that the Department can initiate procurement actions for those contracts that will expire in the near term, but were not specifically addressed in the Secretary of Energy's July 5, 1994 Action Memorandum. A notice of proposed rulemaking is in the process of being developed. The Department is seeking public comment on the Acquisition Letter in order to give the public, including those persons who are affected by the policies, an opportunity to comment on the interim Letter before it is finalized. Issued in Washington, D.C., on September 28, 1994. Richard H. Hopf, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Procurement and Assistance Management
