FR940429-0-00211 FR940429-0-00015 Default management plan. Comments: Some commenters asked the Secretary to reconsider the requirement that all institutions with cohort default rates greater than 20 percent implement a default management plan that includes the default reduction measures listed in appendix D to the regulations. The commenters asked the Secretary to allow institutions to request approval for alternative plans. Discussion: The commenters misread the regulations. Section 668.17(b)(1) requires institutions with cohort default rates over 20 percent but less than or equal to 40 percent to submit and implement a default management plan that implements the measures described in appendix D, but allows the institution to submit an alternative plan for the Secretary's consideration. Institutions with cohort default rates above 40 percent must implement the measures listed in appendix D. The Secretary believes that these latter institutions obviously have failed to otherwise reduce their default rates and that their future efforts need to meet certain standards. Changes: None. End of participation. Comments: One commenter asked the Secretary to shorten the guaranty agencies time frame for responding to institutional requests for confirmation of default rate information. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the regulations must allow the guaranty agencies' sufficient time to check their records in response to questions raised by schools. The Secretary does not agree that it would be appropriate to shorten the time frame. Changes: None. Comments: A number of commenters objected to the Secretary's proposal to change the effective date of the institution's loss of participation under ยง668.17(c)(3) to the date the institution receives notice of the Secretary's determination that its default rates exceed the statutory levels. Discussion: Previous regulations allow an institution with excessive cohort default rates to continue to participate until eight calendar days after the institution receives the Secretary's notification. The Secretary has determined that it is inappropriate to allow an institution that has high default rates above the statutory limits eight additional days to entice students to enroll and receive loans under the FFEL programs. An institution which files a timely appeal remains eligible to participate during the appeal process. However, there is no reason to allow an institution that does not appeal additional time to participate in the program. Changes: None. Comments: Some commenters asked the Secretary to clarify the status of FFEL programs loan proceeds which are disbursed after the institution learns that it is no longer eligible to participate in the FFEL programs under ยง668.17, but before the lenders or guaranty agencies learn of the loss of participation. These commenters also urged the Secretary to provide simultaneous notice of the loss of participation to guaranty agencies, lenders and other agencies. Discussion: The rules governing the disbursement of funds after an institution's loss of participation are set forth in detail in ยง668.26 of the regulations. The Secretary already provides notice of actions against high default rate institutions to guaranty agencies simultaneously with or very soon after notification is sent to the institution. The Secretary will also provide appropriate notification to other interested parties. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter suggested that if the Secretary initiates a limitation, suspension or termination action based on an institution's default rate, the Secretary should notify the appropriate SPRE and the institution's accrediting agency. Discussion: Section 494C(h)(2) of the HEA requires the Secretary to notify a SPRE of any limitation, suspension, termination, emergency action, or other action that the Department takes against an institution. In the regulations governing the designation of nationally recognized accrediting agencies, the Secretary is including a similar provision. Changes: None. Appeal procedures. Comments: Some commenters asked how the Secretary planned to implement the amendments to sections 435(a) and 435(m) of the HEA, which allow certain institutions with high cohort default rates to review certain loan servicing records and appeal the calculation of that rate based on allegations of improper loan servicing. Discussion: As noted by the commenters, sections 435(a)(3) and 435(m)(1)(B) of the HEA were changed by the Technical Amendments of 1993. Under the amended law, institutions that are subject to the loss of eligibility under the FFEL programs under section 435(a)(2)(A) of the HEA, subject to loss of eligibility for the Federal SLS Program under section 428A(a)(2), or whose cohort default rate for the most recent year for which rates have been calculated equals or exceeds 20 percent may include in their appeal of such rate a defense based on allegations of improper loan servicing. The Technical Amendments of 1993 also provide that these institutions will have an opportunity to review certain loan servicing and collection records maintained by the guaranty agencies. The Secretary published a Request for Comments in the Federal Register on March 22, 1994 (59 FR 13606) and is reviewing the comments issued in response to that notice. The Secretary intends to issue separate regulations to implement these provisions shortly. Changes: None. Comments: Some commenters complained that the time deadlines for cohort default rate appeals are too restrictive and do not provide enough time to prepare an appeal. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the regulations provide adequate time for an institution to prepare and submit an appeal of the calculation of the cohort default rate. The Secretary notes that Congress has enacted strict time limits on the institution's appeal of its cohort default rates under section 435(a) of the HEA and the Secretary's regulations reflect these requirements. Changes: None. Comments: Many commenters argued that the standards for an appeal of the loss of participation in the FFEL programs based on exceptional mitigating circumstances in ยง668.17(d) are too tough. The commenters suggested that the completion and placement rate requirements should be reduced or that the standards should consider the population or community served by the institution. Discussion: The Secretary notes that section 435(a)(2)(ii) of the HEA allows an institution to avoid the loss of participation in the FFEL programs if it shows that exceptional mitigating circumstances exist. The current regulations are tough but are also consistent with this statutory requirement. The HEA clearly establishes a presumption that an institution with excessive cohort default rates above the statutory levels is not serving its students and that its continued participation in the FFEL programs is not in the public interest. It is appropriate that an institution must meet tough standards to overcome this presumption. The Secretary notes that most of the commenters did not provide any basis for changing the standard or adopting other standards. Therefore, the Secretary will not make any changes to those requirements. The Secretary will, however, continue to evaluate the exceptional mitigating circumstances standards in the regulations and determine whether future changes are appropriate. Changes: None. Comments: Some commenters asked the Secretary to change the proposal that would limit the evidence institutions could use to show that they serve students with a disadvantaged economic background. The Secretary had proposed to limit institutions to showing that the students' qualified for an expected family contribution of zero.
