FR941220-0-00115 FR941220-0-00014 ยง XXX .760 Public access; retention of records. (a) Public examination. The employer shall make a filed labor condition application and necessary supporting documentation available for public examination at the employer's principal place of business in the U.S. or at the place of employment within one working day after the date on which the labor condition application is filed with DOL. The following documentation shall be necessary: (1) A copy of the completed labor condition application, Form ETA 9035. If the application is submitted by facsimile transmission, the application containing the original signature shall be maintained by the employer; (2) Documentation which provides the wage rate to be paid the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant; (3) A full, clear explanation of the system that the employer used to set the ``actual wage'' the employer has paid or will pay workers in the occupation for which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant is sought, including any periodic increases which the system may provide_ e.g. , memorandum summarizing the system or a copy of the employer's pay system or scale (payroll records are not required, although they shall be made available to the Department in an enforcement action). (4) A copy of the documentation the employer used to establish the ``prevailing wage'' for the occupation for which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant is sought (a general description of the source and methodology is all that is required to be made available for public examination; the underlying individual wage data relied upon to determine the prevailing wage is not a public record, although it shall be made available to the Department in an enforcement action); and (5) A copy of the document(s) with which the employer has satisfied the union/employee notification requirements of ยง XXX .734 of this part. (b) National list of applications. ETA shall compile and maintain on a current basis a list of the labor condition applications. Such list shall be by employer, showing the occupational classification, wage rate(s), number of nonimmigrants sought, period(s) of intended employment, and date(s) of need for each employer's application. The list shall be available for public examination at the Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room N&hyph;4456, Washington, DC 20210. (c) Retention of records. Either at the employer's principal place of business in the U.S. or at the place of employment, the employer shall retain copies of the labor condition application, required wage information, and documentation showing provision of notice to bargaining representatives or employees at the place of employment for a period of one year beyond the end of the period of employment specified on the labor condition application or one year from the date the labor condition application was withdrawn, except that if an enforcement action is commenced, the documentation shall be retained until the enforcement proceeding is completed through the procedures set forth in subpart I of this part. Required payroll records for the H&hyph;1B employees and other employees in the occupational classification shall be retained at the employer's principal place of business in the U.S. or at the place of employment for a period of three years from the date(s) of the creation of the record(s), except that if an enforcement action is commenced, all payroll records shall be retained until the enforcement proceeding is completed through the procedures set forth in subpart I of this part.
