FR940405-1-00015 FR940405-1-00005 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Part 120 Business Loan Policy_Media Policy Rule AGENCY: Small Business Administration (SBA). ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: SBA is proposing to repeal its present media or opinion molder policy rule. Under the rule, as proposed, small business concerns engaged in media activity would be eligible for SBA financial assistance unless they are otherwise ineligible (such as businesses engaged in illegal activities or in activities that could not be funded by SBA under the Constitution, and businesses which are not creditworthy). This action is being taken to enable SBA to promote job growth and economic development by making SBA financial assistance available to a larger number of small business concerns. DATES: Comments may be submitted on or before May 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to John R. Cox, Assistant Administrator for Financial Assistance, Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John R. Cox, 202/205&hyph;6493. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: It is timely for the Agency to consider major substantive changes in the media policy rule. Under SBA's present regulatory policy, no business loan may be made to an applicant engaged in the ``creation, origination, expression, dissemination, propagation or distribution of ideas, values, thoughts, opinions or similar intellectual property, regardless of medium, form or content.'' (13 CFR 120.101&hyph;2(b) (1993)). There are several express exceptions to this prohibition. This policy was originally adopted by SBA in 1953 under the authority granted by section 4(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 633(d)) which authorizes the Agency to ``establish general policies (particularly with reference to the public interest *␣*␣*), which shall govern the granting and denial of applications for financial assistance by the Administration.'' The Reconstruction Finance Agency, the predecessor to SBA, had a similar media policy rule. There were three basic reasons for the policy: First, the prohibition is based upon SBA's desire to avoid any possible accusation that the Government is attempting to control editorial freedom by subsidizing media or communication for political or propaganda purposes. Second, the Agency has generally sought to avoid Government identification through its business assistance programs with concerns which might publish or produce matters of a religious or controversial nature. Third, SBA recognizes that the constitutionally protected rights of freedom of speech and press ought not to be compromised either by the fear of Government reprisal or by the expectation of Government financial assistance.
