FR940607-2-00082 FR940607-2-00059 The proposed rules also adopt a formal standard of review for the hearing of appeals. Currently, there is no articulated standard of review contained in the Exchange's rules. The standard in the proposed rules prohibits an appeal panel from overturning the fact finder's decision if the factual conclusions in that decision are supported by substantial evidence and if the decision itself is not arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion. The proposed rules also add provisions relating to Exchange liability and suits filed against the Exchange and its employees. Current Exchange rules limit liability against the Exchange as a result of a member's use or enjoyment of the Exchange facilities. 5 The rules of MBS Clearing Corporation limit its liability to members to a broader extent. 6 The proposed rules limit the liability of the Exchange to its members to situations where the Exchange has acted willfully or with gross negligence. 7 5 See Article X, section 2 of the CHX's Constitution. 6 See Article V, Rule 6, section 1 of the MSB Clearing Corporation's By-Laws limits the Corporation's liability to situations where it has acted willfully or with gross negligence. 7 The Commission notes that the proposed rule purports to limit the liability of the Exchange to third parties, as well as to Exchange members. The following is the text of the proposed rule: The Exchange shall use its best efforts to perform its duties and responsibilities in the manner specified in the Rules but shall have no liability to any member or any third party for any loss, cost, expense, damage or liability for nonperformance or misperformance of such duties and responsibilities, except to the extent that it is attributable to the willful misconduct, gross negligence, bad faith, or fraudulent or criminal acts of the Exchange or its officers, employees or agents. The possibility of this type of suit against individual staff members of the Exchange when they are acting on Exchange business makes it impossible for such persons to perform their duties. The proposed rule also prohibits a member form suing any officer, director, employee or agent of the Exchange or any of its subsidiaries or any other Exchange official, if such person is acting on Exchange business or business of any of its subsidiaries. This proposed rule does not, however, prohibit a member from suing the Exchange as a result of the actions of these individuals; rather, it merely prohibits suits against the persons in his or her individual capacity. 8 8 The following is the text of the proposed rule: No member or member organization shall institute a lawsuit or any other type of legal proceeding against any officer, director, employee or agent of the Exchange or any of its subsidiaries or any other Exchange official, if such person is acting on Exchange business or business of any of its subsidiaries except for as violation of the federal securities laws and except, with respect to Governors of the Exchange to the extent inconsistent with the Exchange's Certificate of Incorporation. In addition, the proposed rule adds a provision that requires a member who fails to prevail in a legal proceeding instituted by that member against CHX or other specified parties 9 to pay all reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by CHX in defense of such proceeding. This requirement to pay CHX's expenses, however, is only triggered if CHX's expenses exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000). This will minimize the impact of this new rule for small members that pursue claims against CHX but do not prevail at an early stage. When in place, the rule will serve to discourage frivolous and harassment-type suits against CHX. 9 The proposed rule would apply to legal proceeding instituted by members against the Exchange or any of its officers, directors, committee members, employees or agents, and specifically would not apply to internal disciplinary actions or administrative appeals. Finally, the Exchange proposes to amend Article VIII to make conduct inconsistent with the maintenance of a fair and orderly market or the protection of investors a violation of Exchange Rules. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and to protect investors and the public interest, and is not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers or dealers. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange believes that no burden will be placed on competition as a result of the proposed rule change. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others No comments were received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change; or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written date, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CHX. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;93&hyph;31 and should be submitted by June 28, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13776 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
