FR940317-0-00016 FR940317-0-00006 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Parts 51 and 78 [Docket No. 94&hyph;007&hyph;1] Swine Brucellosis AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Interim rule and request for comments. SUMMARY: We are amending the brucellosis indemnity regulations to provide for payment at fair market value for whole herds of swine depopulated because of brucellosis. This action is necessary to eliminate in an expeditious manner all swine herds known to be affected with brucellosis. This action will also help ensure that swine brucellosis is eradicated in the United States within the next 5 years, thus saving the Federal government millions of dollars in program costs. This action will also help eliminate the human health risk associated with swine brucellosis. We are also amending the regulations concerning interstate movement of swine to require that all brucellosis-exposed swine from herds known to be affected with the disease be identified with an eartag before being moved interstate from the herd. This action will allow all handlers of swine to take precautions in handling swine potentially infected with brucellosis. DATES: Interim rule effective March 17, 1994. Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before May 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 94&hyph;007&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Joseph F. Annelli, National Swine Epidemiologist, Swine Health Staff, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, suite 204, Presidential Building, 6565 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7767. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Brucellosis is a serious infectious disease of swine, cattle, bison, and other species, including humans, caused by bacteria of the genus Brucella. Brucellosis in swine is characterized by abortion, infertility, orchitis, posterior paralysis, and lameness. To help prevent the spread of the disease, and to further its eradication, the regulations in 9 CFR part 51 provide for payment of Federal indemnity to owners of certain animals destroyed because of brucellosis. The payment of indemnity is intended to provide owners with a financial incentive for promptly destroying animals infected with or exposed to brucellosis. Because the continued presence of brucellosis in a herd seriously threatens the health of animals in that herd and possibly other herds, the prompt destruction of brucellosis-affected swine is critical if brucellosis eradication efforts in the United States are to succeed. Under the regulations in ยง51.3(b)(2) prior to the effective date of this interim rule, indemnity payments for herd depopulation were made only for breeding swine destroyed because of brucellosis, and were based on a maximum ``per head'' rate of $150 per head for registered, inbred, or hybrid swine, and $65 per head for all other breeding swine. In this interim rule, we are amending the regulations to provide that in the case of whole herd depopulation of swine, indemnity payments shall be paid for all swine in the herd, not just for breeding swine, and at a fair market value determined by the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), based on an appraisal conducted by an independent appraiser assigned by the Administrator, except that indemnity payments, plus any salvage, must not exceed the appraised value of each animal. Because brucellosis is primarily transmitted through sexual contact, swine other than breeding swine have not been considered to be significantly at risk for transmitting brucellosis to other swine. Consequently, indemnity has not been paid for ``feeder'' or ``finishing'' pigs. Recently, however, the infection of 30 humans with brucellosis through the handling of swine other than breeding swine at a packing plant in North Carolina has indicated that such swine do pose a significant risk of transmitting brucellosis to swine and humans.
