FR940504-2-00083 FR940504-2-00073 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste Working Group Meeting on the NRC Staff Capabilities in Performance Assessment and Computer Modeling of High-Level Waste Disposal Facilities; Meeting The ACNW Working Group on the NRC staff capabilities in performance assessment and computer modeling of high-level waste disposal facilities will hold a meeting on May 16, 1994, room P&hyph;110, 7920 Norfolk Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance. The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows: Monday, May 16, 1994&hyph;8:30 a.m. until the conclusion of business. The ACNW will revisit this subject, which was originally addressed in an October 17, 1991 Working Group Meeting. Progress in the NRC's Iterative Performance Assessment (PA) Program, the NRC staff's total system performance assessment (TPA), the evolution of the reliance on expert elicitation, and progress made in the execution of the NRC's modular computer model will be subjects of interest to the Committee. This review will be performed periodically to determine the degree of in-house and contractor-supported PA capability, the coordination and integration between data analyst and computer modelers, revisions to the High-Level Radioactive Waste Management PA Strategy Plan, and future direction of Phase 3 for PA development. Oral statements may be presented by members of the public with the concurrence of the ACNW Working Group Chairman; written statements will be accepted and made available to the Working Group. Electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public, and questions may be asked only by members of the Working Group, its consultants, and staff. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the ACNW staff member named below five days prior to the meeting, if possible, so that appropriate arrangements can be made. During the initial portion of the meeting, the ACNW Working Group, along with any of its consultants who may be present, may exchange preliminary views regarding matters to be considered during the balance of the meeting. The ACNW Working Group will then hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff and their consultants, national laboratories, state officials, and other interested parties, as appropriate. Further information regarding the agenda for this meeting, whether the meeting has been cancelled or rescheduled, the Chairman's ruling on requests for the opportunity to present oral statements and the time allotted therefor can be obtained by a prepaid telephone call to the cognizant ACNW staff member, Mr. Giorgio Gnugnoli (telephone 301/492&hyph;9851) between 8:15 a.m. and 6 p.m. (EDT). Persons planning to attend this meeting are urged to contact the above named individual five days before the scheduled meeting to be advised of any changes in schedule, etc., that may have occurred. Dated: April 25, 1994. R. K. Major, Chief, Nuclear Waste Branch. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10664 Filed 5&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
