FR941207-0-00020 FR941207-0-00002 Fee-for-service means the price by pound or by case representing a processor's cost of ingredients (other than donated foods), labor, packaging, overhead, and other costs incurred in the conversion of the donated food into the specified end product. * * * * * Processor means any commercial facility which processes or repackages donated foods. However, commercial enterprises which handle, prepare and/or serve products or meals containing donated foods on-site solely for the individual recipient agency under contract are exempt under this definition. Notwithstanding this definition, a recipient agency which prepares products or meals containing donated foods for more than one recipient agency under more than one contract in the same facility or prepares products or meals for any one recipient agency off-site shall not be a processor if the recipient agency preparing products or meals provides: (1) accountability for any donated foods received from another recipient agency consistent with ยง250.16 of this part and (2) any funds received as payment for preparing products or meals shall be deposited in the non-profit meal account of the recipient agency preparing products or meals. * * * * * 3. In ยง250.17, a new paragraph (f) is added to read as follows: ยง250.17 Reports. * * * * * (f) Report transmission. Where a report is to be postmarked by a specific date and such report is transmitted by means of a facsimile machine, the date printed by the facsimile machine on the facsimile copy may serve as the postmark. 4. In ยง250.30: a. The last sentence of paragraph (a) is removed; b. Paragraph (b)(2)(ii) is revised; c. Two sentences are added between the second and third sentences of the introductory text of paragraph (c)(1), and the paragraph incorrectly designated as (c)(1)(l) is redesignated as paragraph (c)(1)(i); d. The first sentence of paragraph (c)(4)(ii) is revised; e. Paragraph (c)(4)(iii) is revised; f. Paragraph (c)(4)(vii) is revised; g. The words ``and identify'' are added to the end of the introductory text of paragraph (c)(4)(viii)(D); h. Paragraph (c)(4)(xiii) is revised; i. Paragraph (c)(4)(xv) is amended by adding the words ``and provide updates for any changes which occur during the contract period'' at the end of the paragraph; j. Paragraph (c)(5) is redesignated as paragraph (c)(4)(xvi) and is further amended by adding the words ``A provision that'' at the beginning of the paragraph; k. A new paragraph (c)(4)(xvii) is added; l. A new paragraph (c)(4)(xviii) is added; m. Paragraph (d) is revised; n. Paragraph (e) is revised; o. Paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(1)(iii) are revised;
