FR940505-1-00334 FR940505-1-00012 Gel means a colloid in which the disperse phase has combined with the continuous phase to produce a semisolid material, such as jelly. General purpose adhesive means any non-aerosol household adhesive designed for use on a variety of substrates. General Purpose Adhesive does not include contact adhesives or construction and panel adhesives. General purpose cleaner means a product designed for general all-purpose cleaning, in contrast to cleaning products designed to clean specific substrates in certain situations. General Purpose Cleaner includes products designed for general floor cleaning, kitchen or countertop cleaning, and cleaners designed to be used on a variety of hard surfaces. Glass cleaner means a cleaning product designed primarily for cleaning surfaces made of glass. Glass cleaner does not include products designed solely for the purpose of cleaning optical materials used in eyeglasses, photographic equipment, scientific equipment and photocopying machines. Hair mousse means a hairstyling foam designed to facilitate styling of a coiffure and provide limited holding power. Hair styling gel means a high viscosity, often gelatinous, product that contains a resin and is designed for the application to hair to aid in styling and sculpting of the hair coiffure. Hairspray means a consumer product designed primarily for the purpose of dispensing droplets of a resin on and into a hair coiffure which will impart sufficient rigidity to the coiffure to establish or retain the style for a period of time. Household adhesive means any household product that is used to bond one surface to another by attachment. Household Adhesive does not include products used on humans and animals, adhesive tape, contact paper, wallpaper, shelf liners, or any other product with an adhesive incorporated onto or in an inert substrate. Household Adhesive also does not include units of product, less packaging, which weigh more than one pound or consist of more than 16 fluid ounces. Household product means any consumer product that is primarily designed to be used inside or outside of living quarters or residences that are occupied or intended for occupation by individuals, including the immediate surroundings. Household sealants and caulking compounds means any product designed to fill in cracks, close or secure an object, or to prevent seepage of moisture or air. Insect repellent means a pesticide product that is designed to be applied on human skin, hair or attire worn on humans in order to prevent contact with or repel biting insects or arthropods. Insecticide means a pesticide product that is designed for use against insects or other arthropods, but excluding products that are: for agricultural use; for a use which requires a structural pest control license under Chapter 14 (commencing with Section 8500) of the Business and Professions Code; or restricted materials that require a permit for use and possession. Insecticide fogger means any insecticide product designed to release all or most of its content, as a fog or mist, into indoor areas during a single application. Institutional product or industrial and institutional (I&I) Product means a consumer product that is designed for use in the maintenance or operation of an establishment that: manufactures, transports, or sells goods or commodities, or provides services for profit; or is engaged in the nonprofit promotion of a particular public, educational, or charitable cause. Establishments include, but are not limited to, government agencies, factories, schools, hospitals, sanitariums, prisons, restaurants, hotels, stores, automobile service and parts centers, health clubs, theaters, or transportation companies. Institutional Product does not include household products and products that are incorporated into or used exclusively in the manufacture or construction of the goods or commodities at the site of the establishment. Label means any written, printed, or graphic matter affixed to, applied to, attached to, blown into, formed, molded into, embossed on, or appearing upon any consumer product or consumer product package, for purposes of branding, identifying, or giving information with respect to the product or to the contents of the package.
