FR941021-2-00060 FR941021-2-00044 Agency for Health Care Policy and Research Public Meeting on the Development of Smoking Prevention and Cessation; Clinical Practice Guideline The Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announce that a public meeting will be held to receive comments and information pertaining to the development of the clinical practice guideline on Smoking Prevention and Cessation. The guideline will focus on the intervention therapies used for nicotine dependence treatment and the evidence of their effectiveness. The guideline is being developed by a private-sector panel of health care experts and consumers. The panel is supported by AHCPR. A notice announcing that AHCPR was arranging for the development of this clinical practice guideline was published in the Federal Register on December 15, 1992 (Vol. 57, No. 241). That notice invited nominations for experts and consumers to serve on the panel that is developing the guideline. A public meeting to provide an opportunity for interested parties to contribute relevant information and comments, including research in areas relevant to the guideline, will be held as follows: Meeting: Smoking Prevention and Cessation. Date: November 9, 1994. From: 9:00 a.m.&hyph;12:00 p.m. Location: Bethesda Marriott Hotel, Grand Ballroom, 5151 Pooks Hill Road; Bethesda, MD 20814. Phone: (301) 897&hyph;9400. Background The AHCPR is charged, under Title IX of the Public Health Service Act, with enhancing the quality, appropriateness, and effectiveness of health care services, and access to such services. The AHCPR accomplishes its goals through the establishment of a broad base of scientific research, and through the promotion of improvements in clinical practice and in the organization, financing, and delivery of health care services. (See 42 U.S.C. 299&hyph;299c&hyph;6 and 1320&hyph;12.) In keeping with its legislative mandates, AHCPR arranges for the development, periodic review, and update of clinically relevant guidelines that may be used by physicians, nurses, other health care providers, educators, and consumers to assist in determining how diseases, disorders, and other health care conditions can most effectively and appropriately be prevented, diagnosed, treated, and clinically managed. Medical review criteria, standards of quality, and performance measures are then developed based on the guidelines produced. Section 912 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 299b&hyph;1(b)), as amended, requires that the guidelines: 1. Be based on the best available research and professional judgment; 2. Be presented in formats appropriate for use by physicians, nurses, other health care providers, medical educators, medical review organizations, and consumers; 3. Be presented in treatment-specific or condition-specific forms appropriate for use in clinical practice, education programs, and reviewing quality and appropriateness of medical care;
