FR940919-0-00002 FR940919-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Federal Crop Insurance Corporation 7 CFR Part 400 General Administrative Regulations; Actual Production History (APH) Coverage Program AGENCY: Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) hereby issues regulations to provide a method for determining insurance coverage based on Actual Production History (APH). An approved APH yield, when multiplied by a percentage of an elected coverage level and price per commodity unit, results in a dollar amount of insurance coverage per acre. This rule is being promulgated in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 19, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mari Dunleavy, Regulatory Specialist, Regulatory and Procedural Development, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, telephone (202) 254&hyph;8314. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This action has been reviewed under USDA procedures established by Executive Order 12866, and Departmental Regulation No. 1512&hyph;1. This action constitutes a review as to the need, currency, clarity, and effectiveness of these regulations under those procedures. The sunset review date established for these regulations is September 1, 1999. This rule has been determined to be not-significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and therefore, exempt from OMB review and has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). This action does not have a significant effect on a substantial number of small entities. It imposes no added burden on the insured farmer or on the private insurance company serving as the delivery agent. APH has been the basis for computing insurance guarantees under the Federal Crop Insurance Program, on an ad hoc basis for over eight years and has its genesis in the Individual Yield Coverage Plan (7 CFR 400.15&hyph;400.21). This rule codifies procedure which is already effective. Therefore, this action is exempt from the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act and no Regulatory Flexibility Analysis was prepared. The program is listed in the Catalog of Domestic Assistance under No. 10.450. This program is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372 which require intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. See the Notice related to 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V, published at 48 FR 29115, June 24, 1983. This action is not expected to have any significant impact on the quality of the human environment, health, and safety. Therefore, neither an Environmental Assessment or an Environmental Impact Statement is needed. The collection requirement for this regulation is form number FCI&hyph;19A (APH Production Reporting Form) and has been previously approved by the OMB under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq., the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. The control number for the APH Production Reporting Form is OMB # 0563&hyph;0029. See 7 CFR part 400, subpart H. It has been determined under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, that this proposal does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. The policies and procedures contained in this rule will not have substantial direct effects on states or their political subdivisions, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. This rule has been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12778. The provisions of this rule are not retroactive and will preempt State and local laws to the extent such State and local laws are inconsistent. The administrative appeal provisions, located at 7 CFR part 400, subpart J, must be exhausted before judicial action may be brought for actions taken under these proceedings. Background The Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;66), requires the establishment of a plan and the publication of regulations for the use of the producer's actual production history to determine yield coverage. FCIC has used such a plan on an ad hoc basis for a number of years. An approved actual production history (APH) yield, multiplied by a percentage of an elected coverage level and price per commodity unit, provides the dollar amount of insurance coverage per acre. If the insured does not submit production records for insurance purposes, 65 percent of an FCIC estimated yield (transitional or determined yield) is the default approved APH yield. The FCIC estimated yield, after applicable adjustment, is used in conjunction with actual production records to compute the approved APH yield when less than four years of actual production records are available. On October 14, 1993, the FCIC published in the Federal Register at 58 FR 53150 proposed regulations outlining the provisions for the APH plan. The FCIC requested and received comments from the public regarding the proposal. The comments and their responses are grouped according to subject, area of concern, and by subpart of the proposed regulation. 1. General Comments, Differences Compared to 1994 APH Program Comments: Several comments pointed out that the new producer, crop year, and base period definitions differ from FCIC approved procedures implemented for the 1994 crop year. The comments requested that the regulation be changed to agree with those APH procedures if it is to be effective for the 1994 crop year. They indicated that these changes will drastically affect computer programming, computer edits, FCIC data reporting requirements, etc. If the regulation is not changed and is to be effective for the 1994 crop year, they requested that the comment period be reopened to provide an opportunity to review the impact of these changes. Response: There are differences between the regulation published for comment and the APH procedures used for the 1994 crop year. The differences are minor but, if implemented for the 1994 crop year, the regulation would have major impacts on the current program. Fall and spring seeded crop policies have been sold, production reports filed, and approved APH yields calculated, processed, and submitted to FCIC based on procedures implemented in July 1993. For these reasons, the regulation, with minor changes, will be implemented effective for the 1995 crop year. 2. Coverage and Participation Comment: Twenty comments stated that the APH program will reduce insurance protection to many farmers, decrease farmer participation, and increase future demand for free disaster payments. The comments suggested that FCIC encourage participation by offering higher levels of protection to producers. Comment: One comment noted that 65 percent of the transitional yield will be used when a producer does not furnish any previous yield data. The comment suggested that FCIC change this percentage to 80 percent.
