FR941019-2-00070 FR941019-2-00044 Chadwick Bancshares, Inc., et al.; Acquisitions of Companies Engaged in Permissible Nonbanking Activities The organizations listed in this notice have applied under 225.23(a)(2) or (f) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.23(a)(2) or (f)) for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and 225.21(a) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.21(a)) to acquire or control voting securities or assets of a company engaged in a nonbanking activity that is listed in 225.25 of Regulation Y as closely related to banking and permissible for bank holding companies. Unless otherwise noted, such activities will be conducted throughout the United States. Each application is available for immediate inspection at the Federal Reserve Bank indicated. Once the application has been accepted for processing, it will also be available for inspection at the offices of the Board of Governors. Interested persons may express their views in writing on the question whether consummation of the proposal can ``reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices.'' Any request for a hearing on this question must be accompanied by a statement of the reasons a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. Unless otherwise noted, comments regarding each of these applications must be received at the Reserve Bank indicated for the application or the offices of the Board of Governors not later than November 13, 1994. A. Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (James A. Bluemle, Vice President) 230 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60690: 1. Chadwick Bancshares, Inc. , Chadwick, Illinois; to acquire Community Insurance, Inc., Miles, Iowa; and thereby engage directly or indirectly in certain nonbanking activities, to acquire assets of a going concern, or to acquire direct or indirect ownership, control or power to vote at least 80 percent of the voting shares of Community Insurance, Inc., Miles, Iowa (CII). Applicant through CII, proposes to engage in insurance agency activities regarding life and health insurance (including nursing home long-term care insurance), annuities, and credit life insurance, pursuant to 225.25(8)(i),(iii) of the Board's Regulation Y. These activities will be conducted in Miles, Iowa. 2. Northwest Financial Corp. , Spencer, Iowa; to acquire James Mortgage Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa, and thereby indirectly engage in the activity of originating and selling conventional, FHA, and VA residential mortgages, pursuant to 225.25(b)(1) of the Board's Regulation Y. Comments on this application must be received by October 31, 1994. B. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (Randall C. Sumner, Vice President) 411 Locust Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63166: 1. Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc. , St. Louis, Missouri; to acquire National Mortgage Company, Memphis, Tennessee; B-M Homes, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee; Macon Homes, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee; Marbel Homes, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee; Margolin Bros., Appliance Co., Memphis, Tennessee; Margolin Bros. Realty Co., Memphis, Tennessee; National Builders, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee; Arkansas Home Loan Company, Memphis, Tennessee; and National Home Loan Company, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee, and thereby engage in making, acquiring or servicing loans or other extension of credit, pursuant to 225.25(b)(1) of the Board's Regulation Y; acting as agent or broker for insurance (including home mortgage redemption insurance that is directly related to an extension of credit made by Applicant, and companies, and that is limited to assuring the repayment of the outstanding balance due on the extension of credit in the event of death, disability of involuntary unemployment of the debtor, pursuant to 225.25(b)(8)(i) of the Board's Regulation Y; and acting as investment or financial advisor, and to perform appraisals of real estate and tangible and intangible personal property, including securities, pursuant to 225.25(b)(4) and (b)(13) of the Board's Regulation Y. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, October 13, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Deputy Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94-25860 Filed 10-18-94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
