FR941206-1-00110 FR941206-1-00008 Option 3. Coatings to Which Thinning Solvent Is Added_Coating-by-Coating Compliance If thinning solvents are added to the coating, the affected source could determine the allowed level of dilution for purpose of demonstrating compliance on a coating-by-coating basis. The source would determine the as-supplied VOC content of each type of thinning solvent. Then, using the as-supplied certification for the coating and the maximum allowable limit from Table 1, the source would calculate the maximum allowable thinning ratio that would not violate the VOHAP content limit. The persons responsible for applying each coating shall be notified of the designated thinner and maximum allowable dilution ratio for that coating by affixing a label to each container of coating in the batch or through another means as discussed in the rule. (A) For coatings and thinning solvents that do not contain water or exempt compounds, use Equation 1 as follows: E:GRAPHICSEP06DE94.013 where: R d =Maximum allowable thinning ratio (L thinner/L coating as supplied); VOC s =As-supplied VOC content of the coating (g VOC/L coating as supplied, less water and exempt solvents); HAP a =Allowable as-applied VOHAP content of the coating (g VOHAP/L coating as applied, less water and exempt solvents); R d =Density of the thinners (g thinner/L thinner); (B) For coatings or thinners that contain water or exempt compound(s), use Equation 2 as follows: E:GRAPHICSEP06DE94.014 where: (V w ) s =Volume fraction of water and exempt solvents in the coating as supplied (L water and exempt solvents/L coating as supplied); (V w ) d =Volume fraction of water and exempt solvents in the thinner (L water and exempt solvents/L thinner); and (W w ) d =Weight fraction of water and exempt solvents in the thinner (g water and exempt solvents/g thinner). (C) The procedures specified under test methods and procedures may be used to determine the values of variables defined in this paragraph, as necessary. A source is to determine the total allowable volume of thinner for each coating for the month using the following equation. E:GRAPHICSEP06DE94.015 where: V d =Total allowable volume of thinner for the coating for the previous month (L thinner); V c =Volume of each batch of the coating, as supplied, used during the month (L coating as supplied); i=Each batch of coating; and n=Total number of batches of the coating. If the actual thinner volume used for a coating is less than or equal to the total allowable thinner volume for that coating then compliance is presumed for that coating for the month, unless a violation is revealed using Method 24. (If it is greater, the facility must report a violation.) Any Method 24 test on individual containers of coating, as applied, that shows noncompliance with the standards would take precedence and indicate a violation. Option 4. A Group of Coatings To Which the Same Thinning Solvent Is Added_Group Compliance Inasmuch as shipyards may use the same solvent to reduce more than one category of coating, this option was created to minimize recordkeeping in such cases. The group compliance option is similar to the coating-by-coating compliance option, except the source does not need to maintain thinner usage by individual paint category; it would be allowed to calculate the total allowable volume of thinner used for a group of coatings. A group would be constituted based on use of common thinner. A group could consist of two or more different batches of the same coating or different coatings. For example, a group may consist of a certain batch of antenna coating combined with all batches of general use coatings. However, a group may not contain any coating to which thinning solvent will not be added. Affected sources would calculate the maximum allowable dilution ratio for each coating using equation 1 or 2. All painters would have to be notified of the maximum allowable dilution ratio for each coating. Beginning with the recorded amount of coating used during the previous month, the facility would calculate the net allowable volume of thinner that could have been used by each coating in the group. If the actual usage was less than or equal to the net allowable volume for the group, the source is in compliance. However, any Method 24 test on individual containers of coating, as applied, that shows noncompliance with the standards would take precedence and indicate a violation. Equations 1 through 3 were derived from the EPA's ``Procedures for Certifying Quantity of Volatile Organic Compounds Emitted by Paint, Ink, and Other Coatings'' (Revised June 1986), EPA_450/3&hyph;84&hyph;019.
