FR940222-2-00020 FR940222-2-00013 c. Members of TPRGs will independently review applications and will individually present results of their reviews to the Project Officer. Reviewers will not meet to review and present a general recommendation. Reviewers may be called together by the Project Officer to receive material, review issues, or share information, but no attempt will be made to achieve a group consensus. 2. Field Readers a. Field readers may be used for applications that cannot be effectively reviewed by the TPRG. This may include applications which are outside the scope of TPRGs, when the workload of TPRGs requires augmentation, or when specific expertise is required. b. Field readers will follow the guidance provided by the Project Officer for conducting their review. Field readers will independently review applications and will individually present results of their reviews to the Project Officer. c. Field readers may be called together by the Project Officer to reassess material, review issues, or share information but no attempt will be made to achieve a group consensus. F. Review Process 1. The EM Project Officer will provide reviewers with a copy of the application, programmatic guidance, conflict of interest disclosures, certificates of confidentiality, and other information needed to conduct the review (such as site-specific needs and schedules for technologies). The Project Officer may provide instructions to comparatively evaluate proposals if there are multiple proposals. 2. Reviewers should sign the certificate of confidentiality and conflict of interest disclosures and return them before initiating their review. 3. Based upon his/her review of the application and related documents, the reviewer is expected to provide the EM Project Officer with a written analysis based on the guidance and/or other program information for each application. 4. All reviews serve as input for the decision by the selection official and are not binding. Significant adverse evaluations will be addressed in writing in a selection statement document. 5. Upon request by applicants, a written summary will be provided to the applicants on the evaluation of their applications. G. Evaluation Criteria Review criteria include, but are not limited to, the following list. These criteria will be used by reviewers after the application has been through the initial screening. For unsolicited applications, this review may also address guidance the Project Officer provides from the initial screening. 1. Capabilities, experience, and proposed methods for conducting credible risk assessments and proposed methods for assessing risks to human health and the environment. 2. Experience in effective and efficient management of the tasks required in support of risk assessments in preparing and presenting reports, and in working with stakeholders and decisionmakers at all levels. 3. Quality, availability, and experience of organization, technical and administrative staff and their level of involvement. 4. The appropriateness and adequacy of the proposed budget. H. Awards Approximately one to ten awards may be made during FY 1994. An award will not exceed $5 million in total award value. If sufficient acceptable applications are submitted available funding may determine the number of awards. Awards, if any, will be determined through evaluation of applications received against the evaluation criteria and the availability of funds. Awards for either grants or cooperative agreements will be made only to technically acceptable applicants. Awards will be on a schedule to be agreed to by DOE and the awardee. Budget and project periods may be negotiated to meet the needs of particular projects. DOE reserves the right to support or not support any portion, all, or none of the proposals submitted. I. Selection Selection of an application for award will be based on the findings of the conformance to elements 1 through 4 of the Summary, Section IV.A.a&hyph;d, adherence to the proposal format as stated under Subsection B and G, and finally, how well the application serves the EM program objectives. Furthermore, selection of an application for award is subject to the availability of funds. Issued in Washington, on February 15, 1994. Richard J. Guimond, Rear Admiral, USPHS, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Environmental Restoration and Waste Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3904 Filed 2&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
