FR940603-1-00012 FR940603-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement 30 CFR Part 917 Kentucky Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation Plan AGENCY: Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM), Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule; public comment period and opportunity for public hearing. SUMMARY: OSM is announcing the receipt of a proposed amendment to the Kentucky Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation (AMLR) Plan (hereinafter referred to as the Kentucky plan) under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA). The amendment deletes reference to the Kentucky Advisory Committee for Abandoned land Reclamation and establishes informal procedures for coordination of activities with the Rural Abandoned Mine Program (RAMP) administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service (SCS). The amendment is intended to improve operational efficiency. DATES: Written comments must be received on or before 4 p.m., E.D.T., on July 5, 1994. If requested, a public hearing on the proposed amendment will be held at 10 a.m. on June 28, 1994. Requests to speak at the hearing must be received on or before 4 p.m., E.D.T., on June 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments and requests to speak at the hearing should be mailed or hand delivered to: William J. Kovacic, Director, Lexington Field Office at the address listed below. Any disabled individual who has need for a special accommodation to attend a public hearing should contact the individual listed under for further information contact . Copies of the Kentucky plan, the proposed amendment, a listing of any scheduled hearings, and all written comments received in response to this document will be available for review at the addresses listed below, Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., E.D.T., excluding holidays. Each requestor may receive one free copy of the proposed amendment by contacting OSM's Lexington Field Office. William J. Kovacic, Director, Lexington Field Office, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 2675 Regency Road, Lexington, Kentucky 40503, Telephone: (606) 233&hyph;2896. Department of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, No. 2 Hudson Hollow Complex, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601, Telephone: (502) 564&hyph;6940. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 William J. Kovacic, Director, Lexington Field Office, Telephone: (606) 233&hyph;2896. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background on the Kentucky Plan Title IV of SMCRA established an AMLR program for the purposes of reclaiming and restoring lands and water resources adversely affected by past mining. This program is funded by a reclamation fee imposed upon the production of coal. As enacted in 1977, lands and waters eligible for reclamation were those that were mined or affected by mining and abandoned or left in an inadequate reclamation status prior to August 3, 1977, and for which there was no continuing reclamation responsibility under State or Federal law. The Abandoned Mine Land (AML) Reclamation Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;508, Title VI, Subtitle A, Nov. 5, 1990, effective October 1, 1991) amended SMCRA, 30 U.S.C. 1231 et seq ., to provide changes in the eligibility of project sites for AML expenditures. Title IV of SMCRA now provides for reclamation of certain mine sites where the mining occurred after August 3, 1977. These include interim program sites where bond forfeiture proceeds were insufficient for adequate reclamation and sites affected any time between August 4, 1977, and November 5, 1990, for which there were insufficient funds for adequate reclamation due to the insolvency of the bond surety. Title IV provides that a State with an approved AMLR program has the responsibility and primary authority to implement the program. On May 18, 1982, the Secretary of the Interior approved the Kentucky plan. Background information on the plan including the Secretary's findings, the disposition of comments and a detailed explanation of approval can be found in the May 18, 1982, Federal Register (47 FR 21435). Subsequent actions concerning the conditions of approval and amendments to the plan can be found at 30 CFR 917.21. The Secretary adopted regulations at 30 CFR part 884 that specify the content requirements of a State reclamation plan and the criteria for plan approval. The regulations provide that a state may submit to the Director proposed amendments or revisions to the approved reclamation plan. If the amendments or revisions change the scope of major policies followed by the State in the conduct of its reclamation program, the Director must follow the procedures in 30 CFR 884.14 when approving or disapproving an amendment or revision. II. Discussion of Proposed Amendment By letter dated May 5, 1994 (Administrative Record No. K&hyph;64), Kentucky submitted a proposed amendment to revise procedures for coordinating with the RAMP, Indian, and other reclamation programs contained in Chapter 5 of the Kentucky Plan. This amendment was initiated in part due to a finding by the Kentucky Auditor of Public Accounts in the Statewide Audit for the period ended June 30, 1992, that the Division of Abandoned lands (DAL) was not operating in compliance with the Kentucky Plan. Chapter 5 of the plan establishes a ``Kentucky Advisory Committee for Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation'' to facilitate coordination of program activities with the RAMP program administered by the SCS. The Auditor determined that the processes established for the Advisory Committee to coordinate with RAMP were not being followed. The Advisory Committee had proven difficult to assemble, was cumbersome in operation, and had been disbanded. The proposed AMLR program amendment describes new, more informal coordination procedures. The annual meeting of the Kentucky Advisory Committee is to be replaced with an informal annual meeting between DAL and SCS staffs. During the annual meeting, SCS will present overall RAMP plans and goals, including scheduled reclamation sites, and results of past reclamation with emphasis on experience with various reclamation techniques. DAL will provide the SCS with its project proposals through the Kentucky State Clearinghouse process. SCS will provide DAL with copies of RAMP documentation provided to OSM. Contacts between DAL and RAMP staff management will be initiated by either party on an as needed basis.
