FR940505-1-00004 FR940505-1-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;39&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Israel Aircraft Industries (IAI) Model 1125 Westwind Astra Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain IAI Model 1125 Westwind Astra airplanes. This proposal would require relocation of the ground cable in the slat power drive unit. This proposal is prompted by a report that the drive system for the leading edge slat stopped in transit during flight on a Model 1125 Westwind Astra airplane. This incident was caused by an improper ground connection for the electric motor of the slat drive system, which resulted in arcing and an open electrical circuit. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent possible fuel vapor fire due to electrical arcing in an area where fuel vapors might be present and the inability to move the slats during flight due to an open electrical circuit. DATES: Comments must be received by June 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;39&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Astra Jet Corporation, Technical Publications, 77 McCullough Drive, suite 11, New Castle, Delaware 19720&hyph;9813. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tim Dulin, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2141; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;39&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;39&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion The Civil Aviation Administration of Israel (CAAI), which is the airworthiness authority for Israel, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain Israel Aircraft Industries (IAI) Model 1125 Westwind Astra airplanes. The CAAI advises that it has received a report that the drive system for the leading edge slat stopped in transit during flight on a Model 1125 Westwind Astra airplane. The cause of this incident has been attributed to an improper ground connection for the electric motor of the leading edge slat drive system, which resulted in arcing and an open electrical circuit. The ground connection for the electric motor is located in the area just forward of the wing spar. Since the fuel system is integrated into the structure of the wing, the area is subject to fuel leakage. An improper ground connection for the subject motor, if not corrected, could result in possible fuel vapor fire due to electrical arcing in an area where fuel vapors might be present, and the inability to move the slats during flight due to an open electrical circuit. Astra Jet Corporation has issued Service Bulletin SB 1125&hyph;27&hyph;110, Revision 1, dated February 16, 1994, that describes procedures for relocation of the ground cable in the slat power drive unit (Modification 6350). Accomplishment of this modification involves routing the ground cable for the slat power drive located in the aircraft secondary structure to the aircraft primary structure. Relocating the ground cable will improve electrical grounding for the slat power drive unit. The CAAI classified this service bulletin as mandatory and issued Airworthiness Directive No. 93&hyph;02, dated December 2, 1993, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Israel.
