FR941205-2-00159 FR941205-2-00074 Monday December 5, 1994 Part V Department of Education Rehabilitation Training Programs; Notices Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 232␣/␣Monday, December 5, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION RIN 1820-ZA01 Rehabilitation Training Programs AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of final priorities. SUMMARY: The Secretary announces priorities for four programs administered by the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. The Secretary may use these priorities for competitions in fiscal year (FY) 1995 and subsequent years. The Secretary takes this action to focus Federal financial assistance on areas of identified national need. These priorities are intended to prepare individuals to enter rehabilitation professions and to maintain and upgrade the basic skills and knowledge of trained rehabilitation professionals. EFFECTIVE DATE: These priorities take effect on January 4, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The name, address, and telephone number of the person at the Department to contact for information on a specific priority is in the section describing the program under which the priority is being announced. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice contains one priority under the statutory authority for Rehabilitation Training, one priority under the Rehabilitation Continuing Education Programs, four priorities under the Rehabilitation Short-Term Training program, and two priorities under the Interpreter Training for Individuals Who Are Deaf and Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind program. A separate competition will be established for each priority. These programs are authorized by section 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (Act). The purpose of each program is stated separately under the title of that program. The announcement for each program also lists the name, address, and telephone number of the person who may be contacted for further information. These priorities support the National Education Goal that, by the year 2000, every adult American will be literate and will possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. The Department supports a variety of training activities in vocational rehabilitation and training that enhance the knowledge and skills of personnel. On September 6, 1994, the Secretary published a notice of proposed priorities for these programs in the Federal Register (59 FR 46118). Note: This notice of final priorities does not solicit applications. In any year in which the Secretary chooses to use a priority, the Secretary invites applications through a notice in the Federal Register and designates that priority as absolute or competitive preference or invitational. The effect of each type of priority is explained in the notice of proposed priorities and in 34 CFR 75.105.
