FR940405-2-00151 FR940405-2-00064 The proposal eliminates references in the ITS Plan to line costs and line sharing. Because of technological advances, references to line costs and line sharing are no longer applicable. The ITS Plan will continue to delineate development and production costs. The proposal amends the ITS Plan's audit provision to require a biennial rather than an annual audit of expenses, allocations, and computations, by an independent public accountant. The proposal requires an internal audit to review all expenses, allocations, and computations by ITS for those years when an independent audit is not conducted. The proposal provides other technical amendments to the ITS Plan. The proposal changes all references to the MSE to CHX; and would correct the addresses of the CHX, CSE, and PSE. The Commission finds that approval of the amendment is consistent with the Act, in particular, with sections 11A(a)(1) (C)(ii) and (D) which provide for fair competition among the ITS participants and their members, and the linking of all markets for qualified securities through communications and data processing facilities which foster efficiency, enhance competition, increase the information available to brokers, dealers, and investors, facilitate the offsetting of investors' orders, and contribute to the best execution of such orders. The Commission also finds the amendment consistent with Rule 11Aa3&hyph;2(c)(2) which requires the Commission to determine that the amendment is necessary and appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, to remove impediments to, and perfect the mechanisms of, a national market system or otherwise in furtherance of the purpose of the Act. The proposal provides for the use of a back-up facility in the event the ITS system becomes inoperable, and enhances order routing and execution of communications between the Amex and the other ITS participants. This will improve the efficiency and reliability of ITS, especially during periods of high trading volume. 3 The proposal provides additional, technical amendments to the ITS Plan consistent with ITS's purpose: To facilitate intermarket trading in exchange-listed equity securities. 3 See Division of Market Regulation, Commission, Market 2000, An Examination of Current Equity Market Developments, (January 1994), Appendix II. For the foregoing reasons, the Commission finds that the ITS amendment is consistent with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the ITS and, in particular, Sections 11A(a)(1) (C)(ii) and (D) of the Act and Rule 11Aa3&hyph;2(c)(2). It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 11A(a)(3)(B) of the Act, that the amendment be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(29). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8081 Filed 4&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
