FR940217-1-00112 FR940217-1-00014 31. Section 668.116 is amended by revising paragraphs (b), (d), (e)(1), (f), and (g) to read as follows: ยง668.116 Hearing. * * * * * (b) The hearing process consists of the submission of written briefs to the hearing official by the institution or third-party servicer, as applicable, and by the designated department official, unless the hearing official determines, under paragraph (g) of this section, that an oral hearing is also necessary. * * * * * (d) An institution or third-party servicer requesting review of the final audit determination or final program review determination issued by the designated department official shall have the burden of proving the following matters, as applicable: (1) That expenditures questioned or disallowed were proper. (2) That the institution or servicer complied with program requirements. (e)(1) A party may submit as evidence to the hearing official only materials within one or more of the following categories: (i) Department of Education audit reports and audit work papers for audits performed by the department's Office of Inspector General. (ii) In the case of an institution, institutional audit work papers, records, and other materials, if the institution provided those work papers, records, or materials to the department no later than the date by which the institution was required to file its request for review in accordance with ยง668.113. (iii) In the case of a third-party servicer, the servicer's audit work papers and the records and other materials of the servicer or any institution that contracts with the servicer, if the servicer provided those work papers, records, or materials to the Department of Education no later than the date that the servicer was required to file the request for review under ยง668.113. (iv) Department of Education program review reports and work papers for program reviews. (v) Institutional or servicer records and other materials (including records and other materials of any institution that contracts with the servicer) provided to the Department of Education in response to a program review, if the records or materials were provided to the Department of Education by the institution or servicer no later than the date by which the institution or servicer was required to file its request for review in accordance with ยง668.113. (vi) Other Department of Education records and materials if the records and materials were provided to the hearing official no later than 3 days after the institution's or servicer's filing of its request for review. * * * * * (f) The hearing official accepts only evidence that is both admissible and timely under the terms of paragraph (e) of this section, and relevant and material to the appeal. Examples of evidence that shall be deemed irrelevant and immaterial except upon a clear showing of probative value respecting the matters described in paragraph (d) of this section include_ (1) Evidence relating to a period of time other than the period of time covered by the audit or program review; (2) Evidence relating to an audit or program review of an institution or third-party servicer other than the institution or servicer bringing the appeal, or the resolution thereof; and (3) Evidence relating to the current practice of the institution or servicer bringing the appeal in the program areas at issue in the appeal. (g)(1) The hearing official may schedule an oral argument if he or she determines that an oral argument is necessary to clarify the issues and the positions of the parties as presented in the parties' written submissions. (2) In the event that an oral argument is conducted, the designated department official makes a transcribed record of the proceedings and makes that record available to the institution or servicer and any institution that contracts with the servicer upon the institution's or servicer's request and upon its payment of a fee consistent with that prescribed under the Department of Education Freedom of Information Act regulations (34 CFR Part 5). * * * * *
