FR940804-2-00148 FR940804-2-00083 [Release No. 34&hyph;34458; File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;9] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board Relating to Reports of Sales or Purchases, and Procedures for Reporting Inter-dealer Transactions Pursuant to Rule G&hyph;14 July 28, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on June 20, 1994, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (``Board'' or ``MSRB'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') a proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;9). The proposed rule change is described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the Board. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Board is filing a proposal to amend Board rule G&hyph;14, concerning reports of sales or purchases, and procedures for reporting inter-dealer transactions (hereafter collectively referred to as ``the proposed rule change''). 1 The proposed rule change states that it is the duty of brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers to report transactions in municipal securities to the Board or its designee, and describes procedures for reporting. 1 The Commission notes that the MSRB intends to enact the proposed rule change, in its entirely, as a temporary pilot program to be in place for a minimum of one year. Telephone conversation between Larry M. Lawrence, Policy and Technology Advisor, MSRB, and Betsy Prout, Staff Attorney, Commission, on July 27, 1994. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Board included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The texts of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The Board has prepared summaries, set forth in Section (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (a) Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule change is to achieve a certain degree of transparency in the municipal securities market in a cost-effective manner by collecting and disseminating information on inter-dealer transactions. Under the proposed rule change, aggregate data about market activity and certain volume and price information about frequently traded securities would be disseminated to promote investor confidence in the market and its pricing mechanisms. In addition, all transaction information collected would be made available to regulatory agencies responsible for enforcement of Board rules as a means to assist in the inspection for compliance with, and the enforcement of, Board rules. The proposed rule change is a first step to increase transparency in the municipal securities market. After gaining experience with the collection and dissemination of inter-dealer transactions, the Board's future steps would include adding institutional and retail customer information, and moving toward the ultimate goal of making available transaction information that is both comprehensive and contemporaneous. Background. The municipal securities market has grown dramatically in recent years. At the same time, retail investors have entered the market in increasing numbers. These factors have increased the need for access to information on municipal securities trading in the market, including information which may help to establish more accurate valuation of individual municipal securities. 2 Recognizing this need, the Board has adopted long-term goals and priorities for action, among which is the goal of providing market participants with more information about the value of securities. 3 2 For a more general discussion of the evolution of the municipal securities market, see MSRB, Report of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board on Regulation of the Municipal Securities Market (September 1993), at 19&hyph;27. 3 See, e.g., ``From the Chairman,'' MSRB Reports, Vol. 8, No. 5 (December 1988), at 2. Similarly, the staff of the Division of Market Regulation of the Commission has stated: The Staff believes that the degree of transparency in the municipal securities market is not adequate, and should be increased to better inform investors in their dealings with broker-dealers and to make the market more efficient. 4 4 SEC, Division of Market Regulation, Staff Report on the Municipal Securities Market (September 1993) (``Staff Report''), at 36.
