FR941103-0-00093 FR941103-0-00013 (6) The dealer must include individual swordfish tag numbers along with the associated individual carcass weights of swordfish received under the donation program in the twice-monthly reports required by §630.5(b). (d) Second Harvest. Second Harvest, or its affiliates or agents, may receive and distribute swordfish from the North Atlantic swordfish stock that are in excess of the trip allowance for undersized swordfish specified in §630.23(b) under the following terms and conditions. Possession of a swordfish other than in accordance with these terms and conditions constitutes a violation of the prohibition specified in §620.7(a) of this chapter. (1) Second Harvest may receive swordfish that are in excess of the trip allowance for undersized swordfish only from a dealer who has been selected by the Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division, to participate in the donation program. (2) Second Harvest may receive only undersized swordfish with donation tags attached. (3) Upon receiving swordfish under the donation program, Second Harvest must provide a bill of lading receipt that shows, or has affixed, individual carcass weights and associated tag numbers of swordfish received, the names and permit number(s) of the vessel(s) that harvested the swordfish, the name and permit number of the dealer, and the date of receipt. Such receipt must be distributed as follows: Original and one copy (for the vessel owner or operator) to the dealer, one copy to the Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division, and one copy retained by Second Harvest to accompany the carcass shipment until it is processed. (4) All tags received by Second Harvest affiliates or agents must be returned to Second Harvest and accounted for by Second Harvest at the request of any authorized officer, or Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division. (5) Second Harvest, its affiliates or agents, may not sell, trade, or barter, or attempt to sell, trade, or barter, any swordfish or any part thereof that is retained under the donation program of this subpart. (e) Duration of selection. A selection letter remains valid for the period specified therein, provided the permit issued to the participating vessel or dealer under §630.4 remains valid, except that such selection letter may be revoked by the Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division_ (1) Upon the request of the participating vessel owner or dealer; (2) Upon issuance of a Notice of Violation and Assessment against the participating vessel owner or dealer for a violation of the Magnuson Act (16 U.S.C. 1802 et seq. ), the Lacey Act (16 U.S.C. 3371 et seq. ), or the ATCA (16 U.S.C. 971 et seq. ); or (3) For actions not consistent with the requirements of the pilot program of this subpart. (f) Transfer. A selection letter issued under this subpart is not transferable or assignable. Such letter is valid only for the vessel or dealer for which it was issued. §630.52 Termination. Upon a finding by the Assistant Administrator that the intended purposes of the program are not being achieved, or that the program is no longer in conformance with the recommendations of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas, the Assistant Administrator may terminate the program by notification in the Federal Register . [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27188 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;W
