FR940128-1-00023 FR940128-1-00006 B. Preparing for HACCP FDA recognizes that this proposal involves a significant departure from current practices for most processors and importers and intends to work cooperatively with the industry in the establishment of this proposed system. The agency's experiences under both its HACCP-based low acid canned food regulations and the HACCP-based pilot programs for seafood that it conducted with NOAA in 1991 demonstrate the need for cooperation and technical support between the agency and the industry in order to establish HACCP and to make it work. The FDA/NOAA joint pilot programs involved the development and implementation of HACCP-based systems by seafood processors and HACCP-based inspections by the two agencies. Even though the FDA/NOAA pilots involved highly motivated seafood firms that volunteered to adopt HACCP, the firms found it difficult initially to identify hazards and critical control points associated with their own products and processes (Ref. 40). As both the agencies and the firms discovered, HACCP involved new ways of thinking and behaving that were not readily understood or implemented. A considerable amount of consultation and assistance between the firms and the Government proved to be extremely helpful. This experience reinforces the view that regulations that impose a HACCP-based system are needed for the seafood industry and thus represents a third factor supporting the appropriateness of this proposal. The systematic kind of preventive thinking that HACCP requires is not universal, but it can be adopted. Regulations will ensure that processors and importers do so. Significantly, once participants in the pilot programs made the transition to HACCP, they were able to identify benefits from using HACCP to themselves and to consumers in terms of product safety and quality, as well as plant sanitation and organization (Ref. 40). VI. International Trade Although not a public health issue, international trade is also a major consideration in determining the advisability and benefits of a new system of seafood regulation and therefore will be addressed here. It is estimated that close to 40 percent of the fish and shellfish harvested from the world's oceans, lakes, and other bodies of water entered international trade in 1991 (Ref. 41). This movement reflects the need to match supplies with demand. Nations often have species in their waters for which there is little or no demand among their consumers, while consumers in other countries may prefer these species. In addition, sometimes foreign markets are willing to pay higher prices than domestic markets. Participation in the international trade in seafood is critical to U.S. consumers and industry. Approximately 55 percent of the U.S. supply of edible seafood is imported. In 1991, 3,014,819,000 pounds were imported, worth $5,617,887,000, making the United States the world's second largest seafood importing nation (Ref. 42).
