FR940228-1-00055 FR940228-1-00007 (b) Content of report. The PRO report must include the following information_ (1) Identification of the practitioner or other person and, when applicable, the name of the director, administrator or owner of the entity involved; (2) The type of health care services involved; (3) A description of each failure to comply with an obligation, including specific dates, places, circumstances and other relevant facts; (4) Pertinent documentary evidence; (5) Copies of written correspondence, including reports of conversations with the practitioner or other person regarding the violation and, if applicable, a copy of the verbatim transcript of the meeting with the practitioner or other person; (6) The PRO's determination that an obligation under section 1156(a) of the Act has been violated and that the violation is substantial and has occurred in a substantial number of cases or is gross and flagrant; (7) A case-by-case analysis and evaluation of any additional information provided by the practitioner or other person in response to the PRO's initial determination; (8) A copy of the corrective action plan that was developed and documentation of the results of such plan or an explanation of why such a corrective action plan was not appropriate. Any violations identified during the corrective action plan will be used to support the PRO's recommendation regarding inability or unwillingness in accordance with ยง1004.80(c)(6) and not as a basis for the sanction; (9) The number of admissions by the practitioner or other person reviewed by the PRO during the period in which the violation(s) were identified; (10) The professional qualifications of the PRO's reviewers; and (11) The PRO's sanction recommendation. (c) PRO recommendation. The PRO must specify in its report_ (1) The sanction recommended; (2) The amount of the monetary penalty recommended, if applicable; (3) The period of exclusion recommended, if applicable; (4) The availability of alternative sources of services in the community with supporting information; (5) The county or counties in which the practitioner or other person furnishes services; and (6) A recommendation with supporting documentation as to whether the practitioner or other person is unable or unwilling substantially to comply with the obligation that was violated and the basis for that recommendation. ยง1004.90 Basis for recommended sanction. The PRO's specific recommendation must be based on documentation provided to the OIG showing its consideration of_ (a) The type of offense involved; (b) The severity of the offense; (c) The deterrent value; (d) The practitioner's or other person's previous sanction record; (e) The availability of alternative sources of services in the community; and (f) Any other factors that the PRO considers relevant, such as the duration of the problem. Subpart D_OIG Responsibilities ยง1004.100 Acknowledgement and review of report. (a) Acknowledgement. The OIG will inform the PRO of the date it received the PRO's report and recommendation. (b) Review. The OIG will review the PRO report and recommendation to determine whether_ (1) The PRO has followed the regulatory requirements of part 1004; (2) A violation has occurred; and (3) The practitioner or other person has demonstrated an unwillingness or lack of ability substantially to comply with an obligation. (c) Rejection of the PRO recommendation. If the OIG decides that a sanction is not warranted, it will notify the PRO that recommended the sanction, the affected practitioner or other person, and the licensing board informed by the PRO of the sanction recommendation that the recommendation is rejected.
