FR940919-2-00091 FR940919-2-00046 In addition to comprehensive program information, the packets will describe the types of information that a claimant will need to have readily available when the individual files a claim. It will also contain two basic forms: The first, designed for completion by the claimant, will include general identifying information and will serve as the claimant's starter application for benefits; the second, designed for completion by the treating source(s), will request specific medical information about a claimant's alleged impairments. SSA will encourage claimants who are able to do so to review the information in the packet and have the basic forms completed prior to telephoning or visiting an SSA office to apply for disability benefits. Claimants will be encouraged to immediately submit starter applications to protect the filing dates for benefits. The starter application will serve as a claim for both programs, but it will include a disclaimer should the claimant want to preclude filing for benefits based on need ( i.e., SSI). Claimants Will Choose Mode of Entry The disability claim entry process will be multi-faceted, allowing claimants and third parties and representatives who assist them the maximum flexibility in deciding how they will participate in the process. Claimants may choose to enter the disability claim process by telephoning the SSA toll-free number, electronically, by mail, or by telephoning or visiting a local office. Claimants may also rely on third parties to provide them assistance in dealing with SSA. Finally, claimants may formally appoint representatives to act on their behalf in dealing with SSA. SSA field managers will also have the flexibility to tailor the various service options to their local conditions, considering the needs of client populations, individual claimants, and the availability of third parties who are capable of contributing to the application process. If an individual submits a starter application by mail or electronically, SSA will contact the claimant to schedule an appointment for a claim intake interview or, at the claimant's option, conduct an immediate intake interview by telephone. If an individual telephones SSA to inquire about disability benefits, the SSA contact will explain the requirements of the disability program, including the SSA definition of disability, and provide a general explanation of evidence requirements. The SSA contact will determine whether the individual has the disability information packet, and mail it or advise the claimant regarding possible means of electronic access. If an individual indicates a desire to file a claim at that time, the SSA contact will complete the starter application available on-line as part of the automated claim processing system to protect the claimant's filing date and schedule an appointment for a claim intake interview. The interview may be in person or by telephone at the claimant's option. If the individual has no medical treating sources, the SSA contact will annotate this information within the on-line claim record. If a claimant visits an SSA office, the SSA contact will refer the claimant for an immediate claim intake interview or, at the claimant's option, complete the starter application and schedule a future appointment for an intake interview. In all cases, appointments for claim intake interviews will be made available within a reasonable time period, generally 3 to 5 working days, but no later than two weeks. Local management will determine how to best accommodate claimants' needs in learning about the disability process and completing a claim intake interview. Depending on an individual's circumstances, such accommodation may involve: Referral to the nearest location for obtaining a disability information packet which can then be mailed in; an immediate telephone or in-person interview; arranging for an on-site visit from an SSA representative; or referral to appropriate third parties who can provide assistance. Additionally, depending on the nature of the individual's disability, SSA may encourage the individual to file in person when it appears that a face-to-face interview will assist in the proper claim intake and development; however, face- to-face interviews will not be required in every claim. Face-to-face interviews, when considered necessary by either the claimant or SSA, can also be accomplished via videoconferencing. In any case, SSA will make every reasonable effort to meet the needs of the claimant in completing the application process. Every effort will be made to provide services to members of the public who have limited knowledge of English. Similarly, local managers will modify the claim entry and intake process to provide maximum flexibility for representatives who act on behalf of claimants or third parties who can assist claimants in completing the application process. Such accommodations may include, but are not limited to: (1) Using automated means to interact with SSA to protect a claimant's date of filing (e.g., telephone, fax, or E-mail); (2) providing appointment slots for third parties to accompany claimants to interviews or to provide assistance during telephone claims on a claimant's behalf; (3) out-stationing SSA personnel at a third-party location to obtain applications and/or medical evidence, when appropriate; and (4) providing ``open appointment'' scheduling to permit claimants to contact SSA within a flexible band of time. Interested third parties will be encouraged to participate in the development of claims. Local managers will also conduct outreach efforts that are designed to meet the needs of hard-to-reach populations or assist those individuals unable to access the SSA claim process without considerable intervention. As appropriate, outreach efforts may be facilitated through videoconferencing, teleconferencing or other electronic methods of obtaining and processing claim information to provide timely service despite claimants' geographic or social isolation. Disability Claim Manager A disability claim manager will have responsibility for the complete processing of an initial disability claim. The disability claim manager will be a highly-trained individual who is well-versed in both the medical and nonmedical aspects of the disability programs and has the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities to conduct personal interviews, develop evidentiary records, and adjudicate disability claims to payment. However, the disability claim manager will also be able to call on other SSA resources, including medical and technical support personnel, to provide advice and assistance in the claim process. Disability claim managers will rely on an automated claim processing system that will permit them to: Gather and store claim information; develop both medical and nonmedical evidence; share necessary facts in a claim with medical consultants and specialists in nonmedical or technical issues; analyze evidence and prepare well-rationalized decisions on both medical and nonmedical issues; and produce clear and understandable notices that accurately convey all necessary information to claimants. In making decisions, disability claim managers will use a simplified decision methodology that effectively streamlines evidence collection, and will rely on standards for decisionmaking that are used at all levels of the process. The disability claim manager will be the focal point for claimant contacts throughout the claim intake and adjudication process. The disability claim manager will explain the disability programs to the claimant, including the definition of disability and how SSA determines if a claimant meets disability requirements. The disability claim manager will also convey what the claimant will be asked to do throughout the process; what the claimant may expect from SSA during this process, including anticipated timeframes for decision; and how the claimant can interact with the disability claim manager to obtain more information or assistance. The disability claim manager will advise the claimant regarding the right to representation and provide the appropriate referral sources for representation. The disability claim manager will also advise the claimant regarding community resources, including the names of organizations that could help the claimant pursue the claim. The goal will be to give the claimant access to the decisionmaker and allow for ongoing, meaningful dialogue between the claimant and the disability claim manager.
