FR941110-1-00095 FR941110-1-00011 Foreign state not Party to or Non-Party means a foreign state that has not deposited instruments of ratification, acceptance, or other form of approval with the Directorate of the United Nations Secretariat, evidencing the foreign state's ratification of the provisions of the 1987 Montreal Protocol, the London Amendments, or of the Copenhagen Amendments, as specified. Heel means the amount of a controlled substance that remains in a container after it is discharged or off-loaded (that is no more than ten percent of the volume of the container) and that the person owning or operating the container certifies will remain in the container and be included in a future shipment or recovered and banked for future recycling, reclamation, transformation, destruction or for non-emissive purposes. Import means to land on, bring into, or introduce into, or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce into any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States whether or not such landing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation within the meaning of the customs laws of the United States, with the following exemptions: (1) Off-loading used or excess controlled substances or controlled products from a ship during servicing, (2) Bringing controlled substances into the U.S. from Mexico where the controlled substance had been admitted into Mexico in bond and was of U.S. origin; and (3) Bringing a controlled product into the U.S. when transported in a consignment of personal or household effects or in a similar non-commercial situation normally exempted from U.S. Customs attention. Importer means any person who imports a controlled substance or a controlled product into the United States. ``Importer'' includes the person primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the merchandise or an authorized agent acting on his or her behalf. The term also includes, as appropriate: (1) The consignee; (2) The importer of record; (3) The actual owner; or (4) The transferee, if the right to draw merchandise in a bonded warehouse has been transferred. London Amendments means the Montreal Protocol, as amended at the Second Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol in London in 1990. Montreal Protocol means the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, a protocol to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, including adjustments adopted by the Parties thereto and amendments that have entered into force. 1987 Montreal Protocol means the Montreal Protocol, as originally adopted by the Parties in 1987. Nations complying with, but not joining, the Protocol means any nation listed in appendix C, Annex 2, to this subpart. Party means any foreign state that is listed in appendix C to this subpart (pursuant to instruments of ratification, acceptance, or approval deposited with the Depositary of the United Nations Secretariat), as having ratified the specified control measure in effect under the Montreal Protocol. Thus, for purposes of the trade bans specified in §82.4(h)(2) pursuant to the London Amendments, only those foreign states that are listed in appendix C to this subpart as having ratified both the 1987 Montreal Protocol and the London Amendments shall be deemed to be Parties. Person means any individual or legal entity, including an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, political subdivision of a state, Indian tribe; any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States; and any officer, agent, or employee thereof. Plant means one or more facilities at the same location owned by or under common control of the same person. Production means the manufacture of a controlled substance from any raw material or feedstock chemical, but does not include: (1) The manufacture of a controlled substance that is subsequently transformed; (2) The reuse or recycling of a controlled substance; (3) Amounts that are destroyed by the approved technologies; or (4) Amounts that are spilled or vented unintentionally. Production allowances means the privileges granted by this subpart to produce controlled substances; however, production allowances may be used to produce controlled substances only in conjunction with consumption allowances. A person's production allowances are the total of the allowances he obtains under §82.7 and §82.5 of this subpart and §82.9 of this subpart, and as may be modified under §82.12 of this subpart (transfer of allowances). Transform means to use and entirely consume (except for trace quantities) a controlled substance in the manufacture of other chemicals for commercial purposes. Transformation Credits means those privileges that may be obtained under §82.9 of this subpart to produce or import controlled substances. Transhipment means the continuous shipment of a controlled substance from a foreign state of origin through the United States, its territories, or foreign trade zones, including possible repackaging, to a second foreign state of final destination, as long as the shipment does not enter into United States jurisdiction. Unexpended consumption allowances means consumption allowances that have not been used. At any time in any control period a person's unexpended consumption allowances are the total of the level of consumption allowances the person has authorization under this subpart to hold at that time for that control period, minus the level of controlled substances that the person has produced or imported (not including transhipments and used controlled substances) in that control period until that time.
