FR940303-2-00011 FR940303-2-00008 Soil Conservation Service East Side Green River, P&hyph;1 Channel: SW Grady Way to SW 16th, King County, WA; Finding of No Significant Impact AGENCY: Soil Conservation Service, USA. ACTION: Notice of finding of no significant impact. SUMMARY: Pursuant to section 102(2) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations (40 CFR part 1500); and the Soil Conservation Service Regulations (7 CFR part 650); the Soil Conservation Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, gives notice that an environmental impact statement is not being prepared for the East Side Green River, P&hyph;1 Channel: SW Grady Way to SW 16th St. King County, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lynn A. Brown, State Conservationist, Soil Conservation Service, Rock Pointe Tower West 316 Boone Avenue, suite 450, Spokane, Washington 99201, telephone (509) 353&hyph;2337. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The environmental assessment of this federally assisted action indicates that the project will not cause significant local, regional, or national impacts on the environment. As a result of these findings, Lynn A. Brown, State Conservationist, has determined that the preparation and review of an environmental impact statement is not needed for this project. The project purposes are watershed protection and flood prevention. The planned works of improvement include the construction of approximately 400 feet of channel that connects previously installed channels. The proposed project is part of the East Side Green River Watershed Project started in 1966. The P&hyph;1 connecting channel is part of the remaining segments to be installed according to the plan. The proposed project will have a low flow channel in the main channel. The low flow channel will have a 12-foot bottom width and the main channel, including the low flow channel, will be 65 feet wide. This proposed channel will be constructed adjacent to the existing natural drainage way. The natural drainage way will be managed as a wetland and wildlife area. It will share some of the flows with the proposed channel during high runoff periods. Trees, scrubs, and grass will be established in the wetland area and all disturbed areas of the proposed channel. These plantings will provide food and cover for small birds and mammals in addition to erosion control and bank stabilization. The fish habitat components consist of placing several groups of boulders and root wads from trees to provide habitat for resting areas, hiding areas, and will diversify the path of the water flow. The Notice of a Finding Of No Significant Impact (FONSI) has been forwarded to the Environmental Protection Agency and to various Federal, State, and local agencies and interested parties. A limited number of copies of the FONSI are available to fill single copy requests at the above address. Basic data developed during the environmental assessment are on file and may be reviewed by contacting Frank R. Easter, Assistant State Conservationist (Programs). No administrative action on implementation of the proposal will be taken until 30 days after the date of this publication in the Federal Register. (This activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.904, Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention, and is subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials.) Dated: February 22, 1994. Lynn A. Brown, State Conservationist. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4790 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;16&hyph;M
