FR940707-2-00187 FR940707-2-00099 Compliance with the criteria will be tracked through the Nasdaq system, which will enable market makers to review their status in each criterion in each stock, and will also provide members with notice of their compliance with the standards at set intervals. 19 The NASD will monitor market makers for compliance with the primary market maker standards on a monthly review period. A market maker failing to satisfy the qualification criteria remains a market maker in the security, 20 but is subject to the short sale limitations. The NASD will establish review procedures for market makers seeking reconsideration of their failure to satisfy the primary market maker standards. Because the primary market maker standards are objective, however, the NASD will limit requests for reconsideration to consideration of system failures, excused withdrawals, or related activity in derivative or convertible securities or derivative pricing mechanisms, as seen with foreign securities or ADRs, that may affect a market maker's compliance with the criteria. 19 A market maker satisfying the criteria will be designated as a primary market maker in the Nasdaq system, with ``primary'' or ``P'' designation displayed on the Nasdaq Workstation screen. In addition, to assist market participants' compliance with the proposed rule, indication of a market maker's primary market maker designation will be available through vendor services. 20 The requirements for registration as a Nasdaq market maker are set forth in the NASD Manual. NASD Manual, Schedules to the By-Laws, Schedule D, Part V, Sec. 1, (CCH) ¶ 1818. These requirements are not affected by the NASD's bid-test proposal. 2. The Options Market Maker Exemption The rule also provides an exemption for certain transactions by options market makers registered as qualified options market makers in stock options or qualified stock index options. With certain restrictions, the exemption permits members to execute short sales for the account of qualified options market makers that would otherwise be prohibited by the rule. To be eligible for the exemptions, the short sale must satisfy the criteria for an ``exempt hedge transaction'' and the market maker must be designated a qualified options market maker. The rule provides separate definitions of ``exempt hedge transaction'' for market making in stock options and stock index options. For stock options, the term means a short sale of an underlying security to hedge an existing offsetting options position or an offsetting options position that was created ``contemporaneous with the short sale.'' 21 For stock index options, an exempt hedge transaction means a short sale to hedge an existing offsetting stock index options position or an offsetting stock index options position that was created contemporaneously with the short sale, provided that: (a) The security sold short must be a component security of the index underlying such index option; (b) the index underlying such offsetting index options position must be a ``qualified stock index''; 22 and (c) the dollar value of all exempt short sales effected to hedge the offsetting stock index options position does not exceed the aggregate current index value of the offsetting options position. 21 ``Contemporaneous with the short sale'' includes transactions occurring simultaneously as well as transactions occurring within the same brief period of time. Thus, the short sale can precede, as well as follow, the option transaction. 22 The rule defines a ``qualified stock index'' as a stock index that includes one or more Nasdaq National Market securities, provided that more than 10% of the weight of the index is accounted for by Nasdaq National Market securities. The rule further provides that a qualified stock index shall be reviewed by the NASD as of the end of each calendar quarter, and the index shall cease to qualify if the value of the index represented by one or more Nasdaq National Market securities is less than 8% at the end of any subsequent calendar quarter. To be designated a qualified options market maker, the market maker must have received an appointment as such pursuant to the rules of a ``qualified options exchange.'' 23 In addition, when establishing the short position, the options market maker must receive, or be eligible to receive, good-faith margin pursuant to Section 220.12 of Regulation T under the Act. 23 A ``qualified options exchange'' is a national securities exchange with Commission approved rules and procedures governing: (1) The designation of options market makers as qualified options market makers; (2) the surveillance of its market makers' utilization of the exemption; and (3) authorization of the NASD to limit the designation of a qualified options market maker where the options exchange finds substantial, willful, or continuing violations of the rule. See e.g., File Nos. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;10, SR-Phlx-94&hyph;9, SR-Amex-94&hyph;21 and SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;16 filed with the Commission on March 31, 1994, June 1, 1994, June 13, 1994 and June 16, 1994, respectively. The NYSE has informed the Commission that it sent its filing on June 27, 1994 under the file number SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;22.
