FR940512-1-00007 FR940512-1-00001 (j) The authority head shall decide expeditiously whether extraordinary circumstances excuse the defendant's failure to file a timely answer based solely on the record before the ALJ. (k) If the authority head decides that extraordinary circumstances excused the defendant's failure to file a timely answer, the authority head shall remand the case to the ALJ with instructions to grant the defendant an opportunity to answer. (l) If the authority head decides that the defendant's failure to file a timely answer is not excused, the authority head shall reinstate the initial decision of the ALJ, which shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the authority head issues such decision. §185.111 Referral of complaint and answer to the ALJ. Upon receipt of an answer, the reviewing official shall file the complaint and answer with the ALJ. §185.112 Notice of hearing. (a) When the ALJ receives the complaint and answer, the ALJ shall promptly serve a notice of hearing upon the defendant in the manner prescribed by §185.108. At the same time, the ALJ shall send a copy of such notice to the reviewing official or his or her designee. (b) Such notice shall include: (1) The tentative time and place, and the nature of the hearing; (2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held; (3) The matters of fact and law to be asserted; (4) A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing; (5) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the Government and of the defendant, if any; and (6) Such other matters as the ALJ deems appropriate. §185.113 Location of hearing. (a) The hearing may be held: (1) In any judicial district of the United States in which the defendant resides or transacts business; (2) In any judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement in issue was made; or (3) In such other place as may be agreed upon by the parties and the ALJ. (b) Each party shall have the opportunity to present argument with respect to the location of the hearing. (c) The hearing shall be held at the place and at the time ordered by the ALJ. §185.114 Parties to the hearing. (a) The parties to the hearing shall be the defendant and OPM. (b) Except where the authority head designates another representative, OPM shall be represented by the staff of the Office of the General Counsel. (c) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3730(c)(5), a private plaintiff under the False Claims Act may participate in these proceedings to the extent authorized by the provisions of that Act. §185.115 Separation of functions. (a) The investigating official, the reviewing official, and any employee or agent of the authority who takes part in investigating, preparing, or presenting a particular case may not, in such case or a factually related case: (1) Participate in the hearing as the ALJ; (2) Participate or advise in the review of the initial decision by the authority head; or (3) Make the collection of penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806. (b) The ALJ shall not be responsible to or subject to the supervision or direction of the investigating official or the reviewing official. §185.116 Ex parte contacts. No party or person (except employees of the ALJ's office) shall communicate in any way with the ALJ on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
