FR941004-2-00023 FR941004-2-00009 Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether BKL's sales for export to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (``USP'') to the foreign market value (``FMV''), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. BKL's sales for export to the Untied States and in its home market involved both identical and similar merchandise. For those U.S. sales compared to a sale of similar merchandise in the home market, we made an adjustment, pursuant to 19 CFR 353.57, for physical differences in merchandise. For certain products, respondent did not provide the information necessary to make a comparison with the most similar merchandise based on the model-matching criteria contained in Appendix V. As those sales accounted for a very small percentage of total sales of subject merchandise, they have been disregarded in calculating our preliminary margin. United States Price We based USP on purchase price, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, where the subject merchandise was sold to an unrelated purchaser in the United States before importation and where the use of exporter's sales price (``ESP'') methodology was not otherwise indicated. We calculated purchase price based on packed, c.i.f. import prices to an unrelated customer in the United States. We made deductions to the U.S. price, where appropriate, for foreign brokerage, foreign inland freight, ocean freight and marine insurance, U.S. duty and brokerage. Where sales to the first unrelated purchaser took place after importation of the subject merchandise into the United States, we based USP on ESP, in accordance with section 772(c) of the Act. Almost all of the ESP sales of subject merchandise were reported as further manufactured in the United States. For ESP sales we made deductions, where appropriate, for discounts, foreign brokerage, foreign inland freight, ocean freight, marine insurance, U.S. duty, U.S. inland freight, and U.S. brokerage and handling. In addition, for ESP sales only, we deducted credit expense, indirect selling expense, inventory carrying costs, and commissions to an unrelated agent. For certain ESP sales where respondent did not provide paydates, we used the average number of credit days in calculating credit expense. We made an adjustment to U.S. price for value-added tax (``VAT'') assessed on comparison sales in the U.K. in accordance with our practice, pursuant to the Court of International Trade (``CIT'') decision in Federal-Mogul, et al. v. United States , 834 F. Supp. 1391. See Preliminary Antidumping Duty Determination: Color Negative Photographic Paper and Chemical Components from Japan (59 FR 16177, 16179, April 6, 1994), for an explanation of this methodology. For pipe fittings that were further manufactured in the United States, we deducted all value added in the United States, pursuant to section 772(e)(3) of the Act. The value added consists of the cost of fabrication and general expenses associated with the further manufacturing operations, as well as a proportional amount of profit or loss attributable to the further manufacture. We calculated profit or loss by deducting from the sales price of the further manufactured merchandise the related production costs and selling expense incurred by the company in both the U.K. and the United States. We then allocated total profit or loss proportionately to all components of cost. We included only the profit or loss allocated to the further manufacturing portion of total cost in our calculation of value added. Additionally, we adjusted general and administrative (G&A) expenses from an allocation based on weight to an allocation based on cost of sales.
