FR940317-1-00073 FR940317-1-00013 (d) Where a payment has been made to the claimant by his or her insurers or other subrogee, or under workmen's compensation insurance coverage if subrogated interests are allowable, the award based on total damages will be apportioned in relation to their separate interests (§536.20). (e) After deduction of permissible collateral and noncollateral sources, also deduct that portion of the loss or damage believed to have been caused by the negligence of the claimant, third parties whose negligence can be imputed to the claimant, or joint tortfeasors who are liable for their share of the negligence (for example, where some form of the Uniform Contribution Among Joint Tortfeasors Act has been passed). §536.29 Claims with more than one potential source of recovery. (a) The Government seeks to avoid multiple recovery (that is, claimants seeking recovery from more than one potential source) and to minimize the award it must make. The claims investigation should therefore identify other parties potentially liable to the claimant and/or their insurance carriers; indicate the status of any claims made or include a statement that none has been made so that it can be assured there is only one recovery and the Government does not pay a disproportionate share. Where no claim has been made by the claimant against others potentially liable, if applicable State law grants the Government the right to indemnity or contribution, and it is felt the Government may be entitled to either under the facts developed by the claims investigation, the claims officer or attorney should formally notify the other parties of their potential liability, the Government's willingness to share information, and its expectation of shared responsibility for any settlement. Furthermore, the claimant may be receiving or entitled to receive benefits from collateral and non-collateral sources (§536.28), which can be deducted from the total loss or damage. Accordingly, a careful review must be made of applicable State laws regarding joint and several liability, indemnity, contribution, comparative negligence, and the collateral source doctrine. (b) If a demand by a claimant or an inquiry by a potential claimant is directed solely to the Army, where it appears that the responsible Army employee may have applicable insurance coverage, the employee should be queried as to whether he or she has liability insurance. (1) If so, determine if his or her insurer has made or will make any payment to claimant. Under applicable State laws, the United States may also be an insured entitled to coverage under the employee's liability policy. (See 16 ALR3d 1411; United States v. State Farm Mutual Ins. Co., 245 F. Supp. 58 (D. Ore. 1965.)) Therefore, where there may be applicable insurance coverage, the policy language should be reviewed, together with the rules and regulations of the State insurance regulatory body, or determine whether_ (i) The United States comes within the definition of ``insured''. (ii) The exclusion of the United States from policy coverage conforms with state laws and policy. (iii) Appropriate consideration has been given for a policy where the United States has been excluded from coverage. (2) If the employee refuses to cooperate in providing this information, he or she should be advised to comply with the notice requirements of the insurance policy and to request the insurance carrier to contact the claims officer or attorney. The case should be followed to ascertain whether the employee's insurer has made or will make any payment to the claimant before deciding whether to settle the claim against the Government. Normally, the award, if any, to the claimant will be reduced by the amount of the payment of the employee's insurance carrier. (c) If the employee is the sole target of the claim and Army claims authorities arrange to have the claim made against the Government, the employee should be required to notify his or her insurance carrier according to the policy and inform Army claims authorities of the name of the insurance carrier and details of the coverage. Except when the driver's statute is applicable, the insurance carrier is expected to participate in the negotiation of the claims settlement and to pay its fair share of any award to the claimant. (d) Where the responsible Army employee is ``on loan'' to another employer other than the United States (for example, an ROTC instructor at a civilian institution or performing duties for a foreign government), it should be determined whether there is applicable statutory or insurance coverage concerning the acts of the responsible employee and appropriate contribution or indemnification should be sought. In the case of foreign governments, applicable treaties or agreements are controlling. (e) A great many claims cognizable under the FTCA are now settled on a compromise basis. A major consideration in many such settlements is the identification of other sources of recovery. This is true in a variety of factual situations where there is a potential joint tortfeasor; for example, multi-vehicle accidents with multiple drivers and guest passengers, State or local government involvement, contractors performing non-routine tasks for the Government, medical treatment rendered to claimants by non-Government employees, or incidents caused by a member or employee of the military department of a State or Commonwealth with whom the DA does not have a cost-sharing agreement. The law of the jurisdiction regarding joint and several liability, indemnity, and contribution may permit shared financial responsibility, but even in jurisdictions that do not permit contribution, a compromise settlement can be reached with the other tortfeasor's insurance company paying a portion of the total amount of the claim against the Government. For these reasons, every effort should be made to identify the insurance of all potential tortfeasers involved and the status of any claims made, and to demand contribution or indemnity where substantial reason exists to believe that liability for the loss or damage should be shared. (f) When a claim is filed against the Government under a chapter that does not permit the payment of a subrogated interest (subparts E, J, K), it is important to ensure that full information is obtained from the claimant regarding insurance coverage since it is the legislative intent of the statutes upon which these chapters are based that insurance coverage be fully utilized before using appropriated funds to pay the claims. Settlement Procedures §536.30 Settlement. (a) General. Settlement means denial or payment of a claim in full or in part. When an approval or settlement authority determines that a claim is meritorious in an amount within his or her monetary jurisdiction, the claim will be approved in that amount under the statute determined to be proper regardless of the statutory basis asserted by the claimant. Every effort will be made to settle claims at the lowest level possible commensurate with the actual value of the claim. (b) Award of full amount claimed. If an approval or settlement authority approves a claim in full, the claim will be certified for payment to the appropriate disbursing officer. Enclosures listed in §536.35 will be forwarded with the claim. The claimant will be notified of the action taken on the claim. A settlement agreement is required prior to payment. (c) Award of less than full amount. When an approval or settlement authority determines that a claim is meritorious in part, he or she will_ (1) Notify the claimant in writing of his or her action. (2) Request the execution of a settlement agreement (in triplicate) in final and complete settlement of the claim in the reduced amount.
