FR941013-2-00146 FR941013-2-00101 Management of English Teaching Fellow Program ACTION: Notice_Request for proposals. SUMMARY: The Office of Academic Programs, English Language Programs Division, Programs Branch of the United States Information Agency's Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs announces an open competition for an assistance award. Public or private non-profit organizations meeting the provisions described in IRS regulation 501(c)(3) may apply to conduct the recruitment, placement and management of 30&hyph;40 English teaching Fellows (ETFs). The exact number of ETFs will be contingent upon the amount of cost sharing by overseas posts who wish to host a fellow and by the availability of funds. The fellows will serve as full-time teachers of English as a Foreign Language, as materials or test developers or as teacher trainers in countries around the world. Overall grant making authority for this program is contained in the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, Public Law 87&hyph;256, as amended, also known as the Fulbright-Hayes Act. The purpose of the Act is ``to enable the Government of the United States to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries .␣.␣.; to strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations .␣.␣. and thus to assist in the development of friendly, sympathetic and peaceful relations between the United States and the other countries of the world.'' The funding authority for the program cited above is provided through the Fulbright-Hayes Act. Programs and projects must conform with Agency requirements and guidelines outlined in the Application Package. USIA projects and programs are subject to the availability of funds. ANNOUNCEMENT NAME AND NUMBER: All communications with USIA concerning this announcement should refer to the above title and reference number E/ALP&hyph;95&hyph;01. DATES: Deadline for proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, D.C. time on Monday, November 21, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on November 21, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the above deadline. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The Office of Academic Programs, English Language Programs Division, E/ALP-Room 304, U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20547, telephone number 202&hyph;619&hyph;5869, fax number 202&hyph;401&hyph;1250, to request an Application Package, which includes more detailed award criteria; all application forms; and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific criteria for preparation of the proposal budget. Please specify the USIA Program Specialist Cathy Siemonh on all inquiries and correspondences. Interested applicants should read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the Office of Academic Programs, English Language Programs Division, Programs Branch or submitting their proposals. Once the RFP deadline has passed, the Office of Academic Programs, English Language Programs Division, Programs Branch may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until after the Bureau proposal review process has been completed. ADDRESSES: Applicants must follow all instructions given in the Application Package and send only complete applications to: U.S. Information Agency, Ref.: E/ALP&hyph;95&hyph;01, Office of Grants Management, E/XE, Room 336, 301 4th Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20547.
