FR941230-1-00039 FR941230-1-00004 (ii) Debt service _(A) Debt service paid from proceeds . Debt service does not include any amount paid or to be paid from sale proceeds or investment proceeds. For example, debt service does not include payments of capitalized interest funded with bond proceeds. (B) Adjustments to debt service . Debt service is adjusted to take into account payments and receipts that adjust the yield on an issue for purposes of section 148(f). For example, debt service includes fees paid for qualified guarantees under ยง1.148&hyph;4(f) and is adjusted to take into account payments and receipts on qualified hedges under ยง1.148&hyph;4(h). (iii) Computation of present value _(A) In general . Present values are determined by using the yield on the issue as the discount rate and by discounting all amounts to the issue date. For a fixed yield issue, yield is determined on the issue date and is not adjusted to take into account subsequent events. (B) Variable yield issues . The yield on a variable yield issue is determined over the term of the issue. To determine the reasonably expected yield as of any date, the issuer may assume that the future interest rate on a variable yield bond will be the then-current interest rate on the bonds determined under the formula prescribed in the bond documents. Unless a change in interest rate results in a new issuance, changes in interest rates do not constitute deliberate actions. (iv) Application to private security . For purposes of determining the present value of debt service that is secured by property, property is valued at fair market value as of the first date on which the property secures bonds of the issue. (c) Private payments _(1) In general . This paragraph (c) contains rules that apply to private payments. (2) Payments taken into account _(i) Payments for use _(A) In general. Both direct and indirect payments made by any nongovernmental person that is treated as using proceeds of the issue are taken into account as private payments to the extent allocable to the proceeds used by that person. Payments for a use of proceeds include payments (whether or not to the issuer) in respect of property financed (directly or indirectly) with those proceeds, even if not made by a private business user. Payments are not made in respect of property financed with proceeds if those payments are directly allocable to other property being directly used by the person making the payment, but only to the extent that those payments are reasonable compensation for that other use. See Example 4 and Example 5 in paragraph (g) of this section. (B) Payments not to exceed use . Payments by a person for a use of proceeds are allocable to the payment of the debt service on the proceeds used by that person (or with respect to property used by that person) to the extent that the present value of those payments does not exceed the present value of the debt service on those proceeds. Thus, if 7 percent of the proceeds of an issue is used by a person, payments by that person are taken into account as private payments only to the extent that the present value of those payments does not exceed the present value of 7 percent of the debt service on the issue. (C) Payments for operating expenses . Payments by a person for a use of proceeds do not include the portion of any payment that is properly allocable to the payment of ordinary and necessary expenses (as defined under section 162) directly attributable to the operation and maintenance of the financed property used by that person. For this purpose, general overhead and administrative expenses are not directly attributable to those operations and maintenance. For example, if an issuer receives $5,000 rent during the year for use of space in a financed facility and pays $500 during the year for ordinary and necessary expenses properly allocable to the operation and maintenance of that space, $500 of the $5,000 received would not be considered a payment for the use of the proceeds allocable to that space (regardless of the manner in which that $500 is actually used). (ii) Refinanced debt service . (A) Payments of debt service on an issue to be made from proceeds of a refunding issue are taken into account as private payments in the same proportion that_ ( 1 ) the present value of the payments taken into account as private payments for the refunding issue, bears to ( 2 ) the present value of the debt service to be paid on the refunding issue. (B) For example, if all the debt service on a note is paid with proceeds of a refunding issue, the note meets the private security or payment test if (and to the same extent that) the refunding issue meets the private security or payment test. This paragraph (c)(2)(ii) does not apply to deliberate actions that occur more than 3 years after the retirement of the prior issue that are not reasonably expected on the issue date of the refunding issue. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(ii), whether an issue is a refunding issue is determined without regard to ยง1.150&hyph;1(d)(2)(i) (relating to certain payments of interest).
