FR940127-1-00028 FR940127-1-00011 Canopy closure over the nest site provides protection from predation and weather. Such canopy closure may be provided by trees adjacent to the nest tree and/or by the nest tree itself. Nests are typically located high above ground and usually have good overhead protection. Such locations allow easy access and provide shelter from potential predators and weather. Although a few nests have been located in relatively small stands, most nests have been found in larger stands with sufficient internal structure to minimize the risk of predation at the nest (i.e., minimize habitat for species known to prey on marbled murrelets) and provide suitable climatic conditions for nesting (Nelson in litt. 1992). Marbled murrelets are more commonly encountered in larger stands of older forests in California (greater than 202 hectares (500 acres)) than in smaller stands (less than 40 hectares (100 acres)). However, marbled murrelets have been detected in smaller isolated stands in Oregon, with one confirmed nest in a 3-hectare (8-acre) stand (Nelson unpubl. data). General landscape condition also may affect use of suitable nesting habitat. In Washington, marbled murrelet detections increased when old-growth/mature forests comprised over 30 percent of the landscape. Hamer and Cummins (1990) found that detections of marbled murrelets decreased in Washington when the percent of clearcut/meadow on the landscape increased above 25 percent. Nests have been located in stands dominated by coastal redwood ( Sequoia sempervirens ), Douglas-fir ( Pseudotsuga menziesii ), mountain hemlock ( Tsuga mertensiana ), Sitka spruce ( Picea sitchensis ), western hemlock ( Tsuga heterophylla ), and western red-cedar ( Thuja plicata ) (Binford et al. 1975; Quinlan and Hughes 1990; Hamer and Cummins 1991; Singer et al. 1991, 1992; Nelson et al. in prep). The nests themselves have been located in Douglas-fir, coastal redwood, western hemlock, western red-cedar, and Sitka spruce trees. These species of trees have growth forms that produce nesting opportunities and are susceptible to damage (disease, breakage, wind damage) that may produce nesting structure. Critical habitat units should occur at a distance from the marine environment consistent with the flight and energetic capabilities of marbled murrelets. The farthest inland known occupied site is 84 kilometers (52 miles) in Washington. The farthest inland known detections in Oregon and California are 61 and 56 kilometers (38 and 35 miles), respectively. Occupied sites are defined as forest stands where marbled murrelets have been observed exhibiting behaviors indicative of likely nesting activity. Northwestern forests typically require 200 to 250 years to attain the attributes necessary to support marbled murrelet nesting, though characteristics of nesting habitat are sometimes developed in younger redwood forests. Forests with old-age remnant trees remaining from earlier stands may also develop into nesting habitat more quickly than those without. These remnant attributes are products of fire, wind storms, or previous logging operations that did not remove all of the trees. Other factors that may affect the time required to develop suitable nesting characteristics include site productivity and aspects of the site microclimate. It is difficult to locate actual nests for a species such as the marbled murrelet, which may only show activity near the nest once per day and under low light conditions. Therefore, identification of occupied sites and suitable habitat are the best indicators of potential nest sites. Active nests, egg shell fragments, or young found on the forest floor, birds seen flying through the forest beneath the canopy or landing in trees, birds seen circling above the canopy, birds heard calling from a stationary perch, or large numbers of birds heard calling from within and around a stand are all strong indicators of occupied habitat. Their semi-colonial nature makes marbled murrelets easier to detect at high-use sites, though some areas (e.g., highly fragmented habitat with small stand size) support low numbers of reproducing pairs, making detection difficult. Breeding populations of marbled murrelets are not distributed continuously throughout the species' range. In California, there are three separate areas where marbled murrelets concentrate at sea, corresponding to the three largest remaining blocks of coastal old-growth forest inland. These are separated by areas of little or no habitat where few marbled murrelets are found at sea. A large break in the breeding distribution is located at the southern portion of the range in California, where approximately 480 kilometers (300 miles) separate the southern breeding population in San Mateo County from the next known occupied site to the north in Humboldt County. This reach contained marbled murrelets prior to extensive logging in the area (Paton and Ralph 1988). Another distribution gap is located between Tillamook County in Oregon and the Olympic Peninsula in Washington, where few birds and occupied sites are known. The degree of interaction that occurs across these gaps in distribution is unknown.
