FR940713-0-00010 FR940713-0-00005 c. In the definition of Class C State or area, paragraph (a)(2)(ii) is revised to read as set forth below, paragraph (c) is removed, and paragraph (d) is redesignated as paragraph (c). d. In the definition of Class Free State or area, paragraph (a)(2)(ii) is revised to read as set forth below and paragraph (c) is removed. e. A new definition of Successfully closed case is added, in alphabetical order, to read as set forth below. §78.1 Definitions. * * * * * Class A State or area. *␣*␣* (a) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (ii) Brucellosis reactors. (A) Tracebacks. At least 90 percent of all brucellosis reactors found in the course of MCI testing must be traced to the farm of origin. (B) Successfully closed cases. The State or area must successfully close at least 95 percent of the MCI reactor cases traced to the farm of origin during the 12-consecutive-month period immediately prior to the most recent anniversary of the date the State or area was classified Class A. To successfully close an MCI reactor case, State representatives or APHIS representatives must conduct an epidemiologic investigation at the farm of origin within 15 days after notification by the cooperative State-Federal laboratory that brucellosis reactors were found on the MCI test. Herd blood tests must be conducted or the herd must be confined to the premises under quarantine within 30 days after notification that brucellosis reactors were found on the MCI test, unless a designated epidemiologist determines that: ( 1 ) The brucellosis reactor is located in a herd in a different State than the State where the MCI blood sample was collected. In such cases a State representative or APHIS representative must give written notice of the MCI test results to the State animal health official in the State where the brucellosis reactor is located; or ( 2 ) Evidence indicates that the brucellosis reactor is from a herd that no longer presents a risk of spreading brucellosis, or is from a herd that is unlikely to be infected with brucellosis. Such evidence could include, but is not limited to, situations where: ( i ) The brucellosis reactor is traced back to a herd that has been sold for slaughter in entirety; ( ii ) The brucellosis reactor is traced back to a herd that is certified brucellosis free and is 100-percent vaccinated; or ( iii ) The brucellosis reactor showed a low titer in the MCI test and is traced back to a dairy herd that is 100 percent vaccinated and has tested negative to the most recent brucellosis ring test required by this section for herds producing milk for sale. * * * * * Class B State or area. *␣*␣* (a) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (ii) Brucellosis reactors. (A) Tracebacks. At least 80 percent of all brucellosis reactors found in the course of MCI testing must be traced to the farm of origin. (B) Successfully closed cases. The State or area must successfully close at least 90 percent of the MCI reactor cases traced to the farm of origin during the 12-consecutive-month period immediately prior to the most recent anniversary of the date the State or area was classified Class B. To successfully close an MCI reactor case, State representatives or APHIS representatives must conduct an epidemiologic investigation at the farm of origin within 30 days after notification by the cooperative State-Federal laboratory that brucellosis reactors were found on the MCI test. Herd blood tests must be conducted or the herd must be confined to the premises under quarantine within 30 days after notification that brucellosis reactors were found on the MCI test, unless a designated epidemiologist determines that: ( 1 ) The brucellosis reactor is located in a herd in a different State than the State where the MCI blood sample was collected. In such cases a State representative or APHIS representative must give written notice of the MCI test results to the State animal health official in the State where the brucellosis reactor is located; or ( 2 ) Evidence indicates that the brucellosis reactor is from a herd that no longer presents a risk of spreading brucellosis, or is from a herd that is unlikely to be infected with brucellosis. Such evidence could include, but is not limited to, situations where: ( i ) The brucellosis reactor is traced back to a herd that has been sold for slaughter in entirety; ( ii ) The brucellosis reactor is traced back to a herd that is certified brucellosis free and is 100-percent vaccinated; or ( iii ) The brucellosis reactor showed a low titer in the MCI test and is traced back to a dairy herd that is 100 percent vaccinated and has tested negative to the most recent brucellosis ring test required by this section for herds producing milk for sale. * * * * * Class C State or area. *␣*␣* (a) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (ii) Brucellosis reactors. (A) Tracebacks. At least 80 percent of all brucellosis reactors found in the course of MCI testing must be traced to the farm of origin. (B) Successfully closed cases. The State or area must successfully close at least 90 percent of the MCI reactor cases traced to the farm of origin during the 12-consecutive-month period immediately prior to the most recent anniversary of the date the State or area was classified Class C. To successfully close an MCI reactor case, State representatives or APHIS representatives must conduct an epidemiologic investigation at the farm of origin within 30 days after notification by the cooperative State-Federal laboratory that brucellosis reactors were found on the MCI test. Herd blood tests must be conducted or the herd must be confined to the premises under quarantine within 30 days after notification that brucellosis reactors were found on the MCI test, unless a designated epidemiologist determines that: ( 1 ) The brucellosis reactor is located in a herd in a different State than the State where the MCI blood sample was collected. In such cases a State representative or APHIS representative must give written notice of the MCI test results to the State animal health official in the State where the brucellosis reactor is located; or
