FR940930-2-00140 FR940930-2-00041 50 CFR Part 17 Availability of Draft Recovery Plan for the Kauai Plant Cluster for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft Kauai Plant Cluster Recovery Plan. There are 37 taxa of plants included in this plan. All but seven of the taxa are or were endemic to the Hawaiian island of Kauai. The plants that are not endemic to Kauai are or were also found on the islands of Niihau, Oahu, Molokai, Maui, and/or Hawaii. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before November 29, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Copies of the draft recovery plan are available for inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the following locations: U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, room 6307, 300 Ala Moana Blvd., P.O. Box 50167, Honolulu, Hawaii 96850 (phone 808/541&hyph;2749); U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Regional Office, Ecological Services, 911 N.E. 11th Ave., Eastside Federal Complex, Portland, Oregon 97232&hyph;4181 (phone 503/231&hyph;6131); the Kauai Public Library, 4344 Hardy Street, Lihue, Kauai 96766; and, the Wailuku Public Library, 251 High Street, Wailuku, Maui 96793. Requests for copies of the draft recovery plan and written comments and materials regarding this plan should be addressed to Brooks Harper, Field Supervisor, at the above Honolulu address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Karen W. Rosa, Fish and Wildlife Biologist, at the above Honolulu address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring endangered or threatened animals and plants to the point where they are again secure, self-sustaining members of their ecosystems is a primary goal of the Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for the conservation of the species, establish criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) (Act), requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act as amended in 1988 requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during the public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised Recovery Plan. Substantive technical comments will result in changes to the plans. Substantive comments regarding recovery plan implementation may not necessarily result in changes to the recovery plans, but will be forwarded to appropriate Federal or other entities so that they can take these comments into account during the course of implementing recovery actions. Individualized responses to comments will not be provided. The 37 plant taxa being considered in the draft Kauai Plant Cluster Recovery Plan are: Brighamia insignis ('olulu), Chamaesyce halemanui (no common name (NCN)), Cyanea asarifolia (haha), Cyrtandra limahuliensis (ha'iwale), Delissea rhytidosperma (NCN), Diellia pallida (NCN), Dubautia latifolia (NCN), Exocarpos luteolus (heau), Hedyotis cookiana ('awiwi), Hedyotis st.-johnii (na Pali beach hedyotis), Hibiscus clayi (Clay's hibiscus), Lipochaeta fauriei (nehe), Lipochaeta micrantha var. exigua (nehe), Lipochaeta micrantha var. micrantha (nehe), Lipochaeta waimeaensis (nehe), Lysimachia filifolia (NCN), Melicope haupuensis (alani), Melicope knudsenii (alani), Melicope pallida (alani), Melicope quadrangularis (alani), Munroidendron racemosum (NCN), Nothocestrum peltatum ('aiea), Peucedanum sandwicense (makou), Phyllotegia waimeae (NCN), Poa mannii (Mann's bluegrass), Poa sandvicensis (Hawaiian bluegrass), Poa siphonoglossa (NCN), Pteralyxia kauaiensis (kaulu), Remya kauaienis (NCN), Remya montgomeryi (NCN), Schiedea apokremnos (Ma'oli'oli), Schiedea spergulina var. leiopoda (NCN), Schiedea spergulina var. spergulina (NCN), Solanum sandwicense (popolo' aiakeakua), Stenogyne campanulata (NCN), Wilkesia hobdyi (Dwarf 'ili' au) and Xylosma crentaum (NCN).
