FR940725-1-00051 FR940725-1-00010 Discussion of Proposals Section 1.1␣General Definitions This proposal would amend §1.1 to add a definition of ``maximum speed for stability characteristics, V FC /M FC .'' This proposed change would harmonize part 1 and JAR 1. The definition is currently contained in §23.175(b)(2) and also in §25.253(b). Moving the definition to part 1 would simplify the text of part 23 and ease the referencing of the term V FC /M FC . The definition would be deleted from §23.175(b)(2). Section 23.3␣Airplane Categories This proposal would make a change to the limited aerobatic operations authorized for utility category certification, change the authorized commuter category certification maneuvers and prohibit dual type certification of commuter category airplanes. The limitation for utility category airplanes in §23.3(b)(2) would be revised to add an outside limit of 90 degrees in angle of bank for lazy eights, chandelles, and steep turns. Section 23.3(d) would be revised to delete chandelles and lazy eights as approved operations in commuter category airplanes because the FAA does not anticipate any operational need for such maneuvers. Further, §23.3(e) would be revised to prohibit type certification of commuter category airplanes in any other category. In the preamble discussion of Proposal 3 for Amendment No. 23&hyph;34 (52 FR 1806, January 15, 1987), the FAA discussed the issue of dual certification, with emphasis on the issuance of airworthiness certificates. Since then, the FAA has gained experience with airplanes certificated in both normal and commuter categories. The FAA has found confusion among pilots and operators about the appropriate performance limitations. Although the proposed performance requirements, based on weight, altitude, and temperature (WAT) criteria (see proposal for §23.45), would alleviate some of the problems with current airplanes, the FAA proposes that commuter category airplanes not have dual type certificates. One problem with dual type certification is pilot confusion. WAT limits would differ between normal and commuter categories, requiring pilots who get type rated in these airplanes to know two sets of limitations and to remember when each set of limitations is applicable. This proposed rule would not preclude the type certification of similar airplanes with different model numbers, such as the present Cessna models 500 and 501. Section 23.25␣Weight Limits This proposal would make changes to §23.25(a) and remove references to commuter category zero fuel weight in paragraph (a) and standby power rocket engines in paragraph (a)(1)(iii). Revised §23.25(a) would clarify that the maximum weight that must be selected is the least of the three choices given in §23.25(a)(1). The airframe NPRM proposes moving the commuter category zero fuel weight requirement in §23.25(a) to §23.343. The FAA proposes removing the reference to both standby power rocket engines and to appendix E in §23.25(a)(1)(iii) because this is a rare and obsolete design feature. If standby power rocket engines were proposed as a design feature, the FAA would issue special conditions to ensure adequate airworthiness. Section 23.33␣Propeller Speed and Pitch Limits Proposed revisions to §23.33(b)(1) would delete the reference to V y and replace it with ``the all engine(s) operating climb speed specified in §23.65.'' This would be done for consistency with other changes in performance requirements. Section 23.33(b)(2) would be revised to use ``V NE '' in place of ``never exceed speed,'' since V NE is defined in part 1, and to delete the world ``placarded'' which is unnecessary. Section 23.45␣General In Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, Small Airplane Airworthiness Review Program Notice No. 4, Notice No. 90&hyph;18 (55 FR 26534, June 28, 1990), the FAA requested comments on the need for weight, altitude, and temperature (WAT) criteria, as information or as a limitation on piston-powered, twin-engine part 23 airplanes. The FAA also requested comments about WAT criteria on turbine-powered twin-engine part 23 airplanes, specifically during takeoff and landing. WAT criteria is used to determine the maximum weight an airplane can have in relation to altitude and temperature for safe takeoff. This criteria provides a pilot with the information needed to determine if a takeoff and climb can be successfully completed, including for multiengine airplanes, if one engine becomes inoperative. WAT criteria has been required under part 23 for commuter category airplanes, at all approved altitudes. A limited WAT criteria has been required for turbine engine powered airplanes at 5,000 feet and at standard temperatures plus 40 ○F, but not for higher altitudes or temperatures. For some multiengine powered airplanes WAT data has been provided by the manufacturer as information to pilots but is not required to be followed. The FAA received three comments on mandating WAT criteria in part 23. One commenter (GAMA) ``believes that WAT information is useful but certainly not the only way to present operating data for any airplane'' and that making WAT criteria an airplane or operating limitation for part 23 airplanes is ``an unnecessary and unjustified expansion or redirection of operating criteria.'' Another commenter (the Airline Pilots Associaton_ALPA) wants WAT information furnished during the certification process. The commenter cites the variety of operational uses of these airplanes including in scheduled air carrier and regional airline service. The commenter also cities the need for ``one level'' of safety as justification for expanding the WAT requirements. The other commenter (JAA) also supports WAT criteria. This commenter believes that the chance of a single-engine failure on any airplane is high. Also, this commenter warns that safety considerations include airplane occupants and personnel on the ground. According to the commenter, transport category airplanes follow WAT criteria by limiting the operation of the airplane. Beyond the point where takeoff can be rejected, one-engine-inoperative climbs must guarantee obstacle clearance. The commenter recognizes a need for generally similar requirements for commuter category airplanes.
