FR940426-1-00088 FR940426-1-00008 EPA requests comment on all aspects of this analysis. In particular, EPA requests comment on whether it can or should consider the OTR's need for controls for purposes of maintenance in addition to attainment, and on the relevance of Tier 2 standards to its analysis. c. Technical considerations. Pursuant to section 184(d), EPA has published criteria for assessing transport of ozone and ozone precursors. 19 These criteria recommend use of trajectory models and timing considerations to provide a qualitative judgment regarding the relative importance of transport in contributing to an area's nonattainment problem. The OTC, to support its recommendation, relied upon such approaches to establish the importance of transport as a contributing factor to nonattainment in the OTR. 19 U.S. EPA, 1991, Criteria for Assessing the Role of Transported Ozone/Precursors in Ozone Nonattainment Areas, EPA&hyph;450/4&hyph;91&hyph;015. The criteria also identify more quantitative procedures for considering effects of transport in urban scale modeling applications applied in SIP attainment demonstrations. The criteria identify use of regional grid photochemical models as the preferred approach for providing quantitative estimates of transport. These estimates are used as inputs to urban scale models, such as the Urban Airshed Model, in order to estimate reductions in local emissions and/or transport necessary to demonstrate attainment. Unfortunately, however, urban modeling analyses using SIP databases are not yet available and are not due to be submitted to EPA as part of States' attainment demonstrations until November 15, 1994. However, several regional modeling studies have been performed to characterize regional transport of ozone in the OTR. It is not possible to come up with precise control targets for ozone precursor emissions from these studies, due to their use of an earlier emission inventory, the broad spatial resolution available in the model used and the nature of the control strategies investigated. Nevertheless, the studies are useful for deriving approximate estimates. Further, their credence is enhanced by the fact that they all lead to a consistent conclusion that a substantial reduction in NO X emissions and VOC emissions are likely to be necessary to reduce ozone to the 0.12 ppm NAAQS or below throughout the OTR during periods of adverse meteorological conditions. For example, Possiel, et al. (1991) 20 conclude that ``stringent maximum technology VOC and NO X controls'' with emissions reductions on the order of 70% for VOC and 50% for NO X ``may be necessary in all areas of the Northeast Corridor'', and additional reductions of VOC may be needed in some portions of the corridor. Results presented in another EPA study by Chu, et al. (1994) 21 suggest that regional reductions in VOC and NO X of 50% or more may be needed to reduce highest ozone levels to 0.12 ppm or less in the northeastern United States. 20 Possiel, N.C., L.B. Milch and B.R. Goodrich (eds.), 1991, Regional Modeling for Northeast Transport, EP&hyph;450/4&hyph;91&hyph;002a, U.S. EPA, Research Triangle Park, NC. 21 Chu. S.H. and W.M. Cox, 1994, ``Effects of Emissions Reductions on Ozone Predicitions by the Regional Oxidant Model (ROM) During the July 1988 Episode'', accepted for publication in J. of Applied Meteorology. 3. The OTC's Recommended LEV Program a. OTC&hyph;LEV Provisions. The LEV program recommended by the OTC (OTC&hyph;LEV) would apply to all 1999 and subsequent model year passenger cars and light-duty trucks (LDTs) (0&hyph;5750 pounds loaded vehicle weight (LVW)) in the OTR. The OTC&hyph;LEV program would establish five categories of vehicles: California ``Tier I'' vehicles; transitional low emission vehicles (TLEVs); low emission vehicles (LEVs); ultra-low emission vehicles (ULEVs); and zero emission vehicles (ZEVs). Each vehicle category has specific exhaust emission certification standards for hydrocarbons (expressed in terms of ``non-methane organic gases,'' or ``NMOG''), carbon monoxide (CO), oxides of nitrogen (NO X ), particulate matter (PM) and formaldehyde (HCHO). The OTC&hyph;LEV program would also establish a NMOG ``fleet average'' requirement that, for passenger cars and small light-duty trucks (LDTs), would decline from a value of 0.113 gpm in 1999 to 0.062 gpm in 2003 and later years. Manufacturers would be obliged to produce larger percentages of the more stringent categories of vehicles (LEVs, ULEVs and ZEVs) in order to meet the increasingly stringent NMOG standard. The program also includes a slightly higher NMOG fleet average for larger LDTs. Manufacturers would be free to decide the mix of vehicle categories they would produce, provided the NMOG fleet average requirement is met, except that if EPA determines that the California LEV program's ZEV sales requirement must be included in the OTC&hyph;LEV program, then manufacturers would be required to include in their vehicle fleet a certain percentage of ZEVs per model year. (The OTC recommendation, barring a determination that section 177 requires the adoption of a ZEV mandate, leaves the decision to adopt a ZEV mandate to the individual states. This issue will be discussed in the ``Consistency with the Act'' section, below.) Under the ZEV sales requirement, when the OTC&hyph;LEV program begins in 1999, two percent of a manufacturer's sales of light-duty vehicles must be ZEVs. The sales requirement increases to a maximum of 10 percent of sales for model year 2003 and beyond. The OTC explicitly excluded California reformulated gasoline requirements from its recommendation. Also, the OTC&hyph;LEV program is limited to light-duty vehicles and trucks. The OTC&hyph;LEV program would be enforced by the OTC states.
