FR940812-0-00022 FR940812-0-00008 (b) The collection, interpretation, and dissemination of principles, facts, technical knowledge, new technology, or other information that may be useful to rural industries, cooperatives, agribusinesses, and other persons or entities in rural areas served by the center in the development and commercialization of new products, processes, or services. (c) Providing training and instruction for individuals residing in rural areas served by the center with respect to the development (through technological innovation, cooperative development, and adaptation of existing technology) and commercialization of new products, processes, or services. (d) Providing loans and grants to individuals, small businesses, and cooperatives in rural areas for purposes of generating, evaluating, developing and commercializing new products, processes, or services. (e) Providing technical assistance and advisory services to individuals, small businesses, cooperatives, and industries in rural areas served by the center for purposes of developing and commercializing new products, processes, or services. (f) Providing research and support to individuals, small businesses, cooperatives, and industries in rural areas served by the center for purposes of developing new agricultural enterprises to add value to on-farm production through processing or marketing. (g) Paying up to 75 percent of the administrative costs of the applicant in carrying out its projects. (h) Equipment and materials necessary to carry out other eligible grant purposes under this section. ยง4284.516 Ineligible grant purposes. Grant funds may not be used to: (a) Pay more than 75 percent of a project cost. (b) Pay more than 75 percent of administrative costs. (c) Duplicate current services or replace or substitute support previously provided. (d) Pay costs of preparing the application package for funding under this program. (e) Pay costs incurred prior to the effective date of the grant made under this subpart. (f) Pay for building construction or the purchase of real estate or vehicles; improving and/or renovation of office space; or repair or maintenance of privately-owned property. (g) Fund political activities. (h) Pay for assistance to any private business enterprise which does not have at least 51 percent ownership by those who are either citizens of the United States or reside in the United States after being legally admitted for permanent residence.
