FR941103-0-00112 FR941103-0-00016 IV. Docket HM&hyph;183D On September 3, 1993, RSPA published an interim final rule that amended requirements concerning the registration of Registered Inspectors and Design Certifying Engineers for certification of cargo tank motor vehicles. RSPA extended the closing of the registration period from December 31, 1991 to December 31, 1995. This action was in response to a petition for rulemaking, P&hyph;1167, filed by NTTC. RSPA stated in the rule that although an opportunity for public comment had not been provided, RSPA was seeking public comment to the action. RSPA further stated that any comments received would be addressed along with comments received to the NPRM under Docket HM&hyph;183C. The effective date of this rule was September 3, 1993. The comment period closed on October 13, 1993; RSPA received no comments in regard to this action. Therefore, that extension remains in effect. V. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices 1. Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This final rule is not considered a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. The rule is not considered significant under the Regulatory policies and Procedures of the Department of Transportation (44 FR 11034). A regulatory evaluation is available for review in the docket. 2. Executive Order 12612 This final rule has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 (``Federalism''). Federal law expressly preempts State, local, and Indian tribe requirements applicable to the transportation of hazardous material that cover certain subjects and are not ``substantively the same'' as the Federal requirements. 49 U.S.C. 5125(b)(1). These covered subjects are: (A) the designation, description, and classification of hazardous material; (B) the packing, repacking, handling, labeling, marking, and placarding of hazardous material; (C) the preparation, execution, and use of shipping documents related to hazardous material and requirements respecting the number, contents, and placement of those documents; (D) the written notification, recording, and reporting of the unintentional release in transportation of hazardous material; or (E) the design, manufacturing, fabricating, marking, maintenance, reconditioning, repairing, or testing of a packaging or a container which is represented, marked, certified, or sold as qualified for use in transporting hazardous material. This final rule addresses the design, manufacturing, repairing, and other requirements for packages represented as qualified for use in the transportation of hazardous material. Therefore, this final rule preempts State, local, or Indian tribe requirements that are not ``substantively the same'' as Federal requirements on these subjects. Section 5125(b)(2) of Title 49 U.S.C. provides that when DOT issues a regulation concerning any of the covered subjects after November 16, 1990, DOT must determine and publish in the Federal Register the effective date of Federal preemption. The effective date may not be earlier than the 90th day following the date of issuance of the final rule and no later than two years after the date of issuance. RSPA has determined that the effective date of Federal preemption of this final rule will be 90 days after publication in the Federal Register . Because RSPA lacks discretion in this area, preparation of a federalism assessment is not warranted. 3. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. There are no direct or indirect adverse economic impacts for small units of government, businesses, or other organizations. 4. Paperwork Reduction Act This amendment imposes no changes to the information collection and recordkeeping requirements contained in the June 12, 1989 final rule, which were approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35 and assigned control number 2137&hyph;0014. 5. Regulation Identifier Number (RIN) A regulation identifier number (RIN) is assigned to each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations. The Regulatory Information Service Center publishes the Unified Agenda in April and October of each year. The RIN number contained in the heading of this document can be used to cross-reference this action with the Unified Agenda. List of Subjects 49 CFR Part 171 Exports, Hazardous materials transportation, Hazardous waste, Imports, Incorporation by reference, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 49 CFR Part 173 Hazardous materials transportation, Packaging and containers, Radioactive materials, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Uranium. 49 CFR Part 178 Hazardous materials transportation, Motor vehicles safety, Packaging and containers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 49 CFR Part 180 Hazardous materials transportation, Motor carriers, Motor vehicle safety, Packaging and containers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. In consideration of the foregoing, title 49, chapter I of the Code of Federal Regulations, is amended as set forth below:
