FR940110-1-00078 FR940110-1-00006 Section 960.17(c)(3) of the proposed rule provides that any interest or other income earned by a loan fund or loan consortium on a loan or a grant received from an applicant, other than any approved fee or interest rate spread charged to the borrower, either (i) must be used by the loan fund or loan consortium to provide funds for additional projects meeting the threshold requirements in §960.9 of the proposed rule and the criteria committed to in the approved AHP application, or (ii) must be forwarded to the applicant, which in turn must forward the funds to the Bank to be used for additional AHP projects. This is a change from the provision in the Board's existing policy guidelines that allows loan funds and loan consortia to earn and retain de minimis amounts of income on loans or grants received from applicants. The Board believes that accounting for de minimis amounts of interest or other income earned on loans or grants received from an applicant is no less of an administrative burden than accounting for all such interest or other income earned. Therefore, the proposed rule requires all interest or other income earned on loans or grants received from an applicant to be used by the loan fund or loan consortium for additional AHP projects or returned to the applicant. Section 960.17(c)(4) of the proposed rule provides that if loans or grants received by a loan fund or loan consortium pursuant to one AHP funding cycle are combined with loans or grants received by such entity pursuant to another AHP funding cycle in a single rental housing project, the loan fund or loan consortium shall require the recipient of the funds to follow the requirements for the use of such funds from the AHP funding cycle that is more restrictive as to the approved AHP criteria. This requirement does not apply when loans or grants received by a loan fund or loan consortium pursuant to separate AHP funding cycles are combined to finance a single owner-occupied housing project. The reason for this provision is that funds are more easily traceable to separate units in an owner-occupied housing project than to separate units in a rental housing project. Therefore, for purposes of owner-occupied housing projects, it is possible to use loans or grants from different AHP funding cycles according to the different criteria approved by the Bank in each of the respective funding cycles. However, the loan fund or loan consortium in its discretion may require the recipient of the funds to follow the requirements for the use of such funds from the AHP funding cycle that is more restrictive as to the approved AHP criteria. Section 960.17(c)(5) of the proposed rule provides that any loans provided by a loan fund or loan consortium pursuant to the AHP that are repaid to such entity must be re-lent or provided as grants by such entity within a reasonable period of time after such repayments, or must be repaid to the applicant, which in turn must repay such funds to the Bank, and must be made available by the Bank for additional AHP projects. The Bank shall in its AHP implementation plan identify what constitutes a reasonable period of time for such purposes. Section 960.17(d) of the proposed rule sets forth the monitoring and reporting requirements where an applicant makes loans or grants pursuant to the AHP to a loan fund or loan consortium which uses the funds to finance owner-occupied or rental housing units. Section 960.17(d)(1)(i) of the proposed rule requires the Bank to monitor such units, according to the monitoring requirements of §960.14(e) through (h) of the proposed rule, to determine compliance with the long-term requirements, as well as compliance with the special needs priority, the District Bank priority or priorities, and the economic mobility priority, where applicable. In addition, §960.17(d)(1)(ii) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank shall require the sponsor or owner of a project receiving a loan or grant from the loan fund or loan consortium to submit to the Bank such reports and certifications as are required under §960.15(c) of the proposed rule. Section 960.17(d)(1)(iii) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank shall require the loan fund or loan consortium to report to the Bank any new loan or grant made using repayments of loans by the borrower. If a loan fund or loan consortium receives loans or grants from an applicant pursuant to separate AHP funding cycles, the use of such funds must be reported separately. Section 960.17(d)(2) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank may contract with either the applicant or the loan fund or loan consortium to meet the monitoring requirements of §960.14(e) through (h). Under §960.17(d)(2)(i) of the proposed rule, if the Bank contracts with the applicant to meet such monitoring requirements, the Bank shall require the applicant to monitor the AHP-assisted housing units according to the monitoring requirements of §960.14(e) through (h) of the proposed rule. The Bank also shall require the applicant to require the sponsor or owner of the project to submit to the applicant such reports and certifications as are required under §960.15(c) of the proposed rule. In addition, the applicant shall require the loan fund or loan consortium to report to the applicant any new loan or grant made using repayments of loans by the borrower. If a loan fund or loan consortium receives loans or grants from an applicant pursuant to separate AHP funding cycles, the use of such funds must be reported separately.
