FR940413-0-00081 FR940413-0-00026 Admission to Designated Projects for Disabled Families Need Not Be Based on Need for Services Although the designation of a project for disabled families should arise only where there is a real need and demand for this type of housing (i.e., where persons with disabilities express the need or demand for the services to be provided) once the project is established, admission to this project is not to be conditioned on a person with disabilities needing or opting for the service. A person with disabilities who chooses to reside in this project, and is next on the waiting list, should not be denied occupancy because the person does not need or have any interest in using the services to be provided to this project. Non-Contiguous Units Encouraged but Not Required A few commenters objected to the proposed rule's implied prohibition against designating contiguous units. Designation of contiguous units is, by no means, prohibited by this final rule. The Department recognizes that where projects are designated for occupancy by elderly families, the units or floors designated will, in all likelihood, be contiguous, reflecting the preference of elderly families to reside in proximity to one another. As stated earlier in this preamble, the preference of the persons with disabilities who commented on this rule is to reside in an integrated setting, and not be limited to projects that house only disabled families, or that house only disabled families and elderly families. Thus, the reference to non-contiguous units in the regulation is to encourage PHAs to consider more integrated settings for persons with disabilities. Clarification of When Service Provider Must Be Licensed As discussed earlier in this preamble, the final rule removes the requirement that service providers must be licensed, unless licensing for the type of service to be provided is required by State or local law. Consultation Procedures for Supportive Service Plan The final rule provides the same consultation process for the supportive service plan that is required of the allocation plan. For PHAs that intend to designate a project for disabled families the consultation process for the supportive service plan may be performed concurrently with the allocation plan. IV. Discussion of Public Comments Many of the issues raised by commenters have been addressed in section III of this preamble, which provided a summary of the principal features of the designated housing process as implemented by this final rule. Therefore, these issues are not re-addressed in this section. This section discusses additional issues raised by the commenters, and the Department's response to these issues. These comments may or may not have prompted additional, but less significant, changes to the rule. The comments are discussed in the context of the particular subpart or section of the rule to which they pertain. In addition to not discussing issues already addressed in section III of the preamble, the following does not discuss comments that were either generally laudatory or generally critical of the proposed rule, either of style or substantive comment, or that offered editorial suggestions, or suggestions regarding format that would not affect the meaning of the regulatory provisions. Section 945.105␣Definitions Comment: Two commenters recommended that the definition of ``persons with disabilities'' be revised to eliminate the implication that these persons must have multiple disabilities to qualify as a ``person with disabilities.'' Their suggested term was ``person with one or more disabilities.'' Response: The term ``person with disabilities'' is the term used in section 622, and is also the term used in the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) (although, as discussed in the next response, the definition for this term is not identical in section 622 and the ADA). The Department believes that the definition for this term makes clear that to qualify as a person with disabilities, the individual need not have more than one disability.
