FR941221-0-00058 FR941221-0-00018 Comment. Two commenters requested that the final rule on subtitle D require approval by HUD before an owner may make the election of occupancy preferences authorized by subtitle D. The commenters stated that HUD approval of an owner's election is the only effective and available means to ensure that an owner is not improperly applying the provisions of subtitle D to discriminate against persons with disabilities under the age of 62. The commenters stated that if HUD declined to adopt this suggestion, then, at the least, the final rule should require owners to report to HUD the election of an elderly preference. Response. HUD believes that to require an owner to seek approval by HUD before making the election of occupancy preferences authorized by subtitle D is without statutory support and is not consistent with Congressional intent. As discussed earlier in this preamble, subtitle B of title VI of the 1992 HCD Act provides PHAs with the option to designate a public housing project or portion of a project for occupancy by elderly families, disabled families, or elderly families and disabled families. Subtitle B further provides that before one of these three designations can be made, a PHA must obtain the approval of HUD through the submission of an allocation plan. Accordingly, for subtitle B housing, Congress explicitly requires prior HUD approval. There is no comparable provision, however, in subtitle D. HUD does not believe that this was an oversight on the part of the Congress, but reflects clear Congressional intent that the election of occupancy preferences under subtitle B (``designation'' as it is referred to in subtitle B) would require prior HUD approval, and the election of preferences under subtitle D would not. With respect to reporting the election of preference by the owner, HUD has determined that this reporting requirement is not necessary. The applicable Section 8 regulations provide for periodic reviews of section 8 housing projects to determine contract compliance. The regulations in parts 880, 881 and 883 require annual reviews by the contract administrator (see §§880.612 and 881.612, 883.713), and the regulations in parts 884 and 886 require review by HUD at such intervals as deemed necessary to ensure that the owner is in full compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract. At the time of this review, the contract administrator or HUD, as the case may be, will identify those owners who have made an election of occupancy preference under subtitle D. HUD will revise its form that is used in management reviews to include identification of those projects which have elected the elderly preference authorized by subtitle D. Additionally, in reviewing occupancy procedures, the contract administrator will consider the operation of the title VI occupancy preferences along with other occupancy procedures. Finally, HUD's review of an owner's decision to provide preferences may also arise in connection with HUD civil rights complaint investigations under the Fair Housing Act, or compliance reviews and complaint investigations under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, or other applicable civil rights statutes. Comment. One commenter requested that the final rule exempt accessible units from the covered section 8 units subject to the elderly preference. The commenter stated that at the very least these units should be rented only to those persons with disabilities who are near-elderly and elderly and who need the accessibility features of particular units. Response. There is no basis in subtitle D for HUD to exempt accessible units from covered section 8 units subject to the elderly preference, nor is there a need for HUD to do so. In accordance with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and HUD's implementing regulations in 24 CFR part 8, as well as the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq .) and HUD's implementing regulations in 24 CFR part 100, reasonable accommodations must be made for the needs of persons with disabilities who need an accessible unit. The housing provider is to accommodate the person either by (1) making an available inaccessible unit accessible (so long as doing so would not result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of the program or activity or undue financial and administrative burdens), or (2) by transferring a tenant who is living in an accessible unit but does not need an accessible unit to the inaccessible unit, and offering the accessible unit to the disabled family (24 CFR 8.27). However, as discussed in the preamble to the May 3, 1994 interim rule, an owner who has made the election of occupancy preference authorized by subtitle D and who is selecting tenants from the waiting list, can (where it is an elderly family's turn for admission because the reserve requirement, if any, has been met) give an elderly family who needs an accessible unit a preference over a non-elderly disabled family who also needs the accessible unit. Once the reserve requirement, if any, for disabled families has been met, the owner can also give the accessible unit to an elderly family who does not need the accessibility features of the unit even if a non-elderly disabled family has also applied for the unit. HUD points out that once the reserve requirement, if any, for disabled families has been met, the owner can give the unit to an elderly family who does not need the accessibility features of the unit only if there is no elderly family who needs the accessibility features of the unit. Comment. One commenter stated that the final rule should ``grandfather- in'' all non-elderly persons with disabilities on the project waiting lists as of June 2, 1994, the effective date of the interim rule, and prohibit a project owner from passing over these persons when selecting tenants from the waiting lists. Response. The statute provides no authority for HUD to adopt this provision; to the contrary, by its plain language, the statute authorizes the immediate implementation of the preferences and the set aside. Existing residents are protected in the event that current occupancy of non-elderly families with disabilities exceeds the percentage of units under the set aside. As noted later in this preamble, however, owners of covered section 8 projects who make the election are prohibited from removing non-elderly persons with disabilities from the projects' waiting lists.
