FR940825-1-00088 FR940825-1-00008 (iv) Form I&hyph;688, Temporary Resident Card, which must be annotated ``Section 245A'' or ``Section 210''; (v) Form I&hyph;688B, Employment Authorization Card, which must be annotated ``Provision of Law 274a.12(11)'' or ``Provision of Law 274a.12''; (vi) A receipt issued by the INS indicating that an application for issuance of a replacement document in one of the above-listed categories has been made and the applicant's entitlement to the document has been verified; or (vii) If other documents are determined to constitute acceptable evidence of eligible immigration status, they will be announced by HUD in a notice published in the Federal Register . (l) Verification of eligible immigration status. (1) When verification is to occur. Verification of eligible immigration status shall be conducted by the IHA simultaneously with verification of other aspects of eligibility for assistance under a section 214 covered program. (See paragraph (h) of this section.) The IHA shall verify eligible immigration status in accordance with the INS procedures described in this section. (2) Primary verification. (i) Automated verification system. Primary verification of the immigration status of the person is conducted by the IHA through the INS automated system (INS Systematic for Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE)). The INS SAVE system provides access to names, file numbers and admission numbers of noncitizens. (ii) Failure of primary verification to confirm eligible immigration status. If the INS SAVE system does not verify eligible immigration status, secondary verification must be performed. (3) Secondary verification. (i) Manual search of INS records. Secondary verification is a manual search by the INS of its records to determine an individual's immigration status. The IHA must request secondary verification, within 10 days of receiving the results of the primary verification, if the primary verification system does not confirm eligible immigration status, or if the primary verification system verifies immigration status that is ineligible for assistance under a covered section 214 covered program. (ii) Secondary verification initiated by IHA. Secondary verification is initiated by the IHA forwarding photocopies of the original INS documents listed in paragraph (k)(2) of this section (front and back), attached to the INS document verification request form G&hyph;845S (Document Verification Request), to a designated INS office for review. (Form G&hyph;845S is available from the local INS Office.) (iii) Failure of secondary verification to confirm eligible immigration status. If the secondary verification does not confirm eligible immigration status, the IHA shall issue to the family the notice described in paragraph (m)(4) of this section, which includes notification of appeal to the INS of the INS finding on immigration status (see paragraph (m)(4)(iv) of this section). (4) Exemption from liability for INS verification. The IHA shall not be liable for any action, delay, or failure of the INS in conducting the automated or manual verification. (m) Delay, denial, or termination of assistance. (1) Restrictions on delay, denial, or termination of assistance. Assistance to an applicant shall not be delayed or denied, and assistance to a tenant shall not be delayed, denied, or terminated, on the basis of ineligible immigration status of a family member if: (i) The primary and secondary verification of any immigration documents that were timely submitted has not been completed; (ii) The family member for whom required evidence has not been submitted has moved from the tenant's dwelling unit; (iii) The family member who is determined not to be in an eligible immigration status following INS verification has moved from the tenant's dwelling unit; (iv) The INS appeals process under paragraph (n) of this section has not been concluded; (v) For a tenant, the IHA hearing process under paragraph (o) of this section has not been concluded; (vi) Assistance is prorated in accordance with paragraph (s) of this section; (vii) Assistance for a mixed family is continued in accordance with paragraph (r) of this section; or (viii) Deferral of termination of assistance is granted in accordance with paragraph (r) of this section. (2) When delay of assistance to applicant is permissible. Assistance to an applicant may be delayed after the conclusion of the INS appeal process, but not denied until the conclusion of the IHA informal hearing process, if an informal hearing is requested by the family. (3) Events causing denial or termination of assistance. Assistance to an applicant shall be denied, and a tenant's assistance shall be terminated, in accordance with the procedures of this section, upon the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) Evidence of citizenship (i.e., the declaration) and eligible immigration status is not submitted by the date specified in paragraph (h) of this section, or by the expiration of any extension granted in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section; or (ii) The evidence of citizenship and eligible immigration status is timely submitted, but INS primary and second verification does not verify eligible immigration status of a family member; and (iii) The family does not pursue INS appeal (as provided in paragraph (n) of this section) or IHA informal hearing rights (as provided in paragraph (o) of this section); or (iv) INS appeal and informal hearing rights are pursued, but the final appeal or hearing decisions are decided against the family member. (4) Notice of denial or termination of assistance. The notice of denial or termination of assistance shall advise the family:
