FR940112-2-00043 FR940112-2-00032 Attachment A All Authorities to Construct, where applicable, shall contain: 1. Identification of all points of emission, both stack and fugitive. 2. Specification of a numerical emission limitation for each point of emission in terms of mass rate and/or concentration limitations. If emission testing based on a numerical emission limitation is infeasible, the permit may instead prescribe a design, operational, or equipment standard. Any permits issued without numerical emission limitations must contain conditions which assure that the design characteristics or equipment will be properly maintained or that the operational conditions will be properly performed so as to continuously achieve the assumed degree of control. 3. Limitations or factors which were the basis for the air quality impact analysis must be specified (e.g. hours of operation, stack height, materials processed which affect emissions). 4. Methods and frequency of determining continued compliance for each point of emission (such as from the SIP or if the source is subject to New Source Performance Standards [NSPS] or National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants [NESHAP] or explicitly identified if a reference method is not used. 5. Recordkeeping requirements which enable the agency to ascertain continued compliance, especially where factors such as hours of operation, throughput of materials, sulfur content of fuels, fuel usage, and type or quantity of materials processed are conditions of the permit. 6. A condition that the permit such that it will expire if construction is not commenced within eighteen (18) months or a shorter period. 7. A condition that the source is responsible for providing sampling and testing facilities at its own expense. 8. A condition that continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) will be used for enforcement purposes. 9. Reporting requirements which enable the agency to monitor the following: (a) Progress of source construction including the date by which construction is completed; and (b) Compliance with (1) emission limitations, (2) operational limitations, (3) and work practice standards; the reporting requirements should include excess emissions reports and source test results. 10. Permits issued under this delegation should contain language certifying that the federal PSD requirements have been satisfied. 11. As a courtesy to sources exempted from PSD review due to federally enforceable operational or process restrictions, or the use of controls more stringent than required by applicable SIP limits, the source shall be advised that any relaxation of those limits may subject the entire source to full PSD review as if construction had not yet begun. Suggested language is as follows: This source is exempt from PSD review because of *␣*␣* (state reason, for example, ``the requirement that limits operation to eight hours per day''). Any relaxation in this limit which increases your potential to emit above the applicable PSD threshold will require a full PSD review of the affected source as if construction had not yet commenced. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;802 Filed 1&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
