FR940826-0-00056 FR940826-0-00014 ยง12.962 Enforcement. (a) Remedies for noncompliance. If a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award, whether stated in a Federal statute, regulation, assurance, application, or notice of award, the Federal awarding agency may in addition to imposing any of the special conditions outlined in Section 12.914, take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate in the circumstances. (1) Temporarily withhold cash payments pending correction of the deficiency by the recipient or more severe enforcement action by the Federal awarding agency. (2) Disallow (that is, deny both use of funds and any applicable matching credit for) all or part of the cost of the activity or action not in compliance. (3) Wholly or partly suspend or terminate the current award. (4) Withhold further awards for the project or program. (5) Take other remedies that may be legally available. (b) Hearings and appeals. In taking an enforcement action, the awarding agency shall provide the recipient an opportunity for hearing, appeal, or other administrative proceeding to which the recipient is entitled under any statute or regulation applicable to the action involved. (c) Effects of suspension and termination. Costs of a recipient resulting from obligations incurred by the recipient during a suspension or after termination of an award are not allowable unless the Federal awarding agency expressly authorizes them in the notice of suspension or termination or subsequently. Other recipient costs during suspension or after termination which are necessary and not reasonably avoidable are allowable if paragraph (c) (1) and (2) of this section apply: (1) The costs result from obligations which were properly incurred by the recipient before the effective date of suspension or termination, are not in anticipation of it, and in the case of a termination, are noncancellable. (2) The costs would be allowable if the award were not suspended or expired normally at the end of the funding period in which the termination takes effect. (d) Relationship to debarment and suspension. The enforcement remedies identified in this section, including suspension and termination, do not preclude a recipient from being subject to debarment and suspension under E.O.s 12549 and 12689 and the Federal awarding agency implementing regulations (see 43 CFR Part 12). After-the-Award Requirements ยง12.970 Purpose. Sections 12.971 through 12.973 contain closeout procedures and other procedures for subsequent disallowances and adjustments. ยง12.971 Closeout procedures. (a) Recipients shall submit, within 90 calendar days after the date of completion of the award, all financial, performance, and other reports as required by the terms and conditions of the award. The Federal awarding agency may approve extensions when requested by the recipient. (b) Unless the Federal awarding agency authorizes an extension, a recipient shall liquidate all obligations incurred under the award not later than 90 calendar days after the funding period or the date of completion as specified in the terms and conditions of the award or in agency implementing instructions. (c) The Federal awarding agency shall make prompt payments to a recipient for allowable reimbursable costs under the award being closed out. (d) The recipient shall promptly refund any balance of obligated cash that the Federal awarding agency has advanced or paid and that the recipient is not authorized to retain for use in other projects. OMB Circular A&hyph;129 governs unreturned amounts that become delinquent debts. (e) When authorized by the terms and conditions of the award, the Federal awarding agency shall make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after closeout reports are received. (f) The recipient shall account for any real and personal property acquired with Federal funds or received from the Federal Government in accordance with Sections 12.931 through 12.937. (g) If a final audit has not been performed prior to the closeout of an award, the Federal awarding agency shall retain the right to recover an appropriate amount after fully considering the recommendations on disallowed costs resulting from the final audit. ยง23.972 Subsequent adjustments and continuing responsibilities. (a) The closeout of an award does not affect any of the following. (1) The right of the Federal award agency to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review. (2) The obligation of the recipient to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions. (3) Audit requirements in Section 12.926. (4) Property management requirements in Sections 12.931 through 12.937. (5) Records retention as required in Section 12.953. (b) After closeout of an award, a relationship created under an award may be modified or ended in whole or in part with the consent of the Federal awarding agency and the recipient, provided the responsibilities of the recipient referred to in paragraph 12.973(a), including those for property management as applicable, are considered and provisions made for continuing responsibilities of the recipient, as appropriate.
