FR940106-1-00116 FR940106-1-00013 (3) Reduction in the availability of highly productive brackish-water habitat, (4) Urban and agricultural pollution, (5) Introduction of exotic species, and (6) Exacerbation of the effects of these factors as a result of 6 years of drought. The causes of splittail decline in the Estuary are multiple and synergistically threaten this species. The individual threats include: (1) Reduced river outflows, primarily in the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers and their tributaries; (2) Loss of shallow-water habitat; (3) Mortality caused by diversion into State and Federal water projects and privately-operated agricultural in-Delta water diversions; (4) Human and natural perturbations of the food web; (5) Presence of toxic substances in the aquatic habitat (e.g., agricultural and industrial chemicals and heavy metals); and (6) Introduction of non-native species. Previous Service Action The Service included the Sacramento splittail as a category 2 candidate species for possible future listing as endangered or threatened in the January 6, 1989 (54 FR 554), Animal Notice of Review. Category 2 includes species for which information contained in Service files indicates that proposing to list is possibly appropriate but additional data is needed to support a listing proposal. On November 5, 1992, the Service received a petition from Mr. Gregory A. Thomas of the Natural Heritage Institute to add the splittail to the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and to designate critical habitat for this species in the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers and those estuaries. In his letter, Mr. Thomas identified the following eight organizations as co-petitioners: American Fisheries Society, Bay Institute of San Francisco, Natural Heritage Institute, Planning and Conservation League, Save San Francisco Bay Association, Friends of the River, San Francisco Baykeeper, and the Sierra Club. On June 24, 1993, the Service issued a 90-day finding, notice of which was published in the Federal Register on July 6, 1993 (58 FR 36184), that the petition presented substantial information indicating that the requested action may be warranted. The Service initiated a status review and analyzed available data on this species (Meng 1993). Additional sources of information describing the human factors and projects that may affect this species include expert testimonies presented to the California State Water Resources Control Board's 1987 Water Quality/Water Rights Proceeding on the San Francisco Bay and Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta and 1992 Water Rights Phase of the Bay-Delta Estuary Proceedings. This proposal constitutes the final finding on the petition to list the Sacramento splittail.
