FR940429-2-00004 FR940429-2-00003 Office of the Secretary [CN 94&hyph;005] Proposal to Reestablish the Advisory Committee on Universal Cotton Standards AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, USDA. ACTION: Proposal to reestablish the Advisory Committee on Universal Cotton Standards. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is proposing to reestablish the advisory committee to review official Universal Standards for American Upland cotton prepared by USDA and make recommendations regarding the establishment or revision of the standards. DATES: Comments must be received by May 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to: Mary E. Atienza, Deputy Director, Cotton Division, AMS, USDA, P.O. Box 96456, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary E. Atienza (202) 720_3193. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Pub. L. 92&hyph;463), notice is hereby given that the Secretary of Agriculture intends to reestablish the Advisory Committee on Universal Cotton Standards composed of foreign and domestic representatives of the cotton industry. The purpose of the committee is to review official Universal Standards for U.S. Upland cotton prepared by USDA and make recommendations regarding the establishment or revision of the standards. The Secretary has determined that the work of the committee is in the public interest and is in connection with the duties of the Department of Agriculture. No other advisory committee in existence is capable of advising and assisting the Department on the task assigned, nor does the Department have an alternative means to obtain the technical and practical expertise needed from private industry. Equal opportunity practices, in line with USDA policies, will be followed in all appointments to the committee. To ensure that the recommendations of the committee have taken into account the needs of the diverse groups served by the Department, membership shall include, to the extent practicable, individuals with demonstrated ability to represent minorities, women, and persons with disabilities. Balanced committee membership would be attained domestically and internationally through the following committee composition: Representation by Domestic Industry The U.S. cotton industry's committee membership will be comprised of 12 producers and ginners, 6 representatives of merchandising firms, and 6 representatives of textile manufacturers. These representatives from the domestic industry will be appointed by the Secretary of Agriculture. Each member will have one vote. Accordingly, voting privileges will be divided as follows: (1) U.S. cotton producers and ginners_12 votes; (2) U.S. merchandising firms_6 votes; (3) U.S. textile manufacturers_6 votes. Representation by Foreign Signatory Associations There will be 2 committee members from each of the foreign signatory associations. These committee members will be designated by the respective associations. Voting privileges will be divided as follows: (1) Foreign signatory merchant associations_6 votes; (2) Foreign signatory spinner associations_6 votes. Dated: April 18, 1994. Wardell Townsend, Assistant Secretary for Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10223 Filed 4&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;M
