FR940513-2-00020 FR940513-2-00014 State Agencies Recognized for the Approval of Public Postsecondary Vocational Education Petitions for Renewal of Recognition 1. Arkansas State Board of Vocational Education. 2. Kansas State Board of Education. Interim Reports 1. Minnesota State Board of Technical Colleges. 2. Missouri State Board of Vocational and Technical Education. Request for Withdrawal of Recognition 1. Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction, State of Washington. State Agencies Recognized for the Approval of Nurse Education Petitions for Renewal of Recognition 1. Colorado Board of Nursing. 2. Iowa Board of Nursing. In accordance with the Federal policy governing the granting of academic degrees by Federal agencies (approved by a letter from the Director, Bureau of the Budget, to the Secretary, Health, Education, and Welfare, dated December 23, 1954), the Secretary is required to establish a review committee to advise the Secretary concerning any legislation that may be proposed which would authorize the granting of degrees by a Federal agency. The review committee forwards its recommendation concerning a Federal agency's proposed degree-granting authority to the Secretary, who then forwards the committee's recommendation and the Secretary's recommendation to the Office of Management and Budget for review and transmittal to the Congress. The Secretary uses the Advisory Committee as the review committee required for this purpose. Accordingly, the Advisory Committee will review the following at this meeting. Proposed Master's Degree-Granting Authority 1. School of Advanced Airpower Studies of the Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. A request for comments on all agencies whose petitions, interim reports, and requests for degree-granting authority are being reviewed at this meeting was published in the Federal Register on December 8, 1993. The Higher Education Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;325, authorize the Secretary to grant recognition only to those accrediting agencies that either accredit institutions of higher education, provided that accreditation by those agencies is a required element in enabling those institutions to establish eligibility to participate in HEA programs, or accredit institutions of higher education or higher education programs, provided that accreditation by those agencies is a required element in enabling those institutions or programs to establish eligibility to participate in other programs administered by the Department or by other Federal agencies. Because of the requirements of the new law, a number of agencies currently recognized by the Secretary are no longer eligible for recognition. At this meeting, the Advisory Committee will consider the withdrawal of recognition of the following agencies, based upon the Department staff's determination that they are no longer eligible for recognition by the Secretary because they do not meet this new requirement: 1. Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology, Inc. 2. American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business, Accreditation Council. 3. American Council for Construction Education. 4. American Library Association, Committee on Accreditation. 5. American Society of Landscape Architects, Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board. 6. American Veterinary Medical Association, Committee on Veterinary Technician Activities and Training. 7. Association of Collegiate Business Schools and Programs. 8. Computing Sciences Accreditation Board, Inc., Computer Sciences Accreditation Commission. 9. Council on Social Work Education, Commission on Accreditation. 10. Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Secondary Schools. 11. National Accreditation Council for Agencies Serving the Blind and Visually Handicapped. 12. National Association of Industrial Technology. 13. Society of American Foresters. 14. United States Catholic Conference, Commission on Certification and Accreditation. Requests for oral presentation before the Advisory Committee should be submitted in writing to Mr. Griffith at the address above by June 15, 1994. Requests should include the names of all persons seeking an appearance, the organization they represent, and the purpose for which the presentation is requested. A record will be made of the proceedings of the meeting and will be available for public inspection at the Office of Postsecondary Education, U.S. Department of Education, 7th and D Streets, SW, room 3036, ROB&hyph;3, Washington, DC between the hours of 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. Authority: 5 U.S.C.A. Appendix 2. David A. Longanecker, Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education.
