FR941019-1-00044 FR941019-1-00004 (3) A statement of future economic performance; or (4) Disclosed statements of the assumptions underlying or related to any of the statements described in paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) above. (d) Third-Party Statements. A forward-looking statement shall be deemed not to have been made by or on behalf of an issuer for the purposes of paragraph (a) if it is made by any person other than the issuer or outside reviewer retained by the issuer and the issuer has not expressly and substantially contemporaneously endorsed or approved the statement. An issuer shall not be deemed to have any obligation to correct or update any statement made by a third party. (e) Duty to Update. An issuer shall not be deemed to have any obligation to update a forward-looking statement made by it unless it has expressly and substantially contemporaneously undertaken to update such statement. (f) Materiality. A forward-looking statement shall be deemed to be material only if it significantly alters the total mix of information made available regarding an issuer or its securities. (g) Scienter. An issuer shall be deemed not to have acted with scienter with respect to a forward-looking statement unless the issuer had actual knowledge that the statement was false or knowingly and intentionally omitted to state a fact for the purpose of rendering such statement misleading. Evidence that (1) the issuer's officers, directors or employees traded contemporaneously in the issuer's securities or were the beneficiaries of compensation awards (whether or not related to the value of the issuer's securities) or (2) information tending to cast doubt on a statement's accuracy was in the possession of the issuer's employees below the level at which reporting decisions are made (or at such level but prior to the time such information could reasonably be expected to have been taken into account in making the statement), shall not in either case, or in both cases, in and of itself, be sufficient to support a finding of actual knowledge that a statement is false or misleading. (h) Reliance. A forward-looking statement (or a statement derived therefrom) shall not be deemed to have been relied upon unless a person claiming such reliance had actual knowledge of and actually relied on such statement in connection with the purchase or sale of a security. Bespeaks Caution Proposal_Professor Coffee Proposed Rule 10b&hyph;22. Liability for Certain Statements by Issuers (a) A purchaser or seller of securities shall not be entitled to rely in any action for fraudulent statement (as defined in paragraph (c) of this rule) upon a statement within the coverage of paragraph (b) of this rule. (b) This rule applies to the following statements (with the burden being on the plaintiff to show that a statement asserted by an issuer or other defendant to fall within this paragraph does not in fact so qualify): (1) A forward-looking statement (as defined in Rule 3b&hyph;6 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) made in a document filed with the Commission, or in an annual report meeting the requirements of Rules 14a&hyph;3 (b) and (c) or 14c&hyph;3 (a) and (b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, a statement reaffirming such forward-looking statement subsequent to the date the document was filed or the annual report was made publicly available, or a forward-looking statement made prior to the date the document was filed or the date that the annual report was made publicly available if such statement is reaffirmed in a filed document or in an annual report made publicly available within a reasonable period after the making of such forward-looking statement; (2) Information disclosed in a document filed with the Commission or in an annual report meeting the requirements of Rules 14a&hyph;3 (b) and (c) or 14c&hyph;3 (a) and (b) in response to (A) Item 303 of Regulation S&hyph;K or Regulation S&hyph;B with respect to liquidity, capital resources, and results of operations to the extent that such information identifies or describes the likely future impact of known trends or known demands, commitments, events or uncertainties or any expected changes with regard thereto, or (B) Item 302 of Regulation S&hyph;K or Rule 3&hyph;20(c) of Regulation S&hyph;X with regard to the affects of changing price levels on the business enterprise or the value of proved oil and gas reserves; Provided that, in either case_
