FR940505-1-00059 FR940505-1-00012 The Clean Air Act includes no provision directing that FIP fees collected by EPA remain at EPA's disposal; as a result, in general, EPA must deposit any FIP fees it collects in the Treasury, under 31 U.S.C. 3302(b) (the Miscellaneous Receipts Act). The prohibition against retaining fees applies as well against directing how those fees are spent. For example, EPA could (by itself or through a contractor, described below) establish an I/M program and charge fees for conducting the inspection, but the Miscellaneous Receipts Act precludes EPA from rebating those fees to car owners who failed the inspection and elected to scrap their vehicles. Under certain circumstances, fees relating to services or products provided by a contractor may be retained by that contractor to defray its costs. See 61 Comp. Gen. 285 (1982) (contractor may charge and retain fees to offset costs of providing public microfilm copies of Federal Election Commission reports). d. Land use. Section 131 of the Act states: ``Nothing in this Act constitutes an infringement on the existing authority of counties and cities to plan or control land use, and nothing in this Act provides or transfers authority over such land use.'' This language merely preserves in general terms the existing authority of counties and cities to plan or control land use. However, this language could be interpreted as a constraint on EPA's authority under section 110(c). This could happen if, for example, the FIP proposes to regulate certain air emissions, which indirectly has the effect of narrowing or restricting a district's or locality's zoning or land use planning choices. However, any FIP actions taken by EPA would be for the purpose of regulating air emissions, not local land use or zoning requirements that are unrelated to air quality. As such, they would not infringe on the authority of local governments to control land use; rather they, at best, would restrain the ability of certain entities to engage in activities that cause certain air quality problems. This interpretation is confirmed by the House Conference Committee Report which states: Depending on the nature of the air pollution problem in a State and the control options available to the State, the measures required [to attain the NAAQS] may or may not include measures involving land use requirements. New section [131] clarifies that if land use requirements are necessary to meet the requirements of the Clean Air Act, nothing in the Act should be construed to affect State laws regarding the appropriate entities to adopt and implement such land use requirements *␣*␣* [nor to authorize] air pollution control agencies to override individual project-specific land use decisions made by a city or county. See H.R. Re. No. 490, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. 401 (1990) (analyzing section 706 of H.R. 3030, which added section 131 [mistakenly identified as section 130]). e. Parking management. FIP fees imposed with respect to parking management are subject to additional limitations under section 110(c)(2)(B) and (D)_such a fee is not permissible if it constitutes a ``parking surcharge''. A parking surcharge is defined to include_ Any tax, surcharge, fee, or other charge on parking spaces, or any other area used for the temporary storage of motor vehicles. This provision effectively eliminates a variety of parking management fees, such as surcharges designed to increase parking costs. Several such measures were included in the 1973 FIP setting forth transportation control plans for several areas in California, 38 FR 31232, 31236&hyph;31237, 31247&hyph;31248 (Nov. 12, 1973), but the parking measures were withdrawn when a provision to preclude them was included in the Energy Emergency Act of 1973, 39 FR 1848 (Jan. 15, 1974). (Although the Energy Emergency Act of 1973 ultimately was not enacted, 110(c)(2) was enacted as part of the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act, June 22, 1974, Pub.L. 93&hyph;310, S 4, 88 Stat. 256.) f. Authority to order the state to implement specific measures requiring the state to legislate or expend money. EPA's authority to promulgate measures in a FIP which require the State to enact legislation or expend state funds may be somewhat limited under prior case law. In general, EPA may require the State to implement FIP measures, including requirements for legislation and expenditure of funds, if the measures affect the pollution-creating activities of the State. However, in Brown v. EPA, 521 F.2d 827 (9th Cir. 1975), vacated on other grounds, 431 U.S. 99 (1977) ( Brown I ''), the court held that Section 113 of the Clean Air Act did not provide statutory authority for EPA to bring an enforcement action against the state (or other municipal authority) for failing to implement a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program. The court reasoned that the Act authorized federal enforcement if the State did not implement regulations to control its own pollution creating activities, ``but not against a state that chooses not to govern polluters as the Administrator directs.'' Id. at 832. In a subsequent decision, the court rejected EPA's argument that ownership of the roads and highways made the State responsible for the pollution created from their use. Brown v. EPA, 566 F.2d 665 (9th Cir. 1977), vacated on other grounds, 431 U.S. 99 (1977). The same court, however, held in City of Santa Rosa v. EPA, 534 F.2d 150 (9th Cir. 1976), that the EPA may require gas rationing under its FIP authority. The court found that the Administrator of EPA has authority to limit gas delivery to retail outlets and may require the citizens of the State to curtail their gas usage. The FIP measure in City of Santa Rosa did not require the State to implement the gas rationing scheme, and the court distinguished Brown because the petitioners had challenged the effect of gas rationing, not EPA's authority to order rationing. Id. at 155. The Brown holding was similarly distinguished and limited by the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in United States v. Ohio Department of Highway Safety, 635 F.2d 1195 (6th Cir. 1980). The court upheld EPA's enforcement against the State under Section 113 of the Act for registering motor vehicles which did not pass an inspection and maintenance program promulgated by EPA. The court held that the State was interfering with EPA's implementation of a measure that had been promulgated under its federal authority. See also Pennsylvania v. EPA, 500 F.2d 246 (3d Cir. 1974). The court in Brown did not reach constitutional issues raised under the commerce clause. It is unclear, but unlikely, that requiring the State to implement FIP measures which mandate legislation and expenditure of funds would be struck down under the commerce clause. See Garcia v. San Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority, 469 U.S. 528 (1985) (holding that the federal government may require states to pay minimum wages and overtime pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act). However, even assuming that the commerce clause poses no such obstacle, nothing in the enactment of the 1990 Amendments casts doubt on the continued vitality of the Brown holdings with respect to the statutory limits on EPA's FIP authority. Thus, the constraints discussed above still apply. In short, EPA may require the state to legislate or expend funds that affect the state's own pollution creating activities. Although EPA may not require the state to legislate or spend money to govern the pollution creating activities of others, EPA may promulgate and implement such measures directly in a FIP and the State may not interfere with EPA's enforcement of those measures. B. Overview of Components of Each FIP 1. FIP Control Strategy a. Introduction. This NPRM addresses EPA's FIP obligations to prepare attainment demonstrations for ozone in Sacramento and Ventura, and for both ozone and carbon monoxide in the South Coast. EPA's task requires the Agency to complete four fundamental air quality planning activities: (1) Preparation of information on current and projected emissions of each precursor pollutant; (2) modeling assessment of the levels of these pollutants that must be reached for each area to attain the relevant NAAQS; (3) identification of control options sufficient to achieve the necessary reductions in emissions; and (4) drafting of federally enforceable regulations adequate to secure the reductions. In this section of the NPRM, EPA summarizes information used in establishing the technical foundations of the attainment demonstration: the sources of data on existing and future emissions, EPA adjustments to that data, and modeling analyses used to simulate the ambient consequences of emissions changes and to set the overall reduction targets for each precursor pollutant. The bulk of this section, however, presents the complete set of federal regulations for each area. The regulations themselves appear at the end of the NPRM, and they are further explained, in many cases, by technical support documents which are available as part of the docket for this NPRM. For each set of regulations, EPA has attempted to: (1) Specify clearly which sources are subject to the rule's requirements, and which are exempt; (2) describe in simple terms the most important source obligations, whether procedural or emissions related; (3) identify possible compliance options and estimated costs per unit of pollution reduced; and (4) characterize the emissions reduction benefits associated with the rule in each applicable FIP area.
