FR940610-0-00028 FR940610-0-00014 (iv) The President, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS), pursuant to the authority vested in the Secretary of Defense by 10 U.S.C. Chapter 104, except that the authority to appoint the President of the USUHS is reserved to the Secretary of Defense. (v) Such other subordinate officials as may be assigned. (3) Consult, as appropriate, with the Comptroller of the Department of Defense (C, DoD) and the Director, Program Analysis and Evaluation, to ensure that medical planning, programming, and budgeting activities are integrated with the DoD PPBS. The C, DoD, shall allocate and reallocate the funds in the Defense Health Program account and the medical facility military construction account among the DoD Components in accordance with ASD(HA) instructions, as coordinated with the USD(P&R), and applicable law. (4) Obtain through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, submissions of the operational and other needs of the Commanders of the Unified Combatant Commands, and obtain submissions from the Secretaries of the Military Departments of their proposed elements of the medical unified program and budget, and integrate those submissions as appropriate. (5) Coordinate and exchange information with other OSD officials and the Heads of DoD Components having collateral or related functions. (6) Use existing facilities and services of the Department of Defense and other Federal and non-Federal Agencies, whenever practicable, to achieve maximum efficiency and economy. (b) Other OSD officials and the Heads of the DoD Components shall coordinate with the ASD(HA) on all matters related to the responsibilities and functions in ยง367.3. ยง367.5 Authorities. The ASD(HA) is hereby delegated authority to: (a) Issue DoD Instructions, DoD publications, and one-time directive-type memoranda, consistent with DoD 5025.1&hyph;M 1 , that implement policy approved by the Secretary of Defense in assigned fields of responsibility. Instructions to the Military Departments shall be issued through the Secretaries of those Departments. Instructions to Unified Combatant Commands shall be communicated through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 1 Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. (b) Obtain reports, information, advice, and assistance, consistent with DoD Directive 8910.1 2 as necessary to carry out assigned functions. 2 See footnote 1 to ยง367.5(a). (c) Communicate directly with the Heads of the DoD Components. Communications to the Commanders of the Unified Combatant Commands shall be coordinated through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. (d) Make determinations on the uniform implementation of laws on separation from the Military Departments due to physical disability as prescribed in DoD Directive 1332.18 3 . 3 See footnote 1 to ยง367.5(a). (e) Develop, issue, and maintain regulations, with the coordination of the Military Departments, as necessary and appropriate to fulfill the Secretary of Defense's responsibility to administer 10 U.S.C. Chapter 55. (f) Establish arrangements for DoD participation in nondefense governmental programs for which the ASD(HA) has been assigned primary cognizance. (g) Communicate with other Government officials, representatives of the legislative branch, members of the public, and representatives of foreign governments, as appropriate, in carrying out assigned functions. Dated: June 6, 1994. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14085 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
