FR940826-0-00023 FR940826-0-00009 Statement of Consideration For the month of September 1994 this rule revises from 5 percent to 1 percent the requirements of the Chicago Regional order that pool supply plants ship to distributing plants a minimum percentage of receipts. For a unit of supply plants, the action reduces the required shipping percentage from 10 percent of the supply plants' receipts to 4 percent. A proposed revision for the month of August is found to be unnecessary because the order authorizes the market administrator to reduce the supply plant shipping percentages to a great enough degree to meet current market needs. The degree to which the market administrator is authorized to revise shipping requirements is, however, not great enough to meet the needs of the market for September. The temporary revision was requested by Central Milk Producers Cooperative (CMPC), a federation of cooperative associations that represent a substantial number of the producers who supply the market. CMPC contends that a reduction of the shipping percentages is necessary to prevent uneconomic shipments of milk from distant supply plants solely for pooling purposes. CMPC originally requested that the required supply plant shipping percentages be eliminated for September for both individual supply plants and supply plant units. After having the opportunity to see data for further months, however, the cooperative federation stated that the revision originally requested would be excessive in view of recent increases in production over the volume CMPC had projected and recent increased demand for milk for manufacturing uses. CMPC therefore recommended that the proposed reduction be modified to establish shipping standards of 1 percent for individual supply plants and 4 percent for units. Dean Foods, a large fluid milk handler regulated under the Chicago Regional order, supported CMPC's request for September. In view of the supply/demand relationship for the market the supply plant shipping percentages should be reduced for September 1994. A reduction of the shipping percentages will contribute to orderly marketing in that costly and inefficient shipments of milk from distant supply plants will not be necessary. Thus, dairy farmers who have supplied the market will continue to have their milk pooled under the order. The revision needed for September is greater than the market administrator is authorized to accomplish under the order. Therefore, it must be effectuated by the Director of the Dairy Division. After consideration of all relevant material, including the proposal set forth in the aforesaid notice, and other available information, it is hereby found and determined that the pool supply plant shipping percentage set forth in ยง1030.7(b) should be reduced for the month of September to 1 percent of individual supply plant receipts and 4 percent of supply plant unit receipts. It is hereby found and determined that 30 days' notice of the effective date hereof is impractical, unnecessary, and contrary to the public interest in that: (a) This revision is necessary to reflect current marketing conditions and to maintain orderly marketing conditions in the marketing area for the month of September; (b) This revision does not require of persons affected substantial or extensive preparation prior to the effective date; and (c) Notice of the proposed revision was given interested parties and they were afforded opportunity to file written data, views, or arguments concerning this revision. Two comments supporting the proposed revision were received, with no comments opposing. Therefore, good cause exists for making this revision effective less than 30 days from the date of publication in the Federal Register. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1030 Milk marketing orders. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the following provisions in Title 7, Part 1030, are amended as follows: PART 1030_MILK IN THE CHICAGO REGIONAL MARKETING AREA 1. The authority for 7 CFR Part 1030 continues to read as follows: Authority: Secs. 1&hyph;19, 48 Stat 31, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. ยง1030.7 [Amended] 2. In ยง1030.7(b), the introductory text is amended by changing the ``5 percent'' to ``1 percent'', and by changing the ``10 percent'' to ``4 percent'' for the period September 1, 1994, through September 30, 1994. 3. In ยง1030.7(b), the introductory text is amended by changing the ``1 percent'' to ``5 percent'', and by changing the ``4 percent'' to ``10 percent'', effective October 1, 1994. Dated: August 22, 1994. Silvio Capponi, Jr., Acting Director, Dairy Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21084 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;M
