FR940817-2-00246 FR940817-2-00113 4.1.3.2. Dosing scenario. The dosing strategy used in experimental studies is an important variable in the development and expression of neurotoxicity (WHO, 1986). Some neurotoxicants can produce neurotoxicity following a single exposure, while others require repeated dosing. Repeated dosing represents the typical pattern of human exposure to many chemical substances. Significant differences in response may occur when an acutely toxic quantity of material is administered over different exposure periods. For some neurotoxicants the onset of neurotoxicity can occur immediately after dosing, while others may require time after exposure for the toxicity to develop. Effects of repeated exposure may result in a progressive alteration in nervous system function or structure, while latent or residual effects may be discovered only in association with age-related changes or after suitable environmental or pharmacological challenge (Zenick, 1983; MacPhail et al., 1983). To ensure adequate assessment of neurotoxicity, study designs should include multiple dosing regimens, e.g., repeated exposure, with appropriate dose-to-response intervals of testing. Conduct of neurotoxicological evaluations in studies utilizing excessively toxic doses should be avoided. 4.1.3.3. Other factors. There are a number of other factors that should be considered in the design and interpretation of studies using animal models (WHO, 1986). Design factors include such issues as using properly trained personnel to conduct the studies, the use of appropriate numbers of animals per group to achieve reliable statistical significance, and controlling the time-of-day variability. Time of testing relative to exposure is also important for assessing neurotoxic endpoints such as behavior, and experiments should be designed to generate a time course of effects, including recovery of function, if any. Housing is an important environmental design factor, because animals housed individually and animals housed in groups can respond differently to toxic agents. Temperature, as an experimental variable, may also affect the outcome of neurotoxicological studies. The responsiveness to some chemicals (e.g., triethyltin, methamphetamine) varies with ambient temperature (Dyer and Howell, 1982; Bowyer et al., 1992). Some neurobiological endpoints, such as sensory evoked potentials, can be influenced by the endogenous temperature of the animal (Dyer, 1987). Therefore, changes in body temperature, whether due to fluctuations in ambient temperature or to some chemically induced effect such as inhibition of sweating, can confound the interpretation of measures such as evoked responses unless proper controls are included in the experimental design. Because a variety of other physiological changes can influence neuronal functions, it is important to recognize that chemical-related neurotoxicity could result from treatment-induced physiological changes, such as altered nutritional state (WHO, 1986). As part of a neurotoxicological profile, correlative measures, such as relative and absolute organ weights, food and water consumption, and body weight and weight gain, may be signs of physiological change associated with systemic toxicity and may be useful in determining the relative contribution of general toxicity. 4.1.3.4. Statistical considerations. Experimental designs for neurotoxicological studies are frequently complex, with two or more major variables (e.g., gender, time of testing) varying in any single experiment. In addition, such studies typically generate varying types of data, including continuous, dichotomous, and rank-order data. Knowledge and experience in experimental design and statistical analyses are important. There are several key statistical concepts that should be understood in neurotoxicological studies (WHO, 1986; Gad, 1989). The power, or probability, of a study to detect a true effect is dependent on the size of the study group, the frequency of the outcome variable in the general population, and the magnitude of effect to be identified. Statistical evaluation of a treatment-related effect involves the consideration of two factors or types of errors to be avoided. A Type I error refers to the attribution of an exposure-related neurotoxicological effect when none has occurred (false positive), while a Type II error refers to the failure to attribute an effect when an exposure-related effect has actually occurred (false negative). In general, the probability of a Type I error should not exceed 5 percent and the probability of a Type II error should not exceed 20 percent. Power is defined as one minus the probability of a Type II error. Determination of power also requires knowledge of the difference in magnitude of outcome measures observed between exposed and control groups and the variability of the outcome measure among subjects. The sample size required to achieve a given level of statistical power increases as variability increases or the difference between groups decreases. Continuous data (i.e., magnitude, rate, amplitude), if found to be normally distributed, can be analyzed with a general linear model using a grouping factor of dose and, if necessary, repeated measures across time. Post hoc comparisons between control and other treatment groups can be made following tests for overall significance. In the case of multiple endpoints within a series of evaluations, correction for multiple observations (e.g., Bonferroni's) might be necessary. Descriptive data (categorical) and rank data can be analyzed using standard nonparametric techniques. In some cases, if it is believed that the data fit the linear model, the categorical data modeling procedure can be used for weighted least-squares estimation of parameters for a wide range of general linear models, including repeated measures analyses. The weighted least-squares approach to categorical and rank data allows computation of statistics for testing the significance of sources of variation as reflected by the model. 4.2. Tiered Testing in Neurotoxicology The utility of tiered testing as an efficient and cost-effective approach to evaluate chemical toxicity, including neurotoxicity, has been recognized (NRC, 1975). Briefly, first-tier tests are designed to determine the presence or absence of neurotoxicity, while second- tier tests characterize the neurotoxic effect (NRC, 1992). There are at least two aspects of tiered testing, one involving the type of test used (Tilson, 1990a) and the other involving the dosing regimen (Goldberg and Frazier, 1989).
