FR941019-2-00167 FR941019-2-00089 Performance Standards for the Federal Acquisition System •Satisfy the Customer in Terms of Cost, Quality, and Timeliness of the Delivered Product or Service The principal customers for the product or service provided by the System are the users and line managers, acting on behalf of the American taxpayer. The System must be responsive and adaptive to customer needs, concerns, and feedback. Implementation of acquisition policies and procedures, as well as consideration of timeliness, quality, and cost throughout the process, must take into account the perspective of the user of the product or service. When selecting contractors to provide products or perform services, the government will use contractors who have a track record of successful past performance or who demonstrate a current superior ability to perform. The government must not hesitate to communicate with the commercial sector as early as possible in the acquisition cycle to help the government determine the capabilities available in the commercial marketplace. The government will maximize its use of commercial products and services in meeting Government requirements. It is the policy of the System to promote competition in the acquisition process. The System must perform in a timely, high quality, and cost-effective manner. All members of the Team are required to employ planning as an integral part of the overall process of acquiring products or services. Although advance planning is required, each member of the Team must be flexible in order to accommodate changing or unforeseen mission needs. Planning is a tool for the accomplishment of tasks, and application of its discipline should be commensurate with the size and nature of a given task. •Minimize Administrative Operating Costs In order to ensure that maximum efficiency is obtained, rules, regulations, and policies should be promulgated only when their benefits clearly exceed the costs of their development, implementation, administration, and enforcement. This applies to internal administrative processes, including reviews, and to rules and procedures applied to the contractor community. The System must provide uniformity where it contributes to efficiency or where fairness or predictability is essential. The System should also, however, encourage innovation, and local adaptation where uniformity is not essential. •Conduct Business With Integrity, Fairness, and Openness An essential consideration in every aspect of the System is maintaining the public's trust. Not only must the System have integrity, but the actions of each member of the Team must reflect that integrity. The foundation of integrity within the System is a competent, experienced, and well-trained, professional workforce. Accordingly, each member of the Team is responsible and accountable for the wise use of public resources as well as acting in a manner which maintains the public's trust. Fairness and openness require open communication among team members, internal and external customers, and the public. To achieve efficient operations, the System must shift its focus from ``risk avoidance'' to one of ``risk management.'' The cost to the taxpayer of attempting to eliminate all risk is prohibitive. The Executive Branch will accept and manage the risk associated with empowering local procurement officials to take independent action based on their professional judgment. •Fulfill Public Policy Objectives The System must support the attainment of public policy goals adopted by the Congress and the President. In attaining these goals, and in its overall operations, the process shall ensure the efficient use of public resources. Acquisition Team The purpose of defining the Federal Acquisition Team (Team) in the Acquisition Guiding Principles is to ensure that participants in the System are identified_beginning with the customer and ending with the contractor of the product or service. By identifying the team members in this manner, teamwork, unity of purpose and open communication among the members of the Team in sharing the vision and achieving the goal of the System are encouraged. Individual team members will participate in the acquisition process at the appropriate time.
