FR941202-0-00096 FR941202-0-00010 (4) The results of the first 3-month average emissions calculation. (f) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of §63.463 shall submit an annual report by February 1 of the year following the one for which the reporting is being made. This report shall include the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section. (1) A signed statement from the facility owner or his designee stating that, ``All operators of solvent cleaning machines have received training on the proper operation of solvent cleaning machines and their control devices sufficient to pass the test required in §63.463(d)(10).'' (2) An estimate of solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine during the reporting period. (3) The reports required under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section can be combined into a single report for each facility. (g) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of §63.464 shall submit a solvent emission report every year. This solvent emission report shall contain the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section. (1) The size and type of each unit subject to this subpart (solvent/air interface area or cleaning capacity). (2) The average monthly solvent consumption for the solvent cleaning machine in kilograms per month. (3) The 3-month monthly rolling average solvent emission estimates calculated each month using the method as described in §63.465(c). (4) The reports required under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section can be combined into a single report for each facility. (h) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine shall submit an exceedance report to the Administrator semiannually except when, the Administrator determines on a case-by-case basis that more frequent reporting is necessary to accurately assess the compliance status of the source or, an exceedance occurs. Once an exceedance has occurred the owner or operator shall follow a quarterly reporting format until a request to reduce reporting frequency under paragraph (i) of this section is approved. Exceedance reports shall be delivered or postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar half or quarter, as appropriate. The exceedance report shall include the applicable information in paragraphs (h) (1) through (3) of this section. (1) Information on the actions taken to comply with §63.463 (e) and (f). This information shall include records of written or verbal orders for replacement parts, a description of the repairs made, and additional monitoring conducted to demonstrate that monitored parameters have returned to accepted levels. (2) If an exceedance has occurred, the reason for the exceedance and a description of the actions taken. (3) If no exceedances of a parameter have occurred, or a piece of equipment has not been inoperative, out of control, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report. (i) An owner or operator who is required to submit an exceedance report on a quarterly (or more frequent) basis may reduce the frequency of reporting to semiannual if the conditions in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(3) of this section are met. (1) The source has demonstrated a full year of compliance without an exceedance. (2) The owner or operator continues to comply with all relevant recordkeeping and monitoring requirements specified subpart A (General Provisions) and in this subpart. (3) The Administrator does not object to a reduced frequency of reporting for the affected source as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of subpart A (General Provisions). (j) The Administrator has determined, pursuant to the criteria under section 502(a) of the Act, that an owner or operator of any batch cold solvent cleaning machine that is not itself a major source and that is not located at a major source, as defined under 40 CFR 70.2, is exempt from part 70 permitting requirements for that source.
