FR940110-1-00065 FR940110-1-00006 The Board's existing AHP regulation also includes as a threshold requirement the ability of the project to begin using Bank assistance within 12 months. See 12 CFR 960.5(a)(2)(iv). Since this involves the use of funds after a project has been approved for funding, it does not belong as a threshold requirement and has been omitted in this section of the proposed rule. The requirements under the proposed rule for use of funds under the AHP within a reasonable period of time after approval of the application are discussed below in the use and verification section. Finally, it has been suggested that a threshold criterion should be added requiring that the project costs set forth in the AHP application are reasonable and appropriate for the type and location of the housing. Section 10(j)(9)(F) of the Act requires the Board to establish maximum subsidy limitations under the AHP. 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(9)(F). Section 10(j)(9)(D) of the Act also requires the Board to ensure that a preponderance of assistance provided under the AHP is ultimately received by low- and moderate-income households. Id . Section 1430(j)(9)(D). Requiring that project costs be reasonable is one way of controlling the amount of AHP subsidies that fund a project in order to keep the project from being over-subsidized, and to ensure that a preponderance of the funds are being received by the ultimate households by lowering their housing costs and not providing undue benefit to the intermediaries in the development process. A project costs requirement is not explicitly prescribed in the threshold requirements under the Board's existing AHP regulation, although some Banks do currently review project costs to determine if they are reasonable under the feasibility requirement in the existing regulation. See 12 CFR 960.5(a)(2)(ii). The feasibility requirement as defined in the proposed rule would not incorporate a project costs limit requirement. The Board specifically requests comments on how the Banks currently deal with applications with excessive project costs, whether the project costs option discussed above should be required as a threshold criterion in approving AHP applications, and how such a requirement could be implemented by the Banks. 3. Scoring of AHP Applications Section 960.10(a) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank shall score AHP applications that satisfy all of the threshold criteria in proposed ยง960.9 according to the scoring methodology set forth in proposed ยง960.10, which shall be included in the Bank's approved AHP implementation plan. Section 960.10 of the proposed rule modifies the existing scoring methodology, and the Board specifically requests comments on this proposed new scoring methodology. a. Priority treatment and scoring. Section 960.10(b) of the proposed rule provides that each application is first evaluated to determine if it will receive priority treatment. The Board's existing AHP regulation contains seven priorities: Homeownership projects; rental projects; projects using government properties; projects with a non-profit or public agency sponsor; projects promoting empowerment; homeless housing projects; and projects meeting a Bank priority. Under the existing AHP regulation, an application must meet at least three of the seven priorities to receive priority treatment. The proposed rule would contain only five priorities. The proposed rule would eliminate the priorities for homeownership and rental properties because a project must be either a rental or homeownership project in order to qualify for AHP funding. The proposed rule would replace the empowerment and homeless housing priorities with a priority for ``special needs'' housing. In addition, the proposed rule would add a new priority for projects promoting economic mobility. Under ยง960.10(b) of the proposed rule, for purposes of determining priority, an application can receive a maximum of eight points for each of the five priority categories described below. A Bank in its AHP implementation plan shall define more specifically each of the five priority categories and explain specifically how points will be awarded for satisfying each category. An application will be deemed to meet a particular priority category if it is awarded at least four points for that priority category. Applications meeting at least two priority categories shall receive priority treatment. Section 960.10(c) of the proposed rule provides that applications that qualify for such priority treatment shall be scored before applications that do not qualify for priority treatment. The applications that do not qualify for priority treatment will not be scored unless there are insufficient priority treatment applications to utilize the total AHP funding amount for the funding cycle. Under the proposed rule, the total points available for the priorities would be increased from 25 to 40. Section 960.10(d) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank shall total the points received by each applicant for purposes of determining priority for all of the five priority categories and shall award 40 points to the application(s) that receive the highest number of total points, and the remaining application scores shall be adjusted and awarded points on a declining scale basis. The five priority categories are set forth below. (1) Government-owned properties. Applications for projects that finance the purchase or rehabilitation of housing owned or held by the United States Government or any agency or instrumentality of the United States, including but not limited to HUD, the RTC, Farmers Home Administration, Veterans Administration, Federal National Mortgage Association, or Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. (See proposed ยง960.10(d)(1).)
