FR941005-2-00004 FR941005-2-00003 Forest Service Intent to Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for the Clear Creek Skiing Corporation's Revised Master Development Plan; Arapaho National Forest; Loveland Basin and Loveland Valley Ski Areas; Clear Creek County, CO AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of Intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement. SUMMARY: The Arapaho and Roosevelt National Forests and Pawnee National Grassland is proposing to determine whether to approve a revision to the Master Development Plan for Loveland Basin and Loveland Valley Ski areas. The revision is to the Master Development Plan that was approved by the Forest Service on March 1, 1997. Loveland Basin and Loveland Valley ski areas are operated by Clear Creek Skiing Corporation and located entirely on National Forest System lands. Clear Creek Corporation was issued a 40-year permit on January 26, 1994 that included a clause requiring them to complete the Master Development Plan within 5 years. The Master Development Plan revision includes new skiing terrain, two new lifts, additional parking, upgraded base area facilities, lift replacements, additional snowmaking lines, and a backcountry ski touring area. The purpose of the actions proposed by Clear Creek Skiing Corporation is to provide the highest quality skiing experience by providing a wide variety of skiing experience, quality base area facilities, and balanced capacities. Some of the lifts at the ski areas are twenty years old or older and in need of replacement. The existing condition indicates a large imbalance of excess trail capacity over lift capacity. The replacement of several lifts with fixed-grip quad chairs will allow for greater life capacities. The addition of two new lifts, and the addition of new skiing terrain will allow a diversity of experience for beginner, intermediate and expert skiers. Additional snowmaking lines will allow for the coverage of high wear areas and for opening the ski areas early to accommodate large crowds during the holidays. Many of the facilities at the ski areas are in need of renovation and expansion to accommodate expected growth. The proposed action at Loveland Basin ski area is to (1) Replace three lifts with fixed-grip quad chairs, remove a poma lift, add a new lift to access 75 acres of difficult and extreme skiing; (2) Glade terrain to add 18 acres of additional skiing; (3) Add approximately 4,500 linear feet of subgrade piping for snowmaking under two chairlifts. No additional water diversion is required; (4) Replace, renovate and/or add to existing facilities including ticket office, rental and repair shop, retail sales and storage, and improvement of entry and skier plaza. The proposed action at Loveland Valley ski area is to (1) Replace one lift with a fixed-grip quad and add a new fixed-grip quad; (2) Add 71 acres of new terrain for easy and more difficult skiing; (3) Add snowmaking lines to cover 45 acres of the new terrain; (4) Add a ticketing and restroom facilities near the proposed new lift and an addition to the existing lodge for daycare and additional restaurant seating; (5) Add a 500-car parking lot above the existing eastern parking lot. Also proposed is providing guided backcountry skiing into the east face of Mount Trelease, adjacent to Loveland Basin ski area, located outside of the permit boundary but in an area designated as 1&hyph;B&hyph;2 which provides for potential winter sports sites in the Arapaho and Roosevelt and Pawnee National Grasslands Forest Plan of 1984. The purpose of the Environmental Impact Statement is to determine the environmental effects of the proposed action and of any reasonable alternative actions that would also achieve the purpose and need while addressing significant issues raised through public comment and agency review. The purpose of this Notice is to inform you that the Forest Service, with the assistance of a third party contractor, is soliciting your comments and concerns about this proposed action. The environmental analysis and decision-making process will include opportunities for public participation and comment so that people interested in this proposal may contribute to the final decision. The Forest Service is now seeking written comments and suggestions on the scope of the analysis. Comments relevant to scoping include: (1) Identifying potential issues, (2) identifying those issues to be analyzed in depth, (3) eliminating insignificant issues, (4) identifying additional alternatives to the proposed action that should be considered; (5) identifying potential environmental effects on the proposed action and alternatives. General notice to the public concerning the scope of the analysis will be provided by mailings, news releases and a field trip.
