FR940516-2-00052 FR940516-2-00042 The cooperative agreement will be awarded for a 12&hyph;17 month period. D. Statement of Funds Available and Matching Funds Requirement HHS intends to award one cooperative agreement resulting from this announcement. $50,000 has been set aside for one cooperative agreement to be awarded in FY 1994. Funds will be obligated fully at the time of award. This cooperative agreement will require a 2 to 1 match of private or local funding to federal funding. For example, to receive $50,000 of federal funds, an organization must have $100,000 of private or local funding. Nothing in this application should be construed as committing the Assistant Secretary to make an award. E. Application Processing 1. Applications will be initially screened for relevance to the interests and needs defined in Section A. If judged relevant, the application will be reviewed by a government review panel. Three (3) copies of each application are required. Applicants are encouraged to send an additional seven (7) copies of their application to ease processing, but applicants will not be penalized if these extra copies are not included. 2. Applications will be judged according to the criteria set forth in item 5 below. 3. An unacceptable rating on any individual criterion may render the application unacceptable. Consequently, applicants should take care to ensure that all criteria are fully addressed in the application. 4. Applications should be as brief and concise as possible. Applicants are encouraged to respond within 15 double-spaced types pages, exclusive of forms, abstract, curriculum vitae, and proposed budget. They should neither be unduly elaborate nor contain voluminous supporting documentation. 5. Criteria for Evaluation. Evaluation of applications will employ the following criteria. The relative weights are shown in parentheses. A. Goals, Objectives, and Need for Assistance. (10 points). i. Rationale. Is there a clear rationale for the project, including a documented need? ii. Goals and Objectives. Are the goals and objectives presented in observable, measurable terms, and how well do they reflect the specific program requirements delineated in the announcement? B. Project Design and Approach. (40 points). i. Strategic Plan. Do the planned activities match clearly with the needs of the field? Is there a clear mechanism for linking together the activities in the project? Is there a clear dissemination strategy? C. Organization and Staffing. (40 points). I. Staff. Are the number and type of staff positions sufficient to achieve project objectives? Do the staff have experience with comprehensive community change initiatives and with assessment issues? Does the work group represent the necessary perspectives? Does the work contain people with extensive expertise in this area? ii. Organizational Capacity. Does the organization demonstrate experience with the issues confronted in comprehensive community change initiatives? experience with issues related to the measurement and assessment issues? Does the organization demonstrate an ability to manage a complex multi-activity research project? Does the organization demonstrate connections to key audiences for dissemination? D. Budget. (10 points). Is the proposed budget reasonable and sufficient to ensure implementation? Are the required matching funds being provided and is this commitment reliable?
