FR940916-2-00104 FR940916-2-00083 Currently, PHLX Rule 1025 requires written procedures for the review and maintenance of customer options accounts. Specifically, paragraph (d) requires that backgrounds, financial information and copies of account statements respecting option-approved accounts be maintained at the branch office servicing that customer's account as well as at the principal supervisory office with jurisdiction over that branch office. The PHLX proposes that the requirement applicable to principal supervisory offices be amended to permit the required information to be maintained at another location, provided that the information is readily accessible and promptly retrievable. The record retention requirement applicable to branch offices remains unchanged, such that off-site record maintenance is not permissible. The PHLX states that the increasing use of computers, fax machines, optical disk and other technology coupled with the expense of storing records on-site have resulted in more member organizations storing records away from their principal supervisory offices. 2 The PHLX states that corresponding amendments to exchange option rules relating to customer account records are now required, and that the other self-regulatory organizations (``SROs'') have enacted similar amendments to their rules 3 or are proposing the same to their respective rules in order to maintain uniformity among the SROs respecting option account rules. 2 In June 1993, the Division of Market Regulation (``Division'') issued a no-action letter permitting broker-dealers to maintain certain records required by Rules 17a&hyph;3 and 17a&hyph;4 under the Act on optical disk technology, under certain conditions. See Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director, Division, Commission, to Michael D. Udoff, Chairman, Ad Hoc Record Retention Committee, Securities Industry Association, dated June 18, 1993. 3 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34564 (August 19, 1994), 59 FR 44442 (order approving File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;27). In view of technological advances, the Exchange believes that it is appropriate to permit the off-site storage of customer records previously required to be maintained at a principal supervisory office. Technological advances such as optical storage technology may enable broker-dealers to improve customer service, due to the speedier and higher quality access to records that optical disks afford. The Exchange also believes that off-site storage should not compromise the supervisory obligations of member/participant organizations because the customer information necessary to fulfill those responsibilities must be easily accessible and promptly retrievable. Accordingly, the Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and, in particular with Section 6(b)(5), in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, as well as to protect investors and the public interest. While facilitating the storage concerns and technological needs of member organizations whose principal supervisory offices would be affected, the PHLX believes that the proposed change to PHLX Rule 1025(d) should nevertheless safeguard the customer protection purposes of maintaining customer account information because the information would continue to be readily accessible and promptly retrievable, merely at a different, usually central, location. As a result, the PHLX believes that the Exchange's ability to investigate and access option customer account records would be preserved, and possibly enhanced, as computer technology advances. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The PHLX does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members Participants or Others No written comments were either received or requested. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reason for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) by order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by October 7, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22916 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
