FR940720-0-00111 FR940720-0-00007 EPA believes that the terms ``farm equipment'' and ``construction equipment'' are best identified by referring to the general use of the equipment. EPA does not believe that the de minimis approach suggested by PPEMA is an appropriate approach to defining these terms. EPA does not believe that a piece of equipment primarily used in non-construction or non-farming activities should be defined as construction or farm equipment merely because it is or could be used for some farm or construction applications. Such a definition would inappropriately expand the preempted categories. Similarly, EPA does not agree with CARB's initial proposal that equipment should be defined as farm and construction equipment only if more than 75 percent of the equipment is used in farm or construction. EPA believes that the 51 percent cutoff is a better measure of whether or not a piece of equipment is farm or construction equipment, especially given Congress's apparent intent to protect new farm and construction equipment from state regulation. If equipment is used more than half the time in farm or construction applications, then it should be considered farm or construction equipment even if it has some applications outside of the farm or construction area. A 75 percent threshold would be inappropriate because equipment that may be used regularly and predominantly in farm and construction applications could still be used enough in other applications to prevent a 75 percent threshold to be met. EPA believes its final decision on this issue will not unduly limit California's authority to control emissions from nonroad sources. Thus, EPA has decided to retain the 51 percent criterion for the primary use determination. It believes this criterion is in keeping with Congress's implicit goal of striking a balance between the competing interests of national uniformity of regulatory requirements and state control over sources of in-state pollution. This test still permits California to regulate new engines that are installed in machines used in farms or at construction sites if most of such engines are in equipment not used in those situations. Since the frequency with which multiple use equipment is used on farms or at construction sites ranges from ``almost never'' to ``every day'', it is clear that a line must be drawn somewhere along this continuum. Many comments were received addressing the selection of 51 percent as the primary use cut-off point. EPA selected it because it corresponds to a bare ``majority''. As noted previously, PPEMA would like to see this limit lowered to de minimis amounts. This would mean that equipment used more often than this small amount in preempted categories would be judged farm or construction equipment and thus its regulation would be preempted. Therefore, under such a limit, items such as lawn mowers and hedge trimmers could be judged farm or construction equipment. EPA believes that this result, and such a low threshold by which a lawn mower could be considered a piece of farm or construction equipment, is not consistent with Congressional intent of preempting state regulation of new farm and construction equipment. No matter what number is chosen as the cutoff there will always be some categories of equipment that fall just above or just below the line. No commenter has made a strong case for why EPA should select a cut-off point other than the 51 percent cut-off. EPA notes CARB's most recent submittal, dated July 20, 1993, 27 (see discussion below) which recognizes the use of a primary use test by EPA. 27 See Letter from Tom Cackette, CARB to Richard Wilson, EPA, Docket entry IV-I&hyph;52. This letter discusses an agreement between CARB and certain industry representatives regarding whether certain equipment types should or should not be considered farm or construction equipment, subject to EPA's review.
