FR941107-2-00063 FR941107-2-00024 These conditions can occur during winters characterized by periodic light rain but overall drier-than-normal conditions. As a result, the current Subregional System is weather-dependent, leaving it without a reliable, legally sanctioned wastewater disposal option. By 1999 the City of Santa Rosa must put in place a disposal solution to meet future capacity needs, no matter what weather conditions occur. The purpose of the Santa Rosa Subregional Long-Term Wastewater Project is to provide this solution. The DA permit application will be processed by the Regulatory Branch of the San Francisco District, Corps of Engineers, pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 (33 U.S.C. 403) and Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1344). In accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ) the Corps of Engineers has determined that the proposed action may have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment and therefore requires the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement. A combined EIS/EIR (Environmental Impact Report) will be prepared with the Corps of Engineers as the Federal lead agency and the City of Santa Rosa as the lead agency for the EIR. 2. Alternatives The Project alternatives under consideration are: a. No Project/No Action b. South County Reclamation c. Community Separator/South County Reclamation d. West County Reclamation e. Geysers Recharge f. 20% Maximum Russian River Discharge g. Other project proposals that are identified as feasible during the public scoping process Components of the alternatives to be analyzed for the Project may include: water conservation through compliance with state regulations and an expanded subregional retrofit program; expanded agricultural irrigation; flow augmentation of existing streams during periods of low flow; increased storage capacity, including new reservoir sites or use of below ground aquifers; expanded urban irrigation reuse; injection and reuse of treated wastewater at the Sonoma Geysers; and increased discharge to the Russian River (up to a maximum of 20 percent of river flow) either directly, through rapid infiltration in the river plain, or through the Laguna de Santa Rosa. 3. Scoping Process Pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act, as amended, agency planning for Federal or Federally permitted projects must include a ``scoping'' process. Scoping primarily involves determining the scope of issues to be addressed, and identifying the significant issues for in-depth analysis in the Draft EIS. The scoping process includes public participation to integrate information regarding public needs and concerns into the environmental document. The Corps of Engineers and the City of Santa Rosa will hold public scoping meetings on November 17, 1994 at 3 pm and 7 pm at the Steele Lane Recreation Center, 415 Steele Lane, Santa Rosa, California 95403. A formal presentation will precede the request for public comment. Representatives from the Corps of Engineers, the City of Santa Rosa, and Harland Bartholomew & Associates (the consultant preparing the EIS/EIR) will be available at these meetings to receive comments from the public regarding issues of concern that should be addressed in the environmental document. Further public participation is planned, but not currently scheduled. Agencies and the public are also invited and encouraged to provide written comments in addition to, or in lieu of, oral comments at the scoping meetings. To be most helpful, the scoping comments should clearly describe specific environmental issues or topics which the commentator believes the document should address. Written comments should be mailed no later than December 1, 1994 to the District Engineer, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, San Francisco District, 211 Main Street, San Francisco, California, 94105 ATTN: Wade Eakle. a. Significant Issues The following issues have been identified as potentially significant and will be evaluated in the Draft EIS/EIR. However, the scope of analysis is not limited to these issues. (1) Geologic conditions (2) Hydrology, water quality and supply (3) Traffic and transportation
