FR940720-2-00095 FR940720-2-00068 NRC Project Director: William D. Beckner. Philadelphia Electric Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;352, Limerick Generating Station, Unit 1, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania Date of amendment request: June 6, 1994. Description of amendment request: The amendment would remove the controls for a remote shutdown system control valve and delete the isolation signal for certain primary containment isolation valves from TS Tables 3.3.7.4&hyph;1 and 3.6.3&hyph;1 respectively, as a result of eliminating the steam condensing mode of the Redidual Heat Removal system. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed Technical Specifications (TS) changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The RHR system steam condensing mode is a non-safety related function of the RHR system and has been eliminated at Limerick Generating Station, Unit 1. These proposed changes will not affect any components required to perform the safety-related function of the RHR system. The ability of the RHR system to respond to an accident will not be degraded by the proposed changes. Valve HV&hyph;51&hyph;1F011A is locked closed with the electrical power removed. The valve's handswitch which is part of the remote shutdown panel (RSP) controls, does not perform any function and will be physically removed from the RSP. The deletion of the isolation signal for valves HV&hyph;C&hyph;51&hyph;1F103A and HV&hyph;C&hyph;51&hyph;1F104B will not affect the ability of these valves to function as primary containment isolation valves (PCIVs), since they are locked closed already in their safety-related position, providing containment isolation as manual PCIVs. Therefore, the proposed TS changes do not involve an increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed TS changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. No new failure modes of RHR system are created by the proposed TS changes. All valves associated with the proposed changes are dedicated specifically for the RHR system steam condensing mode, and will not impact the operation of any components or piping required for other modes of operation of the RHR system. These valves are locked-closed in their safety-related position with the electrical power removed. Therefore, the proposed TS changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. 3. The proposed TS changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The steam condensing mode is a non-safety related function of the RHR system and, therefore, is not addressed in the TS. The controls for remote shutdown system control valve HV&hyph;51&hyph;1F011A are not being used. Presently, the valve is locked closed with the electrical power removed and the valve's handswitch will be removed from the RSP, since it does not perform any function. The proposed changes will not impact the safe operation of LGS Unit 1. The deletion of the isolation signal for valves HV&hyph;C&hyph;51&hyph;1F103A and HV-C&hyph;51&hyph;1F104B will not affect the ability of these valves to function as primary containment isolation valves (PCIVs), since they are locked closed already in their safety-related position. Therefore, the proposed TS changes do not involve a reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Pottstown Public Library, 500 High Street, Pottstown, Pennsylvania 19464. Attorney for licensee: J. W. Durham, Sr., Esquire, Sr. V.P. and General Counsel, Philadelphia Electric Company, 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101. NRC Project Director: Charles L. Miller. Philadelphia Electric Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;352, Limerick Generating Station, Unit 1, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania
