FR940707-2-00117 FR940707-2-00053 Advisory Committees; Notice of Meetings AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice announces forthcoming meetings of public advisory committees of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This notice also summarizes the procedures for the meetings and methods by which interested persons may participate in open public hearings before FDA's advisory committees. MEETING: The following advisory committee meetings are announced: Subcommittee Meeting of the National Task Force on AIDS Drug Development on Drug Development Issues Date, time, and place . July 19, 1994, 12:30 p.m., Sheraton National Hotel, 900 South Orme St., Arlington, VA. Type of meeting and contact person . Open subcommittee discussion, 12:30 p.m. to 2 p.m.; open public hearing, 2 p.m. to 3 p.m., unless public participation does not last that long; Jean H. McKay, Office of AIDS and Special Health Issues (HF&hyph;12), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;0104. General function of the task force . The National Task Force on AIDS Drug Development shall identify any barriers and provide creative options for the rapid development and evaluation of treatments for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and its sequelae. It also advises on issues related to such barriers, and provides options for the elimination of these barriers. Open task force discussion . The subcommittee will present, hear, and discuss issues on the barriers to the development of drugs for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) from the perspective of the subcommittee members, members of the Federal government, and the public. Agenda_Open public hearing . Interested persons may present data, information, or views, orally or in writing, on issues pending before the task force. Those desiring to make formal presentations should notify the contact person before July 13, 1994, and submit a brief statement of the general nature of the evidence or arguments they wish to present, the names and addresses of proposed participants, and an indication of the approximate time required to make their comments. Subcommittee Meeting of the National Task Force on AIDS Drug Development on Public/Private Issues Date, time, and place . July 19, 1994, 1 p.m., Sheraton National Hotel, South Ballroom, 900 South Orme St., Arlington, VA. Type of meeting and contact person . Open subcommittee discussion, 1 p.m. to 3 p.m.; open public hearing, 3 p.m. to 4 p.m., unless public participation does not last that long; Jean H. McKay, Office of AIDS and Special Health Issues (HF&hyph;12), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;0104. General function of the task force . The National Task Force on AIDS Drug Development shall identify any barriers and provide creative options for the rapid development and evaluation of treatments for HIV infection and its sequelae. It also advises on issues related to such barriers, and provides options for the elimination of these barriers. Open task force discussion . The subcommittee will present, hear, and discuss issues on the barriers to collaboration on AIDS drug development from the perspective of the subcommittee members, members of the Federal government, and the public. Agenda_Open public hearing . Interested persons may present data, information, or views, orally or in writing, on issues pending before the task force. Those desiring to make formal presentations should notify the contact person before July 13, 1994, and submit a brief statement of the general nature of the evidence or arguments they wish to present, the names and addresses of proposed participants, and an indication of the approximate time required to make their comments. FDA public advisory committee meetings may have as many as four separable portions: (1) An open public hearing, (2) an open committee discussion, (3) a closed presentation of data, and (4) a closed committee deliberation. Every advisory committee meeting shall have an open public hearing portion. Whether or not it also includes any of the other three portions will depend upon the specific meeting involved. There are no closed portions for the meetings announced in this notice. The dates and times reserved for the open portions of each committee meeting are listed above. The open public hearing portion of each meeting shall be at least 1 hour long unless public participation does not last that long. It is emphasized, however, that the 1 hour time limit for an open public hearing represents a minimum rather than a maximum time for public participation, and an open public hearing may last for whatever longer period the committee chairperson determines will facilitate the committee's work. Public hearings are subject to FDA's guideline (subpart C of 21 CFR part 10) concerning the policy and procedures for electronic media coverage of FDA's public administrative proceedings, including hearings before public advisory committees under 21 CFR part 14. Under 21 CFR 10.205, representatives of the electronic media may be permitted, subject to certain limitations, to videotape, film, or otherwise record FDA's public administrative proceedings, including presentations by participants. Meetings of advisory committees shall be conducted, insofar as is practical, in accordance with the agenda published in this Federal Register notice. Changes in the agenda will be announced at the beginning of the open portion of a meeting. Any interested person who wishes to be assured of the right to make an oral presentation at the open public hearing portion of a meeting shall inform the contact person listed above, either orally or in writing, prior to the meeting. Any person attending the hearing who does not in advance of the meeting request an opportunity to speak will be allowed to make an oral presentation at the hearing's conclusion, if time permits, at the chairperson's discretion. The agenda, the questions to be addressed by the committee, and a current list of committee members will be available at the meeting location on the day of the meeting. Transcripts of the open portion of the meeting may be requested in writing from the Freedom of Information Office (HFI&hyph;35), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 12A&hyph;16, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, approximately 15 working days after the meeting, at a cost of 10 cents per page. The transcript may be viewed at the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857, approximately 15 working days after the meeting, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Summary minutes of the open portion of the meeting may be requested in writing from the Freedom of Information Office (address above) beginning approximately 90 days after the meeting. This notice is issued under section 10(a)(1) and (2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. app. 2), and FDA's regulations (21 CFR part 14) on advisory committees. Dated: June 30, 1994. Linda A. Suydam, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16366 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
