FR940110-1-00113 FR940110-1-00009 We believe this proposed change, which provides Appeals Officers a specific and limited authority, will improve both the quality and efficiency of the service the Appeals Council is able to provide. The proposed change should allow the Council to give the public a more timely response to their requests for review and increase the ability of the AAJs to carry out their important function of providing review of many ALJ decisions. Although the Appeals Officer under the proposed rule would have authority to deny a request for review of an ALJ decision, he or she may also refer a particular case to an AAJ with a recommendation if it involves complex factual issues or complicated interpretative issues of law and/or regulations. In addition, all cases in which an analyst in OHA's Office of Appellate Operations prepares a recommendation to grant a request for review will be submitted directly to an AAJ for disposition. We believe this process will serve two purposes: (1) It will expedite bringing the ``close cases,'' which are normally more complex, to the AAJ's attention; and (2) it will allow the AAJs to focus on those cases raising significant issues. We propose to make this change in the regulation concerning the operating procedures of the Appeals Council under the provisions of sections 205, 1102, and 1631 of the Act. These statutory sections give the Secretary broad regulatory authority to establish procedures that are necessary and appropriate to carry out the Act's provisions. Regulatory Provisions The proposed rule will enable the Appeals Officers to decide whether a request for review of an ALJ decision should be denied, thereby making the decision of the ALJ the final decision of the Secretary for the purpose of any request for judicial review which a party to the decision may decide to file under section 205(g) of the Act. The Appeals Officers will not have authority to grant a request for review, to decide to review a case on the Appeals Council's own motion, to remand a case to an ALJ, to grant or to deny a request to review a hearing dismissal, or to issue a final decision. The authority to exercise those powers of the Council will remain exclusively with the AAJs. Appeals Officers will be required to apply the same criteria as the AAJs in determining whether to deny a request for review. The Appeals Officers will apply the provisions of §§404.970 and 416.1470, which specify when the Appeals Council will review a case, in determining the appropriate action. Judges,'' or by the proposed change to expand the authority of the Appeals Officers, who organizationally are part of the Council. Regulatory Procedures Regulatory Flexibility Act We generally prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis that is consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 601 through 612) unless the Secretary certifies that a rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Individuals are not included in the definition of a small entity. However, for purposes of the RFA, we consider the majority of Medicare providers, physicians and suppliers to be small entities. Inasmuch as the proposed rule does not alter the standards for Appeals Council review, we believe that it will have little, if any, effect on providers, physicians and suppliers which substantial number of small entities. Individuals are not included in the definition of a small entity. However, for purposes of the RFA, we consider the majority of Medicare providers, physicians and suppliers to be small entities. Inasmuch as the proposed rule does not alter the standards for Appeals Council review, we believe that it will have little, if any, effect on providers, physicians and suppliers which request Appeals Council review of Medicare claims. Accordingly, we have determined, and the Secretary certifies, that this proposed rule will not result in a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Therefore, we have not prepared an RFA analysis. Paperwork Reduction Act This regulation imposes no new reporting or recordkeeping requirements requiring Office of Management and Budget clearance. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Nos. 93.773 and 93.774, Medicare; Reporting and recordkeeping requirements; 93.802&hyph;93.805 Social Security; and 93.807 Supplemental Security.)
