FR940303-2-00124 FR940303-2-00071 [Docket No. NRTL&hyph;2&hyph;92] Canadian Standards Association AGENCY: Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Labor. ACTIONS: Notice of application for recognition as a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory, and preliminary finding. SUMMARY: This notice announces the application of the Canadian Standards Association for recognition as a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL) under 29 CFR 1910.7, and presents the Agency's preliminary finding. DATES: The last date for interested parties to submit comments is May 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments to: NRTL Recognition Program, Office of Variance Determination, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., room N3653, Washington, DC 20210. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Office of Variance Determination, NRTL Recognition Program, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., room N3653, Washington, DC 20210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Notice of Application Notice is hereby given that the Canadian Standards Association (CSA) has made application pursuant to section 6(b) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, (84 Stat. 1593, 29 U.S.C. 655), Secretary of Labor's Order No. 1&hyph;90 (55 FR 9033), and 29 CFR 1910.7 for recognition of the following facilities as a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory. The addresses of the laboratories covered by this application are: Canadian Standards Association, Pointe-Claire (Montreal) Facility, 865 Ellingham Street, Pointe-Claire (Montreal), Quebec H9R 5E8, Canada. Canadian Standards Association, Richmond (Vancouver) Facility, 13799 Commerce Parkway, Richmond (Vancouver), British Columbia V6V 2N9, Canada. Canadian Standards Association, Edmonton Facility, 1707&hyph;94th Street, Edmonton, Alberta T6N 1E6, Canada. Canadian Standards Association, Moncton Facility, 40 Rooney Cresent, Moncton, New Brunswick E1E 4M3, Canada. Canadian Standards Association, Winnipeg Facility, 50 Paramount Road, Winnipeg, Manitoba R2X 2W3, Canada. CSA originally applied for recognition as an NRTL in 1989. In order to expedite the recognition procedure, CSA subsequently amended its application to allow the Agency to follow a multi-phase approach. Thus CSA requested initial recognition for its Rexdale (Toronto) facility only and requested that the scope of the application be limited to in-house testing only. CSA's Rexdale (Toronto) facility was accredited by OSHA as an NRTL on December 24, 1992 (57 FR 61452). The second phase of the CSA recognition involves the CSA facilities listed above and this recognition would also be limited to in-house testing only. It is contemplated that recognition of CSA's overseas facilities will be handled separately in a third phase in the future. Regarding the merits of this application, the Canadian Standards Association contends that it meets the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.7 for recognition in the areas of testing which it has specified. The applicant states that for each item of equipment or material to be certified, it has the capability (including proper testing equipment and facilities, trained staff, written testing procedures, and calibration and quality control programs) to perform testing and examination of equipment and materials for workplace safety purposes to determine conformance with appropriate test standards. CSA's application contains sections dealing with background and history; the Certification and Testing (C&T) Division structure; affiliation including a statement of independence; personnel, including experience and expertise, training, a list of key personnel, position descriptions and resumes; the certification process, including testing and evaluation, certification, reports and records and the service agreement; the field services program, including follow-up inspections, re-examination testing and field monitoring; certification services, including prototype (model) certification; testing experience, including recognition by other bodies; control programs, including the quality assurance program, control of technical and quality records, handling and storage/packaging and shipping, and test procedures; laboratory test equipment and calibration of this equipment; facilities; and, finally, CSA's appeal process, the comprehensive system for handling complaints and ultimately providing an unbiased review of any controversial matter.
