FR940405-2-00055 FR940405-2-00031 FCC Cable Forms AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This document summarizes the revised regulations that will govern cable service rate regulations by local and federal officials. As a result of these Commission actions, several FCC forms were developed in order for the Commission to assess whether rates for regulated basic cable services and rates for regulated cable programming services are reasonable. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 5, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael Rugar at 202&hyph;416&hyph;0856. For copies of the forms, call 202&hyph;416&hyph;0919. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a synopsis of the rate regulation forms developed in response to actions taken in MM Docket No. 92&hyph;266, MM Docket 92&hyph;262 and MM Docket No. 93&hyph;215, adopted February 22, 1994. 1 1 Not published in the Federal Register . 1. The Commission adopted a Second Order on Reconsideration, Fourth Report and Order, and Fifth Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in MM Docket No. 92&hyph;266. The Second Order on Reconsideration describes revised regulations that will govern cable service rate regulation by local and federal officials. These regulations will be used by cable operators to assess whether rates for regulated basic cable services and rates for regulated cable programming services are reasonable. Generally, the Commission refined and improved its statistical and economic analysis of the cable industry, and adopted a new benchmark formula which will replace the old benchmark formula after May 15, 1994. The benchmark formula is based on the competitive differential between rates charged by cable systems subject to effective competition and those charged by systems not subject to effective competition, and establishes maximum permitted levels for regulated cable service rates. The Commission has established a price cap mechanism to govern regulated cable service rates on a going-forward basis. The revised regulations also include rules governing permitted rate adjustments for changes in inflation, and permitted rate adjustments for changes in external costs, for instance, programming costs associated with new and existing programming, retransmission consent fees, and taxes imposed on the provision of cable service. The Fourth Report and Order describes revised regulations to govern permitted rate adjustments when operators seek to add or delete channels on regulated service tiers. 2. The Commission also adopted a Third Order on Reconsideration in MM Docket Nos. 92&hyph;266 and 92&hyph;262 in which it, inter alia, refined the calculations necessary to determine permitted equipment and installation costs. The 1992 Cable Act requires equipment and installation rates be based on actual cost. Pursuant to this Order, cable operators must generally calculate and provide their equipment and installation charges on several occasions: (1) When establishing maximum initial permitted rates for regulated cable services because Commission rules require operators to separate out equipment and installation rates in the determination of initial regulated rates for basic cable service, and (2) to update equipment and installation charges on an annual basis. 3. Finally, the Commission also adopted a Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rule Making in MM Docket No. 93&hyph;215 regarding cost-based cable regulation. In that document, the Commission adopted rules and procedures for cost of service rate showings. Under these regulations, a cable operator may request relief from the required reduction in rates by showing that its costs of service are unusually high. This approach balances the interests of the cable operators and their customers, permitting operators to recover from customers only the reasonable costs of providing regulated services, including operating expenses and a reasonable rate of return. The Commission provided for reduced showings by small cable systems seeking to justify rates based on costs. Small systems can use a form that calls for significantly less information in cost showings than other operators. This reduces the regulatory burden on those businesses. 4. To implement the rules adopted in MM Docket No. 92&hyph;266, the Commission has developed the following forms. 5. FCC Form 1200, Setting Maximum Initial Permitted Rates for Regulated Cable Services and Equipment Pursuant to Rules Adopted February 22, 1994 (the ``First Time Filers Form''). This form is designed to collect information sufficient to permit an operator regulated by a local franchise authority or the FCC to calculate figures relating to regulated revenues per subscriber as of March 31, 1994, figures relating to the benchmark as of that date, and figures relating to the Full Reduction Rate, which reflects application of the full 17 percent competitive differential. This form then compares these sets of figures to derive the maximum permitted rates for regulated cable services as of May 15, 1994. The form will be filed with local franchising authorities (or the FCC in limited circumstances) in response to basic service rate regulation, and with the FCC in response to cable programming service rate complaints. OMB Control Number: 3060&hyph;0571, estimated annual burden: 11,200 responses; 20 hours per response; 224,000 hours total annual burden.
