FR940926-0-00063 FR940926-0-00012 50 CFR Part 17 Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the California Condor (Gymnogyps californianus) for Review and Comment agency: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. action: Notice of availability. summary: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the California Condor (Gymnogyps californianus). Recovery recommendations in the draft plan would likely affect six Southern California counties; Ventura, Los Angeles, Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, Kern and Tulare. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. dates: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received by November 25, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. addresses: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contracting: Craig A. Faanes, Field Supervisor, Ecological Services, Ventura Field Office, 2140 Eastman Avenue, Suite 100, Ventura, California 93003, or telephone (805) 644&hyph;1766. Written comments and materials regarding the draft plan should be addressed to the above address. Comments and materials received are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. for further information contact: Robert Mesta, Condor Program Coordinator, at the above address or telephone (805) 644&hyph;1766. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened animal or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comment into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. As a result of illegal shooting, poisoning, collisions with man-made structures and the loss of habitat, the California condor was extirpated from the wild in 1987. The last wild condor was captured and brought into a captive breeding program in an attempt to save the species from extinction. The California Condor Recovery Plan outlines recovery actions to re-establish the California condor in the wild. The recovery actions will be concentrated in the following six Southern California counties; Ventura, Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, Los Angeles, Kern, and Tulare. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority: The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531). Dated: September 17, 1994. Michael J. Spear, Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23721 Filed 9&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
