FR940419-0-00069 FR940419-0-00019 39. Cost to Contractors Associated With Requesting Approval for Future Work After Contract Performance Several comments were received concerning the reimbursement of costs associated with the submission of LOFC requests, filed after the expiration of the EPA contract. Another commenter expressed concern about costs contractors may incur as a result of involvement in future litigation matters. The LOFC clause identifies work that is high risk to the Agency. The purpose of this clause is to avoid conflicts that jeopardize the Superfund program and EPA's enforcement efforts. After expiration of the contract or work assignment, contractors only have to request approval for future contracting identified in the LOFC clause. Costs associated with this approval process should be minimal and would be performed as a part of the normal bid and proposal effort. The issue of costs associated with future involvement in litigation matters is not within the scope of this rule. However, generally if EPA requires expert witness or special litigation support for a Superfund case, it would enter into a contract for such services. For costs associated with other witness testimony, the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure or the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure would apply. 40. FAR Coverage of Paperwork One commenter stated that the FAR requires detailed paperwork only when necessary to examine ``significant potential conflicts'' and to determine appropriate mitigation measures. We agree. In accordance with FAR section 9.505, EPA's Contracting Officers examine each situation on the basis of its particular facts and exercise common sense, good judgment and sound discretion in order to minimize the paperwork burden. Only information which is sufficient to permit the Contracting Officer to identify and evaluate conflicts of interest shall be requested. 41. Paperwork Requirement and EPA Objectives One commenter stated that the paperwork required violates the Paperwork Reduction Act and is unnecessary to achieve EPA's program objectives. We do not agree. EPA has not violated the Paperwork Reduction Act and has made every effort to minimize the paperwork burden associated with this rule consistent with achieving its objectives in the area of conflict of interest. The final rule reflects a substantial reduction in the paperwork burden to contractors participating in EPA's procurement program. 42. Paperwork Burden Concerns Many commenters expressed concerns about the burden the rule would impose upon contractors. Several commenters stated that EPA's burden estimate was too low. One commenter stated that its conflict of interest review effort required much less time than that which was estimated by EPA. Others offered suggestions on how EPA could reduce the paperwork burden and still accomplish its objectives. These suggestions included elimination of duplicative certifications. EPA has considered these suggestions and has made significant reductions to the paperwork burden associated with this rule. Under the final rule, contractors will not be required to submit certifications on both an annual and a work assignment basis. In addition, the work plan certification requirement has been eliminated from the proposed rule's amendment to the work assignment clause. Under the final rule, a single certification will be submitted within twenty days from the time the contractor receives the work assignment, and it will cover conflicts of interest for all effort to be performed or related to sites under the work assignment. Furthermore, if a subsequent work assignment is issued to the contractor under the same contract for additional work at the same site, an additional certification for the new work assignment is not required. The initial certification is sufficient because it requires a continuing obligation by the contractor to report any conflicts associated with the site(s). The paperwork burden associated with the LOFC clause and its alternates has been reduced because the time frames for requesting approval commence at the conclusion of the work assignment instead of the expiration date of the contract. In many cases, this will reduce the LOFC request period by several years. In the final rule, EPA has also eliminated the requirement for an annual update of the conflict of interest plan in order to reduce reporting requirements.
