FR940524-2-00130 FR940524-2-00068 Tuesday May 24, 1994 Part VI Department of Commerce International Trade Administration Consortia of American Businesses in the Newly Independent States Announcement of Availability of Funds; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 99␣/␣Tuesday, May 24, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE International Trade Administration [940531&hyph;4131] Consortia of American Businesses in the Newly Independent States Announcement of Availability of Funds AGENCY: International Trade Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This is a notice of availability of Federal funds for the Consortia of American Businesses in the Newly Independent States (CABNIS) program to assist U.S. firms in establishing a commercial presence in the former Soviet Union. CABNIS is a program designed to assist U.S. firms in establishing a commercial presence in the Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union (NIS). Through CABNIS funding, non-profit organizations form business consortia to promote the sale of U.S. goods and services in the NIS. The participants in such CABNIS consortia are for-profit U.S. firms interested in trade with the NIS. CABNIS recipients establish consortia offices and staff in the NIS to provide a broad range of services for their for-profit member firms, including market research; sales promotion; communication of sales, joint venture and investment opportunities; identification of and introduction to potential buyers and trade contacts; staging trade and technical missions and seminars; provision or arrangement of necessary legal services; and other export trade facilitation services. Through the CABNIS program, Federal funds are awarded as seed money to help pay the start-up costs of establishing and operating U.S. consortia offices in the NIS. A CABNIS consortium can be organized along a single industry line or represent more than one business sector. There is no limitation on the number of for-profit firms that a consortium may represent. DATES: Competitive Application Kits (Application Kit # 410&hyph;3172) will be available from Commerce starting May 24, 1994. Applications are to be received at the address designated in the Application Kit no later than 3PM E.D.T. July 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: To obtain a copy of the Application Kit # 410&hyph;3172, please send a written request with two self-addressed mailing labels to Ms. W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, room 1800 HCHB, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Only written requests will be honored; telephone, fax, or walk-in requests will not be accepted. Only one copy of the Application Kit will be mailed promptly to each organization requesting it, but it may be reproduced by the requester.
