FR940825-1-00062 FR940825-1-00008 (c) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (iii) A new member is added to the family in which case evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status also shall be submitted, in accordance with part 200, subpart G, of this chapter. * * * * * (e) *␣*␣* Eligibility for assistance under this subpart also requires citizenship or eligible immigration status, as determined in accordance with part 200, subpart G, of this chapter, except that citizenship or eligible immigration status shall not be required of a mortgagor whose assistance contract was executed before [insert the effective date of the final rule] and remains unchanged after that date. (See §235.13(c).) * * * * * 11. A new §235.13 would be added to read as follows: §235.13 Special requirements concerning citizenship or eligible immigration status. (a) General. Except as may be supplemented by the provisions of this section, the requirements of 24 CFR part 200, subpart G, concerning restrictions on the use of assisted housing by noncitizens with ineligible immigration status are applicable to mortgagees and mortgagors covered by the Section 235 Program with the exception of mortgagors: (1) Whose assistance contracts were executed before [insert the effective date of the final rule] and remain unchanged after that date; or (2) Who refinance their section 235 mortgages, which were executed before [insert effective date of final rule] and whose assistance contracts were unchanged after that date, with mortgages insured under section 235(r) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z). (b) Notification of requirements to submit evidence of eligible status _(1) Notice to applicants. A mortgagee shall notify applicants, including applicants whose names are on a waiting list on [insert the effective date of the final rule], that financial assistance is contingent upon the submission and verification, as appropriate, of evidence of eligible citizenship and immigration status as required under 24 CFR part 200, subpart G. (2) Notice to mortgagors. A mortgagee also shall notify mortgagors (except Section 235(r) mortgagors) whose contracts are executed after [insert the effective date of the final rule] that continued financial assistance is contingent upon the submission and verification, as appropriate, of the evidence of eligible status required in 24 CFR part 200, subpart G. This notice requirement also shall apply to mortgagors whose contracts are revised, at the request of the mortgagor, after [insert the effective date of the final rule]. (c) Submission of evidence of eligible status _(1) When evidence of eligible immigration status is to be submitted. A mortgagee shall obtain evidence concerning an applicant or mortgagor's citizenship or eligible immigration status, as required by 24 CFR part 200, subpart G, at the following times: (i) Application for assistance; and (ii) The first recertification of family income and composition conducted after [insert the effective date of the final rule], in accordance with §235.10 or §235.350. The requirements of this section are not applicable to mortgagors whose assistance contracts were executed before [insert the effective date of the final rule] and remain unchanged after that date, or to mortgagors who refinance their section 235 mortgages, which were executed before [insert the effective date of the final rule] and whose assistance contracts remain unchanged after such date, with mortgages insured under section 235(r) of the National Housing Act. (2) Extensions of time to submit evidence of eligible status. The provisions of §200.183(e) of this chapter, concerning extension of time within which to submit evidence of eligible status are applicable. (d) Certification by mortgagee _(1) General. The mortgagee shall verify the evidence submitted in the case of an applicant or mortgagor declaring eligible immigration status, in accordance with the requirements of part 200, subpart G, of this chapter, and certify to the Secretary that the required information concerning citizenship or eligible immigration status has been submitted and verified (if applicable) for all persons for whom the evidence is required. If the applicant or mortgagor's citizenship or eligible immigration status is not established as a result of the process required under 24 CFR part 200, subpart G, the mortgagee shall notify the applicant or mortgagor in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 200, subpart G concerning notification of the possibility of denial or termination of assistance, and, if applicable, of additional assistance that may be available to the applicant or mortgagor. (2) Invalid certification. (i) If the mortgagee has certified to the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section that the required information concerning citizenship or eligible immigration status has been submitted and verified (if applicable), and the Secretary subsequently determines that the procedures required by this section and 24 CFR part 200, subpart G, were not followed, the following actions will be taken: (A) The mortgagee will be required to repay to the Secretary the full amount of assistance payments made on behalf of the mortgagor under this part; and (B) No additional assistance payments may be made on behalf of the mortgagor. (ii) The Secretary may permit the resumption of assistance payments if all persons residing in the dwelling whose status was not determined to be eligible have moved from the dwelling unit, or their status has been determined to be eligible, in accordance with 24 CFR part 200, subpart G. (iii) If the mortgagee has certified to the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section that the required information concerning citizenship or eligible immigration status has been submitted and verified (if applicable), and the Secretary subsequently determines that the mortgagor's eligible status determination was based on fraudulent documents, or was otherwise defective, although the determination was made in accordance with required procedures, the following actions will be taken:
