FR941207-0-00028 FR941207-0-00003 A few commenters requested clarification regarding the proposed requirement that the netting contract must create a single legal obligation. Collateral Twelve commenters addressed the proposal's specific request for comment on the nature of collateral and the extent to which collateral might be recognized in conjunction with bilateral netting contracts. All of these commenters believed collateral should be recognized as a means of reducing credit exposure. A few commenters noted that collateral arrangements are increasingly being used with derivative transactions. Several commenters stated that for netting contracts that call for the use of collateral, the amount of required collateral is determined from the net mark-to-market value of the master netting contract. A few commenters added that mark-to-market collateral often is used in conjunction with a collateral ``add-on'' based on such things as the notional amount of the underlying contracts, the maturities of the contracts, the credit quality of the counterparty, and volatility levels. A number of commenters offered their opinions as to how collateral should be recognized for risk-based capital purposes. Some suggested that the existing method of recognizing collateral for purposes of assigning credit equivalent amounts to risk categories is applicable to derivative transactions as well. Other commenters expressed the view that collateral should be recognized when assigning risk weights to the extent it is legally available to cover the total credit exposure for the bilateral netting contract in the event of default and that this availability should be addressed in the legal opinions. Several other commenters suggested separating the net current exposure and potential future exposure of bilateral netting contracts for determining collateral coverage and appropriate risk weights. One commenter favored recognizing collateral for capital purposes by allowing an institution to offset net current exposure by the amount of the collateral to further reduce the credit equivalent amount. Two commenters requested clarification that contracts subject to qualifying netting contracts could be eligible for a zero percent risk weight if the transaction is properly collateralized in accordance with the Board's collateralized transactions rule. 8 8 In December 1992 the Board issued an amendment to its risk-based capital guidelines permitting certain collateralized transactions to qualify for a zero percent risk weight (57 FR 62180, December 30, 1992). In order to qualify for a zero percent risk weight, an institution must maintain a positive margin of qualifying collateral at all times. Thus, the collateral arrangement should provide for immediate liquidation of the claim in the event that a positive margin of collateral is not maintained. The OCC has issued a similar proposal (58 FR 43822, August 18, 1993). Walkaway Clauses Several commenters addressed the proposed prohibition against walkaway clauses in contracts qualifying for netting for risk-based capital purposes. While most of these commenters agreed that, ultimately, walkaway clauses should be eliminated from master netting contracts, they favored a phase-out period, during which outstanding bilateral netting contracts containing walkaway clauses could qualify for capital netting treatment. Several commenters contended that if a defaulter is a net debtor under the contract, the existence of a walkaway clause would not affect the amount owed to the non-defaulting creditor. Novation A few commenters expressed concern that the proposal did not grandfather outstanding novation agreements. These commenters suggested a phase-in period during which novation agreements would not be required to be supported by legal opinions. Other Issues One commenter requested greater detail on the nature and extent of examination review procedures. Two commenters stated that in some situations obtaining translations might be burdensome. Another commenter suggested assurance that the Federal Reserve would not disqualify netting contracts in an unreasonable manner. Approximately one-half of the commenters expressed concern that the proposal specifically was limited to interest rate and exchange rate contracts. All of these opposed limiting the range of products that could be included under qualifying netting contracts. In this regard, one commenter noted that where there is sufficient legal support confirming the enforceability of cross-product netting, such netting should be recognized for capital purposes. A number of commenters used the proposal as an opportunity to discuss the manner in which the add-on for potential future exposure is calculated. They suggested netting contracts should be recognized not only as a way to reduce the current exposure to a counterparty, but also the effects of such netting contracts should be taken into account to reduce the amount of capital organizations must hold against the potential future exposure to the counterparty. Final Rule
