FR941206-0-00091 FR941206-0-00012 ยง101&hyph;9.103 Definitions. In part 101&hyph;9, the following definitions apply: Addressing standards means the rules and regulations governing the addressing of mail, developed by the U.S. Postal Service, that enhance the processing and delivery of mail, reduce ``undeliverable as addressed'' mail, and provide cost reduction opportunities. Class of mail means the classes of mail (First-Class, Second-Class, Third-Class, Fourth-Class, and Express Mail) established by the U.S. Postal Service for U.S. domestic mail. Courier means a private delivery company or an individual that works for such a company. Expedited mail is a generic term used to describe mail to be delivered faster than U.S. Postal Service delivery of First, Second, Third, and Fourth-Class mail. Facility means any location where mail is processed for dispatch. Facility mail manager means the persons responsible for mail management at a facility. Federal agency or agency means any executive department as defined in 5 U.S.C. 101, a wholly owned Government corporation as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101, any independent establishment in the executive branch as defined in 5 U.S.C. 104, any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government (except the Supreme Court, the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under the direction of the Architect of the Capitol). Incoming mail means mail coming into the agency delivered by an outside source (vendor or agency). Internal mail means mail that is transmitted within an agency by that agency's mail center staff, including worldwide distribution, and is not processed for delivery by the U.S. Postal Service or any private company. Letter means a message directed to a specific person or address and recorded in or on a tangible object. A message consists of any information or intelligence which is recorded on tangible objects such as paper in sheet and card form, or magnetic media. Mail means letters, hard copies of electronic communications, memoranda, post and postal cards, documents, drawings, microfiche, publications, catalogs and other hard copy communications, as well as packages meeting U.S. Postal Service size and weight requirements, for distribution or dispatch regardless of the distribution, dispatch, or delivery method including messengers and couriers. An item is considered mailable if it meets the following requirements set by the U.S. Postal Service: a mailable item is an item that will not injure people or property, weighs 70 pounds or less, and is not more than 108 inches (combined length and girth). Mailability requirements, restrictions, and exceptions are found in the U.S. Postal Service's Domestic Mail Manual (other mail vendors provide similar written guidance for items sent via their delivery services). Mail center means a centralized location where mail is processed. Mail piece design means preparation of letters, cards, and flats consistent with U.S. Postal Service requirements and recommendations. Mail preparation means those processes involved in preparing mail for dispatch in such a way that it meets U.S. Postal Service requirements. These processes include, but are not limited to: sorting, barcoding, banding, air control tagging (ACT), designing mail pieces, and palletizing. Messenger means an agency employee who delivers agency mail. Outgoing mail means mail generated from within an agency facility that is addressed for delivery outside that facility; i.e., within or outside the agency, and is processed for delivery by the U.S. Postal Service or a private company. Service standard means the dependability (consistency of arrival at addressee's location) and timeliness (meets delivery standard established for the class of service procured) of mail delivery. Special services means services for fees other than postage; e.g., registered, certified, insured, business reply mail, merchandise return, certificates of mailing, and return receipts. Worksharing means presorting, barcoding, or otherwise processing outgoing mail in such a way as to qualify for reduced postage rates. Agencies may participate in worksharing through contracts with vendors, when authorized by that agency to enter into such contracts, or through in-house efforts. Subpart 101&hyph;9.2_Program Implementation ยง101&hyph;9.201 Agency responsibilities. The head of each agency, or his or her designee, must designate an agency mail manager to be responsible for establishing an agencywide mail management program. The agency mail manager must have visibility within the agency and be at a managerial level enabling him or her to execute an agencywide program. The responsibilities of the agency mail manager include:
