FR940203-2-00031 FR940203-2-00017 5. Do not assume that an environmental impact statement is automatically required to develop a SAMP. 6. EPA's program for advance identification of disposal areas found at 40 CFR 230.80 can be integrated into a SAMP process. 7. In accordance with this guidance, district engineers are encouraged to participate in development of SAMP's. However, since development of a SAMP can require a considerable investment of time, resources, and money, the SAMP process should be entered only if it is likely to result in a definitive regulatory product as defined in paragraph 4. above. 8. This guidance expires 31 December 1988 unless sooner revised or rescinded. For the Chief of Engineers. Peter J. Offringa, Brigadier General, USA, Deputy Director of Civil Works. Regulatory Guidance Letter (RGL&hyph;92&hyph;4) RGL&hyph;92&hyph;4 Date: 14 Sep 1992, Expires: 21 January 1997 Subject: Section 401 Water Quality Certification and Coastal Zone Management Act Conditions for Nationwide Permits 1. The purpose of this Regulatory Guidance Letter (RGL) is to provide additional guidance and clarification for divisions and districts involved in developing acceptable conditions under the section 401 Water Quality Certifications and Coastal Zone Management Act (CZM) concurrences for the Nationwide Permit (NWP) Program. This RGL represents a clarification if 330.4(c) (2) and (3) and 330.4(d) (2) and (3), concerning when NWP Section 401 and CZM conditions should not be accepted and thus treated as a denial without prejudice. The principles contained in this RGL also apply to 401 certification and CZM concurrence conditions associated with individual permits and regional general permits. 2. Corps divisions and districts should work closely and cooperatively with the States to develop reasonable 401 and CZM conditions. All involved parties should participate in achieving the purpose of the NWP program, which is to provide the public with an expeditious permitting process while, at the same time, safeguarding the environment by only authorizing activities which result in no more than minimal individual and cumulative adverse effects. When a State certifying agency or CZM agency proposes conditions, the division engineer is responsible for determining whether 401 Water Quality Certification or CZM concurrence conditions are acceptable and comply with the provisions of 33 CFR 325.4. In most cases it is expected that the conditions will be acceptable and the division engineer shall recognize these conditions as regional conditions of the NWP's. 3. Unacceptable Conditions: There will be cases when certain conditions will clearly be unacceptable and those conditioned 401 certifications or CZM concurrences shall be considered administratively denied. Consequently, authorization for an activity which meets the terms and conditions of such NWP(s) is denied without prejudice. a. Illegal conditions are clearly unacceptable. Illegal conditions would result in violation of a law or regulation, or would require an illegal action. For example, a condition which would require an applicant to obtain a 401 certification or CZM concurrence, where the State as previously denied certification or concurrence, prior to submitting a predischarge notification (PDN) to the Corps in accordance with PDN procedures, would violate the Corps regulation at 33 CFR 330.4(c)(6). Another example would be a case where an applicant would be required, through a condition, to apply for an individual Department of the Army permit. Another example is a requirement by the State agency to utilize the 1989 Federal Wetland Delineation Manual to establish jurisdiction. b. As a general rule, a condition that would require the Corps or another Federal agency to take an action which we would not otherwise take and do not choose to take, would be clearly unacceptable. For example, where the certification or concurrence is conditioned to require a PDN, where the proposed activity did not previously require a PDN, the Corps should not accept that condition, since implicitly the Corps would have to accept and utilize the PDN. Another example would be a situation where the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is required, through a condition, to provide any type of formal review or approval. c. Section 401 or CZM conditions which provide for limits (quantities, dimensions, etc.) different from those imposed by the NWP do not change the NWP limits.
