FR940303-0-00017 FR940303-0-00006 (ii) The emulsifier shall be composed of suitable oil or oil-like components together with such additives as are necessary to provide a stable, nontoxic, noncorrosive, oil-miscible, oil-emulsifying solution. Emulsifier shall not be used when AMS 3156 is used. (iii) The developer shall be a highly absorbent, nonfluorescent and nontoxic powder, capable of being used dry or a similar powder capable of being suspended in water. When the suspension is used, the powder shall be thoroughly mixed with water to a concentration, unless otherwise permitted, of not less than 0.2 lb per gallon and a uniform distribution maintained by mechanical agitation. (iv) The penetrant, the emulsifier (if used) and the developer shall be checked as often as necessary to maintain proper control. The penetrant shall be discarded if it shows a noticeable loss in penetrating power or marked contamination or when wax begins to form on the sides of the tank and dip basket. (v) A darkness booth or a similar darkness area with a filtered black light shall be provided. The black light shall be at least equal to that produced by a 100 watt mercury vapor projection spot lamp equipped with a filter to transmit wave lengths of between 3200 and 4000 Angstrom units and absorb substantially all visible light. The intensity of the light at normal working distance shall be as specified by the purchaser but in no case shall be lower than 580 micro-watts per square centimeter as measured with an appropriate black light meter. (vi) All parts shall be cleaned and dried in such a manner as to leave them free from grease, oil, soaps, alkalies and other substances which would interfere with inspection. Vapor degreasing is generally suitable for this purpose. (vii) Parts shall be immersed in the penetrant or shall be sprayed or brushed with the penetrant and shall be allowed to remain immersed in the penetrant or to stand for sufficient time to allow satisfactory penetration into all discontinuities. This time shall, unless otherwise specified, not be less than 5 minutes. The time for immersion or standing will depend upon the character and fineness of the discontinuities, the effectiveness of penetration increasing with time. Parts may be resprayed or re-immersed after standing to increase sensitivity and aid in removal of penetrant. (viii) Parts shall be removed from the penetrant and cleaned thoroughly using a medium which will remove penetrant from the surface of parts; washing with water shall be used when the penetrant is water washable or when an emulsifying agent is applied to surfaces of parts to render the penetrant water washable. When emulsifiers are used, the parts shall be dipped in the emulsifier and removed slowly for draining or shall be sprayed with emulsifier and drained. Unless otherwise specified, the combined dipping and draining time shall be 1 to 5 minutes. When other than water washable penetrants are used, the penetrant shall be removed with a suitable cleaner or a suitable cleaner and lint-free cloths. During cleaning, the parts may be viewed under a suitable black light to ensure removal of the penetrant from the subrace of the part. Excessive cleaning which would remove the penetrant from discontinuities shall be avoided. (ix) When a wet developer is used, the developer shall be applied to the parts, immediately after washing, by immersing the parts in the tank containing the water-suspended powder or by spraying or flowing the suspension onto the parts. The suspension shall be suitably agitated either during or immediately prior to application to parts. Immersed parts shall be removed from the wet developer; excess developer shall be allowed to drain off all parts. Special care shall be taken to remove excess developer from pockets, recesses, holes, threads, and corners so that the developer will not mask indications. (x) When a dry developer or no developer is used, the parts shall be dried as thoroughly as possible by exposure to clean air. Drying of parts may be accomplished by evaporation at room temperature or by placing the parts in a circulating warm air oven or in the air stream of a hot air dryer. Excessive drying time or part temperatures higher than 80 ○C (180 ○F) should be avoided to prevent evaporation of the penetrant. (xi) When a dry developer is used, the developing powder shall be applied uniformly over the areas of the parts to be inspected by either dusting or powder-box immersion. (xii) After sufficient time has been allowed to develop indications, parts shall be examined under a black light. Examination shall be made in a darkened enclosure unless AMS 3157 penetrant is used, in which case examination may be made under normal shop lighting but shaded from direct sunlight. (xiii) When greater sensitivity is desired, the parts may be heated to 65 ○&hyph;85 ○C (150 ○&hyph;185 ○F) before immersion in the penetrant and/or before black light examination. To prevent evaporation, preheated parts shall remain fully immersed in the penetrant until cooled. (xiv) Parts shall be cleaned, as necessary, to remove penetrant and developer. (xv) Interpretation of the indications revealed by this inspection procedure and final disposition of the parts shall be the responsibility of only qualified personnel having experience with fluorescent penetrant inspection. (xvi) Parts having discontinuities (cracks) shall be rejected.
