FR940728-0-00056 FR940728-0-00019 On the other hand, recovered oil systems can be legitimately viewed as part of the petroleum refining process. The input to the recovered oil systems is primarily oil skimmed from wastewater treatment operations as well as oil recovered from other sources, not discarded refining process wastewaters. Recovered oil systems do not exist to remove contaminants from wastewater. Rather, their purpose is to restore recovered oil to sufficient purity so that it can be reused as a feedstock material in the refining process. This is a natural point to characterize activities as being part of the refining process. It is thus EPA's view that until oil is recovered from refinery process wastewaters, the wastewaters are discarded materials and hence solid wastes potentially subject to regulation under RCRA. 8 (Wastewaters remaining after oil has been recovered are still solid wastes, and are typically returned to an upstream point in the refinery's wastewater treatment system.) The oil recovered from such wastewaters is not a solid waste, however (assuming it is reinserted into the refining process). This reading is not only in accord with common sense, as explained above, but also is in accord with RCRA's goals and purposes. AMC II , 907 F. 2d at 1186&hyph;87; API , 906 F. 2d at 740&hyph;41. As these cases make clear, EPA may ordinarily consider secondary materials that have ``become part of the waste disposal problem'' to be discarded. API , 906 F. 2d at 741; AMC II , 907 F. 2d at 1186. That is the case here. Discarded plant wastewaters up to and including the primary wastewater treatment step, can contain high loadings of hazardous constituents that may pose environmental harm if released. It is estimated that an average of 34% of the benzene (a human carcinogen) entering a petroleum refinery's wastewater treatment system is emitted to air from the wastewater collection portion of the system; when primary wastewater treatment (i.e., a non-enclosed oil-water separator) is included in this calculation, the amount of benzene emitted relative to the influent concentration rises to 47%. 9 Primary wastewater treatment also is sometimes conducted in land-based or in-ground units, which can (and have) resulted in environmental contamination. 10 This further indicates that these operations can be part of the waste management problem. 8 On a similar note, the Agency is aware of activities at petroleum management facilities where free-phase hydrocarbon (from spills, etc.) is removed from the water table as part of groundwater remediation (see 56 FR at 13406 (Apr. 2, 1991)). These hydrocarbon recovery operations can recover materials ranging from mostly water to mostly oil; only recovered materials that are primarily oil, and that can be inserted into a refinery's recovered oil system without pretreatment (or can be inserted directly into the refining process itself), would be considered ``recovered oil'' eligible for today's exclusion. The management of petroleum-contaminated groundwater in separation and treatment units is clearly solid waste (and potentially hazardous waste) management, essentially wastewater treatment. 9 The Agency addressed benzene emissions from waste operations in a final rule published January 7, 1993 (58 FR 3072) using risk-based standards for benzene. See also EPA, Final NESHAP Standards for Waste Operations: Basis for Impact Calculations , February 16, 1990. This document is available in the Benzene Waste Operations NESHAP docket. 10 ``Background Document to Support Listing of Primary Oil/Water Separation Sludges from the Petroleum Refining Industry,'' U.S. EPA, December 22, 1989, pp. 6, 10&hyph;12. In addition, petroleum refineries frequently generate individual wastewater streams that exhibit characteristics of hazardous waste, which streams are mixed together so that the characteristic is removed. (The characteristic can be removed either before or during primary treatment.) These aggregated wastewater streams may still contain high volumes of hazardous constituents, however, because aggregation (i.e. dilution) and primary treatment do not significantly remove or destroy all hazardous constituents. See Tables in Section V, Development Document for Effluent Limitations Guidelines, New Source Performance Standards and Pretreatment Standards for the Petroleum Refining Point Source Category . The aggregated wastewaters are then managed in surface impoundments, where biological treatment occurs. The D.C. Circuit has made clear, in Chemical Waste Management v. EPA , that in such circumstances the decharacterized wastewaters cannot be managed in surface impoundments unless they have first been treated to meet the treatment requirements of RCRA Section 3004(m) (requiring treatment that substantially removes or destroys hazardous constituents so that threats to human health and the environment are minimized), or unless treatment equivalent to Section 3004(m) treatment occurs before the wastewaters are discharged. Id . at 7, 20&hyph;24. 11 The court indeed repeatedly referred to these treatment standards as the core of RCRA's hazardous waste management scheme. Id . at 23, 24. 11 EPA is still working to interpret the scope of the ``equivalence'' requirement in the Chemical Waste Management opinion, and the language in the text should not be taken as representing the Agency's resolution of the issue. It is clear, however, that the opinion imposes obligations on facilities that use impoundments to manage wastewaters that are decharacterized by means other than full-scale section 3004 (m) treatment. EPA's interpretation that the influent into primary wastewater treatment consists of discarded wastes, not in-process petroleum, is fully in accord with these core principles of RCRA. Decharacterized wastewaters that are going to be managed in surface impoundments would nevertheless receive Section 3004 (m) treatment before their ultimate discharge, as required by the Chemical Waste Management opinion. Under industry's preferred reading, however, the decharacterized wastewaters would not be solid wastes at all until all oil recovery has been completed, even if held in impoundments. At that point, the wastewaters would no longer exhibit a characteristic (because they have been diluted through aggregation), and thus would not be prohibited wastes subject to Section 3004 (m) treatment. The ``core principles of RCRA'' would thus be avoided. EPA considers its interpretation of ``discarded,'' that assures proper treatment of characteristically hazardous petroleum refinery wastewaters that are going to be managed in surface impoundments, to be more reasonable. 12 12 EPA views the facts here as similar to those in the AMC II case. In particular, both situations involve wastewater treatment operations, where plant wastewaters could ultimately be managed in surface impoundments. EPA acknowledges that it initially proposed to exclude all such wastewaters from the definition of solid waste. 53 FR 525&hyph;526. However, the Agency's reasoning was based in part on the same mistaken view of the scope of AMC I that was later rejected by the API court. 906 F. 2d at 740&hyph;41. (EPA even relied in part on the overbroad ``indigenous'' concept, 53 FR 525, 526, that was remanded in API . 906 F. 2d at 739, 742.) The Agency is obviously not bound by its proposal, and subsequent case law makes clear that the Agency has more interpretive discretion than it imagined in 1988. The interpretation adopted in today's rule is reasonable and in accord with statutory goals and purposes.
