FR940216-0-00081 FR940216-0-00010 3. Technological Feasibility EPA also considered the technological feasibility of producing fuels to meet the Phase II standards. EPA believes that the refinery modeling results (from which the fuel parameter control costs were estimated) indicated that it is technologically feasible to make the fuel parameter changes that were analyzed in developing the standards. The refinery models utilize only well-developed, demonstrated, commercially available technologies, and are designed to only model fuels within the limits of these technologies. 15 Given the cost incentives created by this rulemaking, in all likelihood new technologies will be developed between now and the year 2000 which will reduce the costs for certain types of fuel parameter changes. Thus, EPA believes that the determination of fuel parameter control costs using the results of the existing refinery models is reasonable, that the costs generated are perhaps conservative, and that the technological feasibility of producing such emission-reducing fuels is justifiable. This position was supported by many of the comments received. While other commenters questioned the costs used in developing the proposal (as discussed in subsection 4.b), no comments questioned the technological feasibility of these refinery configurations. 15 See the RIA for additional details on the refinery models used for this analysis. Because the standards promulgated today will not take effect until the year 2000, and because all the processes needed to produce complying fuels are already commercially available, EPA does not believe that lead time will be an issue in achieving the required emissions reductions. 4. Fuel Safety and Driveability EPA evaluated safety concerns associated with the use of low RVP fuels and found no significant negative impacts, as discussed in the RIA. Comments also raised concerns about driveability problems arising from the use of low RVP fuels. They raised concerns that EPA's analysis in the proposal did not address spring months (the transition time to the VOC control period), September RVP fuel sold in October, and low RVP gasoline sold in low temperature areas near nonattainment areas. While neither EPA nor any other organization conducted driveability testing at low ambient summer temperatures, EPA has looked at the actual vapor pressure of fuels currently in production, as documented in the draft RIA. 16 Based upon a comparison of actual vapor pressures, EPA believes that 6.5 psi RVP fuel in the summer should have similar driveability to current winter fuels. At this time EPA believes there should be no significant driveability problems with gasoline at an RVP level down to 6.5 psi. Until such time as data can be gathered to more fully evaluate the driveability impacts of low RVP fuels, EPA believes that 6.5 psi may present a practical lower limit below which the existence of adverse driveability impacts is unknown. Discussions with representatives of both the oil and automotive industries reflected a similar uneasiness in going below 6.5 psi RVP given the lack of data at lower levels. However, the standards for Phase II RFG are performance based standards. As a result, flexibility exists for refiners to meet the Phase II standards, without reducing the RVP of the gasoline below 6.5 psi. 16 ``Draft Regulatory Impact Analysis for the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking of the Complex Model, Phase II Performance Standards, and Provisions for Renewable Oxygenates,'' February 5, 1993. 5. Cost-Effectiveness of Emissions Reductions a. Introduction. For purposes of this discussion, EPA defines cost-effectiveness as the ratio of the incremental cost of a control measure to the incremental benefit, e.g., tons of VOC or other emissions reduced. Considering cost-effectiveness allows the Agency to develop a relative ranking of various ozone and toxics control strategies so that an environmental goal can be achieved at minimum cost. As the cost-effectiveness of an emission reduction strategy increases, it may be possible to achieve similar, substantial emission control in other ways (e.g., through other regulatory programs) at the same or lower cost per unit of benefit. EPA therefore considered cost-effectiveness in deciding what VOC, NO x , and toxics control, if any, to impose beyond the minimum levels required under section 211(k)(3)(B).
