FR940428-2-00119 FR940428-2-00053 Nature and Probable Consequences _A patient was being treated for lung cancer. The treatment included performing an iridium-192 therapeutic implant. The prescribed treatment dose was 6000 rad to the patient's lung. On November 10, 1993, a catheter was surgically implanted in the patient. Iridium-192 seeds, contained in a ribbon, were inserted into the catheter. Following normal licensee procedure, the physicist requested that the attending nurse order a ``stat'' chest x-ray in order to verify source position. The ``stat'' radiograph was completed and two hours later upon review of the film, the seed positions could not be visualized. Two additional radiographs using different techniques were done. In the second radiograph, completed one hour later, the seeds were located in the patient's throat. The ribbon was removed and the physician successfully reinserted the ribbon to the proper location. Another radiograph was done to verify the source location. The treatment time was recalculated to deliver the total original intended dose and the treatment was completed without further difficulty. The sources were in the improper location for about three hours, delivering an estimated dose to the larynx area of about 282 centigray (282 rad). An NRC medical consultant evaluated the medical aspects of the brachytherapy misadministration and concluded that the dose to the larynx and surrounding area is not clinically significant. The physician verbally notified the patient of the misadministration following the successful reinsertion of the source ribbon. A written report was provided to the patient on November 15 1993. Cause or Causes _The immediate cause of the misadministration was an apparent crimp in the catheter which resulted in the seeds not being placed correctly. The seeds were blocked by the crimp at the level of the patient's larynx. An inexperienced radiation therapy technician implanted the source. During interviews, the physician stated that it would be difficult for an inexperienced person to know the difference between a properly seated ribbon and when ribbon insertion was impeded by a crimp in the catheter. Actions Taken To Prevent Recurrence Licensee _The licensee's plan for preventing recurrence of the misadministration included: (1) Formalizing the dosimetrist's ``rule of practice'' regarding comparison of the ribbon and catheter lengths prior to source implantation in order to ensure that the ribbon is properly seated; (2) Providing training to all radiation therapy technologists and each medical physicist in the new procedure; (3) Requiring that the authorized user physically implant source ribbons; (4) Requiring that each radiation therapy technologist receive hands on training and instruction in source implantation; and (5) Requiring that the ``stat'' post-insertion radiograph be hand carried to the prescribing physician for evaluation as soon as possible to determine proper source placement. NRC _A special safety inspection was conducted by NRC Region III on January 19, 1994 to review the circumstances surrounding this misadministration. An NRC medical consultant was also retained to review this case. Based on the results of the special inspection, NRC identified an apparent violation that is being considered for escalated enforcement action. (Letter from W.L. Axelson, Director, Division of Radiation Safety and Safeguards, NRC Region III, to Dan Sylvester, Vice President for Professional Services, Good Samaritan Hospital, forwarded inspection report No. 030&hyph;30954/94001, Docket No. 030&hyph;30954, License No. 34&hyph;16725&hyph;02, dated February 11, 1994.) 93&hyph;16␣ Medical Brachytherapy Misadministration at Marquette General Hospital in Marquette, Michigan One of the AO reporting guidelines notes that a therapeutic dose that results in any part of the body receiving unscheduled radiation can be considered an abnormal occurrence. Date and Place _November 17&hyph;19, 1993; Marquette General Hospital, Marquette, Michigan. Nature and Probable Consequences _On November 17, 1993, a patient was undergoing a brachytherapy procedure using cesium-137 sealed sources placed in a treatment device (catheter) inserted into the patient's uterus. When the catheter was removed on November 19, it was observed that it was too short to have been fully inserted into the uterine cavity. The three sources in the catheter had actually been in the patient's vagina instead of the uterus. The case was evaluated by an NRC medical consultant who concluded that the lower vagina received a radiation dose of 2,700 centigray (2,700 rad) when it would not have received a significant dose if the treatment had been performed as planned. The medical consultant concluded that the radiation doses to the vagina would not be expected to cause any acute or long term effects because the vaginal tissue is extraordinarily tolerant of radiation. This placement error did not result in additional exposure to other organs. The intended treatment area received about 50 percent of the intended dose. Subsequently, the patient received an additional dose to the uterus to complete the prescribed treatment. The licensee informed the patient of the treatment error. Cause or Causes _The hospital routinely uses two lengths of catheters for brachytherapy treatments, a shorter catheter for vaginal procedures and a longer one for uterine procedures. The medical physicist inadvertently placed the cesium-137 sources in the shorter (vaginal) catheter instead of the required long catheter for the uterin procedure prescribed. Actions Taken To Prevent a Recurrence Licensee _The hospital has revised its procedures to include added precautions for assuring the correct length catheter is used in each brachytherapy procedure. NRC _The NRC conducted a special inspection beginning November 29, 1993, to review the circumstances surrounding the misadministration. No violations of NRC regulations were identified, but the licensee was directed to review its Quality Management Program to determine what modifications were needed to prevent similar misadministrations in the future. The NRC also retained a medical consultant to evaluate this case. Dated at Rockville, MD, this 21st day of April 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle, Assistant Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10123 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
