FR941207-0-00016 FR941207-0-00002 The Department supports the commenters who recommended that all donated foods currently listed in the regulations be considered as substitutable with commercial foods without prior approval from the distributing agency. However, the Department does not agree that all donated foods should be considered as substitutable. The Department purchases high quality products which must meet strict specifications for recipient agencies to use in their meal service operations. Because the quality of the non-listed donated foods, especially meat and poultry, can vary tremendously, which will ultimately affect the quality of the end product, the Department believes it is necessary to eliminate any possibility that inferior commercial product could be substituted for the high quality donated foods provided by USDA. Additionally, the argument that Federal inspectors or graders could ensure the quality of any commercial product being substituted for donated food is not reasonable. Federal inspectors or graders are only present in processing plants that convert donated meat or poultry into finished end products; they are not required to be on-site in bakeries or processing plants which only handle fruits, vegetables and/or grains. The additional costs for obtaining the services of inspectors or graders to perform these services would be extremely high. Additionally, based on the comments received, it is apparent that commenters do not favor requiring distributing agencies to monitor the level of the processors's commercial production so they would be permitted to withhold deliveries of donated food from processors which have reduced their level of commercial production because of participation in the State processing program. This final rule adopts sections 250.30(f)(1)(i) and 250.30(f)(4) of the proposed State processing regulations without change. To alleviate the commenters' concerns, but to maintain the necessary program accountability, section 250.30(f)(1)(iii) of this final rule will require the processor to be responsible for maintaining documentation that normal commercial production has not been reduced as the result of participation in the processing program. To conform to the change in section 250.30(f)(1)(iii), this final rule also adds a new paragraph to section 250.30(c)(4)(xviii) of this final rule. This final rule adopts section 250.30(f)(2) of the proposed State processing regulations as proposed with a minor modification for clarification. Additionally, this final rule adopts sections 252.3(c) and 252.4(c)(7) of the proposed NCP regulations without change. Time Frames for Processors to Pay Refunds Section 250.30(k)(3) of the proposed State processing regulations would require processors to make refund payments to recipient agencies within 30 days after receipt of any refund application. Additionally, sections 250.30(k)(1) and 252.4(c)(4)(i)(B) of the proposed rule would also permit recipient agencies to file refund applications on a Federal fiscal quarterly basis, if the total anticipated refund due for all purchases from that processor during the quarter is 25 dollars or less. Furthermore, processors would be permitted to group together refund applications for a single recipient agency on a Federal fiscal basis if the total anticipated refund due that recipient agency during the quarter is 25 dollars or less. These quarterly options of batching of refund applications and refund payments would only be permitted between a recipient agency and a processor, not between a distributor and a processor. A total of 16 comments was received on this proposal. Regarding the 30-day time frame for processors to pay refunds, twelve commenters stated that they agreed with this concept and three commenters were opposed. Many of those commenters that supported the 30-day time frame did so for the following reasons: 1) a 30-day time frame is more realistic and logical than the 10-day time frame; 2) a 30-day time frame conforms to time frames used in normal business practices; 3) a 10-day time frame is very difficult to meet because of limited staff resources; and 4) a 30-day time frame is reasonable because a refund payment will usually be received by the recipient agency before the recipient agency's payment for the end products reaches the processor. The three commenters who expressed opposition to the 30-day time frame stated that it allows the processor to use school food authority money for an excessive period of time. One processor also stated that the current 10-day time frame is more appropriate because it is the key to acceptance of the refund system by recipient agencies. Fourteen comments were received regarding quarterly batching of refund applications by recipient agencies and twelve comments were received on quarterly batching of refund payments by processors. While all comments received on the concept of quarterly batching were favorable, three commenters made the following suggestions: 1) the threshold should be increased from 25 dollars to 100 dollars; 2) there should be no minimum dollar threshold associated with quarterly submission of refund applications by recipient agencies; 3) recipient agencies should have an option to file refund applications monthly or quarterly and processors must provide refunds within 30 days of receipt of the refund application; and 4) to accommodate extenuating circumstances, distributing agencies should permit recipient agencies to submit refund applications and processors to provide refund payments outside of the quarterly time frames. Based on the comments received and the reasons set forth above, this final rule adopts sections 250.30(k)(1) and 250.30(k)(3) of the proposed State processing and section 252.4(c)(4)(i)(B) of the proposed NCP regulations without change. Refund Applications/Performance Reports Section 250.30(k)(1) of the proposed State processing regulations would eliminate the requirement that recipient agencies must forward copies of the refund applications to distributing agencies at the same time they submit the refund applications to the processor. Section 250.30(m)(1) of the proposed rule would also amend the State processing regulations to add the following requirements: 1) that monthly performance reports be postmarked no later than the final day of the month following the reporting period and the final performance report for the contract period be postmarked no later than 60 days from the close of the contract year; and 2) that performance reports must be submitted monthly unless a processor made no sales and had no inventory during that month. Finally, section 250.17 of the proposed State processing regulations would provide that where performance reports are electronically transmitted to the distributing agency by means of a facsimile machine, the date printed by the facsimile machine on the facsimile copy may serve as the postmark. The Department received seventeen comments on this section of the proposed rule.
