FR940913-0-00086 FR940913-0-00027 (F) Preference, to the extent practicable and economically feasible, for products and services that conserve natural resources and protect the environment and are energy efficient. (2) Positive efforts shall be made by recipients to utilize small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises, whenever possible. Recipients of Federal awards shall take all of the following steps to further this goal. (i) Ensure that small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises are used to the fullest extent practicable. (ii) Make information on forthcoming opportunities available and arrange time frames for purchases and contracts to encourage and facilitate participation by small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises. (iii) Consider in the contract process whether firms competing for larger contracts intend to subcontract with small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises. (iv) Encourage contracting with consortiums of small businesses, minority-owned firms and women's business enterprises when a contract is too large for one of these firms to handle individually. (v) Use the services and assistance, as appropriate, of such organizations as the Small Business Administration and the Department of Commerce's Minority Business Development Agency in the solicitation and utilization of small businesses, minority-owned firms and women's business enterprises. (3) The type of procuring instruments used (e.g., fixed price contracts, cost reimbursable contracts, purchase orders, and incentive contracts) shall be determined by the recipient but shall be appropriate for the particular procurement and for promoting the best interest of the program or project involved. The ``cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost'' or ``percentage of construction cost'' methods of contracting shall not be used. (4) Contracts shall be made only with responsible contractors who possess the potential ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of the proposed procurement. Consideration shall be given to such matters as contractor integrity; compliance with public policy, including, where applicable, Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u); record of past performance; financial and technical resources or accessibility to other necessary resources. In certain circumstances, contracts with certain parties are restricted by agencies' implementation of E.O.'s 12549 and 12689, ``Debarment and Suspension,'' as set forth at 24 CFR part 24. (5) Recipients shall, on request, make available for the Federal awarding agency, pre-award review and procurement documents, such as requests for proposals or invitations for bids, independent cost estimates, etc., when any of the following conditions apply. (i) A recipient's procurement procedures or operation fails to comply with the procurement standards in HUD's implementation of Circular A&hyph;110. (ii) The procurement is expected to exceed $100,000 or the small purchase threshold fixed at 41 U.S.C. 403 (11), whichever is greater, and is to be awarded without competition or only one bid or offer is received in response to a solicitation. (iii) The procurement, which is expected to exceed the small purchase threshold, specifies a ``brand name'' product. (iv) The proposed award over the small purchase threshold is to be awarded to other than the apparent low bidder under a sealed bid procurement. (v) A proposed contract modification changes the scope of a contract or increases the contract amount by more than the amount of the small purchase threshold. (f) Cost and price analysis. Some form of cost or price analysis shall be made and documented in the procurement files in connection with every procurement action. Price analysis may be accomplished in various ways, including the comparison of price quotations submitted, market prices and similar indicia, together with discounts. Cost analysis is the review and evaluation of each element of cost to determine reasonableness, allocability and allowability. (g) Procurement records. Procurement records and files for purchases in excess of the small purchase threshold shall include the following at a minimum: (1) Basis for contractor selection; (2) Justification for lack of competition when competitive bids or offers are not obtained; and (3) Basis for award cost or price. (h) Contract administration. A system for contract administration shall be maintained to ensure contractor conformance with the terms, conditions and specifications of the contract and to ensure adequate and timely follow up of all purchases. Recipients shall evaluate contractor performance and document, as appropriate, whether contractors have met the terms, conditions and specifications of the contract. (i) Contract provisions. The recipient shall include, in addition to provisions to define a sound and complete agreement, the following provisions in all contracts. The following provisions shall also be applied to subcontracts. (1) Contracts in excess of the small purchase threshold shall contain contractual provisions or conditions that allow for administrative, contractual, or legal remedies in instances in which a contractor violates or breaches the contract terms, and provide for such remedial actions as may be appropriate.
