FR940128-2-00219 FR940128-2-00140 [Release No. 34&hyph;33499; File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;93&hyph;33] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. (``CHX'') Relating to the Filing of Form U&hyph;5 January 21, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on December 23, 1993, the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. (``CHX'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On January 21, 1994, the Exchange submitted to the Commission Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 See letter from David T. Rusoff, Attorney, Foley & Lardner, to Louis A. Randazzo, Attorney, Branch of Exchange Regulation, Commission, dated January 21, 1994. Amendment No. 1 made certain clarifying amendments to the proposal. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange proposes to add interpretation and policy .03 to Rule 3, Article VI of the Exchange's rules and relates to the filing of a Uniform Termination Notice for Securities Industry Registration (``Form U&hyph;5''). 2 2 The Form U&hyph;5 is employed in connection with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'') Central Registration Depository (``CRD'') system and is used by the various securities self-regulatory organizations (``SROs'') as part of their registration and oversight of member organization personnel. Form U&hyph;5 contains information relating to the circumstances surrounding the termination of an applicant's prior employment. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule change is to require certain members of the Exchange to file Form U&hyph;5 termination notices with the Exchange. 3 The Form U&hyph;5 is used by a broker-dealer to give official notice that it has terminated a registered employee. Requiring the filing of the Form U&hyph;5 with the Exchange is consistent with the rules of other SROs and will allow the Exchange to more precisely monitor the authority of registered persons to act on behalf of member firms and monitor the reasons for termination. 4 3 Proposed Interpretation and Policy .03 to Rule 3 of Article VI would apply to member organizations for which the Exchange is the Designated Examining Authority (``DEA'') and to registered persons of any other member organization (for whom the CHX is not the DEA) that are active on the CHX trading floor. 4 Proposed Interpretation and Policy .03 to Rule 3 of Article VI states that following the termination of a person associated with a member in a registered capacity, such member shall promptly, but in no event later than thirty (30) calendar days after such termination, give written notice of such termination to the Exchange on Form U&hyph;5, and concurrently provide a copy of such notice to the person whose association has been terminated. This requirement shall only apply to member organizations for which the Exchange is the DEA and to registered persons of other member organizations active on the CHX trading floor. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments and to perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule will impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No comments were solicited or received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and published its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CHX. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;93&hyph;33 and should be submitted by February 18, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1811 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
