FR940202-1-00026 FR940202-1-00011 Also, section 1102(b) of the Act requires the Secretary to prepare a regulatory impact analysis for any proposed rule that may have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. Such an analysis must conform to the provisions of section 603 of the RFA. For purposes of section 1102(b) of the Act, we define a small rural hospital as a hospital that is located outside a Metropolitan Statistical Area and has fewer than 50 beds. This proposed rule would require States to submit a formal waiver request to be relieved of compliance with certain TPL requirements that are in our regulations when the cost of implementing the regulation's requirement is not cost-effective. It is extremely difficult to give an exact estimate of the cost savings that would accrue with the implementation of this regulation. This is largely because the cost of any single TPL data match or other procedure, as well as its relative effectiveness, varies from State to State. In reviewing the need for this waiver, we recognized that some TPL claims reporting and payment regulations are expressly required by statute and that these and additional regulatory requirements are a valuable mechanism by which the Medicaid program has saved and recovered financial resources and that these regulations should be maintained. This waiver gives credence to valid concerns raised by States regarding the cost-effectiveness of certain portions of the TPL regulations in certain instances and allows States greater flexibility in managing their Medicaid programs. An alternative to these regulatory enhancements would be to force States to comply with all regulations and not allow for any waiver provisions. In this scenario, States would either comply and lose money or discontinue the inefficient practice and risk HCFA sanctions through the systems performance review. Clearly, it was not the intent of the Congress for HCFA to promulgate regulations designed to save the taxpayers money, and then penalize States when the regulations are found by experience not to be cost-effective. HCFA should not be put in a position of forcing States to comply in these situations. This is consistent with our response to comments published in the Federal Register dated February 27, 1987 (52 FR 5971) stating that if HCFA received substantial complaints from State Medicaid agencies regarding the cost-effectiveness of State workers' compensation or Motor Vehicle Accident File data matches and diagnosis and trauma code edits, HCFA would reevaluate the data requirement. We believe that implementation of this waiver would work towards a realistic and cost-effective TPL program. This change would also provide States with increased control over their individual TPL programs. Therefore, we have determined, and the Secretary certifies, that this proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Also, this rule would not have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. Therefore, we have not prepared a small rural hospital analysis, or an initial regulatory flexibility analysis. This rule was reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in accordance with Executive Order 12866. IV. Paperwork Reduction Act Sections 433.138(l) and 433.139(e) of this proposed rule contain information collection requirements that are subject to OMB approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C 3504, et seq. ). Reporting burden for the collection of information in sections 433.138(1) and 433.139(e) is estimated to be 8 hours per request for waiver. Individuals wishing to comment on this estimate should send their comments to the OMB as the address listed under ADDRESSES in this preamble. V. Response to Comments Because of the large number of items of correspondence we normally receive on a proposed rule, we are not able to acknowledge or respond to them individually. However, in preparing the final rule, we will consider all comments that we receive by the date and time specified in the DATES section of this preamble, and, if we decide to proceed with a final rule, we will respond to the comments in the preamble of that rule. List of Subjects in 42 CFR Part 433 Administrative practice and procedure, Claims, Grant programs-health, Medicaid, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
