FR940407-2-00044 FR940407-2-00027 j. Deadline Date: See paragraph D10. k. Status of Environmental Analysis: This application is ready for environmental analysis at this time_see attached paragraph D10. l. Description of Project: The proposed project consists of two developments progressing downstream of the Salmon River: Bennetts Bridge and Lighthouse Hill. The Bennetts Bridge development consists of: (1) An existing dam 607 feet long and 45 feet high; (2) an existing reservoir 6 miles long; (3) an existing 10,000-foot-long conduit system; (4) an existing powerhouse containing four existing turbine-generator units with a total installed capacity of approximately 31,500 kilowatts (kW); (5) three existing 12-kilovolt (kV) electric transmission lines; and (6) appurtenant facilities. The Lighthouse Hill development, located approximately 1 mile downstream of the Bennetts Bridge powerhouse, consists of: (1) An existing 382-foot-long concrete gravity dam; (2) an existing 4,300-foot-long reservoir; (3) three existing 17-foot-wide by 8-foot-high by 62-foot-long concrete penstocks; (4) an existing powerhouse containing two existing turbine-generator units with an installed capacity of 8,200 kW (NIMO proposes to install a 2,150-kW (nameplate rating) turbine-generator unit in the empty turbine bay in the Lighthouse Hill powerhouse; (5) an existing 400-foot-long, 12-kV transmission line; and (6) appurtenant facilities. The average annual generation for both developments with the proposed new unit would increase from 108,000,000 to 113,246,000 kilowatthours. The owner of the project facilities is the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation. m. Purpose of the Project: All project energy generated would be utilized by the applicant for sale. n. This Notice Also Consists of the Following Standard Paragraphs: A4 and D10. o. Available Locations of Application: A copy of the application is available for inspection and reproduction at the Commission's Public Reference and Files Maintenance Branch, located at 941 North Capitol Street, NE., room 3104, Washington, DC 20426, or by calling (202) 219&hyph;1371. A copy is also available for inspection and reproduction at Mr. Jerry L. Sabattis, P.E., Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, 300 Erie Boulevard West, Syracuse, NY 13202, (315) 474&hyph;1511. p. Scoping Process: In gathering background information for preparation of the Environmental Assessment for the issuance of a Federal hydropower license, staff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, is using a scoping process to identify significant environmental issues related to the construction and operation or the continued operation of hydropower projects. The staff will review all issues raised during the scoping process and identify issues deserving of study and also deemphasize insignificant issues, narrowing the scope of the environmental assessment as well. If preliminary analysis indicates that any issues presented in the scoping process would have little potential for causing significant impacts, the issue or issues will be identified and the reasons for not providing a more detailed analysis will be given. q. Request for Scoping Comments: Federal, state, and local resource agencies; licensees, applicants and developers; Indian tribes; other interested groups and individuals, are requested to forward to the Commission, any information that they believe will assist the Commission staff in conducting an accurate and thorough analysis of the site-specific and cumulative environmental effects of the proposed licensing activities of the project(s). Therefore you are requested to provide information related to the following items: •Information, data, maps or professional opinion that may contribute to defining the geographical and temporal scope of the analysis and identifying significant environmental issues. •Identification of and information from any other EIS or similar study (previous, on-going, or planned) relevant to the proposed licensing activities in the subject river basin. •Existing information and any data that would aid in describing the past and present effects of the project(s) and other developmental activities on the physical/chemical, biological, and socioeconomic environments. For example, fish stocking/management histories in the subject river, historic water quality data and the reasons for improvement or degradation of the quality, and any wetland habitat loss or proposals to develop land and water resources within the basin. •Identification of any federal, state or local resource plans and future project proposals that encompass the subject river or basin. For example, proposals to construct or operate water treatment facilities, recreation areas, or implement fishery management programs.
