FR940110-1-00085 FR940110-1-00006 Section 960.21(a)(5) of the proposed rule provides that an Advisory Council member who, subsequent to appointment, is no longer employed by or associated with a community or nonprofit organization actively involved in providing or promoting low- or moderate-income housing in the Bank's District may continue to serve on the Advisory Council until the end of his or her term. Allowing the Advisory Council member to serve out the remainder of his or her term promotes continuity in the collective experience of the Advisory Council. Further, the member may still have relevant experience related to low-income housing needs in the District, which may continue to benefit the Advisory Council. However, the Board recognizes that the Advisory Council member may no longer represent the interests of the community and nonprofit sector. Therefore, the Board specifically requests comments on this provision of the proposed rule. The Board also specifically requests comments on whether a member who is no longer employed by or associated with a community or nonprofit organization should be entitled to vote on the Advisory Council if he or she becomes a state or local housing finance agency official. Section 960.21(b) of the proposed rule provides that each Advisory Council shall elect from among its voting members a chairperson and a vice chairperson. Section 960.21(c) of the proposed rule carries forward the requirement of the Board's existing AHP regulation that each Advisory Council shall designate a member, or request that a member of the Bank's staff be designated, to act as secretary to the Advisory Council. See 12 CFR 960.14(g). The secretary shall record and maintain the minutes of the meetings of the Advisory Council, which shall contain, among other things, a record of the persons present, a description of the matters discussed, and recommendations made. The person acting as secretary at a meeting shall certify to the accuracy of the minutes of that meeting. Section 960.21(d)(1) of the proposed rule adds a new requirement that, prior to the approval of the Bank's proposed AHP implementation plan by the Bank's board of directors, the Bank's Advisory Council shall review the proposed AHP implementation plan and provide its recommendations to the Bank's board of directors pursuant to the requirements of ยง960.2(c) discussed above under the section on the adoption of the AHP implementation plan. This provision is intended to give the Advisory Councils a greater role in advising the Banks on how AHP funds should be allocated to meet the low-income housing needs in their Districts. Section 960.21(d)(2) of the proposed rule adds a new requirement that upon request of the Advisory Council, the Bank shall provide the Advisory Council with copies of any AHP applications from prior AHP funding cycles. The Board is aware that some Banks have already adopted this practice. This requirement is intended to aid the Advisory Council members in evaluating how the AHP application priorities and scoring criteria adopted by the Bank in its AHP implementation plan affect the allocation of AHP funds among different types of housing projects. Further, this requirement is subject to any limitations of other laws that may require the Bank to keep information in an AHP application confidential. The Bank may require Advisory Council members to agree to keep all or parts of AHP applications confidential. The Board specifically requests comments on the advantages and disadvantages of allowing Advisory Council members to examine AHP applications received by the Bank in prior AHP funding cycles. Section 960.21(e) of the proposed rule carries forward the requirement in the Board's existing AHP regulation that the Advisory Council shall meet with representatives of the board of directors of the Bank at least quarterly to advise the Bank on low- and moderate-income housing programs and needs in the Bank's District and on the utilization of AHP subsidized advances and direct subsidies for these purposes. See 12 CFR 960.14(a). Section 960.21(f) of the proposed rule requires each Advisory Council to submit to the Board annually by March 1 its analysis of the low-income housing activity of its Bank. This is a change from the January 31 date in the Board's existing AHP regulation, and is intended to give the Advisory Councils sufficient time after the end of the year to compile and evaluate year-end data in order to prepare their reports to the Board. See 12 CFR 960.14(j).
