FR940419-2-00052 FR940419-2-00033 Organizational Unit_Enter the name of the primary unit within the applicant organization which will actually carry out the project activity. Do not use the name of an individual as the applicant. If this is the same as the applicant organization, leave the organizational unit blank. Address_Enter the complete address that the organization actually uses to receive mail, since this is the address to which all correspondence will be sent. Do not include both street address and P.O. box number unless both must be used in mailing. Name and telephone number of the person to be contacted on matters involving this application (give area code)_Enter the full name (including academic degree, if applicable) and telephone number of a person who can respond to questions about the application. This person should be accessible at the address given here and will receive all correspondence regarding the application. Item 6. Employer Identification Number (EIN)_Enter the employer identification number of the applicant organization, as assigned by the Internal Revenue Service, including, if known, the Central Registry System suffix. Item 7. Type of Applicant_Self-explanatory. Item 8. Type of Application_Preprinted on the form. Item 9. Name of Federal Agency_Preprinted on the form. Item 10. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number and Title_Enter the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number assigned to the program under which assistance is requested and its title, as indicated in the relevant priority area description. Item 11. Descriptive Title of Applicant's Project_Enter the project title. The title is generally short and is descriptive of the project, not the priority area title. Item 12. Areas Affected by Project_Enter the governmental unit where significant and meaningful impact could be observed. List only the largest unit or units affected, such as State, county, or city. If an entire unit is affected, list it rather than subunits. Item 13. Proposed Project_Enter the desired start date for the project and projected completion date. Item 14. Congressional District of Applicant/Project_Enter the number of the Congressional district where the applicant's principal office is located and the number of the Congressional district(s) where the project will be located. If statewide, a multi-State effort, or nationwide, enter 00.
