FR940325-0-00087 FR940325-0-00016 Response: The rule lists technical feasibility as one of the factors that trustee officials must consider when selecting a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative. Under ยง11.14(qq) of the rule, an alternative is ``technically feasible'' if it involves well-known technology and has a reasonable chance of successful completion in an acceptable period of time. Different alternatives may possess varying degrees of feasibility. The technical feasibility factor is designed to require an evaluation of these varying degrees of technical feasibility rather than to establish a strict standard of feasibility for acceptable alternatives. Nevertheless, trustee officials should not select alternatives that are infeasible. Comment: A number of commenters suggested that trustee officials should be required to choose the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative that maximized net benefits or was most cost effective. Response: Ohio v. Interior recognized that cost considerations, although relevant, are not paramount under CERCLA. Therefore, the rule does not require trustee officials to select the alternative that is most cost effective or that minimizes costs. However, the rule does require trustee officials to consider both cost effectiveness and the relationship between costs and benefits when selecting a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative. When considering the relationship between costs and benefits, trustee officials should consider how each restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative would affect not only the injured resources but also lost interim use of those resources. Total damages will depend on the sum of compensable value and restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs. Often there will be tradeoffs between compensable value and restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs. For example, a fast-paced restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative may result in a lower level of interim lost use, and thus reduce associated compensable values. However, implementation of such an alternative may result in significantly higher restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs. In some cases, there may be sufficient data to demonstrate that some restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternatives result in substantially lower total damages than others. In its January 7, 1994 notice of proposed rulemaking, NOAA solicited comment on whether its damage assessment regulations under OPA should require trustee officials to explain their rationale if they select a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative that does not minimize total damages. 59 FR 1134. If NOAA does include such a requirement in its final damage assessment regulations, the Department will consider whether a similar requirement should be added to the Department's type B rule during the upcoming biennial review. Comment: A few commenters thought that the Department should require trustee officials to select a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative that is consistent with the response actions taken at the site. These commenters expressed concern that without such a requirement, State trustee officials could circumvent section 121(f) of CERCLA, which requires States to bear the cost of obtaining cleanup levels beyond those selected by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Response: Section 11.23(f) of the rule, which was not affected by this rulemaking, requires trustee officials to coordinate their activities with the lead response agency. Also, ยง11.82(d)(4) of this final rule requires trustee officials to consider the effects of any actual or planned response actions when selecting a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative. The Department encourages trustee officials to work closely with EPA, the United States Coast Guard, and State response agencies. However, the Department recognizes that the purpose of a response action may differ from that of an action to restore, rehabilitate, replace, and/or acquire the equivalent of injured resources. Therefore, the Department does not believe that consistency with response actions should govern the selection of a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative. The Department does not believe that section 121(f) of CERCLA is applicable in this context. Section 121(f) addresses whether the cost of attaining a certain cleanup level should be borne by the Federal Hazardous Substance Superfund or by the State; it does not address PRP liability for natural resource damages.
