FR940506-1-00049 FR940506-1-00012 (E) Flatfish fishery. Fishing that results in a retained aggregate catch of all flatfish species, except Pacific halibut, during any weekly reporting period, that is greater than the retained catch of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii). (F) Other species fishery. Fishing that results in a retained catch of groundfish, during any weekly reporting period, that does not qualify as a pollock, Pacific cod, sablefish, rockfish, or flatfish fishery as defined under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) (A) through (E) of this section. (iii) Assignment of vessels to fisheries. During any weekly reporting period, a vessel's retained catch composition of groundfish species or species groups for which a TAC has been specified under §672.20 or §675.20 of this chapter, in round weight or round-weight equivalents, will determine to which of the fishery categories listed under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section the vessel is assigned. (A) Catcher/processor vessels will be assigned to fishery categories at the end of each weekly reporting period based on the round weight or round-weight equivalent of the retained catch composition of groundfish reported on the vessels' weekly production report submitted to the Regional Director under §672.5(c)(2) or §675.5(c)(2) of this chapter. (B) Catcher vessels that deliver to mothership processors in Federal waters during a weekly reporting period will be assigned to fishery categories based on the round weight or round-weight equivalent of the retained groundfish catch composition reported on the weekly production report submitted to the Regional Director for that week by the mothership processor under §672.5(c)(2) or §675.5(c)(2) of this chapter. (C) Catcher vessels delivering groundfish to shoreside processors or to mothership processors in Alaska State waters during a weekly reporting period will be assigned to fishery categories based on the round-weight equivalent of the groundfish delivered to processors during that weekly reporting period and reported on one or more ADF&G fish tickets as required under Alaska Statutes at A.S. 16.05.690. (2) Compliance by managers of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area and Gulf of Alaska groundfish shoreside processing facilities _(i) Coverage requirements. Observer coverage is required as follows: (A) A shoreside processing facility that processes 1,000 mt or more in round weight or round-weight equivalents of groundfish during a calendar month is required to have a NMFS-certified observer present at the facility each day it receives or processes groundfish during that month. (B) A shoreside processing facility that processes 500 mt to 1,000 mt in round weight or round-weight equivalents of groundfish during a calendar month is required to have a NMFS-certified observer present at the facility at least 30 percent of the days it receives or processes groundfish during that month. (3) Compliance by processing vessel operators of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area king and Tanner crab. An operator of a vessel that processes king or Tanner crab must have one or more State of Alaska-certified observers on board the vessel whenever king or Tanner crab are received or processed, if the operator is required to do so by Alaska State regulations at 5 AAC 39.645. (b) Compliance requirements applicable after December 31, 1995 _(1) General compliance requirements for Research Plan fisheries _(i) Compliance by operators of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area and Gulf of Alaska groundfish vessels from the EEZ and halibut from convention waters off Alaska. An operator of a vessel that catches and retains groundfish or halibut, or a vessel that processes groundfish or halibut, must carry one or more NMFS-certified observers on board the vessel whenever fishing operations are conducted, if the operator is required to do so by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (ii) Compliance by managers of shoreside processing facilities of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area and Gulf of Alaska groundfish from the EEZ and halibut from convention waters off Alaska. A manager of a shoreside processing facility that processes groundfish or halibut received from vessels regulated under this part must have one or more NMFS-certified observers present at the facility whenever groundfish or halibut are received or processed, if the manager is required to do so by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (iii) Compliance by vessel operators of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area king and Tanner crab. An operator of a vessel subject to this part must carry one or more NMFS-certified observers or ADF&G employees on board the vessel whenever fishing or processing operations are conducted, if the operator is required to do so by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (iv) Compliance by managers of shoreside processing facilities of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area king and Tanner crab. A manager of a shoreside processing facility that processes king or Tanner crab received from vessels regulated under this part must have one or more NMFS-certified observers, or ADF&G employees, present at the facility whenever king or Tanner crab is received or processed, if the manager is required to do so by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
