FR940111-0-00088 FR940111-0-00019 6. Misrepresentation/Disclosure Provisions Section 453.3 of the Rule currently requires funeral providers to make specific written disclosures on the price lists and the itemized statement of goods and services selected. The Commission in its 1982 Statement of Basis and Purpose determined that, due to funeral providers' false claims or failure to disclose accurate information, many consumers erroneously believed that certain procedures (such as embalming) or particular goods (such as caskets for cremation and outer burial containers) were required purchases not subject to individual choice, and that goods and services had certain protective and preservative qualities when such was not the case. 176 176 R-B&hyph;5 at 42274&hyph;42279. Although the record did not contain evidence that certain misrepresentations (such as the protective and preservative claims of goods and the requirement of a casket for cremation) were widespread, the Commission determined that their inclusion in the Rule was necessary because of their pernicious nature, or because of the substantial, potential cost that could be incurred by consumers who make purchase decisions based upon incorrect assumptions of material facts. Id. at 42276&hyph;42278. Section 453.3 thus declares that it is a deceptive act or practice for funeral providers to misrepresent: embalming requirements, casket for cremation requirements, 177 outer burial container requirements, legal and cemetery requirements, preservative and protective value of funeral goods and services, and cash advance charges. The provisions of §453.3 were designed to prevent those deceptive practices and to correct consumers' misconceptions by requiring written disclosures on both the price lists and the itemized statement. 177 The companion §453.4(a)(2) required providers who arrange direct cremations to ``make available'' unfinished wood boxes or alternative containers so that consumers will not have to buy a casket for that purpose. Funeral provider groups recommended that the twelve affirmative disclosure requirements be deleted, or, in the alternative, that the Rule permit providers to use their own disclosure language. 178 The Commission has determined, however, that the record does not provide a substantial basis to repeal the twelve affirmative disclosures. Although the empirical data indicate that consumers' knowledge has increased somewhat under the Rule, and that some misrepresentations have declined, the data also show that misrepresentations are still occurring, particularly in areas where consumer knowledge is still low, such as embalming. The evidence further demonstrates that consumer knowledge of funeral requirements and products is still at a minimal level. Viewed together, those facts warrant the retention of the disclosure provisions. 179 Nor is there sufficient evidence to warrant an amendment allowing funeral providers to use their own disclosure language. That change would make it more difficult to monitor compliance, whereas the required, standardized language ensures that all consumers are receiving identical information. 178 R-M&hyph;9 (NFDA/NSM) at 225; R-G&hyph;6 (NFDA) at 78&hyph;79; and R-G&hyph;3 (NSM) at 45. 179 See the discussion and evidence cited at R-N&hyph;1 (SR), 180&hyph;181. The Commission agrees, however, that the language of several of the disclosures has created some potential compliance problems for funeral providers. The Commission therefore has adopted the following changes to the embalming, casket for cremation, outer burial container, and cash advance disclosure provisions in order to clarify the Rule's scope and requirements, and to reduce potential disclosure burdens: (1) Deletion of the portion of §453.3(a)(2)(i) that prohibits representations that embalming is required for a funeral using a sealed casket; substantial evidence indicates that, because sealed (i.e., ``gasketed'') caskets cannot prevent the escape of gases any more than other caskets, embalming may be necessary for a funeral service using a sealed casket where refrigeration is not available; 180 180 See the discussion and evidence cited at R-O&hyph;1 (POR), 204&hyph;206. (2) Amendment of the deceptive acts or practices definition concerning the necessity for embalming, §453.3(a)(1)(ii), to include the modifying phrase ``if any'' after the phrase ``except in certain special cases,'' and amendment of the GPL disclosure required by §453.3(a)(2)(ii) to permit providers to delete from the disclosure that embalming is not required by law the phrase ``except in certain special cases,'' if state or local law in the areas where the provider does business does not require embalming under any circumstances. These changes are appropriate to reduce compliance burdens and accommodate the situation where state laws do not require embalming under any conditions; 181 181 See R-N&hyph;1 (SR) at 187. (3) Amendment of the GPL alternative container disclosure required by §453.3(b)(2) to: (a) Delete the required references to: (i) An ``unfinished wood box,'' in addition to references to an ``alternative container,'' because the former in today's market is considered a type of alternative container, and (ii) ``pouches of canvas,'' which is not a type of container generally available and accepted by crematories; (b) include the phrase ``encase the body'' after ``Alternative containers;'' (c) include the statement ``The containers we provide are (specify containers).''; and (d) substitute ``fiberboard'' for ``heavy cardboard'' to conform to market terminology.
