FR941110-1-00110 FR941110-1-00011 (B) If EPA's records show that the convertor has insufficient unexpended Article 5 allowances to cover the conversion claim, or that the convertor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination, the Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the conversion. Within 10 working days after receipt of notification, the convertor may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day. (iii) In the event that the Administrator does not respond to a conversion claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the convertor may proceed with the conversion. EPA will reduce the convertor's balance of unexpended allowances by the amount to be converted. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the convertor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claims, the convertor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper conversion. (3) Effective January 1, 1996, any person (``convertor'') may convert destruction and/or transformation credits for one class I controlled substance to the same type of credits for another class I controlled substance within the same group of controlled substances as the first as follows: (i) The convertor must submit to the Administrator a conversion claim setting forth the following: (A) The identity and address of the convertor; (B) The name and telephone number of a contact person for the convertor; (C) The type of destruction and/or transformation credits being converted, including the names of the controlled substances for which credits are to be converted; (D) The group of controlled substances to which the destruction and/or transformation credits being converted pertains; (E) The amount and type of credits to be converted; (F) The amount of credits to be subtracted from the convertor's unexpended credits for the first controlled substance, to be equal to 101 percent of the amount of credits converted; (G) The amount of destruction and/or transformation credits to be added to the convertor's unexpended credits for the second controlled substance, to be equal to the amount of credits for the first controlled substance being converted multiplied by the quotient of the ozone depletion factor of the first controlled substance divided by the ozone depletion factor of the second controlled substance, as listed in Appendix A to this subpart. (H) The control period(s) for which the destruction and/or transformation credits are being converted; and (I) The amount of unexpended destruction and/or transformation credits for the control period being converted that the convertor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA. (ii) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA, taking into account any previous conversions, any transfers, and any production, imports (not including transhipments, or used controlled substances), or exports (not including transhipments, exports for destruction or transformation, or used controlled substances) of controlled substances reported by the convertor, indicate that the convertor possesses, as of the date the conversion claim is processed, unexpended destruction and/or transformation credits sufficient to cover the conversion claim (i.e., the amount to be converted plus one percent of that amount). Within three working days of receiving a complete conversion claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the convertor as follows: (A) If EPA's records show that the convertor has sufficient unexpended destruction and/or transformation credits to cover the conversion claim the Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the conversion and will reduce the convertor's balance of unexpended credits by the amount to be converted plus one percent of that amount. When EPA issues a no objection notice, the convertor may proceed with the conversion. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the convertor did not have sufficient unexpended destruction and/or transformation credits to cover the claim, the convertor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper conversion. (B) If EPA's records show that the convertor has insufficient unexpended destruction and/or transformation credits to cover the conversion claim, or that the convertor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination, the Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the conversion. Within 10 working days after receipt of notification, the convertor may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day. (iii) In the event that the Administrator does not respond to a conversion claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the convertor may proceed with the conversion. EPA will reduce the convertor's balance of unexpended destruction and/or transformation credits by the amount to be converted plus one percent of that amount. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the convertor did not have sufficient unexpended destruction and/or transformation credits to cover the claims, the convertor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper conversion. (3) Effective January 1, 1995, and for every control period thereafter, inter-pollutant trades will be permitted during the 45 days after the end of a control period.
