FR940323-2-00095 FR940323-2-00067 • Purpose: To support the development of a network of community-based, family-focused, and culturally competent systems of care for children with special health care needs. This network will: (1) Link the public and private sectors within the context of current efforts to reform the Nation's health and mental health care delivery systems and related reform efforts in education, child welfare, and juvenile justice; (2) within the broader context, establish a Child and Adolescent Service System Program (CASSP) Technical Assistance Center to focus on the needs of children and adolescents with serious emotional disturbances and their families and to address the psychosocial needs of all children with special health care needs and their families; and (3) work with critical State and local agencies serving children and Native American reservations to ensure support for integrated service delivery systems for children at all levels. This cooperative agreement will be jointly funded by the MCHB and the Center for Mental Health Services (CMHS), SAMHSA. Preference for funding will be given to public or private non-profit organizations with prior experience in the areas described above, especially those which can show: (1) The extent to which technical assistance efforts have focused on the needs of children and adolescents with serious emotional disorders; and (2) the degree to which prior networking efforts have been designed to link together health, mental health, education and other human services to address the psychosocial needs of all children with special health care needs and their families. • Amount: Up to $1.5 million per year will be available to support one project. The award will be made for a project period of up to 5 years. • Contact: For programmatic or technical information, contact John Shwab, telephone: 301 443&hyph;2370. The categories, priorities, special considerations and preferences described above are not being proposed for public comment this year. In July 1993, following publication of the Department's Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to revise the MCH special project grant regulations at 42 CFR 51a, the public was invited for a 60-day period to submit comments regarding all aspects of the SPRANS application and review process. Public comments regarding SPRANS priorities received during the comment period were considered in developing this announcement. In responding to these comments, the Department noted the practical limits on Secretarial discretion in establishing SPRANS categories and priorities owing to the extensive prescription in both the statute and annual Congressional directives. Comments on this SPRANS notice which members of the public wish to make are welcome at any time and may be submitted to: Director, Maternal and Child Health Bureau, at the address listed in the ADDRESS section. Suggestions will be considered when priorities are developed for the next solicitation. 5. Eligible Applicants Any public or private entity, including an Indian tribe or tribal organization (as defined at 25 U.S.C. 450b), is eligible to apply for grants or cooperative agreements for MCHIP demonstration project categories. Training grants may be made only to public or nonprofit private institutions of higher learning. Research grants may be made only to public or nonprofit private institutions of higher learning and public or nonprofit private agencies and organizations engaged in research in maternal and child health or programs for CSHCN. 6. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements (approved under OMB No. 0937&hyph;0195). Under these requirements, the community-based nongovernmental applicant must prepare and submit a Public Health System Impact Statement (PHSIS). The PHSIS is intended to provide information to State and local health officials to keep them apprised of proposed health services grant applications submitted by community-based nongovernmental organizations within their jurisdictions. Community-based nongovernmental applicants are required to submit the following information to the head of the appropriate State and local health agencies in the area(s) to be impacted no later than the Federal application receipt due date: (a) A copy of the face page of the application (SF 424). (b) A summary of the project (PHSIS), not to exceed one page, which provides: (1) A description of the population to be served. (2) A summary of the services to be provided. (3) A description of the coordination planned with the appropriate State and local health agencies. 7. Executive Order 12372 The MCH Federal set-aside program has been determined to be a program which is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372 concerning intergovernmental review of Federal programs. The OMB Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.110. Dated: February 7, 1994. William A. Robinson, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6693 Filed 3&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;P
