FR940617-2-00130 FR940617-2-00079 Comment: Two commenters had concerns regarding ORR's encouragement to States and counties to give special consideration to coalitions of refugee service organizations. One commenter expressed concern about how coalitions would be more cost-effective. The commenter also questioned how ORR envisions special consideration for coalitions in relation to the competitive procurement process. Another commenter felt that coordination should not be mandated as an end in itself. The commenter felt that if early employment is the goal, local service systems should be as uncomplicated as possible in order to get the job done efficiently. The commenter was concerned that current providers that are doing an effective job would be dismantled prematurely. Response: We believe that the formation of coalitions among refugee service agencies ought to lead to service delivery efficiencies and to a rational downsizing of existing systems that will be necessary to keep pace with the changing nature of the refugee population to be served. We believe the formation of coalitions will enable the pooling of varied talents and skills within the agencies to more efficiently serve the changing population of refugee arrivals that will occur over the next few years. We also believe that the formation of coalitions should result in the reduction of administrative costs such as accounting and reporting costs, making coalitions more competitive. In addition, we believe the formation of coalitions will result in better coordination of services to refugees. Encouragement of or special consideration for coalitions should not interfere with State procurement requirements. Coalitions will have to compete along with other applicants. However, States in their Requests for Proposals (RFPs) could choose to include language that encourages the formation of coalitions or could include bonus points for coalitions in the scoring criteria, as long as these actions do not violate State procurement rules. Comment: One commenter requested clarification on whether language in the notice such as ``States are strongly encouraged'' and ``the State should'' is advisory or is a mandatory requirement. Response: When ORR uses phrases such as ``States are strongly encouraged,'' ``States are expected to,'' or ``the State should,'' the language is advisory in nature and should not be interpreted as a mandatory requirement. Comment: Six commenters made comments regarding requirements for the use of discretionary funds for services to former political prisoners (FPP) from Vietnam. One commenter requested that ORR specify which family members are eligible for services under the FPP set-aside or allow States and counties to make that determination. The commenter also requested that ORR define what adjustment services may be provided under the FPP program and recommended that ORR use the same definition as used in 45 CFR 400.155(c) of the ORR regulations. One commenter, noting ORR's prohibition against the purchase of advertising space and air time with FPP funds, recommended that paid outreach announcements through refugee community media and Vietnamese newspapers be allowed under the FPP program. One commenter noted that ORR requires States to allocate FPP funds using a formula that reflects recent and anticipated arrivals of former political prisoners. The commenter pointed out that there is no timely or reliable source of anticipated arrivals by State and recommended limiting the State allocation formula to recent arrivals and recommended defining the term ``recent arrivals.'' One commenter recommended that counties which administer FPP programs be granted 10% for administrative costs and that States should be limited to no more than 2% for administrative costs. Two commenters recommended dropping outcomes as a performance reporting requirement under the FPP program. One of the commenters questioned the increased reporting requirements when the FPP program is entering its last year of operation. Another commenter recommended accepting available individual contract data on outcomes since it would be difficult in some States with a wide range of FPP services to provide a program-wide outcomes report. One commenter supported the proposed FPP reporting requirements and did not feel the increased reporting requirements would add significantly to existing workloads. Another commenter recommended that FPP projects be supported that demonstrate accountability for outcomes such as those that occurred in the Amerasian projects. The commenter further suggested that ORR should require coordination between the agencies that provide FPP services and the voluntary agencies that resettle former political prisoners. Response: Family members who are eligible for services under the FPP set-aside include any relative of a former political prisoner who lives in the same household with the FPP. Adjustment services are defined as those services listed under 45 CFR 400.155(c) of the ORR regulations. This definition is included in this notice. Regarding the use of FPP funds for paid outreach announcements through the refugee media, our position is unchanged on this issue; we do not feel that the purchase of advertising space and air time constitutes an effective use of FPP funds. FPP providers should work with the voluntary agencies that resettled FPP refugees to contact these refugees within the constraints of the Privacy Act.
