FR940511-0-00059 FR940511-0-00015 Response: The boundary of the Sanctuary does not encompass beaches where beach driving is permitted. Advisory Committee/Decision Making Comment: NOAA and the State of Washington should work together to determine the composition of the Sanctuary Advisory Committee (SAC). The SAC should include representatives from private landowners, local industry, the county and tribes. The SAC should be based at the local level to oversee operations and help maintain strong local input. Response: NOAA will work with local user and interest groups and state and local governments to obtain broad representation on the SAC. The law limits the SAC to no more than 15 members. Comment: The SAC should have the power to direct the Sanctuary manger and set priorities for funding. The SAC decisions should be binding. If the decisions are not binding, then the manager should at least provide a rationale for any actions taken which are directly contrary to the recommendations of the SAC. Response: The SAC recommendations to the manager will be instrumental in guiding the manager with respect to prioritizing actions. If the manager chooses not to pursue the recommendations of the SAC, a rationale will be provided to the members of the SAC. Comment: One of the first tasks of the SAC should be to review and update the State of Washington's coastal zone management program to ensure consistency with the Sanctuary management plan. The Sanctuary management plan goals and objectives should also be reviewed. Response: Prior to designation, the State of Washington will review the FEIS/MP as part of its consistency determination as it relates to Washington's approved coastal zone management program. The WDOE has jurisdiction for the Shoreline Management Act. The SAC will not share that jurisdiction, rather, the SAC will be responsible for reviewing the Sanctuary management plan goals and objectives. The SAC's first priority will be to help determine the five-year Sanctuary operating plan establishing priorities for education, research, monitoring, facilities siting and administration. Miscellaneous Comment: Firearms should be controlled or banned within the Sanctuary. Response: Possession and use of firearms is regulated by State law for public safety purposes. The primary purpose of Sanctuary designation is resource protection. Management Alternatives/Strategies Comment: The administrative models being discussed in the Northwest Straits proposal should be considered. Response: The administrative model identifying NOAA as the lead agency in managing the sanctuary with guidance and assistance from the SAC (which will represent State and local interests) will be implemented in the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary. The administrative model which involves joint administration between NOAA and the State of Washington was not considered for the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary because the Sanctuary is predominately in Federal waters. One model suggested for the proposed Northwest Straits National Marine Sanctuary focuses on joint administration because the Sanctuary would be located entirely within State waters. NOAA will work closely with the state and counties and other Federal agencies in the administration of the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary. Comment: The management plan needs to account for tribal sovereignty and jurisdiction with respect to cultural resources, law enforcement and research practices. NOAA needs to recognize the need to coordinate with each tribal entity in the same manner as with the state and its management agencies. Response: NOAA acknowledges the importance of tribal sovereignty. Nothing in the designation will impact the treaty rights of the coastal tribes. NOAA will consult closely with the tribes on any action that may potentially impact tribal rights or interests. Comment: NOAA should choose management plan alternative 1 which proposes to gradually phase in program activities and staffing. Staff could be co-located with another Federal agency in Port Angeles, with satellite sites in Klaloch or La Push. National concerns with fiscal restraint support this choice. Some commenters supported management plan alternative 2 which proposes to set up the sanctuary headquarters and immediately provide full-staffing. Sanctuary headquarters should be located on the coast. The former Makah Air Force Station is one possible location. Response: NOAA is experiencing the fiscal constraints that all Federal programs are experiencing. NOAA proposes to balance the needs for resource protection and fiscal restraint by phasing in staffing and maximizing cooperative relationships with other agencies and jurisdictions working in the area (e.g., NPS, U.S. Coast Guard, the tribes, and the USFWS) to implement the management plan. The Sanctuary manager will have an office on the Olympic Coast with administrative support facilities in Seattle. Comment: Implementation of the final management plan must be adequately funded in order to prevent pollution and resource damage.
