FR940505-1-00425 FR940505-1-00012 ( i ) The percentage of valves in service and awaiting repair or replacement at any time shall not exceed the values below: Effective Date Percentage of Leaking Valves January 1, 1996_2% January 1, 1997_1% January 1, 1999_0.5% ( ii ) The percentage of pump and compressor seals in service and awaiting repair or replacement at any time shall not exceed the values below: Effective Date Percentage of Leaking Pumps and Compressors January 1, 1996_10% January 1, 1999_1% ( 4 ) Any repaired or replaced component shall be re-inspected in accordance with the method prescribed in paragraph (t)(7)(i) of this section by the owner or operator within 30 days of the repair or replacement. ( 5 ) A component or parts thereof which incur five repair actions for a major gas or liquid leak within a continuous twelve month period shall be replaced with BACT equipment as determined by EPA. Replacement with BACT equipment for all components except critical components shall take place within the time periods following the fifth repair action specified in the table of repair periods in paragraph (t) of this section. For critical components, replacement with BACT equipment shall take place within one year of the fifth repair action or at the next process turn around following the fifth repair action, whichever comes first. (C) Leak control requirements. The owner or operator of any facility subject to this section shall comply with the following leak control requirements. The requirements of paragraphs (t)(3)(ii)(C) ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of this section shall not apply to components being repaired or replaced within the specified repair or replacement period, as given in the table of repair periods or paragraph (t)(3)(ii)(B)( 3 ) of this section, if the requirements for leak minimization under paragraph (t)(3)(ii)(B)( 1 ) of this section have been met. ( 1 ) A liquid leak from any component detected during an inspection by EPA shall constitute a violation of this section. ( 2 ) Any leak detected during an inspection by EPA, within any continuous 24-hour period, and numbering in excess of the leak thresholds for that component listed in the table of leak thresholds, shall constitute a violation of this section. ( 3 ) Any open-ended line or valve found to be leaking shall be sealed with a second valve, blind flange, cap, plug, or a second closed valve except during operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended line or valve. ( 4 ) Hatches shall be closed at all times except during sampling, addition of process material, or attended maintenance operations. ( 5 ) Effective twelve months after [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ], control valves shall be replaced or retrofitted so that a major leak shall not occur during valve actuation or at any other time. ( 6 ) Effective twelve months after [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ], any component leak that is vented through a stack or other confined air stream shall be transported in a closed-vent system with a collection efficiency of at least 95% to a VOC control device with a control efficiency of at least 95%. The determination of control efficiency shall be made in accordance with the test method specified in paragraph (t)(7)(iv) of this section. ( 7 ) Effective twelve months after [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ], any venting of wellhead gases shall be done through a closed vent system to a control device with a VOC control efficiency of at least 95%. (4) Exemptions. The provisions of paragraphs (t)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section shall not apply to the following components: (i) Pressure relief valves, pump seals, and compressor seals that are equipped with a closed-vent system with a VOC collection efficiency of at least 95% that transports the VOC emissions to a vapor control system with a VOC control efficiency of at least 95%. The determination of control efficiency shall be made in accordance with the test method specified in paragraph (t)(7)(iv) of this section. (ii) The following cases, where the person seeking the exemption shall supply proof of the applicable criteria to the satisfaction of the EPA:
