FR940527-1-00100 FR940527-1-00014 In that same response, we also stated our belief that the adjustment for IME and to the prospective payment rate is currently higher than the additional cost of serving a Medicare beneficiary at a teaching hospital. The policy advocated by ProPAC in this recommendation would have the effect of increasing outlier payments to teaching hospitals. Relative to the costs associated with teaching activity, we are concerned that the teaching adjustment may overcompensate teaching hospitals for their Medicare cases. For this reason, we believe it would be inappropriate to implement ProPAC's recommendation without making a reduction in the level of the IME adjustment. We concur with ProPAC's second recommendation regarding raising the marginal cost factor for cost outliers to 80 percent from its current level of 75 percent. We currently pay 75 percent of the difference between the cost of a case and the cost outlier threshold. Paying 75 percent of costs beyond a threshold protects hospitals against inordinate losses resulting from the costliest Medicare cases. As we describe in section IV.D. of this proposed rule, section 13501(c) of Public Law 103&hyph;66 requires that we phase-out payments for day outliers, while simultaneously increasing payments for cost outliers. We believe the change mandated by the statute improves Medicare's outlier policy by focusing outlier payments on the costliest cases. Consistent with focusing Medicare's outlier payments on cases with the greatest losses, we are raising the marginal cost factor to 80 percent. We note that raising the marginal cost factor to 80 percent necessitates an increase in the fixed loss cost outlier threshold in order to maintain outlier payments at 5.1 percent of estimated total prospective payments. F. Level of the Indirect Medical Education Adjustment to PPS Operating Payments (Recommendation 19) Recommendation: The Commission recommends that the indirect medical education adjustment to prospective payments for hospital inpatient operating costs be reduced from its current level of 7.7 percent to 7.0 percent for fiscal year 1995. This reduction should be implemented with the anticipated decrease in indirect medical education payments returned to all hospitals through a proportionate increase in the standardized payment amounts. The Commission also recommends continuation of the indirect medical education adjustment to operating payments until an alternative system of compensating appropriately for the higher costs of patient care in teaching institutions is fully operational. Response: The first part of this recommendation is identical to ProPAC's recommendation on the level of the IME adjustment for FY 1994, to which we responded in the May 26, 1993 proposed rule (58 FR 30255) and September 1, 1993 final rule (58 FR 46326) containing the changes to the prospective payment systems for FY 1994. We agree that the IME adjustment should be reduced. Although we have disagreed with ProPAC in the past over the degree of reduction, we have proposed reductions as part of the President's budgets for the last several years. With respect to ProPAC's methodology for estimating the indirect cost effect of teaching without accounting for the DSH adjustment, we explained our opposition to this suggestion in the September 1, 1993 final rule (58 FR 46328). To reiterate, our analysis indicates that there is evidence of significantly higher costs related to DSH among urban hospitals with 100 or more beds (see O'Dougherty et al., Health Care Financing Review , Winter 1992, p. 31). Since these hospitals receive over 96 percent of all DSH payments, we believe ProPAC's claim that ``DSH payments generally do not reflect differences in costs'' is overstated. We do agree, however, that the current level of DSH payments exceeds the measured cost effect of DSH even among urban hospitals with 100 or more beds. In that regard, we point out that in the regression model used to estimate the teaching effect, we did not specify the DSH variable as the level of DSH payments, but instead set it equal to the DSH percentage for urban hospitals with 100 or more beds and zero for all other hospitals. (For a complete description of our estimating model, see the August 30, 1991 final rule implementing the capital prospective payment system, 56 FR 43370.) As ProPAC alludes to in its report, not controlling for DSH leads to its higher IME cost estimate relative to our IME cost estimate. The remainder of ProPAC's recommendation raises policy issues related to the appropriate level of IME funding as the transition is made from the current system to the new health care system. Since these transition issues are currently being addressed as part of the health care reform debate, we are not responding in this document to this part of ProPAC's recommendation. G. Prospective Payment Method for Outpatient Services (Recommendation 20) Recommendation: The Commission believes a prospective payment system for hospital outpatient services should be implemented. Outpatient payment reform should result in consistent policies across all sites and providers. Payment should be based on a prospective price per unit of service until other methods can be developed that would appropriately control the volume of services. The payment rate should be adjusted to reflect justifiable cost differences across settings. Response: We appreciate ProPAC's support for efforts to develop a prospective payment system for hospital outpatient services. We share the Commission's view that a hospital outpatient prospective payment system can provide meaningful incentives for controlling costs. We also believe that such a system could have the potential to be adapted for other outpatient settings, resulting in more consistent policies across varying sites of service. We look forward to the Commission's comments when our report on a hospital outpatient prospective payment system is issued. H. Revision of Payment Formula for Outpatient Services (Recommendation 21) Recommendation: Until prospective payment systems can be implemented for hospital outpatient services, the blend formula used to calculate hospital payments for ambulatory surgery center-approved procedures, radiology services, and diagnostic services should be revised. The formula should subtract beneficiary copayment after the total payment has been calculated. The resulting reduction in Medicare program payments to hospitals should be used to partially offset increases in program expenditures due to reducing beneficiary liability.
