FR940922-2-00036 FR940922-2-00015 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services Reauthorization of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of request for public comment on the provisions and implementation of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. SUMMARY: The Secretary of Education invites written comments from the public on the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) to assist in the development of reauthorization legislation and for other purposes. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to Dr. Thomas Hehir, Director, Office of Special Education Programs, U.S. Department of Education, Mary E. Switzer Building, 330 C St., S.W., Room 3086, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;6132. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Theda Zawaiza. Telephone (202) 205&hyph;8148. Individuals who use a telecommunication device for the deaf (TDD) may call (202) 205&hyph;5465 or the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Need for Reauthorization Parts C through H of the IDEA are authorized through fiscal year 1994. Reauthorization of those portions of the Act provides an opportunity to consider improvements to the entire IDEA, including other portions of the Act, that would strengthen the Federal effort to give every child a world-class education based on high standards. Description of the Act Part A of the IDEA includes the findings and purpose of the Act; definitions; authority for the Office of Special Education Programs; provisions regarding State sovereign immunity; authority for the acquisition of equipment and construction of facilities; requirements relating to the employment of individuals with disabilities; grants for the removal of architectural barriers; regulatory provisions; and eligibility and administrative provisions applicable to the discretionary programs authorized in section 618 of Part B and Parts C through G. Part B authorizes two formula grant programs: (1) Assistance to States for Education of Individuals with Disabilities program, which assists States in providing special education and related services to children, aged 3 through 21 years, with disabilities; and (2) the Preschool Grants for Children with Disabilities program, which provides additional funds to help States provide services to children, aged 3 through 5 years, with disabilities. As part of the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA), the Administration proposed that the Chapter 1 Handicapped program currently authorized under Title I of the ESEA be eliminated and all children with disabilities be served under the IDEA. Section 618 of Part B includes requirements for the collection of data; requirements for an annual report on the progress being made under the Act and the publication of proposed priorities; and authority for other activities relating to implementation of the Act and national program information needs. Parts C though G authorize a variety of discretionary research, demonstration, training, technical assistance, and dissemination activities. Part C addresses the regional resource and Federal centers; services for deaf-blind children and youth; early education for children, aged birth through 8 years, with disabilities; programs for children with severe disabilities; postsecondary education; secondary education and transitional services for youth with disabilities; and programs for children and youth with serious emotional disabilities. Part D addresses personnel training; grants to State educational agencies and institutions for traineeships; parent training and information; and the national clearinghouses on children and youth with disabilities, postsecondary education, and careers in special education. Part E addresses research and related activities, including research and demonstration projects in physical education and recreation. Part F addresses instructional media for individuals with disabilities, including the program dealing with captioned films, television, descriptive video, and educational media. Part G addresses technology, educational media, and materials. Part H authorizes the Grants for Infants and Toddlers with Disabilities program, which provides Federal assistance to help States develop and implement statewide, comprehensive, coordinated, multidisciplinary, interagency programs for early intervention services for infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families. States must serve all children aged birth through two years who: (1) Are experiencing developmental delays as measured by appropriate diagnostic instruments and procedures in one or more of the following areas: cognitive, physical, communication, social, emotional, or adaptive development; or (2) have a diagnosed physical or mental condition that has a high probability of resulting in developmental delay. ``Developmental delay'' is defined by each State. At their discretion, States may also serve infants and toddlers who are at risk of having substantial developmental delays if early intervention services are not provided. To be eligible for funding, the statewide system must include the 13 minimum components required by the statute and must be fully implemented.
