FR941006-0-00071 FR941006-0-00020 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC11 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Final Rule to Reclassify the Plant Isotria medeoloides (Small Whorled Pogonia) From Endangered to Threatened AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines that Isotria medeoloides (small whorled pogonia) warrants reclassification from endangered to threatened. The determination is based on the fulfillment of reclassification criteria as stated in the Small Whorled Pogonia ( Isotria medeoloides ) Recovery Plan: First Revision (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1992) and substantial improvement in the status of this orchid species. As outlined in the revised Recovery Plan, reclassification of Isotria medeoloides from endangered to threatened should proceed when a minimum of 25 percent of the known viable sites (as of 1992) are protected. Currently, 61 percent of the viable populations are permanently protected. This rule implements the Federal protection and recovery provisions for threatened species as provided by the Act. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this rule is available for inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the New England Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 22 Bridge Street_Unit 1, Concord, New Hampshire 03301&hyph;4986. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Susanna von Oettingen at the above address (telephone: 603/225&hyph;1411, FAX 603/225&hyph;1467). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Isotria medeoloides (small whorled pogonia), a member of the orchid family (Orchidaceae), was first described by Frederick Pursh in 1814 as Arethusa medeoloides. In 1838, this orchid was placed in its own genus and recognized as Isotria medeoloides; however, it also became known as Pogonia affinis and Isotria affinis. M.L. Fernald clarified the nomenclature in 1947, making the latter names synonyms of Isotria medeoloides. Isotria medeoloides is an herbaceous perennial with slender, hairy, fibrous roots that radiate from a crown or rootstock. The five or six milky-green or grayish-green, elliptic and somewhat pointed leaves (four leaves in some vegetative plants) are displayed in a whorl at the apex of a smooth, green stem. Isotria medeoloides flowers from mid-May in the south to mid-June in the northern part of its range. A single yellowish-green flower, or occasionally flower pair, stands in the center of the whorl of leaves. An individual plant is usually single-stemmed, although two or more stems may occur; however, closely grouped double stems may in fact be two single plants (Bill Brumback, New England Wildflower Society, in litt. 1993). Because of the difficulty in differentiating double stemmed plants from closely neighboring plants, population estimates are often based on the number of stems, as opposed to the number of plants. Isotria medeoloides can be confused with Isotria verticillata (Willd.) Raf. (large whorled pogonia), the only other species in the genus Isotria. Characteristics that distinguish I. medeoloides from I. verticillata include the stem and flower color, the relative lengths of the sepals and petals, and the length of the stem of the fruit capsule in relation to the length of the capsule itself (Rawinski 1989a). Colonies of Isotria verticillata are often found near colonies of Isotria medeoloides in the extensive region in which they occur together (A. Belden, Virginia Division of Natural Heritage, in litt. 1991). They have also been reported to grow mixed together (Dixon and Cook 1988). Isotria medeoloides occurs both in fairly young forests and in maturing stands of mixed-deciduous or mixed-deciduous/coniferous forests. The majority of small whorled pogonia sites share several common characteristics. These may include sparse to moderate ground cover in the microhabitat (except when among ferns), a relatively open understory canopy, and proximity to old logging roads, streams, or other features that create long-persisting breaks in the forest canopy (Mehrhoff 1989a). The soil in which the shallow-rooted small whorled pogonia grows is usually covered with leaf litter and decaying material (Mehrhoff 1980, Sperduto 1993). The spectrum of habitats includes dry, rocky, wooded slopes to moist slopes or slope bases crisscrossed by vernal streams. Isotria medeoloides is widely distributed with a primary range extending from southern Maine and New Hampshire through the Atlantic seaboard States to northern Georgia and southeastern Tennessee. Outlying colonies have been found in the western half of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, and Ontario, Canada.
