FR940208-1-00005 FR940208-1-00001 While these statutes waived the eligibility requirement, the Disaster Assistance Acts of 1988 and 1989 and the 1990 FACT Act required eligible EM applicants to agree to purchase crop insurance as a loan condition, subject to certain exceptions. (The loan would be made on the condition that the borrower obtain crop insurance in the future, if not already insured.) The Dire Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1991 and the Supplemental Appropriations, Transfers and Recessions Act of 1992 did not have this requirement. However, upon implementing changes required by the 1991 Act, the Agency administratively required eligible applicants to obtain crop insurance on their 1992 crop in order to receive an EM loan. This administrative language was inadvertently omitted when making regulation changes required by the 1992 Act. The Agency believes it is prudent for applicants to purchase crop insurance on the coming year's crop and proposes to once again require it as an EM loan condition. Currently, FmHA only encourages EM borrowers to obtain FCIC crop insurance or multi-peril crop insurance, if available. Most FmHA applicants have limited resources and are unable to fully recover from major disasters. Purchasing crop insurance will reduce the applicant's risk of incurring devastating losses, and will also protect the Government's interest. The Agency, however, has provided for two exceptions. If crop insurance is not available, the Agency will not require it. In addition, if the premium cost of the insurance would prevent the applicant from showing ability to repay the loan, the Agency will waive the requirement. The Agency wants to provide assistance to such applicants if they can otherwise project repayment ability. Thus, the crop insurance requirement will not delay the making of needed EM loans or limit the number of loans made since crop insurance is only a loan condition which will be waived in the two instances noted above. The Agency also proposes to amend ยง1945.175 by revising the requirement for two complete appraisals when the first appraisal reflects adequate security for the loan(s). Section 324 (d) of the CONACT states that farm security, including land, livestock, and equipment, for EM loans will be valued based on the higher of the value of the assets on the day before the Governor requests assistance and the value of the assets one year before such day. While the two values must be considered, the values need not be based on two complete appraisals. The proposed change indicates that when a real estate appraisal to establish the value on the day before the Governor's EM designation request reflects adequate security for the loan, the basis for the second value for one year and one day before the subject request will be documented in an attachment to the appraisal. When the first appraisal does not reflect adequate security only the applicable parts of a second Form FmHA 1922&hyph;1, ``Appraisal Report - Farm Tract,'' reflecting the changes between the two dates, will be completed to establish the value one year and one day before the Governor's request. In cases where there is a physical loss of real estate and funds will be used for development, the recommended market value will be as improved. This is consistent with general appraisal practices and current Form FmHA 1922&hyph;1 which includes a provision for the contributory value of buildings as improved. With respect to chattel appraisals, when the value one year and one day before the Governor's request reflects adequate security, the value one day before the Governor's request will be established on Form FmHA 1945&hyph;15, ``Value Determination Worksheet,'' by a reasonable estimate. This change will reduce Agency processing time and cost in relation to Emergency loans. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1945 Agriculture, Disaster assistance, Loan programs_Agriculture. Therefore, part 1945, chapter XVIII, title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, is amended as follows: PART 1945_EMERGENCY 1. The authority citation for part 1945 continues to read as follows:
