FR940428-2-00085 FR940428-2-00052 Description of Amendment Request: This amendment is an additional followup to the amendment request of May 29, 1992, published in the Federal Register on July 8, 1992 (57 FR 30242), which changed the Technical Specifications ยง1.0, Definitions, to accommodate a 24-month fuel cycle and which proposed the extension of the test intervals for specific surveillance tests. This amendment proposes extending the surveillance intervals to 24 months for the following additional surveillance tests: (1) Analog Rod Position Indication. (2) Plant Noble Gas Activity Monitor (R&hyph;44). (3) Low Turbine Auto Stop Oil Pressure Reactor Trip. (4) 6.9 KV Undervoltage Relays. (5) Boric Acid Tank Level. (6) Vapor Containment Sump Discharge Flow and Temperature Channel. (7) Loss of Power Undervoltage and Degraded Voltage Relays. (8) Over-pressurization Protection System (OPS) and Control Rod Protection System (for use with Low Parasite [LOPAR] fuel) Trip. (9) Condenser Evacuation System Activity Monitor (R&hyph;45). (10) Service Water Inlet Temperature Monitoring Instrumentation. (11) Sampler Flow Rate Monitors. (12) Boric Acid Makeup Flow System. (13) Plant Vent Noble Gas Effluent Monitor (R&hyph;27). The amendment also proposes to change the surveillance interval for the Refueling Water Storage Tank Level to quarterly and to change the trip setpoint for the Control Rod Protection System. The changes requested by the licensee are in accordance with Generic Letter 91&hyph;04, ``Changes in Technical Specification Surveillance Intervals to Accommodate a 24&hyph;Month Fuel Cycle.'' Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: [(1) Analog Rod Position Indication:] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. A significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated will not occur. It is proposed that the channel calibration frequency for the analog rod position indication channel be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). A statistical analysis of channel uncertainty for a 30 month operating cycle has been performed. Based upon this analysis it has been concluded that none of the major error contributors are time dependent and that it can be reasonably expected that the channel will remain within calibration tolerance over a possible 30 month operating cycle. In addition, the rod bottom bistable is subject to monthly testing which would detect any abnormalities in an extended operating cycle. Due to this monthly test and the acceptable past test history, it is concluded that the channel will continue to operate within tolerance over an extended operating cycle and will not contribute to a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated has not been created. The proposed change in operating cycle length due to an increased surveillance interval is not expected to affect the ability of the instrument channel to remain within calibration tolerance. Furthermore, the rod position indicator is used in normal operation only as an aid in control rod movement. Normally, very little control rod movement occurs during normal operation. Furthermore, it is not relied upon for accident prevention or accident mitigation. In accordance with existing Technical Specifications, normal operation can continue even if one channel is inoperable because alternate means (core instrumentation) exists to monitor rod position. The frequent monthly test tends to minimize the effect of a longer operating cycle for the rod position indication channel as any malfunction induced by time would be detected. Thus, it is concluded that the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated has not been created. 3. A significant reduction in a margin of safety is not involved. A statistical analysis of past calibration data has not identified any time dependent error contributors. Also, past test data indicates that the channel remains within calibration tolerance over the existing operating cycle. A longer operating cycle would increase the risk of drift, however accuracy is not a prime requirement for the RPI. Therefore, it is concluded that a longer operating cycle will not result in a significant reduction in a margin of safety. [(2) Plant Noble Gas Activity Monitor (R&hyph;44):] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. There is no significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident. It is proposed that the channel calibration frequency for the Plant Noble Gas Activity Monitor (R&hyph;44) be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). The function of R&hyph;44 is to respond to high activity levels during normal operation. The setpoint for R&hyph;44 is established sufficiently above the expected radioactivity level in the discharge stream to preclude false actions but sufficiently below the allowed discharge radioactivity concentration so that discharge in excess of permissible limits does not occur. Monitor readouts are not used for quantitative purposes, but are used to respond to relative changes in radioactivity concentration. There is limited data to support an unqualified extension of the surveillance interval. However, the instrument is checked for operability prior to release. Should the instrument be inoperable releases may continue provided grab sample analysis is performed. Since the monitor is subject to daily channel checks, monthly source checks, and quarterly functional channel tests, abnormal instrument behavior or inoperability would be detected permitting corrective actions during the extended surveillance interval. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed has not been created. Operability of the instrument is important rather than ability to maintain a specific setpoint. Operability of the instrument is verified prior to a planned discharge and this is independent of an extended surveillance cycle. 3. There has been no reduction in the margin of safety.
