FR941121-0-00033 FR941121-0-00001 1. Subsequent account. When funds are transferred following maturity of a nonrollover term share account, credit unions need not provide account disclosures unless a new account is established. Section 707.6_Periodic Statement Disclosures (a) Rule When Statement and Crediting Periods Vary 1. General. Credit unions are not required to provide periodic statements. If they provide periodic statements, disclosures need only be furnished to the extent applicable. For example, if no dividends are earned for a statement period, credit unions need not state that fact. Or, credit unions may disclose ``$0'' dividends earned and ``0%'' annual percentage yield earned. 2. Regulation E interim statements. When a credit union provides regular quarterly statements, and in addition provides a monthly interim statement to comply with Regulation E, the interim statement need not comply with this section unless it states dividend or rate information. (See 12 CFR 205.9). For credit unions that choose not to treat Regulation E activity statements as part 707 periodic statements, the quarterly periodic statement must reflect the annual percentage yield earned and dividends earned for the full quarter. However, credit unions choosing this option need not redisclose fees already disclosed on an interim Regulation E activity statement on the quarterly periodic statement. For credit unions that choose to treat Regulation E activity statements as part 707 periodic statements, the Regulation E statement must meet all part 707 requirements. 3. Combined statements. Credit unions may provide certain information about an account (such as a money market share account or regular share account) on the periodic statement for another account (such as a share draft account) without triggering the disclosures required by this section, as long as: i. The information is limited to information such as the account number, the type of account, balance information, accountholders' names, and social security or tax identification number; and ii. The credit union also provides members a periodic statement complying with this section for the account (the money market share account or regular share account, in the example). 4. Other information. Additional information that may be given on or with a periodic statement, includes: i. Dividend rates and corresponding periodic rates to the dividend rate applied to balances during the statement period. ii. The dollar amount of dividends earned year-to-date. iii. Bonuses paid (or any de minimis consideration of $10 or less). iv. Fees for other products, such as safe deposit boxes. v. Accounts not covered by the periodic statement disclosure requirements (passbook and term share accounts) may disclose any information on the statement related to such accounts, so long as such information is accurate and not misleading. 5. When statement and crediting periods vary. This rule permits credit unions, on dividend-bearing share accounts, to report the annual percentage yield earned and the amount of dividends earned on a statement other than on each periodic statement when the dividend period does not agree with, varies from, or is different than, the statement period. For dividend-bearing share accounts, credit unions may disclose the required information either upon each periodic statement, or on the statement on which dividends are actually earned (credited or posted) to the member's account. In addition, for accounts using the average daily balance method of calculating dividends, when the average daily balance period and the statement periods do not agree, vary or are different, credit unions may also report annual percentage yield earned and the dollar amount of dividends earned on the periodic statement on which the dividends or interest is earned. For example, if a credit union has quarterly dividend periods, or uses a quarterly average daily balance on an account, the first two monthly statements may not state annual percentage yield earned and dividends earned figures; the third ``monthly'' statement will reflect the dividends earned and the annual percentage yield earned for the entire quarter. The fees imposed disclosure must be given on the periodic statement on which they are imposed. 6. Length of the period. Credit unions must disclose the length of both the dividend period (or average daily balance calculation period) and the statement period. For example, a statement could disclose a statement period of April 16 through May 15 and further state that ``the dividends earned and the annual percentage yield earned are based on your dividend period (or average daily balance) for the period April 1 through April 30.'' 7. Dividend period more frequent than statement period. Credit unions that calculate dividends on a monthly basis, but send statements on a quarterly basis, may disclose a single dividend (and annual percentage yield earned) figure. Alternatively, a credit union may disclose three dividends earned and three annual percentage yield earned figures, one of each month in the quarter, as long as the credit union states the number of days (or beginning and ending date) in each dividend period if it varies from the statement period. 8. Additional voluntary disclosures. For credit unions not disclosing the annual percentage yield earned and dividends earned on all periodic statements, credit unions may place a notice on statements without dividends and annual percentage yield earned figures, that the annual percentage yield earned and dollar amount of dividends earned will appear on the first statement at the close of the dividend (or average daily balance) period, or similar wording. Credit unions may also choose to include a telephone number to call for interim information, if desired by a member.
