FR940503-0-00040 FR940503-0-00009 Reference material: A material or substance one or more properties of which are sufficiently well established to be used for the calibration of an apparatus, the assessment of a measurement method, or for assigning values to materials. A ``certified reference material'' means that one or more of the property values of the reference material are certified by a technically valid procedure, accompanied by or traceable to a certificate or other documentation which is issued by a certifying body. Reference standard: A standard, generally of the highest metrological quality available at a given location, from which measurements made at that location are derived. Scope of accreditation: A document issued by NVLAP which lists the test methods or services, or calibration services for which the laboratory is accredited. Sub-facility: A laboratory operating under the technical direction and quality system of a main facility that is accredited. Test: A technical operation that consists of the determination of one or more characteristics or performance of a given product, material, equipment, organism, physical phenomenon, process or service according to a specified procedure. Test method: A defined technical procedure for performing a test. Testing laboratory: A laboratory which measures, examines, tests, calibrates or otherwise determines the characteristics or performance of products or materials. Traceability of the accuracy of measuring instruments: A documented chain of comparison connecting the accuracy of a measuring instrument to other measuring instruments of higher accuracy and ultimately to a primary standard. 8. Section 285.6 is revised to read as follows: ยง285.6 NVLAP documentation. NVLAP publications are available for information and use by staff of accredited laboratories, those seeking accreditation, other laboratory accreditation systems, and others needing information on the requirements for accreditation under the NVLAP program. Accredited laboratories will be sent revised publications routinely. Publications include: (a) The Procedures and General Requirements, (15 CFR part 285); (b) Handbooks containing the administrative and operational procedures and technical requirements of specific LAPs; (c) A directory of accredited laboratories published annually and updated periodically; and (d) Policy Guides that provide changes to the Procedures and General Requirements and Handbooks between formal revisions of those publications. 9. Section 285.7 is revised to read as follows: ยง285.7 Confidentiality. To the extent permitted by applicable laws, NVLAP will seek to ensure confidentiality of all information obtained relating to the application, on-site assessment, proficiency testing, evaluation, and accreditation of laboratories. 10. Section 285.8 is added to read as follows: ยง285.8 Referencing NVLAP accreditation. To become accredited and maintain accreditation, a laboratory shall agree in writing to: (a) Follow NVLAP guidance when advertising its accredited status (including the use of the NVLAP logo) on letterheads, brochures, test reports, and professional, technical, trade, or other laboratory services publications. (b) Inform its clients that the laboratory's accreditation or any of its calibration or test reports in no way constitutes or implies product certification, approval, or endorsement by NIST. 11. Section 285.11 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b)(1), (b)(3)(ii) and (c) and adding paragraphs (e) and (f) to read as follows:
