FR941103-2-00009 FR941103-2-00006 National Telecommunications and Information Administration Universal Service and Open Access to Telecommunications and Information Networks; Electronic Virtual Public Conference; Meetings AGENCY: National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of Virtual Public Conference on ``Universal Service and Open Access to Telecommunications and Information Networks.'' SUMMARY: The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) and the Universal Service Working Group of the Information Infrastructure Task Force (IITF) will host an electronic Virtual Conference during the week of November 14&hyph;18, 1994. The Virtual Conference will culminate a year-long effort by the Clinton Administration to gather information and opinions about the issues of universal service and open access with respect to telecommunications and information networks. The Conference is part of the Administration's initiative to promote the development of a National Information Infrastructure (NII) and Global Information Infrastructure (GII). The Administration's report entitled the National Information Infrastructure: Agenda for Action, released on September 15, 1993, describes the benefits of networking technology and the potential for using the NII to create an electronic commons. The report includes the Administration's goals of extending universal service to the information infrastructure and using the NII to conduct government business. In addition, the Administration will be issuing in December, the Global Information Infrastructure Agenda for Cooperation, which will address universal service issues in the global arena, among other issues. The Virtual Conference will be conducted entirely through electronic networks_using the Internet, dial-up bulletin board access, public information service providers, and commercial service providers. Although participants may use their own computers, NTIA and the Universal Service Working Group seek to facilitate nationwide access by encouraging public institutions to make their computer facilities available to the public during the week of the conference. Information collected during this conference and previously through field hearings will assist the Administration's ongoing policy deliberations and may be used in future reports on universal service and open access. How the Conference Will Be Conducted During the week of November 14&hyph;18, 1994, NTIA will create a series of electronic discussion groups on specific topics. Each topic will have an Internet mailing list and USENET newsgroup devoted to discussion of the specific topics and hosted by an expert in the field. Any comments submitted as part of this electronic discussion will become part of a publicly available electronic archive. Topics to be discussed at the Virtual Conference are: _ Redefining Universal Service and Open Access: What is the minimum ``basket'' of telecommunications or information services or capabilities that all Americans should be able to obtain today? Which services or capabilities, if any, should be available to all Americans on an optional basis? What is the relationship between universal service and open access? _ Affordability and Availability: Who lacks telecommunications services and why? Should training in the use of more advanced network services be available to all who wish it? Who should pay for such training? How can rural concerns and inner city concerns best be accommodated under a new universal service concept? How can government balance the need for universal service with the benefits of a competitive environment for the telecommunications industry? _ Intellectual Property: Does the traditional legal framework for intellectual property work with digital technology? What are the respective roles of the government and the private sector in determining how authors and others who hold intellectual property rights are reimbursed? Does the current legal framework for intellectual property rights help or hinder accessibility to telecommunications and information networks? _ Privacy: What potential is there for telecommunications and information networks to compromise personal privacy? To what extent will perceptions of reduced privacy hinder widespread, seamless access to telecommunications and information networks? _ Interoperability: What is the relationship between interoperability and the concepts of universal service and open access? What are the respective roles of the marketplace and the government in determining standards and protocols for interoperability? What lessons can be learned from past efforts in standards setting, both domestically and internationally? _ Universal Service and Open Access for Individuals with Disabilities: What is the current state of access to telecommunications and information services for the disabled? How can such services help the disabled participate more fully in society? What design concepts for the disabled are transferable to all users to improve overall network functionality? Participants in the Virtual Conference are encouraged to review the following two documents recently issued by NTIA and to comment on these documents electronically during the conference: (1) NII Field Hearings on Universal Service and Open Access: America Speaks Out, and (2) Notice of Inquiry (NOI) on Universal Service and Open Access Issues. Comments written on paper in response to this NOI are being received by NTIA and should be filed on or before December 14, 1994, to receive full consideration. Both documents already are available through NTIA's IITF Gopher Server at iitf.doc.gov, dial in to (202) 501&hyph;1920, and NTIA's Bulletin Board Service at (202) 482&hyph;1199, ntiabbs.ntia.doc.gov (telnet, gopher or world-wide web). Call for ``Public Access Points'' Libraries and universities, as well as state and local governments, are encouraged to make their facilities available to the public during the week of the Conference. Providing these public gateways will demonstrate the power of networking and facilitate access for those who might not otherwise be able to participate. In order to register as a site, please see the contact information below. DATES: The Conference will start at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST) on November 14 and conclude at 11:59 p.m. EST on November 18, 1994. During this time period, the conference will be open for comments 24 hours a day. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For technical assistance, please contact Charles Franz at (202) 482&hyph;1835 (cfranz@ntia.doc.gov). For general information, or to receive a ``Public Access Point'' registration form, please contact Roanne Robinson at (202) 482&hyph;1551 (rrobinson@ntia.doc.gov). Fax inquiries should be directed to (202) 482&hyph;1635. Additional information about the Virtual Conference, including instructions on how to join a topic, may be found on the Conference Gopher: gopher-virtconf.ntia.doc.gov. This information can also be e-mailed directly to you; send a message to info@virtconf.ntia.doc.gov and you will receive an automatic reply. Dated: October 31, 1994. Larry Irving, Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27309 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;60&hyph;P
