FR940513-2-00169 FR940513-2-00083 12. Each Fund's distributor will adopt compliance standards as to when each class of shares may appropriately be sold to particular investors. Applicants will require all persons selling shares of the Funds to agree to conform to such standards. 13. The conditions pursuant to which the exemptive order is granted and the duties and responsibilities of the Directors/Trustees with respect to the Multi-Class System will be set forth in guidelines which will be furnished to the Directors/Trustees. 14. Each Fund will disclose the respective expenses, performance data, distribution arrangements, services, fees, sales charges, deferred sales charges, and exchange privileges (if any) applicable to each class of shares in every prospectus, regardless of whether all classes of shares are offered through each prospectus. Each Fund will disclose the respective expenses and performance data applicable to all classes of shares in every shareholder report. The shareholder reports will contain, in the statement of assets and liabilities and statement of operations, information related to the Fund as a whole generally and not on a per class basis. Each Fund's per share data, however, will be prepared on a per class basis with respect to all classes of shares of such Fund. To the extent that any advertisement or sales literature describes the expenses and/or performance data applicable to any class of shares, it will also disclose the respective expenses and/or performance data applicable to all classes of shares. The information provided by applicants for publication in any newspaper or similar listing of a Fund's net asset value or public offering price will present each class of shares separately. 15. Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the requested exemptive order will not imply SEC approval, authorization of, or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that applicants may make pursuant to any 12b&hyph;1 Plan or Administrative Services Arrangement in reliance on the exemptive order. 16. Any conversion of shares from one class to another will be based on the relative net assets of the two classes, without the imposition of any sales load, fee, or other charge. After conversion, the converted shares will be subject to an asset-based sales charge and/or service fee (as those terms are defined in Article III, Section 26 of the NASD's Rules of Fair Practice), if any, that in the aggregate are lower than the asset-based sales charge and service fee to which they were subject prior to the conversion. B. CDSC 1. Applicants will comply with the representations in the application concerning the CDSC and the provisions of proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act 2 as such rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted, or amended. 2 Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (Nov. 2, 1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11703 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
