FR940217-1-00084 FR940217-1-00014 Section 668.92␣Fines. The Secretary proposes to add references to third-party servicers in this section to conform to proposed changes governing the imposition of fines in other sections of this subpart. This section would also be amended to provide for the consideration of the size of the servicer's business (including the number of institutions and student accounts served by the servicer) in determining the amount of a fine against a servicer. This provision would be similar to the provision already in place in this section that requires consideration of the size of an institution in determining the amount of a fine against the institution. The Secretary also proposes to take into account, in the case of a violation by a third-party servicer, the degree to which the servicer can provide evidence that the institution contributed to that violation and the extent to which repeated mechanical systemic unintentional errors contributed to that violation. For purposes of this section, repeated mechanical systemic unintentional errors would be counted as a single violation. This provision was requested by non-Federal negotiators to cover cases where errors in computer systems result in multiple violations. The Secretary proposes to adopt these measures in the interest of fairness to a third-party servicer in cases where a minor programming error leads to hundreds or thousands of violations. While the Secretary believes that all resulting losses should be compensated for by the institution or servicer, fines need not be unduly multiplied. The Secretary specifically invites comment on whether this provision is sufficiently specific and not excessively broad and effectively balances the Federal interest in ensuring compliance with the realities of computer processing. The Secretary also proposes to provide for the consideration of the amount of liability owed by an institution or third-party servicer on the misuse of Title IV, HEA program funds or refunds in determining the gravity of the institution's or servicer's violation, as applicable, of a Title IV requirement. The number of students affected by the violation also would be a consideration in that determination. The Secretary intends these provisions to serve as guidelines for evaluating the gravity of a violation. Section 668.93␣Limitation. The Secretary proposes to add references to third-party servicers in this section to conform to proposed changes governing the imposition of limitations in other sections of this subpart. The Secretary also proposes that a limitation on a third-party servicer's eligibility to contract with institutions to administer any aspect of an institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs could include a limit on the number or size of institutions with which the servicer may contract, the number of accounts (borrower or loan accounts) that the servicer may service under contract, an increase or reduction in the responsibilities allowed or required of the servicer under a contract, or a requirement for the servicer to obtain surety assuring the servicer's ability to meet financial obligations. The Secretary believes that these limitations are necessary to address the probable causes of improprieties in which a third-party servicer might engage. By limiting the number or size of institutions or accounts that a third-party servicer may serve (including, for example, requiring the servicer to transfer existing accounts back to the institution) the Secretary may address a problem involving the servicer's overextended resources. By limiting the responsibilities performed by the servicer under a contract, the Secretary may restrict the servicer's administration to a particular Title IV, HEA program while prohibiting the servicer from administering another Title IV, HEA program for which the servicer's past performance has been inadequate. By imposing additional responsibilities under a third-party servicer's contract, the Secretary may require the servicer to use additional safeguards before awarding or disbursing Title IV, HEA program funds or delivering Federal Stafford or Federal SLS loan proceeds.
