FR941102-2-00081 FR941102-2-00062 Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste; Notice of Meeting The Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste (ACNW) will hold its 69th meeting on November 10, 1994, in Room T&hyph;2B3, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance, with the exception of a portion that may be closed to discuss information the release of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(6). The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows; Thursday, November 10, 1994_8:30 A.M. until 6:00 P.M. During this meeting the Committee plans to consider the following: A. Meet with the Commission_ The Committee will talk with the Commission about ACNW reports on: •The Department of Energy's Proposed Program Approach in the Civilian Radioactive Waste Management Program. •The NRC staff's Research Program in the Area of High-Level Radioactive Waste. •The NRC staff's Capability in Nuclear Waste Disposal Facility Performance Assessment, and will discuss other items raised by Commissioners during the meeting. B. Meet with the Director, Division of Waste Management, Office of Nuclear Materials Safety and Safeguards_ The Director will provide information to the Committee on current waste management issues. •C. Low-Level Waste Research_ Representatives of the NRC Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research (RES) will provide information on NRC staff user needs in the area of low-level radioactive waste (LLW) research. Topics may include the status of the LLW RES Program Plan (NUREG&hyph;1380) and the status of the current user need statement. Other LLW research issues may be considered. D. Preparation of ACNW Reports_ The Committee will consider preparation of ACNW reports on: •The Uses and Limitations of Groundwater Dating Methods, •NRC Research in the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Area, •Substantially Complete Containment and the Feasibility for Trade Offs, •LLW Disposal Site Ownership, among other issues raised during this and previous meetings. E. Committee Activities/Future Agenda_ The Committee will consider topics proposed for future consideration by the full Committee and working groups. The Committee will also discuss organizational and personnel matters related to ACNW members and ACNW staff. A portion of this session may be closed to public attendance to discuss information the release of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(6). F. Miscellaneous_ Discuss miscellaneous matters related to the conduct of Committee activities and organizational activities and complete discussion of matters and specific issues that were not completed during previous meetings, as time and availability of information permit. Procedures for the conduct of and participation in ACNW meetings were published in the Federal Register on October 7, 1994 (59 FR 51219). In accordance with these procedures, oral or written statements may be presented by members of the public, electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public, and questions may be asked only by members of the Committee, its consultants, and staff. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the ACNW Executive Director, Dr. John T. Larkins, as far in advance as practicable so that appropriate arrangements can be made to allow the necessary time during the meeting for such statements. Use of still, motion picture, and television cameras during this meeting may be limited to selected portions of the meeting as determined by the ACNW Chairman. Information regarding the time to be set aside for this purpose may be obtained by contacting the ACNW Executive Director prior to the meeting. In view of the possibility that the schedule for ACNW meetings may be adjusted by the Chairman as necessary to facilitate the conduct of the meeting, persons planning to attend should check with the ACNW Executive Director if such rescheduling would result in major inconvenience. Further information regarding topics to be discussed, whether the meeting has been cancelled or rescheduled, the Chairman's ruling on requests for the opportunity to present oral statements and the time allotted therefor can be obtained by contacting the ACNW Executive Director, Dr. John T. Larkins (telephone 301/415&hyph;7360), between 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. EST. Dated: October 27, 1994. Andrew L. Bates, Advisory Committee Management Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27130 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
