FR941017-2-00067 FR941017-2-00048 (b) Created from a master file or database that is unscheduled, or that was scheduled as permanent but no longer exists or can no longer be accessed; which may not be destroyed before securing NARA approval. Delete when no longer needed. Item 5. The disposition instruction for item 5 was modified to remove the concluding phrase ``for current business'' for consistency with other GRS items, and a cross-reference to item 12 was added. The item is otherwise unchanged from the current GRS and now reads as follows: Item 5. Records Consisting of Extracted Information. Electronic files consisting solely of records extracted from a single master file or database that is disposable under GRS 20 or approved for deletion by a NARA-approved disposition schedule, EXCLUDING extracts that are: (a) Produced as disclosure-free files to allow public access to the data; or (b) Produced from a master file or database that is unscheduled, or that was scheduled as permanent but no longer exists or can no longer be accessed; or (c) Produced by an extraction process which changes the informational content of the source master file or database; which may not be destroyed before securing NARA approval. For print and technical reformat files see items 6 and 7 of this schedule respectively. Delete when no longer needed. Note: See item 12 of this schedule for other extracted data. Item 6. Item 6 is unchanged from the current GRS which reads as follows: Item 6. Print File. Electronic file extracted from a master file or database without changing it and used solely to produce hard-copy publications and/or printouts of tabulations, ledgers, registers, and reports. Delete when no longer needed. Item 7. The description of Item 7 was modified to broaden its coverage from master files and databases to all types of applications. The item now reads as follows: Item 7. Technical Reformat File. Electronic file consisting of data copied from a copy of a file or a portion of a file made for the specific purpose of information interchange and written with varying technical specifications, EXCLUDING files created for transfer to the National Archives. Delete when no longer needed. Item 8. The description for item 8 was corrected by changing ``physical format'' to ``logical format'' and an explanatory note was added. The item now reads as follows:
