FR940930-0-00107 FR940930-0-00017 (c) Determination and notice by HCFA _(1) Determination. (i) On the basis of the investigation, HCFA determines whether the HMO has failed to comply with any of the assurances it gave under subpart D of this part. (ii) HCFA publishes in the Federal Register a notice of each determination of non-compliance. (2) Notice of determination: Corrective action. (i) HCFA gives the HMO written notice of the determination. (ii) The notice specifies the manner in which the HMO has not complied with its assurances and directs the HMO to initiate the corrective action that HCFA considers necessary to bring the HMO into compliance. (iii) The HMO must initiate this corrective action within 30 days of the date of the notice from HCFA, or within any longer period that HCFA determines to be reasonable and specifies in the notice. The HMO must carry out the corrective action within the time period specified by HCFA in the notice. (iv) The notice may provide the HMO an opportunity to submit, for HCFA's approval, proposed methods for achieving compliance. (d) Remedy: Revocation of qualification. If HCFA determines that a qualified HMO has failed to initiate or to carry out corrective action in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section_(1) HCFA revokes the HMO's qualification and notifies the HMO of this action. (2) In the notice, HCFA provides the HMO with an opportunity for reconsideration of the revocation, including, at the HMO's election, a fair hearing. (3) The revocation of qualification is effective on the tenth calendar day after the day of the notice unless HCFA receives a request for reconsideration by that date. (4) If after reconsideration HCFA again determines to revoke the HMO's qualification, this revocation is effective on the tenth calendar day after the date of the notice of reconsidered determination. (5) HCFA publishes in the Federal Register each determination it makes under this paragraph (d). (6) A revocation under this paragraph (d) has the effect described in ยง417.164. (e) Notice by the HMO. Within 15 days after the date HCFA issues a notice of revocation, the HMO must prepare a notice that explains, in readily understandable language, the reasons for the determination that it is not a qualified HMO, and send the notice to the following: (1) The HMO's enrollees.
