FR940406-0-00169 FR940406-0-00011 (vi) For all valid and invalid exhaust emission tests, carbon dioxide emission values for LDTs and brake-specific fuel consumption values for HDEs. (vii) Any other information the Administrator may request relevant to the determination as to whether the new motor vehicles being manufactured by the manufacturer do in fact conform with the regulations with respect to which the certificate of conformity was issued. (6) The following statement and endorsement: This report is submitted pursuant to sections 206 and 208 of the Clean Air Act. This Selective Enforcement Audit was conducted in complete conformance with all applicable regulations under 40 CFR part 86 and the conditions of the test order. No emission related change(s) to production processes or quality control procedures for the engine or vehicle configuration tested have been made between receipt of this test order and conclusion of the audit. All data and information reported herein is, to the best of (Company Name) knowledge, true and accurate. I am aware of the penalties associated with violations of the Clean Air Act and the regulations thereunder. (Authorized Company Representative) 5. A new §86.1010&hyph;2001 is added to subpart K to read as follows: §86.1010&hyph;2001 Compliance with acceptable quality level and passing and failing criteria for Selective Enforcement Audits. (a) The prescribed acceptable quality level is 40 percent. (b) A failed vehicle or engine is one whose final deteriorated test results pursuant to §86.1009&hyph;2001(c) exceed at least one of the applicable emission standards associated with the test procedures pursuant to §86.1008&hyph;2001(a). (c)(1) Pass/fail criteria . The manufacturer shall test light-duty trucks, heavy-duty engines, or heavy-duty vehicles comprising the test sample until a pass decision is reached for all of the pollutants associated with all of the test procedures pursuant to §86.1008&hyph;2001(a) or a fail decision is reached for one of these pollutants. A pass decision is reached when the cumulative number of failed vehicles or engines, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, for each pollutant is less than or equal to the fail decision number appropriate to the cumulative number of vehicles tested. A fail decision is reached when the cumulative number of failed vehicles or engines for one pollutant is greater than or equal to the fail decision number appropriate to the cumulative number of vehicles tested. The pass and fail decision numbers associated with the cumulative number of vehicles tested are determined by use of the tables in appendix X of this part appropriate to the projected sales as made by the heavy-duty engine or heavy-duty vehicle manufacturer in its Application for Certification, or as made by the light-duty truck manufacturer in its report submitted under §600.207&hyph;80(a)(2) of this chapter (Automobile Fuel Economy Regulations). In the tables in appendix X of this part, sampling plan ``stage'' refers to the cumulative number of vehicles or engines tested. Once a pass decision has been made for a particular pollutant associated with a particular test procedure pursuant to §86.1008&hyph;2001(a), the number of vehicles or engines whose final deteriorated test results exceed the emission standard for that pollutant may not be considered any further for purposes of the audit. (2) CST criteria only . For CST testing pursuant to subpart O, a pass or fail decision is determined according to the pass/fail criteria described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except that for each vehicle, the CST in its entirety is considered one pollutant. (d) Passing or failing of an SEA audit occurs when the decision is made on the last vehicle or engine required to make a decision under paragraph (c) of this section. (e) The Administrator may terminate testing earlier than required in paragraph (c) of this section.
