FR940603-1-00097 FR940603-1-00009 Section 10. Approval by the Administrator. No acceptance of this Proposal shall become effective until approval in writing of the Administrator; Provided, however that no obligations shall arise hereunder unless such approval is given within sixty (60) days from the date of acceptance by the Owner. XXXX (Bidder) By XXXX (President) XXXX (Address) Attest: XXXX (Secretary) Date XXX The Proposal must be signed with the full name of the Bidder. If the Bidder is a partnership, the Proposal must be signed in the partnership name by a partner. If the Bidder is a corporation, the Proposal must be signed in the Corporate name by a duly authorized officer and the corporate seal affixed and attested by the Secretary of the Corporation. Description of Units TM&hyph;12. The unit is 1,000 feet in length and XXX ( XXX ) feet in width (to be measured XXX ( XXX ) feet on one side of pole line or centerline of structures) of actual clearing of right-of-way. This includes clearing of underbrush, tree removal, and such tree trimming as is required so that the right-of-way, except for tree stumps which shall not exceed XXX in height, shall be clear from the ground up on one side of the line of poles carrying conductors (See Detail A, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) The length of actual clearing shall be measured in a straight line parallel to the horizontal line between poles or centerline of structures and across the maximum dimension of foliage cleared projected to the ground line (See Detail B, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) All trees and underbrush across the width of the right-of-way shall be considered to be grouped together as a single length in measuring the total length of clearing (See Detail C, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) Spaces along the right-of-way in which no trees are to be removed or trimmed or underbrush cleared shall be omitted from the total measurement. All lengths thus arrived at, added together and divided by 1,000 shall give the number of TM&hyph;12 units of clearing. The Bidder shall not remove or trim shade, fruit, or ornamental trees unless so directed by the Engineer in writing. TM&hyph;12 (1). This unit is identical with TM&hyph;12, except the full width of the right-of-way to be cleared shall be XXX feet wide (to be measured XXX ( XXX ) feet on each side of the pole line or centerline of structures) (See Detail D, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) TM&hyph;13. The unit, for purpose of quoting, is 1,000 feet in length of clearing off the right-of-way. The Engineer will select those trees off the right-of-way that he deems to be a hazard to the line and will designate them to the Bidder in writing as danger trees. When so designated, the Bidder shall remove or top such trees at his option except that the Bidder shall trim and not remove shade, fruit or ornamental trees unless otherwise directed by the Engineer in writing (See Drawings TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A and TM&hyph;13 for examples of danger trees.) The measurement of length of right-of-way to be cleared shall be considered as a straight line parallel to the horizontal line between poles or centerline of structures, such measurement of length to be based on maximum dimension of foliage (not trunk) projected to the ground line (See Details E, F, G and H, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) Dead trees having no foliage shall be measured across the maximum dimension and multiplied by two. (See Detail F, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) Each tree so removed shall be added together to determine the total length of clearing. All lengths thus arrived at, added together and divided by 1,000 shall give the number of TM&hyph;13 units (Example: Details E, F, G and H, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A, total 0.10 of a TM&hyph;13 unit.) TMC&hyph;12, TMC&hyph;12 (1). These units are identical to the respective TM units except that chemical treatment of stumps is required in addition to the clearing of underbrush, tree removal and tree trimming. TM&hyph;14. The unit is 1,000 feet in length and XXX ( XXX ) feet in width (to be measured XXX ( XXX ) feet on one side of right-of-way center line) of actual clearing of right-of-way. Trees and underbrush should be cleared from the ground up within 10 feet of any structure location. The Engineer will mark the trees and brush to be cleared to provide ``undulating'' boundaries. Low growing trees and brush are to be left in the right-of-way to the extent it will not be hazardous to the line or will not interfere with the service road. The length of actual clearing shall be measured in a straight line parallel to the horizontal line between poles or center line of structures and across the maximum dimension of foliage cleared projected to the ground line (See Detail B, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.)
