FR941107-2-00060 FR941107-2-00022 Department of the Army Intent to Prepare a Draft Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Everglades Construction Project, Palm Beach, Martin, Okeechobee, Hendry, Collier, Broward and Dade Counties, Florida AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The Jacksonville District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, along with the South Florida Water Management District (SFWMD) and certain cooperating agencies, intends to prepare a Draft Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) on the feasibility of implementing the under the State of Florida's Everglades Forever Act of 1994, the Everglades Construction Project in Palm Beach, Martin, Okeechobee, Hendry, Collier, Broward and Dade Counties, Florida. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Jacksonville District, P.O. Box 4970, Jacksonville, Florida 32232&hyph;0019. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. William Porter, (903) 232&hyph;2259. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: a. The Everglades Forever Act of 1994 (Chapter 373.4592, F.S.) requires the SFWMD to obtain authorization for the construction, operation and maintenance of the Everglades Construction Project. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers participation will include Section 404 permitting activities, NEPA documentation of this project, and participation in the implementation of several components of the project. The project involves the creation of six (6) Stormwater Treatment Areas (STAs) and three (3) Hydroperiod Restoration elements. It also includes changes in the operation of Lake Okeechobee and other features of the Central and Southern Florida Project. The magnitude and duration of the plan is such that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determined that a programmatic EIS should be prepared for the entire plan pursuant to Section 404 of the Clean Water Act. b. Scoping: The scoping process as outlined by the Council on Environmental Quality will be utilized to involve Federal, State, and local agencies; and other interested persons and organizations. A scoping letter will be sent to interested Federal, State, and local agencies requesting their comments and concerns regarding issues they feel should be addressed in the EIS. Interested persons and organizations wishing to participate in the scoping process should contact the Corps of Engineers at the address above. Significant issues anticipated include concern for; local groundwater recharge, water quality, water supply, recreation, wetlands, fish and wildlife, and land use. Public scoping meetings will be held in the near future, the exact location, dates, and times will be announced in public notices and local newspapers. c. It is estimated that the DEIS will be available to the public in July 1995. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27499 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;AJ&hyph;M
