FR940810-0-00255 FR940810-0-00021 10. If the test is failed, the subject shall return to the selection room and remove the respirator, repeat the odor sensitivity test, select and put on another respirator, return to the test chamber, and again begin the procedure described in the c(4) through c(8) above. The process continues until a respirator that fits well has been found. Should the odor sensitivity test be failed, the subject shall wait about 5 minutes before retesting. Odor sensitivity will usually have returned by this time. 11. If a person cannot pass the fit test described above wearing a half-mask respirator from the available selection, full facepiece models must be used. 12. When a respirator is found that passes the test, the subject breaks the faceseal and takes a breath before exiting the chamber. This is to assure that the reason the test subject is not smelling the IAA is the good fit of the respirator facepiece seal and not olfactory fatigue. 13. When the test subject leaves the chamber, the subject shall remove the saturated towel and return it to the person conducting the test. To keep the area from becoming contaminated, the used towels shall be kept in a self-sealing bag so there is no significant IAA concentration buildup in the test chamber during subsequent tests. 14. At least two facepieces shall be selected for the IAA test protocol. The test subject shall be given the opportunity to wear them for one week to choose the one which is more comfortable to wear. 15. Persons who have successfully passed this fit test with a half-mask respirator may be assigned the use of the test respirator in atmospheres with up to 10 times the PEL of airborne asbestos. In atmospheres greater than 10 times, and less than 100 times the PEL (up to 100 ppm), the subject must pass the IAA test using a full face negative pressure respirator. (The concentration of the 1AA inside the test chamber must be increased by ten times for QLFT of the full facepiece.) 16. The test shall not be conducted if there is any hair growth between the skin the facepiece sealing surface. 17. If hair growth or apparel interfere with a satisfactory fit, then they shall be altered or removed so as to eliminate interference and allow a satisfactory fit. If a satisfactory fit is still not attained, the test subject must use a positive-pressure respirator such as powered air-purifying respirators, supplied air respirator, or self-contained breathing apparatus. 18. If a test subject exhibits difficulty in breathing during the tests, she or he shall be referred to a physician trained in respirator diseases or pulmonary medicine to determine whether the test subject can wear a respirator while performing her or his duties. 19. Qualitative fit testing shall be repeated at least every six months. 20. In addition, because the sealing of the respirator may be affected, qualitative fit testing shall be repeated immediately when the test subject has a: (1) Weight change of 20 pounds or more, (2) Significant facial scarring in the area of the facepiece seal, (3) Significant dental changes; i.e.; multiple extractions without prothesis, or acquiring dentures, (4) Reconstructive or cosmetic surgery, or (5) Any other condition that may interfere with facepiece sealing. D. Recordkeeping. A summary of all test results shall be maintained in each office for 3 years. The summary shall include: (1) Name of test subject. (2) Date of testing. (3) Name of the test conductor. (4) Respirators selected (indicate manufacturer, model, size and approval number). (5) Testing agent. II. Saccharin Solution Aerosol Protocol A. Respirator selection. Respirators shall be selected as described in section IB (respirator selection) above, except that each respirator shall be equipped with a particulate filter.
