FR940913-2-00115 FR940913-2-00081 ADDRESSES: Copies of information relevant to these petitions are available for inspection in public docket A&hyph;91&hyph;60 at the Air Docket (LE&hyph;131) of the EPA, room M&hyph;1500, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460 between the hours of 8:30 a.m. to noon and 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. Any comments, in duplicate, from interested parties should be addressed to the docket with a copy forwarded to Mavis Sanders, Stratospheric Protection Division (6205&hyph;J), Office of Air and Radiation, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. A reasonable fee may be charged for copying services. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mavis Sanders, Stratospheric Protection Division (6205&hyph;J), Office of Air and Radiation, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 233&hyph;9737. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Section 611 of the Clean Air Act, as amended, requires EPA to promulgate regulations requiring labeling of products manufactured with, and products and containers containing, ozone-depleting substances. On February 11, 1993 at 58 FR 8136, EPA published the final regulations at 40 CFR part 82, subpart E (40 CFR 82.100 et seq ). Section 82.120 of the final labeling regulations (40 CFR 82.120), states that a company may petition EPA to temporarily exempt a product manufactured with a class I substance. To get the exemption, the company must prove that there are no substitutes that: (1) Do not rely on the use of a class I substance; (2) reduce the overall risk to human health and the environment; and (3) are currently or potentially available. In the regulations, EPA defines ``potentially available'' to mean that adequate information exists to support a determination that a substitute for a class I substance is environmentally acceptable, economically viable, and technologically feasible. The petition provision allows the Agency to exempt products manufactured with class I substances from the labeling requirements where a company shows that it has been unsuccessful in identifying a commercially or potentially available alternative substance or manufacturing process for its current use of the class I substance and where the Agency finds that no such alternative substance or process is ``potentially available.'' The two petitions claimed that alternatives were not ``potentially available'' at this time. In one case, the argument was made that additional time is required in order to accommodate an extensive evaluation and approval process required by another Federal entity; and, in the other case, implementation of possible substitutes/manufacturing processes remain uncertain, requiring additional development of the possible alternative process before full-scale construction of three new manufacturing facilities can begin. As part of the petition review process, EPA developed criteria by which to evaluate the submissions. Unlike the Significant New Alternatives Policy Program (SNAP) petitions naming acceptable substitutes for eight sectors of industry submitted under section 612 of the CAA, the petitions submitted under section 611 are reviewed on a case-by-case basis with careful attention given to each application of a class I substance in a manufacturing process. The Agency considered all of the factors below in determining whether to accept or reject a petition with regard to the technological feasibility and the environmental acceptability of a substitute. In evaluating technological feasibility, EPA considers when the company first began investigating alternative substances or processes to replace their uses of class I substances; EPA's knowledge about the product/manufacturing process and possible substitutes; whether parallel manufacturers of similar products have come up with substitutes; whether a timeline has been developed for implementation of a substitute, including research and development of a substitute process where applicable; and, whether the timeline seems reasonable where no substitute is commercially available. In addition, the Agency considers a company's constraints (technology, other Federal requirements, etc.) in order to determine whether a change is within the control of the company; whether a company is able to state what it must specifically do to implement the substitute; whether training and procurement of equipment and manufacturing materials are accessible; what measures have been taken to understand and solve the ``unknowns;'' whether vendors exist that can meet the product's manufacturing needs; and whether the company has discussed its manufacturing needs with these vendors. In evaluating environmental acceptability, EPA considers whether a substitute is environmentally implementable in terms of the available technology.
