FR940603-1-00062 FR940603-1-00009 3. The Contractor has, to the best of my knowledge, obtained valid releases of lien from all Manufacturers, materialmen, and subcontractors that furnished materials or services or both which were employed by the Contractor in the performance of the Construction Contract, and that such releases have been delivered to the Owner. 4. All defects in workmanship and materials reported during the period of construction of the Project have been corrected. 5. The final Contract Price of the Project as completed is XXXX dollars ($ XXXX ). XXXX Date XXXX Representative of Architect XXXX Title ACCEPTANCE XXXX Date XXXX Representative of Contractor XXXX Title XXXX Date XXXX Name of Owner XXXX President, Board of Directors [End of Clause] ยง1726.314 Certificate of completion, contract construction, REA Form 187. The closeout form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Certificate Of Completion; Contract Construction To: Administrator Rural Electrification Administration U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250 XXXX (Project Designation) I, the undersigned Engineer of the above-designated Rural Electrification Administration Project do hereby certify that: 1. The construction provided for pursuant to Construction Contract No. XXXX dated XXXX 19 XX , including all approved amendments (hereinafter called the ``Project''), between XXXX (``Owner'') and XXXX (``Contractor'') has been completed as of XXXX 19 XX , and is in all respects in strict compliance with the provisions of the Loan Contract and the Construction Contract, including all Plans, specifications, maps, and drawings and all modifications thereof. 2. Payment in full has been made to all persons who have furnished labor for the Project. 3. The Contractor has obtained valid releases of lien from all persons, firms and/or corporations furnishing materials, supplies, and appliances which were employed by the Contractor in the performance of the Construction Contract, and that such releases have been delivered by the Contractor to the Owner. 4. The Final Inventory attached hereto and made a part hereof is a complete and accurate summary of all units of construction in the Project and of all work performed in accordance with the Construction Contract. 5. The staking sheets and tabulation of staking sheets upon which the Final Inventory is based show the accurate location, number, and kind of all units of construction of the project and show all work performed in accordance with the Construction Contract. 6. All defects in workmanship and materials reported during the period of construction of the Project have been corrected. 7. The total cost of the Project as completed is XXXX dollars ($ XXXX ). The Project consists of facilities shown on the Statement of Construction which is true and correct and which is attached hereto and made a part hereof. Dated this XXXX day of XXXX , 19 XX . XXXX Name of Engineer By XXXX XXXX Title XXXX Date Approved as to Items 1 and 6 above: XXXX REA Field Engineer We, the undersigned Owner and Contractor, do hereby certify that: 1. The Project has been completed in accordance with the provisions of the Construction Contract, dated XXXX 19 XX , provided, however, that acceptance of the Project by the Owner shall not be deemed to relieve the Contractor of its obligations contained in the Construction Contract with respect to defective workmanship or, materials discovered within one year after the date of completion.
