FR940202-2-00099 FR940202-2-00071 7. Large-volume nebulizers and mist tents 8. Other Devices B. Interruption of Person-to-Person Transmission of Bacteria 1. Handwashing 2. Barrier Precautions 3. Care of Patients with Tracheostomy 4. Suctioning of Respiratory Tract Secretions III. Modifying Host Risk for Infection A. Precautions for Prevention of Endogenous Pneumonia 1. Prevention of Aspiration 2. Prevention of Gastric Colonization B. Prevention of Postoperative Pneumonia C. Other Prophylactic Procedures for Pneumonia 1. Vaccination of Patients 2. Systemic Antimicrobial Prophylaxis 3. Use of Rotating ``Kinetic'' Beds Prevention and Control of Legionnaires' Disease I. Staff Education and Infection Surveillance A. Staff Education B. Surveillance II. Interruption of Transmission of Legionella spp. A. Primary Prevention (Preventing Nosocomial Legionnaires' Disease when No Cases have been Documented) 1. Nebulization and Other Devices 2. Cooling Towers 3. Water-Distribution System B. Secondary Prevention (Response to Identification of Laboratory-Confirmed Nosocomial Legionellosis) Prevention and Control of Nosocomial Pulmonary Aspergillosis I. Staff Education and Infection Surveillance A. Staff Education B. Surveillance II. Interruption of Transmission of Aspergillus spp. Spores A. Planning New Specialized-Care Units for High-Risk Patients B. In Existing Facilities with no Cases of Nosocomial Aspergillosis C. When a Case of Nosocomial Aspergillosis Occurs III. Modifying Host Risk for Infection Prevention and Control of Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) I. Staff Education and Infection Surveillance A. Staff Education B. Surveillance II. Interruption of Transmission of RSV A. Prevention of Person-to-Person Transmission 1. Primary Measures for Contact Isolation a. Handwashing b. Gloving c. Gowning d. Staffing e. Limiting Visitors 2. Control of RSV Outbreaks a. Use of Private Room, Cohorting, and Patient-Screening b. Personnel Cohorting c. Postponing Patient Admission d. Wearing Eye-Nose Goggles Prevention and Control of Influenza I. Staff Education and Infection Surveillance A. Staff Education B. Surveillance II. Modifying Host Risk for Infection A. Vaccination 1. Patients 2. Personnel B. Use of Antiviral Agents III. Interruption of (Person-to-Person) Transmission IV. Control of Influenza Outbreaks A. Determining the Outbreak Strain B. Vaccination of Patients and Personnel C. Amantadine or Rimantadine Administration D. Interruption of (Person-to-Person) Transmission
