FR940419-2-00152 FR940419-2-00086 (2) If an application is determined to be incomplete or to have missing certifications, the HA shall be advised in writing of any deficiencies or any inconsistencies. The missing information is to be submitted within a specified period of time from the date of HUD's written notification. This is not additional time to substantially revise the application. Deficiencies which may be corrected at this time are inadvertently omitted documents or clarifications of previously submitted material and other changes which are not of such a nature as to improve the competitive position of the application. The HA must acceptably correct deficiencies (including furnishing missing certifications) within 21 calendar days of notification from the Field Office. (i) If Form HUD&hyph;52822, CIAP Application, is missing, the HA's application will be considered substantially incomplete and, therefore, ineligible for further processing. (ii) If Form HUD&hyph;50071, Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements, SF&hyph;LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, or Form HUD&hyph;2880, Applicant/Recipient Update/Disclosure Form, is required, but missing or there is a technical mistake, such as no signature on a submitted form, the HA will be given an opportunity to correct the deficiency. (b) Eligibility Review HAs with fewer than 250 units are eligible to participate in the CIAP. After the HA's CIAP Application is determined to be complete and accepted for review, the Field Office eligibility review shall determine if the application meets the basic eligibility requirements and, therefore, is eligible for processing. (1) Eligibility for Processing To be eligible for processing: (i) Development eligibility . The development is either a public housing development, including a conveyed Lanham Act or Public Works Administration development, or a Section 23 Leased Housing Bond-Financed project (BFP). (ii) Date of full availability (DOFA) . Each eligible development for which work is proposed has reached DOFA at the time of CIAP Application submission. (2) Eligibility for Processing on Reduced Scope Where certain conditions exist, the HA will be eligible for processing on a reduced scope as follows: (i) Funds owed the department . Where the HA owes funds to the Department as a result of excess development, modernization or operating funds previously provided and the HA has not repaid the funds, or has not entered into a repayment agreement, or is not meeting its obligations under a repayment agreement, the HA is eligible for processing only for Emergency Modernization. (ii) FHEO Compliance . Where the HA has not complied with Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO) requirements as evidenced by an action, finding or determination as described below, unless the HA is implementing a voluntary compliance agreement or settlement agreement designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance, the HA is eligible for processing only for Emergency Modernization or physical work needed to remedy civil rights deficiencies. (A) A pending proceeding against the HA based upon a Charge of Discrimination issued under the Fair Housing Act. A Charge of Discrimination is a charge under section 810(g)(2) of the Fair Housing Act, issued by the Department's General Counsel or legally authorized designee; (B) A pending civil rights suit against the HA, referred by the Department's General Counsel and instituted by the Department of Justice;
