FR940202-2-00100 FR940202-2-00071 Table 1. Microorganisms Isolated from Respiratory Tract Specimens Obtained by Various Representative Methods from Adult Patients with a Diagnosis of Nosocomial Pneumonia Table 2. Controlled Studies on Nosocomial Lower Respiratory Tract Infections and Other Associated Outcomes of Selective Decontamination of the Digestive Tract in Adult Patients with Mechanically Assisted Ventilation Table 3. Risk Factors and Suggested Infection Control Measures for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia Figure 1. Pathogenesis of Nosocomial Bacterial Pneumonia Appendix A. Semicritical Items Used on the Respiratory Tract Appendix B. Maintenance Procedures to Decrease Survival and Multiplication of Legionella spp. in Potable-Water Distribution Systems Appendix C. Culturing Environmental Specimens for Legionella spp. Appendix D. Procedure for Cleaning Cooling Towers and Related Equipment to Prevent Legionellosis References Executive Summary This document updates and replaces the previously published CDC Guideline for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia (Infection Control 1982;3:327&hyph;33, Resp Care 1983;28:221&hyph;32, and Am J Infect Control 1983;11230&hyph;9). The revised guideline is designed to reduce the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia and provides the rationale (in Part I) for the recommendations (in Part II) considered prudent by consensus of the members of HICPAC. A working draft of the guideline has been reviewed by experts in infection control, pulmonology, respiratory therapy, anesthesiology, internal medicine, and pediatrics. However, all recommendations in the guideline may not reflect the opinions of all reviewers. Pneumonia is the second most common nosocomial infection in the United States and is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. Most patients with nosocomial pneumonia are those with extremes of age, severe underlying disease, immunosuppression, depressed sensorium, cardiopulmonary disease, and thoraco-abdominal surgery. Although patients with mechanically assisted ventilation do not comprise a major proportion of patients with nosocomial pneumonia, they have the highest risk of developing the infection. Most bacterial nosocomial pneumonias occur by aspiration of bacteria colonizing the oropharynx or upper gastrointestinal tract of the patient. Intubation and mechanical ventilation greatly increase the risk of nosocomial bacterial pneumonia because they alter first-line patient defenses. Pneumonias due to Legionella spp., Aspergillus spp., and influenza virus are often caused by inhalation of contaminated aerosols. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection usually follows viral inoculation of the conjunctivae or nasal mucosa by contaminated hands. Traditional preventive measures for nosocomial pneumonia include decreasing aspiration by the patient, preventing cross-contamination or colonization via hands of personnel, appropriate disinfection or sterilization of respiratory-therapy devices, use of available vaccines to protect against particular infections, and education of hospital staff and patients. New measures under investigation involve reducing oropharyngeal and gastric colonization by pathogenic microorganisms. Introduction The Guideline for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia is intended for use by personnel who are responsible for surveillance and control of infections in acute-care hospitals. The guideline may not be applicable in long-term care facilities because of the unique characteristics of these settings.
