FR940222-2-00017 FR940222-2-00013 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Requests for technical information about this notice of program interest should contact Dr. Michael Heeb, EM&hyph;6, Department of Energy, Office of Environmental Restoration and Waste Management, Washington, DC 20585, telephone (202) 586&hyph;6173. For procurement related information, contact Mr. Ron Logerwell, Department of Energy, Office of Environmental Restoration and Waste Management, Office of Acquisition Management, (EM&hyph;16), Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;1031. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Purpose and Scope II. Responsible Official III. Deviations IV. Evaluation Process I. Purpose and Scope A. The Department of Energy desires to work towards environmental excellence, and science and technology leadership. DOE intends to progress towards EM's goal and involve the best national science and engineering communities. The primary objective of the Office of Environmental Restoration and Waste Management is to meet the challenge of greater environmental responsibility. B. This announcement incorporates the merit review process for EM review of financial assistance applications as published in the Federal Register on May 6, 1991 (56 FR 20602) and fulfills the requirements set forth in DOE Financial Assistance Rules 10 CFR part 600. C. Merit review is the process of evaluating applications for discretionary financial assistance using predetermined criteria. The review is thorough, consistent, and independent and is completed by individuals with expert knowledge in the field in question. The purpose of the review is to provide analysis on the merits of applications to a Program Official having decision-making authority (the Selection Official) over the award of discretionary financial assistance. II. Responsible Official The EM Director of the Office of Integrated Risk Management or his/her designee will be responsible for this system of objective merit review of discretionary financial assistance applications funded by EM. III. Deviations Single-case deviations from the following procedures may be authorized in writing by EM's Responsible Official upon the written request by a member of the EM staff. Whenever a proposed review would deviate from 10 CFR part 600, the deviation must also be authorized in accordance with the procedures prescribed in that part. IV. Evaluation Process A. Initial Screening Procedure 1. Applications will normally be submitted to the Department of Energy, Office of Management Support, HR&hyph;532, Washington, DC 20585. Applications will be assigned a control number by HR&hyph;532 and those pertaining to the Office of Environmental Restoration and Waste Management (EM) will be provided to EM. EM will assign an EM Project Office for initial screening to assure the following standards are met before conducting a detailed merit review and evaluation: a. Appropriateness to the EM Mission: Applications must be relevant to EM mission requirements as stated in this notice. b. Technical/Scientific Content and Merit: Those applications judged to be without sufficient detail for evaluation will not be considered. c. No Unnecessary Duplications or Overlap: Applications proposing to perform research already being supported by DOE or other Federal agencies generally will not be subjected to formal merit review unless there is a convincing programmatic reason to do so. d. Completeness: Applications not meeting the requirements of 10 CFR 600, subpart A, may be returned to the sender for correction or modification. Until the application meets the above standards, it will not be given detailed merit review. B. Proposal Format The proposal must consist of two sections, technical and cost. Technical Proposal will be no more than 50 pages in length; resumes of key personnel involved should be submitted as an appendix and will not be considered part of the technical proposal 50 page limit. It is left to the proposer to determine how best to use the 50 pages: however the technical proposal should be divided into the following four sections: Section 1_Executive Summary
