FR941021-0-00051 FR941021-0-00006 Example. Delinquent taxpayer C is an employee of O Corporation and is paid wages totalling $450 on Friday of each week. C also performs services for P Corporation and is paid a salary of $250 on Friday of each week. On Tuesday, February 20, 1990, a levy is served on O Corporation with respect to the wages payable to C. A levy is not served on P Corporation. C's filing status is single and C is entitled to 1 personal exemption. Under §301.6334&hyph;3, C is entitled to an exemption from levy under 6334(a)(9) totalling $101.92 for each weekly pay period. However, because levy has not been made on C's salary paid by the P Corporation ($250 per week) and that salary exceeds the weekly amount ($101.92) to which C is entitled as exempt from levy, the district director may treat no amount of C's wages paid by the O Corporation as exempt from levy. If the district director requires such treatment, the district director must notify O Corporation that no amount of C's wages is exempt from levy and O Corporation may rely on such notification; in the absence of such notification O Corporation must treat $101.92 as exempt from levy. (2) Where sources not levied upon are less than exempt amount. If the taxpayer's income upon which the district director does not levy is less than the amount to which the taxpayer is entitled as exempt from levy, then an additional amount, determined to be exempt from levy pursuant to §301.6334&hyph;3, may be paid to the taxpayer from the sources of wages, salary, or other income upon which levy has been made. In such a case, the district director must designate those wages, salary, or other income from which the exempt amount is to be paid to the taxpayer, and must notify the employer or other person upon whom the levy is served of the amount of the taxpayer's wages, salary, or other income that is exempt from levy. The employer or other person may rely on such notification in paying over amounts pursuant to the levy. In the absence of such notification from the district director, the employer or other person upon whom the levy is served must determine the amount exempt from levy pursuant to §301.6334&hyph;3 as if that employer or other person upon whom the levy is served is the only source of wages, salary, or other income. Amounts not exempt from levy are to be paid to the district director in accordance with the terms of the levy. The provisions of this paragraph (c)(2) may be illustrated by the following example: Example. Delinquent taxpayer C is an employee of O Corporation and is paid wages totalling $50 on Friday of each week. C also performs services for P Corporation and is paid a salary of $75 on Friday of each week. On Tuesday, February 20, 1990, a levy is served on P Corporation with respect to the wages and salary of C. C's filing status is single and C is entitled to 1 personal exemption. Under §301.6334&hyph;3, C is entitled to an exemption from levy under section 6334(a)(9) totalling $101.92 for each weekly pay period. The district director may notify P Corporation that only $51.92 of C's wages is exempt from levy and P Corporation may rely on such notification; in the absence of such notification, P Corporation must treat the entire $75 salary as exempt from levy. (d) Effective date. These provisions are effective with respect to levies made on or after July 1, 1989. However, any reasonable attempt by a taxpayer to comply with the statutory amendments addressed by these regulations prior to February 21, 1995 will be considered as meeting the requirements of these regulations. §301.6334&hyph;3 Determination of exempt amount. (a) Individuals paid on weekly basis. In the case of any individual who is paid or receives all of his or her wages, salary, and other income on a weekly basis, the amount of wages, salary, and other income payable to or received by him or her during any week that is exempt from levy under section 6334(a)(9) is the exempt amount. (b) Term defined. The term exempt amount means an amount equal to_ (1) The sum of_ (i) The standard deduction (including additional standard deductions on account of age or blindness); and (ii) The aggregate amount of the deductions for personal exemptions allowed the taxpayer under section 151 in the taxable year in which such levy occurs; (2) Divided by 52. (c) Written and properly verified statement. Unless the taxpayer submits to the employer for forwarding to the district director a written and properly verified statement (as described in §301.6334&hyph;4) specifying the facts necessary to determine the proper amount under paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section, paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section must be applied as if the taxpayer were a married individual filing a separate return with only 1 personal exemption. (d) Individuals paid on basis other than weekly _(1) In general. In the case of an individual who is paid or receives wages, salary, and other income other than on a weekly basis, the amount payable to that individual during any applicable pay period that is exempt from levy under section 6334(a)(9) is the amount that as nearly as possible will result in the same total exemption from levy for such individual over that period of time other than weekly as that to which the individual would have been entitled under paragraph (b) of this section if, during such period of time, the individual were paid or received such wages, salary, and other income on a regular weekly basis. (2) Specific pay periods other than weekly. In the case of wages, salary, or other income paid to an individual on the basis of an established calendar period regularly used by the employer or other person levied upon for payroll or payment purposes, the exempt amount of wages, salary, and other income payable to or received by an individual during an applicable pay period other than weekly equals_
