FR940429-0-00288 FR940429-0-00016 Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the NPRM, 40 parties submitted comments on the proposed regulations. An analysis of the comments and of the changes made to the regulations as a result of those comments follows. Major issues are grouped according to subject, with references to the appropriate sections of the regulations. Other substantive issues are discussed under the section of the regulations to which they pertain. Technical and other minor changes, and suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under the applicable statutory authority, are not addressed. Section 682.202␣Permissible Charges by Lenders to Borrowers 1. Comment: A number of commenters noted that Public Law 103&hyph;66 and Public Law 103&hyph;208 made changes to the statute upon which the NPRM was based. The commenters recommended that regulatory provisions applying to borrower interest rates, refunds of excess interest paid, origination fees, and insurance premiums, should be updated to reflect current law. Some commenters recommended that a separate NPRM be issued to address the complex changes made by Public Law 103&hyph;208 to the provisions that mandate the refunding of excess interest. Discussion: To the extent that such changes can be readily made, the Secretary agrees that they should be. The Secretary has decided to issue a new notice of proposed rulemaking to implement the changes affecting the refund of excess interest paid, which had been the subject of §682.202(a)(6) of the proposed regulations. Change: The final regulations have been amended to incorporate the changes made by Public Law 103&hyph;208 to loan origination fees and insurance premiums. Interest rate changes will be in a subsequent NPRM. Section 682.202(a)(6) of the proposed regulations has been deleted, however, the Secretary has reserved that paragraph in these final regulations as the location for future regulations relating to the refunding of excess interest that is required by section 427A(i) of the HEA. Section 682.202(c)(2) 2. Comment: Some commenters objected to the requirement that a lender must charge an unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loan borrower a 6.5 percent origination/insurance fee. The commenters believed that the lender should have an option to charge the borrower a lesser amount, as is permitted for a subsidized Federal Stafford Loan. Discussion: Prior to Public Law 103&hyph;66, section 428H(f)(1) of the HEA required the lender to charge an unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loan borrower a 6.5 percent origination/insurance fee. Public Law 103&hyph;66 split the combined origination/insurance fee into two separate components: a 3 percent origination fee that is required to be charged to the borrower, and a 1 percent insurance premium that may be charged to the borrower. The origination and insurance fees applicable to a subsidized Federal Stafford Loan were also reduced by Public Law 103&hyph;66 to 3 percent and 1 percent respectively. However, the HEA continues to permit a lender to charge a subsidized Federal Stafford Loan borrower a lesser amount than the maximum loan origination fee, whereas no similar option exists for an unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loan origination fee. Change: The final regulations have been revised to incorporate the reduced fees resulting from Public Law 103&hyph;66. Section 682.202(c)(4) 3. Comment: Some commenters noted a conflict between §682.202(c)(1) which stated that a lender may charge a borrower an origination fee on a subsidized Stafford loan, whereas §682.202(c)(4) mandated that the lender shall deduct a pro rata portion of such fee from each disbursement of the loan proceeds. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Change: Section 682.202(c)(4) has been amended to clarify that the pro rata deduction requirement applies only if the lender has chosen to charge an origination fee to the borrower. Section 682.208␣Due Diligence in Servicing a Loan 4. Comment: A number of commenters favored an expansion in the notification requirements pertaining to an assignment of a loan or a change in the identity of the party to whom the borrower sends payments or communications concerning the loan. The commenters believed that the notice required to be sent by the holder of the loan should apply to all borrowers, and not be limited to only those borrowers in the grace or repayment periods. Some commenters also noted that Public Law 103&hyph;208 made two changes to section 428(b)(2)(F) of the HEA: (1) The transferee (instead of the transferor) is now required to notify the guaranty agency when a loan is sold or transferred; and (2) the transferor and the transferee may now notify the borrower of the sale or transfer of a loan either jointly or separately (instead of only separately).
