FR941013-1-00094 FR941013-1-00014 Section 682.202␣Permissible charges by lenders to borrowers. The proposed regulations would implement the requirements of section 427A(i) of the HEA as amended by the Technical Amendments. The changes in this section reflect the new statutory language that requires lenders to return excess interest to certain Stafford loan borrowers or the Secretary and requires the conversion of the interest rate on certain Federal Stafford loans to a variable interest rate. Section 682.207␣Due diligence in disbursing a loan. The proposed regulations would extend a provision of the FFEL Program regulations that were published on June 28, 1994 (59 FR 33334) that permitted the use of a master check for purposes of disbursing PLUS loans to the Federal Stafford loan programs. This proposed rule would allow a lender to use a master check to disburse Federal Stafford loans, thereby facilitating their disbursement. A ``master check'' is a check representing the disbursement of loan proceeds for more than one borrower. If a master check is used, the lender must provide the school with a list of the borrower's names, social security numbers, and the loan amounts disbursed through the master check. The proposed regulations would also require a lender to provide a school with a list of the borrowers' names, social security numbers, and the loan amounts if the loans are disbursed by electronic funds transfer. Section 682.305␣Procedures for payment of interest benefits and special allowance. The proposed regulations would amend the FFEL Program regulations to require an originating lender to pay origination fees to the Secretary. In many cases, the Secretary is not recovering the origination fees from the originating lender or any subsequent holder of a loan when the loan is sold. A June 1994 report conducted by the General Accounting Office and the Office of the Inspector General (GAO/AIMD&hyph;94&hyph;131 and ACN 17&hyph;30302) has identified this as a potentially serious area of abuse that may be costing the Department a significant amount of money. The Secretary has decided that regulatory controls are needed to help reduce the incidence of abuse in this area. Therefore, in addition to the proposed rule that would require the originating lender to pay origination fees, the proposed regulations would also prevent a subsequent holder of a loan for which the origination fees were not paid from receiving any interest benefits or special allowance on that loan, or a guaranty agency from receiving reinsurance payments from the Secretary on that loan, until the origination fees have been paid. Section 682.401␣Basic program agreement. The proposed regulations are needed to implement section 428(e) of the HEA. Under this section, the Secretary will pay a lender referral fee to each guaranty agency with whom the Secretary has a lender referral agreement in an amount equal to 0.5 percent of the principal amount of a loan made as a result of the agency's referral services. The proposed regulations would also change the regulations to reflect a change made by OBRA to section 428(b)(1)(G) of the HEA that limits a guaranty agency to paying 98 percent of the unpaid principal balance of each loan on default claims on loans disbursed on or after October 1, 1993.
