FR940617-1-00100 FR940617-1-00012 ( 9 ) Dilution fluid. Butterfield's phosphate buffered water adjusted to pH 7.2 and containing an antimicrobial inactivator specific for the test formulation. Adjust pH with 0.1 Normal hydrochloric acid or 0.1 Normal sodium hydroxide. ( 10 ) Soybean-casein digest agar. Supplemental polysorbate 80 (0.5 to 10 grams/liter) is to be added to the agar to stimulate the growth of lipophilic organisms. A suitable antimicrobial inactivator is also to be added. ( 11 ) Fingernail cleaning sticks . ( 12 ) Sterile hand brushes (required only if specified for use with test formulation). Products that specify the use of a device in conjunction with the antimicrobial are to include this information in the product labeling. The device is an integral part of the study. If gauze is to be used, then the product labeling is to reflect this condition of use. (C) Test panelists. Panelists shall consist of healthy adult male and female volunteers who have no evidence of dermatosis, have not received antibiotics or taken oral contraceptives 2 weeks prior to the test, and who agree to abstain from these materials as described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(D)( 2 ) of this section until the conclusion of the test. (D) Preparation of volunteers . ( 1 ) At least 2 weeks prior to start of the test, enroll sufficient subjects per product being tested to satisfy the statistical criteria of the clinical trial design. ( 2 ) Instruct the volunteers to avoid contact with antimicrobials (other than the test formulation) for the duration of the test. This restriction includes antimicrobial containing antiperspirants, deodorants, shampoos, lotions, soaps, and materials such as acids, bases, and solvents. Bathing in chlorinated pools and hot tubs is to be avoided. Volunteers are to be provided with a kit of nonantimicrobial personal care products for exclusive use during the test and rubber gloves to be worn when contact with antimicrobials cannot be avoided. (E) Selection of evaluable subjects. After panelists have refrained from using antimicrobials for at least 2 weeks, perform wash with baseline control soap. Subjects are not to have washed their hands 2 hours prior to the baseline count determination. After washing, determine the first estimate of the baseline population by sampling both hands and enumerating the bacteria in the sampling solution. This is day 1 of the ``baseline period.'' Repeat this baseline determination on days 3 and 7, days 3 and 5, or days 5 and 7 of the ``baseline period'' to obtain three estimates of the baseline population. Any subjects exhibiting counts greater than or equal to 1.5X105 after the first and second estimates of the baseline populations are obtained can be assigned to products in accordance with the randomization plan described below. Sufficient evaluable subjects must be enrolled per arm to satisfy the statistical conditions of adequacy with at least 80 percent power and a test level of 5 percent. (F) Number of subjects. The number of subjects required per arm of the study can be estimated from the following equation: n"2S 2 (Z a/2 +Z b ) 2 /D 2 , where: S2 is your estimate of variance; Z a/2 corresponds to the level of the test; for a 5 percent test level = 1.96; Z b corresponds to the power of the test; for 80 percent power = .842; and D is the clinical difference of significance to be ruled out; say 20 percent of the active control's mean reduction from baseline at a specific time. For example, data from a number of glove juice studies submitted over the past few years to the agency as part of applications under part 314 of this chapter were reviewed to obtain information relative to the variance of the difference from baseline for count reduction data. For 128 standard deviations extracted, it was noted that 50 percent of the values are between .90 and 1.12; 25 percent are less than .90; and 25 percent are greater than 1.12. The range is from .49 to 1.73, the 25th percentile standard deviation is 0.86, the median standard deviation is 1.01, and the 75th percentile standard deviation is 1.20. The larger the standard deviation, the larger the sample size required to rule out a difference of clinical importance. Assuming that the active control surgical hand scrub produces a mean log reduction of 2.5 at hour 3 and the test hand scrub is to be within 20 percent of this, i.e ., D=0.5, and if S 2 = 1.02, then n=64 subjects per arm of the study. Because blocks of six are recommended, the sample size per arm is 66. The S 2 =1.44 corresponds to the 75th percentile in the data set. This gives a sample size of 90 subjects per arm. The total number of evaluable subjects required for a successful trial will depend upon the estimate of variance available and the number of products that need testing. (G) Study design. A randomized, blinded, parallel arm design is to be used to test the products. Due to the nature of their constituents, some test surgical hand scrubs will require not only the use of an active control arm but also use of a vehicle control arm and perhaps a placebo control arm to demonstrate efficacy. The schematic layout of sampling times is given in Table 1 as follows:
