FR940525-2-00199 FR940525-2-00113 Standard No. 101 Controls and Displays: substitution of a lens marked ``Brake'' for a lens with an ECE symbol on the brake failure indicator lamp. Standard No. 108 Lamps, Reflective Devices and Associated Equipment: (a) installation of U.S.-model sealed beam headlamps; (b) installation of U.S.-model side marker lamps and reflectors; (c) installation of a high mounted stop lamp on vehicles manufactured after September 1, 1993. The petitioner asserted that testing performed on the taillamp reveals that it complies with the standard, even though it lacks a DOT certification marking, and that all other lights are DOT certified. Standard No. 111 Rearview Mirrors: inscription of the required warning statement on the convex surface of the passenger side rearview mirror. Standard No. 114 Theft Protection: installation of a warning buzzer in the steering lock electrical circuit. Standard No. 115 Vehicle Identification Number: installation of a VIN plate that can be read from outside the left windshield pillar. Standard No. 118 Power-Operated Window Systems: rewiring of the power window system so that the window transport is inoperative when the front doors are open. Standard No. 120 Tire Selection and Rims for Vehicles other than Passenger Cars: installation of a tire information placard. The petitioner asserted that even though the tire rims lack a DOT certification marking, they comply with the standard, based on their manufacturer's certification that they comply with the German TUV regulations, as well as their certification by the British Standards Association and the Rim Association of Australia. Standard No. 206 Door Locks and Door Retention Components: installation of interior locking buttons on all door locks and modification of rear door locks to disabled latch release controls when locking mechanism is engaged. Standard No. 208 Occupant Crash Protection: installation of a complying driver's side air bag and a seat belt warning buzzer. The petitioner asserted that the vehicle conforms to the standard's injury criteria at the front passenger position based on a test report from the vehicle's manufacturer. Standard No. 210 Seat Belt Assembly Anchorages: insertion of instructions on the installation and use of child restraints in the owner's manual for the vehicle. The petitioner asserted that the vehicle is certified as complying with a European standard that contains more severe force application requirements than those of this standard. Standard No. 212 Windshield Retention: application of cement to the windshield's edges. The petitioner provided test data indicating that the vehicle satisfied the frontal barrier requirements of Standard No. 301 Fuel System Integrity. The petitioner also supplied data on a rear barrier crash at 31 mph with crash forces approximating those required by the standard. The data revealed that fuel leaked from the vent during the rollover that was conducted as part of this test. The petitioner installed a rollover valve in the fuel tank line to resolve that problem. The petitioner also stated that the vehicle should comply with the lateral impact test at the lower speed of 20 mph due to the reinforcing structure surrounding the fuel tank and the placement of the fuel lines inside the main frame of the vehicle. Based on its analysis of information provided by the petitioner, as well as its engineering judgment, the agency is satisfied that the vehicle will comply with the side impact requirements of Standard No. 301. No comments were received in response to the notice of the petition. Based on its review of the information submitted by the petitioner, NHTSA has determined to grant the petition. Vehicle Eligibility Number for Subject Vehicles The importer of a vehicle admissible under any final determination must indicate on the form HS&hyph;7 accompanying entry the appropriate vehicle eligibility number indicating that the vehicle is eligible for entry. VCP # 5 is the vehicle eligibility number assigned to vehicles admissible under this determination. Final Determination Accordingly, on the basis of the foregoing, NHTSA hereby determines that 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1994 Mercedes-Benz Gelaendewagen 300GE (long wheel base Type 463) MPVs are eligible for importation into the United States because they have safety features that comply with, or are capable of being modified to comply with, all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards. Authority: 15 U.S.C. 1397(c)(3)(A)(i)(II) and (C)(iii); 49 CFR 593.8; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.50 and 501.8. Issued on: May 20, 1994. William A. Boehly, Associate Administrator for Enforcement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12873 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M
