FR940630-1-00049 FR940630-1-00012 Persons interested in being placed on the mailing list for future NPRMs should request from the above office a copy of Advisory Circular 11&hyph;2A, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Distribution System, which describes the application procedures. Background Statement of the Problem The fee schedule that appears in 14 CFR part 187, appendix A, was established by rulemaking and became effective on October 18, 1982. It contains fees for certain certification services performed outside of the United States by the FAA. However, it does not contain fees for the full scope of activities for which fees may be charged under current statutory authority. Rather, the fee schedule lists only fees for services that were being rendered outside the United States at the time of that rulemaking. The fee schedule has not been updated since 1982, although the FAA's costs for performing these services has escalated since adoption of the present rule in 1982. The FAA incurs special costs to operate overseas that increase the costs for providing services outside the United States. These additional costs include cost-of-living allowances as well as allowances for housing and education. Due to these costs, employing an inspector outside the United States is approximately $85.4 thousand more costly than employing the same inspector within the United States. Further, since the methodology for computing fee schedules and time table for adjustment of fees was not established in 14 CFR part 187, appendix A, it is currently necessary to update this fee schedule by rulemaking. The changes set out in this NPRM make the FAA's fee practice more nearly consistent with the principles of nondiscrimination and most-favored-nation treatment that are at the core of the international trade regime set up by the GATT, and which includes the Aircraft Code and the General Agreement on Trade in Services. Under these core trade principles, governments should not treat foreign nationals differently in the measures that they take that affect international trade. Airman certifications are not governed by any trade agreement to which the U.S. is a party, but the FAA has determined that bringing its fee practices into line with international trade practices is desirable, if not required by any specific obligation of the U.S. FAA measures with regard to certification of foreign repair stations, however, including fees charged, will be subject to U.S. obligations under the General Agreement on Trade in Service (GATS), recently concluded in the so-called Uruguay Round of GATT negotiations. The U.S. signed the agreement, but has not ratified it, and it is not in force. Implementing legislation has not yet been submitted to Congress. Nevertheless, the GATS, which applies multilateral trade principles to trade in services for the first time, will cover some aspects of aircraft maintenance. This NPRM will be consistent with U.S. obligations under the GATS, once it goes into effect. Statutory Authority Title VI of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (the Act), gives the Administrator authority to issue certificates for airmen, instructors, schools, and repair stations. In addition, under Title V of the Independent Offices Appropriation Act of 1952 (31 U.S.C. 9701), the FAA has been charged with establishing a fair and equitable system for recovering full costs expended for any service, such as the issuance of the certificates discussed in this proposal, that provide a special benefit to an individual beyond those that accrue to the general public. Section 403a of that Act provides, in part, as follows: It is the sense of the Congress that any work service, publication, report, document, benefit, privilege, authority, use, franchise, license, permit, certificate, registration, or similar thing of value or utility performed, furnished, provided, granted, prepared or issued by any Federal Agency *␣*␣* to or for any person (including groups, associations, organizations, partnerships, corporations, or businesses), except those engaged in the transaction of official business of the Government, shall be self-sustaining to the fullest extent possible *␣*␣*. Section 483a further provides, in part:
