FR941207-0-00109 FR941207-0-00019 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Parts 1, 73, and 74 [MM Docket No. 92&hyph;168, FCC 94&hyph;259] Broadcast Auxiliary Services; Low Power Television and Television and FM Radio Translator License Renewal AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Commission adjusts the renewal schedule of FM radio and television (LPTV) stations to correspond with the renewal schedule of full service radio or television stations operating in the same state. The Commission also eliminates FCC Form 348 and revises FCC Form 303&hyph;S to include information requrest formerly included in Form 348. These actions are intended to decrease the administrative and paperwork burden on those licensees who own full service stations and LPTV or translator stations in the same but who must, under the current rules, file separate renewal application on different dates for each station. EFFECTIVE DATE: These amendments to parts 1, 73, and 74 contain information collection requirements. They are not effective until approval of the Form 303&hyph;S revisions by the Office of Management and Budget. The Commission will publish notice of the effective date of these amendments when the required approval is received. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Roger Holberg or Rita McDonald, 202/632&hyph;7792. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 1 hour to 4 hours 30 minutes per response with an average of 1 hour 2 minutes per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Federal Communications Commission, Records Management Division, Washington, DC 20554, and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (3060&hyph;0110), Washington, DC 20503. This is a synopsis of the Report and Order in MM Docket No. 92&hyph;168, FCC 94&hyph;259, adopted October 12, 1994, and released November 4, 1994. The complete text of this Report and Order is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Reference Center (room 239), 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC, and also may be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, at (202) 857&hyph;3800, 2100 M Street, NW., suite 140, Washington, DC 20037. Synopsis of the Report and Order 1. The Commission changes the license renewal dates of FM radio and television translator stations and low power television (LPTV) stations licensed under Part 74 of the Commission's Rules, to coincide with those of full service radio or television stations operating in the same state. The Commission also eliminates FCC Form 348, Application for Renewal of a Low Power TV, TV Translator, or FM Translator Station License, and revises FCC Form 303&hyph;S, Application for Renewal of License for Commercial and Noncommercial Educational AM, FM and TV Broadcast Stations, to include information requests formerly included in Form 348. These form revisions will permit translator stations co-owned with primary stations in the same state which rebroadcast the signal of the primary station to file for license renewal on a single application form with their primary station. 2. The majority of parties commenting in response to the Notice of Proposed Rule Making (MPRM) 1 agreed with the Commission's initial view that conforming the renewal dates for full service and for FM and TV translators and LPTV stations in the same state would streamline the license renewal process, eliminate paperwork burdens on licensees and on the Commission, and simplify the renewal process for interested members of the public. By coordinating the renewal cycles and merging the application forms, the Commission anticipates saving licensees who own both full service stations and LPTV or translator stations in the same state, time spent in providing duplicate renewal information, and avoiding confusion as to the correct renewal dates. These revisions should also save Commission staff resources by reducing the likelihood of a licensee filing an application at the wrong time, which must then be returned by the Commission. 1 57 FR 36378 (August 13, 1992). 3. The NPRM noted that the transition to a revised renewal schedule would entail a one-time additional burden on cerain LPTV and translator stations whose license come up for renewal before those of the full service stations in their state. More particularly, it would result in some LPTV and translator stations receiving short term renewals in order to synchronize their renewal cycles with those of full service stations in their states. In order to allow such stations to file for renewal coincident with the renewal dates of full service stations in the same states, the NPRM discussed alternatives that would would avoid this situation. The Commission rejected one option, to allow such licensees to file for translator or LPTV renewal at their normal scheduled date, but with their next succeeding renewal date set to correspond with those of full service stations in their state. This option was dismissed because some licenses granted in this manner would run for a term beyond the maximum five or seven years (for TV and radio station licenses, respectively) prescribed in Section 307(c) of the Communications Act.
