FR940228-1-00013 FR940228-1-00003 1. Revoke the individual's certification for a minimum of 1 year. 2. Suspend the individual's certification for 30 to 180 days. 3. Formally reprimand the individual. More detailed information on the ASNT certification program is available from the American Society for Nondestructive Testing, Inc., 1711 Arlingate Plaza, P.O. Box 28518, Columbus, Ohio 43228&hyph;0518. V. Discussion of the Proposed Rule Table of Contents The new Table of Contents contains eight subparts. The organization is as follows: Subpart A_General Provisions Subpart B_Specific Licensing Provisions Subpart C_Equipment Subpart D_Radiation Safety Requirements Subpart E_Recordkeeping Requirements Subpart F_Notifications Subpart G_Exemptions Subpart H_Violations Appendix A This organization follows the same general format used in 10 CFR part 39 concerning radiation safety requirements for well logging. Subpart A_General Provisions This subpart covers items of a general nature, such as listing definitions and OMB approvals. It also describes the purpose and scope of the rule. Section 34.1, Purpose and scope, is basically unchanged from the existing regulation. Other NRC regulations that apply to radiography licenses are referenced in this section. Section 34.3, Definitions, contains the following new terms: ALARA, Annual safety review, Becquerel, Certifying entity, Collimator, Control (drive) cable, Field station, Gray, Independent certifying organization, Radiographer certification, Radiation Safety Officer, Sievert, S-tube, and Temporary jobsite. These definitions were added to define terms used in requirements not previously addressed in Part 34. The term ALARA, which means as low as reasonably achievable, has been added to describe a key element of the revised part 20, ``Standards for Protection Against Radiation,'' that licensees must implement by January 1994. The term Annual safety review was added to describe this activity in the proposed rule. The terms Becquerel, Gray, and Sievert were added to define the metric units used in all new or revised regulations. The terms Certifying entity, Independent certifying organization, and Radiographer certification were added to describe terms associated with revised requirements for verification of radiographer training. The terms Collimator and Control (drive) cable were added to the proposed rule to describe pieces of equipment that is often used in conducting radiography operations. The term S-tube was added to describe this component of a radiographic exposure for which there are new requirements in the proposed rule. The terms Field station and Temporary jobsite were added to clarify the meaning of these terms in the proposed rule. The term Field station is being used to designate those locations where radiography equipment is stored and from which equipment is dispatched. The term Temporary jobsite is being used to describe locations not authorized on the license where radiography is conducted. The term Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) was added to describe the role of this individual in the proposed rule. The terms Associated equipment, Control tube, Exposure head, Field examination, Projection sheath, Radiographic Operations, Shielded position, and Source assembly, while used in the existing regulation, were not previously defined. Both licensees and Agreement State representatives requested clarification of these terms. Changing the definition of radiographer's assistant was discussed at the November 1992 workshop in Dallas, Texas. Some Agreement States use the term ``trainee'' to refer to a radiographer's assistant and require training similar to that required of a radiographer. The NRC has decided to retain the term radiographer's assistant and has proposed upgrading the training requirements to provide additional assurance that radiographers' assistants are sufficiently knowledgeable of NRC regulations. Although the NRC is not adopting the term ``trainee,'' the proposed rule has been written to provide the flexibility for the second person to have training beyond that of a radiographer's assistant. This position could then equally be filled by a ``trainee.'' The definition of a permanent radiographic installation was modified to remove ambiguities in the previous definition. The definitions of storage area and storage container were modified to remove references to transportation. Specific transportation requirements are addressed in ยง34.35.
