FR940203-2-00030 FR940203-2-00017 Regulatory Guidance Letter (92&hyph;3) RGL 92&hyph;3 Date: 19 Aug 92, Expires: 31 Dec 97 Subject: Extension of Regulatory Guidance Letter (RGL) 86&hyph;10 RGL 86&hyph;10, subject: ``Special Area Management Plans (SAMP's)'' is extended until 31 December 1997 unless sooner revised or rescinded. For the Director of Civil Works John P. Elmore, Chief, Operations, Construction and Readiness Division, Directorate of Civil Works. RGL 86&hyph;10 Special Area Management Plans (SAMP's) Issued 10/2/86, Expired 12/31/88 1. The 1980 Amendments to the Coastal Zone Management Act define the SAMP process as ``a comprehensive plan providing for natural resource protection and reasonable coastal-dependent economic growth containing a detailed and comprehensive statement of policies, standards and criteria to guide public and private uses of lands and waters; and mechanisms for timely implementation in specific geographic areas within the coastal zone.'' This process of collaborative interagency planning within a geographic area of special sensitivity is just as applicable in non-coastal areas. 2. A good SAMP reduces the problems associated with the traditional case-by-case review. Developmental interests can plan with predictability and environmental interests are assured that individual and cumulative impacts are analyzed in the context of broad ecosystem needs. 3. Because SAMP's are very labor intensive, the following ingredients should usually exist before a district engineer becomes involved in a SAMP: 1. The area should be environmentally sensitive and under strong developmental pressure. b. There should be a sponsoring local agency to ensure that the plan fully reflects local needs and interests. c. Ideally there should be full public involvement in the planning and development process. d. All parties must express a willingness at the outset to conclude the SAMP process with a definitive regulatory product (see next paragraph). 4. An ideal SAMP would conclude with two products: (1) Appropriate local/State approvals and a Corps general permit (GP) or abbreviated processing procedure (APP) for activities in specifically defined situations; and (2) a local/State restriction and/or an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 404(c) restriction (preferably both) for undesirable activities. An individual permit review may be conducted for activities that do not fall into either category above. However, it should represent a small number of the total cases addressed by the SAMP. We recognize that an ideal SAMP is difficult to achieve, and, therefore, it is intended to represent an upper limit rather than an absolute requirement.
