FR941011-0-00033 FR941011-0-00011 Explanation of Provisions In General The final regulations would simplify the computation of depreciation by allowing taxpayers an election to group assets into one or more general asset accounts under section 168(i)(4). The assets in any particular general asset account are depreciated as a single asset. Unlike the rules under section 168 as in existence before enactment of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, general asset account treatment is not limited to ``mass assets.'' As required by section 168(i)(4), the final regulations provide generally that the amount realized upon the disposition of an asset from a general asset account is recognized as ordinary income. In addition, special rules are provided for terminating general asset account treatment upon certain dispositions. For transactions described in section 168(i)(7)(B), the transferee generally is bound by the transferor's general asset account election. Changes to the Proposed Regulations This Treasury decision generally adopts the rules in the proposed regulations. Certain changes to the proposed regulations have been made, however, in response to comments. These changes and the comments that were not adopted in the final regulations are discussed below. Assets Subject to Recapture . One commentator recommended that the proposed regulations be amended to allow general asset account treatment for assets qualifying for the credit under section 47 or 48. After considering this comment, the IRS and Treasury Department have concluded that it is appropriate to allow taxpayers greater flexibility in determining what assets will be included in a general asset account. Therefore, the proposed rule that prohibits general asset account treatment for investment credit property has been deleted. Accordingly, under the final regulations, a general asset account may include any depreciable asset for which a credit or deduction is allowable. A new rule, however, has been added in the final regulations to account for any basis increase upon recapture. The final regulations provide that upon recapture, the asset is removed from the general asset account as of the first day of the taxable year in which the recapture event occurs. In addition, corresponding adjustments to the unadjusted depreciable basis and depreciation reserve of the account must be made. This rule was formulated in view of the limited types of property currently eligible for the investment credit. The IRS, however, may consider other alternatives to take into account the basis increase upon recapture if the scope of property that qualifies for the investment credit is expanded. Assets Used in a Personal Activity. The final regulations retain the rule of the proposed regulations that a general asset account may not include an asset if a taxpayer uses the asset both in a trade or business (or for the production of income) and in a personal activity at any time during the taxable year in which the asset is first placed in service by the taxpayer. Consistent with the retention of this rule in the final regulations, a new rule has been added providing that an asset in a general asset account becomes ineligible for general asset account treatment if a taxpayer uses the asset in a personal activity in a taxable year after the taxable year the asset is placed in service. If this change in use occurs, the final regulations provide that the taxpayer must use the method provided in ยง1.168(i)-1(e)(3)(iii)(C) for adjusting a general asset account when an asset becomes ineligible for general asset account treatment. Assets that Generate Foreign Source Income. A commentator suggested that the proposed regulations be amended to allow general asset account treatment for assets generating foreign source income. In response to this comment, the final regulations allow general asset account treatment for assets generating foreign source income. If, however, the inclusion of these assets in a general asset account results in a substantial distortion of income, the Commissioner may disregard the general asset account election and make reallocations of income or expense as necessary to clearly reflect income.
