FR941110-0-00065 FR941110-0-00016 Response: While we do not agree with the suggested definition, we do agree with the intent of the commenters that there should be some range of compliance within which prospective and current providers may participate. This concept is discussed further in §488.330 ``Certification of compliance''. Accordingly, in §488.301, we define ``substantial compliance'' to mean a level of compliance with requirements of participation such that any identified deficiencies pose no greater risk to patient health and safety than the potential for causing minimal harm. As we discuss later in this preamble, a facility may avoid a remedy even if it has failed to comply perfectly with all statutory requirements. However, the facility still has the duty to provide the care to each resident which enhances the chances for positive outcomes and avoids negative ones. If a single resident experiences any harm, no matter how minimal, the facility will not have satisfied its statutory obligations. We acknowledge that there might be many definitions that we could have chosen, but in our view, the definition we have settled on best implements the Act and accommodates both facility and resident concerns. Additionally, since we are incorporating the concept of substantial compliance, we believe it is necessary to provide a definition of noncompliance at §488.301. Noncompliance with the requirements of participation is any deficiency that causes a facility to not be in substantial compliance. Section 488.303␣State Plan Requirement Comment: There were several comments concerning the requirement for and content of incentive programs. •Some commenters suggested that the incentives to reward quality care be required and implemented on a national scale by HCFA as well as the States. •A few commenters suggested that the States develop incentive programs with consultation from residents, families and the ombudsman. •One commenter presented an elaborate process including applications, group evaluations and resident participation for any award. •One commenter said that the regulation should define the rewards for quality to support quality improvement. Response: Section 1919(h)(2)(F) of the Act does not permit HCFA to require the States to establish a public recognition or incentive payment system for nursing facilities that provide high quality care. If the commenters mean that the same public recognition or incentive payment system be permitted for Medicare SNFs, the Act does not authorize such recognition. In addition, a HCFA program for nursing facilities would be duplicative. Section 1919(h)(2)(F) of the Act gives States the flexibility to decide if an incentive program would be appropriate and how they will implement the program. If a State decides to implement an incentive program, the State should have the option to consult those individuals and organizations it thinks necessary. In the same vein, it would be inadvisable to restrict the States' programs to elaborate regulatory procedures because, in so doing, we may inadvertently discourage States from establishing such programs. Although we encourage States to develop effective incentive programs, we are not making any changes to §488.303 because we want to preserve the States' flexibility in establishing such incentive programs. Comment: A few commenters suggested that the Medicaid program should fund the incentive payments through civil money penalties.
