FR940419-2-00129 FR940419-2-00071 (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The NASD's Advertising Regulation Department began offering an expedited review process in February, 1991 for those members who desired review and comment of advertising and sales literature that was faster than the normal review and comment process, which is ten business days. The expedited process is completed within three business days. Over the past three years, use of the expedited process has increased far beyond the NASD's expectation. The expedited filing process has become standard operating procedure for many of the program's most frequent users and many items filed are frequently more difficult to review because they contain new concepts and approaches requiring greater time for research and analysis. The increase in the number of expedited filings has led to a significant increase in the amount of administrative processing and has made it more difficult to provide service within the ten-day turnaround time for normal filings. The NASD is proposing an amendment to Section 13 of Schedule A to the NASD By-Laws which establishes a fee structure that will give members the ability to choose the level of service that best fits their needs, taking into consideration the costs related to that level. Each of the specific fees would be increased, including the service charge for expedited service. However, the service charge for expedited service would no longer be imposed in addition to the base service charge and the number of pages or minutes of video that triggers an additional fee would be increased, i.e., from 5 to 10 pages and from 5 to 10 minutes. The text of the amendment identifies each of the changes to the fees. The NASD is requesting that the amendment be implemented on May 1, 1994. The NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of Section 15A(b)(5) of the Act, 3 which require that the rules of the Association provide for the equitable allocation of dues, fees and other charges among members in that the proposed rule equitably adjusts the fees assessed for the review of advertising and sales literature to accurately reflect the time spent and level of analysis performed per item submitted for review. 3 15 U.S.C. ยง78o-3. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD does not believe that the proposed rule change will result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, as amended. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change has become effective upon filing pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder in that it constitutes a due, fee or other charge. The rule will be implemented on May 1, 1994. At any time within 60 days of the filing of a rule change pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act, the Commission may summarily abrogate the rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to file number SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;21 and should be submitted by May 10, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9316 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
