FR940627-0-00152 FR940627-0-00019 In the NPRM, EPA proposed to require modeling or other analytic methods to evaluate potential exposures, expected atmospheric reactivity, and environmental partitioning of emission products. However, as discussed in Section III.C., this final rule does not require modeling analyses to be performed as routine requirements under Tier 1. Instead, quantitative modeling efforts will be required on a case-by-case basis as needed under Tier 3. Nevertheless, EPA believes that exposure data are still critical for the assessment of the potential risks associated with the emissions of F/FAs in question. For this purpose, today's rule requires manufacturers to provide a qualitative discussion of potential population exposures based on the production and use of the particular fuel or additive (or group of F/FAs) in question. This qualitative analysis must consider the actual and/or projected total annual production volumes and the market distribution patterns (e.g., percent of sales by state or region) of the particular product or group of products. Group submissions must assess the cumulative exposure resulting from all members of the group. A quantitative analysis is encouraged when appropriate data are available, including any existing modeling data, to support the exposure analysis. As discussed earlier, EPA retains the authority to require from manufacturers more exhaustive exposure analysis for particular products of concern under Tier 3 (including modeling), based on the EPA evaluation of Tier 1 and Tier 2 results or other available information. VIII. Tier 2 Requirements In the NPRM, EPA proposed short-term (42-day) tests under Tier 2 for the evaluation of six health effects endpoints: carcinogenicity, mutagenicity, teratogenicity, reproductive toxicity, neurotoxicity, and pulmonary toxicity. EPA examined the proposed Tier 2 program and found that similar requirements among the various proposed tests (in regard to animal subjects, exposure scenarios, and general technical principles) provided the opportunity to combine several endpoint tests within the same exposure protocol. In view of this, EPA has modified the Tier 2 testing program to allow for concurrent test performance in a more cost-effective manner. The revised Tier 2 testing program enhances efficiency and feasibility, while providing better health effects information. In fact, the design of the Tier 2 testing program makes best use of animals (minimum number of animals used), laboratory capacity, and financial resources. The basic Tier 2 testing framework of this final rule consists of a 90-day subchronic inhalation study to examine general systemic and organ toxicity (including pulmonary effects), with the addition of ancillary tests that allow the assessment of several specific health effect endpoints (carcinogenicity, mutagenicity, teratogenicity, reproductive toxicity, and neurotoxicity) within the same exposure schedule. A fertility assessment is coordinated with the 90-day study to examine reproductive and teratogenic effects. Brief descriptions of test guidelines for the evaluation of each health effect endpoint are provided in the sections below. Most of these testing guidelines are modified versions of guidelines previously published under TSCA (40 CFR part 798, revised as of July 1, 1992) and/or the test guidelines which accompanied the NPRM. Detailed protocols for the Tier 2 testing program are included in ยง79.62&hyph;ยง79.68 of the accompanying regulations. Figure 4 shows a diagram of the suggested timing and organization of the Tier 2 studies within the general 90-day subchronic exposure schedule. BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSER27JN94.002 BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;C
