FR940916-1-00073 FR940916-1-00016 Discussion of Comments and General FRA Conclusions For purposes of discussion, the comments may be grouped in four categories by origin: (1) Railroad labor organizations and their individual members, (2) railroad management representatives, (3) manufacturers of train brake equipment, and (4) other commenters. FRA noted both the common themes expressed by members of these groups and the many variations on, and exceptions to, those themes. Discussions follow with respect to the primary issues addressed by the commenters. I. EOT Telemetry Devices Since the advent of EOT devices, technological advances have been made to incorporate ``two-way communication'' into the system. The two-way EOT device, in addition to the features of the one-way EOT device, has the ability of transmitting from the controlling locomotive an emergency brake application that begins at the rear of the train. This is a desirable feature in event of a blockage in the brake pipe that would prevent the pneumatic transmission of the emergency brake application throughout the entire train. In 1986, FRA concluded that mandating the installation of two-way EOT devices was not warranted. However, at that time FRA made a public commitment to monitor developments in EOT device technology and to review the subject periodically. 51 FR 17300, 17301 (May 9, 1986). Since 1986, significant advances have been made in the development of two-way EOT devices, and they are now commercially available in the market place from two manufacturers. In addition, FRA has received recommendations from the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and petitions from the United Transportation Union, the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, the Oregon Public Utilities Commission, the Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission, and the Montana Public Service Commission to require two-way EOT devices on all cabooseless trains operating in certain territories. Furthermore, 49 U.S.C. ยง20141, formerly contained at Section 7 of the RSERA, which amends the FRSA by adding a new subsection dealing with power brakes, mandates that the Secretary of Transportation promulgate rules requiring two-way EOT devices. Section 20141, formerly Section 7 of the RSERA, sets out various minimum requirements that any promulgated rule must contain. Consequently, based upon the advances in technology, the recommendations and petitions received, and the statutory mandate, FRA requested comments from interested parties regarding the exception of certain operations from any two-way EOT device requirements, the operational characteristics of the devices, the en route failure of the devices, and the costs associated with equipping trains with the devices. 57 FR 62546, 62550&hyph;62551 (Dec. 31, 1992).
