FR940106-2-00025 FR940106-2-00009 United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement, Article 1904 Binational Panel Reviews: Stay of Panel Reviews AGENCY: United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement, Binational Secretariat, United States Section, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice of stay of panel reviews of the final determination made by the International Trade Administration respecting certain cold-rolled carbon steel flat products from Canada (USA&hyph;93&hyph;1904&hyph;01) and certain hot-rolled carbon steel flat products from Canada (USA&hyph;93&hyph;1904&hyph;02). SUMMARY: This notice is effective December 23, 1993. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James R. Holbein, United States Secretary, Binational Secretariat, suite 2061, 14th and Constitution Avenue, Washington, DC 20230, (202) 482&hyph;5438. Background The panel issued an order and memorandum on December 23, 1993, as follows: ``These are appeals from two affirmative final dumping determinations issued by the International Trade Administration of the Department of Commerce (ITA) involving, respectively, cold-and-hot rolled carbon steel flat products imported into the United States from Canada. The International Trade Commission (ITC) rendered final negative determinations in both cases on the issue of material injury; these negative injury determinations have been appealed to the Court of International Trade (CIT). The ITA has moved in each case to stay the proceedings before this panel pending final resolution of the injury question now before the CIT. The ITA argues that until such final judicial action an unconstitutional exercise of power for this panel to proceed. Four complaining parties in each case (respondents below) support the issuance of the requested stay. The complaining U.S. domestic interests (who also appeal here, claiming that the dumping margins found by ITA are too low) have taken no position on the ITA motion. The Government of Canada takes no position on the ITA motion in No. 01 and consent to issuance of a stay in No. 02 but does not endorse the ITA's constitutional argument in either case. In the cold-rolled case (No. 01), a fifth complaining respondent, Sidbec-Dosco, Inc. (SDI), opposes the ITA motion and itself moves for a stay, which it would seek to have lifted in the event the CIT remands the injury issue to the ITC for further proceedings. SDI regards the Panel as having power to go forward with this proceeding, whether or not there has been a final resolution of the injury question elsewhere. At the present juncture, no party contends either that we cannot or should not grant a stay. It is evident that if the ITC's negative determination is affirmed by the courts any effort expended here will have been wasted. We agree with all the parties who have addressed the point that, in these circumstances, considerations of economy and efficiency should predominate. We do not regard the procedural timetable laid down in the Free Trade Agreement and the implementing measures as a jurisdictional limitation. Accordingly, we grant a stay in each case, subject to further consideration on motion by any party or by the Panel if and when circumstances warrant, and terminating in each case at the latest upon the conclusion of the proceedings for review of the corresponding injury determination. In staying these proceedings, we express no opinion as to the merits of the constitutional argument advanced by ITA. Leave is granted to any party to move later to lift the stay if and when they regard the circumstances as propitious. Dated: December 30, 1993. James R. Holbein, United States Secretary, FTA Binational Secretariat. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;284 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;GT&hyph;M
