FR940830-2-00100 FR940830-2-00056 V Notification Provisions Defendant is ordered and directed: A. To send a written notice, in the form attached as Appendix A to this Final Judgment, and a copy of this Final Judgment, within sixty (60) days of the entry of this Final Judgment, to each dealer who purchased indoor tanning products from defendant in 1992, 1993 or 1994. B. To send a written notice, in the form attached as Appendix A to this Final Judgment, and a copy of this Final Judgment, to each dealer who purchases indoor tanning products from defendant within ten (10) years of entry of this Final Judgment and who was not previously given such notice. Such notice shall be sent within thirty (30) days after the shipment of indoor tanning products is made to such dealer by the defendant. VI Compliance Program Defendant is order to establish and maintain an antitrust compliance program which shall include designating, within 30 days of entry of this Final Judgment, an Antitrust Compliance Officer with responsibility for accomplishing the antitrust compliance program and with the purpose of achieving compliance with this Final Judgment. The Antitrust Compliance Officer shall, on a continuing basis, supervise the review of the current and proposed activities of his or her company to ensure that it complies with this Final Judgment. The Antitrust Compliance Officer shall be responsible for accomplishing the following activities. A. Furnishing a copy of this Final Judgment within thirty (30) days of entry of the Final Judgment to each of California SunCare's officers and directors and each of its employees, representatives, or agents whose duties include supervisory or direct responsibility for the sale or advertising of indoor tanning products in the United States, except those employees whose functions are purely clerical or manual. B. Distributing in a timely manner a coy of this Final Judgment to any owner, officer or employee who succeeds to a position described in Section VI A. C. Briefing annually those persons designated in Sections VI A and B on the meaning and requirements of this Final Judgment and the antitrust laws. D. Obtaining from each owner, officer or employee designated in Section VI A and B certification that he or she (1) has read, understands, and agrees to abide by the terms of this Final Judgment; (2) understands that failure to comply with this Final Judgment may result in conviction for criminal contempt of court; and (3) is not aware of any violation of the Final Judgment that has not been reported to the Antitrust Compliance Officer. E. Maintaining a record of recipients from whom the certification in Section VI D has been obtained. VII Certification A. Within 75 days of the entry of this Final Judgment, defendant shall certify to plaintiff whether the defendant has designated an Antitrust Compliance Officer and has distributed the Final Judgment in accordance with Section VI A above. B. For ten years after the entry of this Final Judgment, on or before its anniversary date, the defendant shall file with the plaintiff an annual statement as to the fact of its compliance with the provisions of Sections V and VI. C. If defendant's Antitrust Compliance Officer learns of any violations of any of the terms and conditions contained in this Final Judgment, defendant shall immediately notify the plaintiff and forthwith take appropriate action to terminate or modify the activity so as to comply with this Final Judgment.
