FR940426-1-00093 FR940426-1-00008 In two separate federal court cases, automobile manufacturers have challenged the adoption of the LEV program in two OTC States, New York and Massachusetts ( Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association v. NYDEC , No. 92&hyph;CV&hyph;869 (N.D.N.Y.) and American Automobile Manufacturers Association v. Greenbaum , No. 93&hyph;10799&hyph;MA (D. Mass.)). In these cases, manufacturers are contending that the States have violated portions of section 177 by their adoption, or their failure to adopt, certain aspects of California's LEV and clean fuel programs. Many of the issues that have been raised, and to some extent answered, in those cases are likely to be relevant to EPA's decision in this proceeding. Moreover, certain issues related to section 177 that were not raised in those proceedings are likely to be relevant to this proceeding. 2. Clean Air Act Provisions Regarding State Motor Vehicle Emission Standards Section 209(a) of the Clean Air Act generally preempts States from promulgating or attempting to enforce standards relating to the control of emissions from new motor vehicles. However, section 209(b) allows EPA to waive federal preemption for California under certain circumstances. Section 177 allows other States to promulgate standards relating to the control of emissions from new motor vehicles for any model year, and to take other actions otherwise preempted under section 209(a), if_ (1) Such standards are identical to the California standards for which a waiver has been granted for such model year, and (2) California and such State adopt such standards at least two years before commencement of such model year (as determined by regulations of the Administrator). Nothing in this section or in Title II of this Act shall be construed as authorizing any such State to prohibit or limit, directly or indirectly, the manufacture or sale of a new motor vehicle or motor vehicle engine that is certified in California as meeting California standards, or to take any action of any kind to create, or have the effect of creating, a motor vehicle or engine different than a motor vehicle or engine certified in California under California standards (a ``third vehicle'') or otherwise create such a ``third vehicle''. 42 U.S.C. §7507 3. New York and Massachusetts Litigations New York and Massachusetts have both promulgated regulations incorporating aspects of California's LEV program into their State regulations. Manufacturers have made several challenges under section 177 to the State regulations. In particular, neither New York nor Massachusetts promulgated regulations incorporating California's ``clean fuel'' provisions. However, both New York and Massachusetts incorporated California's ZEV sales mandate into their State regulations. Manufacturers challenged the decisions not to incorporate California's fuel requirements and to incorporate California's ZEV sales mandate, arguing that (1) the clean fuel requirements are an inherent part of California's automobile emission program and thus are subject to the identicality requirement of section 177; (2) the failure to incorporate the clean fuel requirements will require the manufacture of a ``third vehicle'' because the higher sulfur levels in federal fuels may cause problems with certain catalysts and may cause other vehicle problems; (3) the ZEV sales mandate violates section 177's prohibition on indirect State limitations on the sale of California vehicles; and 4) the ZEV sales mandate will require manufacture of a ``third vehicle'' in violation of section 177. 23 23 Manufacturers also make other challenges related to leadtime that are not likely to be relevant to this proceeding. The OTC recommendation states that the LEV program will be effective on January 1, 1996. This provides States and manufacturers with two years of leadtime required under section 177. However, if the OTC&hyph;LEV program does not become effective for any State until after January 2, 1996, then certain leadtime-related issues raised by manufacturers in the above court cases may be relevant in subsequent proceeding. In a recent opinion, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled on these issues in the context of the New York regulations, except issue two, which the District Court is still considering. MVMA v. NYDEC , No. 93&hyph;7938 (2d Cir., Feb. 9, 1994). In addition, U.S. District Judge Mazzone (D. Mass.) provided a preliminary ruling on issues one and two. AAMA v. Greenbaum , No. 93&hyph;10799&hyph;MA (October 27, 1993). Manufacturers initially appealed Judge Mazzone's decision to the First Circuit, but have since requested that the appeal be withdrawn with regard to these issues. EPA submitted amicus curiae briefs to the Second Circuit and the First Circuit. (These briefs and the court opinions are in the docket.) On issue one, both courts ruled that State failure to incorporate California's clean fuel provisions did not violate the identicality provision of section 177. The courts ruled that since California's clean fuel provisions were part of California's waiver application under section 209, they are not ``standards␣*␣*␣* for which a waiver has been granted'' and thus are not subject to the identicality provisions of section 177. State fuel provisions are addressed in a separate section of the Act, section 211. EPA's amicus curiae briefs also took this position.
