FR941026-0-00064 FR941026-0-00020 Mortgage loan means a federally related mortgage loan as that term is defined in §3500.2. Payment due date means the date each month when the borrower's monthly payment to an escrow account is due to the servicer. The initial payment date is the borrower's first payment due date to an escrow account. Phase-in period means the period beginning on the effective date of this final rule and ending on the conversion date, i.e., October, 27, 1997], by which date all servicers shall use the aggregate accounting method in conducting escrow account analyses. Post-rule account means an escrow account established in connection with a federally related mortgage loan whose settlement date is on or after the effective date of this section. Pre-accrual is a practice some servicers use to require borrowers to deposit funds, needed for disbursement and maintenance of a cushion, in the escrow account some period before the disbursement date. Pre-accrual is subject to the limitations of §3500.17(c). Pre-rule account is an escrow account established in connection with a federally related mortgage loan whose settlement date is before the effective date of this rule. Refinancing has the meaning set forth in §3500.2. Servicer means the person responsible for the servicing of a loan (including the person who makes or holds a loan if such person also services the loan). The term does not include: (1) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), in connection with assets acquired, assigned, sold, or transferred pursuant to section 13(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1823(c)) or as receiver or conservator of an insured depository institution; or (2) The Federal National Mortgage Corporation (FNMA); the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac); the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), including the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) and the Federal Housing Administration (FHA); the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA); the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA); and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in cases when the assignment, sale, or transfer of the servicing of the mortgage loan is preceded by termination of the contract for servicing the loan for cause, commencement of proceedings for bankruptcy of the servicer, or commencement of proceedings by the FDIC or RTC for conservatorship or receivership of the servicer (or an entity by which the servicer is owned or controlled). (3) The Federal Housing Administration (FHA), in cases where a mortgage insured under the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701 et seq .)is assigned to HUD. Servicing means the process of receiving any scheduled periodic payments from a borrower pursuant to the terms of any mortgage servicing loan, including amounts for escrow accounts under section 10 of RESPA, and making the payments of principal and interest and such other payments with respect to the amounts received from the borrower to the owner of the loan or other third parties as may be required pursuant to the terms of the mortgage loan documents or servicing contract. Settlement has the same meaning set forth in §3500.2. Shortage means an amount by which a current escrow account balance falls short of the target balance at the time of escrow analysis. Single-item analysis means an accounting method servicers use in conducting an escrow account analysis by computing the sufficiency of escrow account funds by considering each escrow item separately. Appendix F to this part sets forth examples of single-item analysis. Submission (of an escrow account statement) means the delivery of the statement. Surplus means an amount by which the current escrow account balance exceeds the target balance for the account. System of recordkeeping means the servicer's method of keeping information that reflects the facts relating to that servicer's handling of the borrower's escrow account, including, but not limited to, the payment of amounts from the escrow account and the submission of initial and annual escrow account statements to borrowers. Target balance means the estimated month end balance in an escrow account that is just sufficient to cover the remaining disbursements from the escrow account in the escrow account computation year, taking into account the remaining scheduled periodic payments, and a cushion, if any. Trial running balance means the accounting process that derives the target balances over the course of an escrow account computation year. Section 3500.17(d) provides a description of the steps involved in performing a trial running balance. (c) Limits on payments to escrow accounts; acceptable accounting methods to determine limits. (1) A lender or servicer (hereafter servicer) shall not require a borrower to deposit into any escrow account, created in connection with a federally related mortgage loan, more than the following amounts: (i) Charges at settlement or upon creation of an escrow account. At the time a servicer creates an escrow account for a borrower, the servicer may charge the borrower an amount sufficient to pay the charges respecting the mortgaged property, such as taxes and insurance, which are attributable to the period from the date such payment(s) were last paid until the initial payment date. In addition, the servicer may charge the borrower a cushion that shall be no greater than one-sixth (1/6) of the estimated total annual payments from the escrow account. (ii) Charges during the life of the escrow account. Throughout the life of an escrow account, the servicer may charge the borrower a monthly sum equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of the total annual escrow payments which the servicer reasonably anticipates paying from the account. In addition, the servicer may add an amount to maintain a cushion no greater than one-sixth (1/6) of the estimated total annual payments from the account. However, if a servicer determines through an escrow account analysis that there is a shortage or deficiency, the servicer may require the borrower to pay additional deposits to make up the shortage or eliminate the deficiency, subject to the limitations set forth in §3500.17(f). (2) Escrow analysis at creation of escrow account. Before establishing an escrow account, the servicer shall conduct an escrow account analysis to determine the amount the borrower shall deposit into the escrow account, subject to the limitations of §3500.17(c)(1)(i) and the amount of the borrower's periodic payments into the escrow account, subject to the limitations of §3500.17(c)(1)(ii). In conducting the escrow account analysis, the servicer shall estimate the disbursement amounts according to §3500.17(c)(7). Pursuant to §3500.17(k), the servicer shall use a date on or before the earlier of the deadline to take advantage of discounts, if available, or the deadline to avoid a penalty as the disbursement date for the escrow item. Upon completing the initial escrow account analysis, the servicer shall prepare and deliver an initial escrow account statement to the borrower, as set forth in §3500.17(g). The servicer shall use the escrow account analysis to determine whether a surplus, shortage or deficiency exists since settlement and shall make any adjustments to the account pursuant to §3500.17(f). (3) Subsequent escrow account analyses. For each escrow account, the servicer shall conduct an escrow account analysis at the completion of the escrow account computation year to determine the borrower's monthly escrow account payments for the next computation year, subject to the limitations of §3500.17(c)(1)(ii). In conducting the escrow account analysis, the servicer shall estimate the disbursement amounts according to §3500.17(c)(7). Pursuant to §3500.17(k), the servicer shall use a date on or before the earlier of the deadline to take advantage of discounts, if available, or the deadline to avoid a penalty as the disbursement date for the escrow item. The servicer shall use the escrow account analysis to determine whether a surplus, shortage or deficiency exists and shall make any adjustments to the account pursuant to §3500.17(f). Upon completing an escrow account analysis, the servicer shall prepare and submit an annual escrow account statement to the borrower, as set forth in §3500.17(i). (4) Acceptable accounting methods to determine escrow limits. The following are acceptable accounting methods that servicers may use in conducting an escrow account analysis. (i) Pre-rule accounts. For pre-rule accounts, servicers may use either single-item analysis or aggregate-analysis during the phase-in period. In conducting the escrow account analysis, servicers shall use ``month-end'' accounting. Under month-end accounting, the timing of the disbursements and payments within the month is irrelevant. As of the conversion date, all pre-rule accounts shall comply with the requirements for post-rule accounts in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section. During the phase-in period, the transfer of servicing of a pre-rule account to another servicer does not convert the account to a post-rule account. After the effective date of this rule, refinancing transactions (as defined in §3500.2) shall comply with the requirements for post-rule accounts. (ii) Post-rule accounts. For post-rule accounts, servicers shall use aggregate accounting to conduct an escrow account analysis. In conducting the escrow account analysis, servicers shall use ``month-end'' accounting. Under month-end accounting, the timing of the disbursements and payments within the month is irrelevant. (5) Cushion. For post-rule accounts, the cushion shall be no greater than one-sixth (1/6) of the estimated total annual disbursements from the escrow account using aggregate analysis accounting. For pre-rule accounts, the cushion may not exceed the total of one-sixth of the estimated annual disbursements for each escrow account item using single-item analysis accounting. In determining the cushion using single-item analysis, a servicer shall not divide an escrow account item into sub-accounts, even if the payee requires installment payments.
