FR940713-0-00039 FR940713-0-00018 47 CFR Part 74 [MM Docket No. 93&hyph;106, FCC 94&hyph;147] Use of the Frequencies in the Instructional Television Fixed Service AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The FCC amended the Instructional Television Fixed Service (ITFS) rules to permit licensees to utilitize channel loading in meeting their basic educational programming requirements. Channel loading is the scheduling, or ``loading,'' of the requisite amount of ITFS programming onto fewer than the authorized channels in a four-channel ITFS group. It represents a cost-free means of freeing up ITFS channels for full-time commercial programming by wireless cable operators who lease excess capacity from ITFS licensees. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Anne Lucey, Mass Media Bureau, Video Services Division, Distribution Services Branch, (202) 418&hyph;1630. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is the Commission's Report and Order in MM Docket No. 93&hyph;106, adopted on June 9, 1994 and released on July 6, 1994. The complete text of this Report and Order is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Reference Center, Room 239, at the Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street NW., Washington, DC 20554, and may also be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, at (202) 857&hyph;3800, 2100 M Street NW., suite 140, Washington, DC 20037. Report and Order 1. Forming the nucleus of the channel-loading rules are the five elements of an industry-wide agreement reached late last summer by educators and wireless cable operators, see 58 FR 42522 (August 10, 1993), with some minor modifications designed to provide additional assurances that the primary educational purpose of ITFS will be preserved. 2. First, licensees wishing to lease excess capacity must provide for the continued minimum total of 160 hours per week of ITFS programming, or 40 hours per channel per week, composed of 80 hours to be immediately used and the remaining 80 hours to be subject to ready recapture by the ITFS licensee, in the event it wishes to expand its educational programming. 3. Second, as agreed to in the compromise, licensees must transmit the minimum total of 80 hours per week over only their authorized ITFS channels. Licensees may ``load'' this amount of programming onto fewer than their four channels. However, the rules will not permit licensees utilizing channel loading to transmit the reduced amount of 12 hours per channel per week, an allowance now made for licensees during their first two years of operation. The Commission views channel loading as an alternative to the two-year, 12-hour minimum programming option. 4. Third, a licensee may agree to the transmission of its 80 hours of ready recapture programming over any channel in a market-wide wireless system, whether it be an ITFS or MMDS channel. The licensee will have the right to recapture time on up to four channels to air simultaneously 20 additional hours of educational programming per channel. This time may be recaptured upon six months' written notification to the wireless cable operator, rather than the one-year notice now required. The Commission deemed this shortened notice period an appropriate trade-off for wireless cable operators, who now will have the flexibility to transmit the recaptured ITFS programming on any channel in their systems rather than being limited to leased ITFS channels, as before. 5. Fourth, an ITFS applicant seeking four channels, proposing 80 hours of programming per week and providing in its lease agreement for an additional 80 hours of ready recapture is presumed to have demonstrated its need for those channels. Applicants must continue to submit programming grids and schedules, but these must now reflect, as nearly as possible, the nature and timing of educational programming planned for the first year of operation. This will permit the Commission to verify that programming aired outside the traditional school day is in fact directed to legitimate educational needs. Compliance with the above will be reviewed at renewal time. Moreover, those applicants proposing to channel load in accordance with the rules adopted by the Commission will not be disadvantaged for electing to do so in the comparative selection procedure utilized by the Commission in selecting a licensee between mutually exclusive applicants. 6. Fifth, the Commission noted that no reallocation of ITFS spectrum, of either loaded or non-loaded channels, is intended or effected by the adoption of channel loading. Rather, the Commission stated that channel loading provides ITFS licensees with an option, which will enhance the value of leasing arrangements both to ITFS licensees and wireless cable lessees. 7. Finally the Commission will allow the channel loading rules to remain in effect until the Commission assesses the impact of digital compression on the ITFS service, through a future notice and comment rule making proceeding. 8. The Commission applied the rules and standards adopted for channel loading to channel mapping. Channel mapping, a complex and costly switching technology that is functionally equivalent to channel loading, was recognized by the Commission in 1991 as a legitimate means of accommodating the joint programming needs of ITFS licensees and their wireless cable lessees. 9. For further information concerning this Report and Order, contact Anne Lucey (202&hyph;418&hyph;1630), Mass Media Bureau, Video Services Division, Distribution Services Branch, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 74 Radio broadcasting. Federal Communications Commission. LaVera F. Marshall, Acting Secretary.
