FR940616-0-00056 FR940616-0-00009 G. Filing Locations for Petitions and Applications for Review 109. We have revised §§1.1109(a)(3) and 1.1115 to clarify that any petition for reconsideration, application for review, and any petition for waiver or deferral of a fee payment, accompanied by an application or regulatory fee payment, must be submitted to our lockbox bank. If no fee payment is required and the matter is within the scope of either the application or regulatory fee rules, the request should be filed with the Secretary and clearly marked to the attention of the Managing Director. VI. Confidentiality 110. The Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association, GTE and Southwestern Bell Corporation urge that we amend §0.457 of our rules to safeguard the confidentiality of data submitted with regulatory fees, including fee amounts that are calculated on a per line or subscriber basis. 47 CFR 0.457. At this time, we will not amend our rules to include a provision affording automatic confidentiality for information submitted with regulatory fees. Generally, regulatees are required to submit very little data with their fee payments and it is premature for us to determine whether the disclosure of any information submitted, including the fee amounts calculated on a per subscriber basis, will warrant the protection afforded by §0.457. Payments of regulatory fees may be accompanied by requests for confidentiality pursuant to §0.459 of the Commission's rules. 47 CFR 0.459. VII. Final Regulatory Analysis 111. Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, the Commission's final analysis is as follows: A. Need and Purpose of This Action 112. This Report and Order adopts the Schedule of Regulatory Fees enacted by Congress for the assessment and collection of the Commission's regulatory fees for FY 1994 and adopts rules to govern the assessment and collection of regulatory fees for FY 1994 and future years. The rules, as required by Congress, include provisions for the advance payment of small fees, the payment of large fees by installment, and procedures for waiver, reduction and deferral of fees by regulatees that demonstrate that payment of the fee would be a financial hardship, as well as penalties for late or nonpayment of fees. B. Summary of Comments Raised by the Public Comments in Response to the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis 113. The Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the United States Small Business Administration (SBA) filed comments urging that cable television system operators be permitted to pay their fees on a per subscriber basis ($.37) rather than in increments of 1,000 subscribers ($370.00) or any portion thereof. The Report and Order adopts the SBA's proposal. C. Significant Alternatives Considered 114. The Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in this proceeding offered many proposals, including reliance on the Schedule of Regulatory Fees as established by Congress in section 9(g) of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 159(g), exemptions from regulatory fees, installment payments for large fees, advance payments for small fees, payment procedures, including payment by electronic transfer and credit card, procedures for waiver, reduction and deferment of fees, and penalties for late or nonpayment of fees. Our proposals to adopt the service categories and fee amounts in Congress' fee schedule and for waiver, reduction and deferment of fees were discussed by many commenters. Fireweed and the Joint Commenters urged that we amend the fee schedule to reduce the fees and add services subject to a fee payment. NAB and the State Broadcasters urged that we modify our proposed procedures for requesting a waiver, reduction or deferment of a fee payment. Upon review, we affirmed that Congress intended that we utilize section 9(g)'s fee schedule for FY 1994. However, we adopted more flexible procedures for obtaining a waiver, reduction or deferment of the fees in order to afford more regulatees the opportunity to obtain a waiver, reduction or deferment of the fees and we clarified the showing required for adjustment of a fee based on financial hardship. VIII. Ordering Clauses 115. Accordingly, it is ordered that the rule changes as specified below are adopted. 116. It is further ordered that the rule changes made herein will become effective 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . This action is taken pursuant to sections 4(i), 4(j), 8, 9, and 303(r) or the Communications Act, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §§154(i) 154(j), 158, 159, 303(r). List of Subjects 47 CFR Part 0 Authority delegations (Government agencies), Freedom of information, Government publications, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 47 CFR Part 1 Administrative practice and procedure, Communications common carriers, Investigations, Penalties, Radio, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Telecommunications, Television. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary.
