FR941130-2-00015 FR941130-2-00008 Transwestern specifically requests authorization to abandon: 1. Certificated Facilities _All jurisdictional facilities owned and operated by Transwestern and jurisdictional service provided by Transwestern in Clark County, Kansas; Beaver, Commanche, Custer, Ellis, Harper, Roger Mills and Woodward Counties, Oklahoma; Cimmaron, Crane, Gray, Hansford, Hemphill, Hutchinson, Lipscomb, Loving, Ochiltree, Pecos, Reeves, Roberts, Sherman, Ward and Winkler Counties, Texas, and Eddy, Lea, Roosevelt, and Chaves Counties, New Mexico. Transwestern states that the certificates for the facilities and services for which Transwestern requests abandonment are described in Exhibit T to its application. 2. Non-Certificated Facilities _Even though abandonment authority is only required for jurisdictional facilities, since Transwestern is proposing to transfer to TGC all of its gathering facilities, whether certificated or not, Transwestern also requests any permissions and approvals which the Commission deems necessary to permit assignment to TGC of such non-certificated facilities. 3. Services _Transwestern proposes to abandon and/or assign the following contracts and services rendered by Transwestern in conjunction with the Facilities: (i) Service under Rate Schedule ITS&hyph;1 Transwestern requests authorization to abandon certain interruptible service under Rate Schedule ITS&hyph;1, to the extent that receipt points on contracts effectuating such service are located on the Facilities. (ii) Service under Rate Schedule FTS&hyph;2 Transwestern requests authorization to abandon certain firm (no-notice) transportation service under Rate Schedule FTS&hyph;2 provided to various right-of-way grantors or agricultural users and small general customers. (iii) Exchange Agreements Transwestern requests authorization to abandon certain certificated exchange services utilizing the Facilities which are performed under Rate Schedules X&hyph;1 and X&hyph;15. Transwestern contends that the proposed abandonment will permit it to optimize its system operations and principle business activity of transporting natural gas. It is stated that this benefits customers connected to such facilities as well as Transwestern's remaining shippers by assuring maximum supply access to such shippers and substituting workable competition in lieu of continued regulatory restraints in providing gathering services. Transwestern states that while preparing for further proceedings in its refunctionalization proceeding in Docket No. CP94&hyph;254&hyph;000, and upon further analysis of its system in response to the gathering orders recently issued by the Commission, it was discovered that certain field facilities, including certain compressors, plants, meters, dehydrators, and other miscellaneous wellhead facilities are no longer used and useful or are uneconomical or otherwise unnecessary for continued operation of the pipeline. It is stated that this abandonment requests authorization to abandon certain compression, plants, metering, dehydration, and other miscellaneous facilities, and to secure all other authorizations as may be required under the circumstances. Comment date: December 8, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice. 6. NorAm Gas Transmission Company [Docket No. CP95&hyph;72&hyph;000] Take notice that on November 14, 1994, NorAm Gas Transmission Company (NGT), P.O. Box 21734, Shreveport, Louisiana, 71151, filed in Docket No. CP95&hyph;72&hyph;000 a request pursuant to §§157.205 and 157.216 of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's (Commission) regulations under the Natural Gas Act (18 CFR 157.205 and 157.216) for authorization to abandon certain facilities located in Ouachita County, Arkansas under its blanket certificate issued in Docket Nos. CP82&hyph;384&hyph;000 and CP82&hyph;384&hyph;001, all as more fully set forth in the application which is on file with the Commission and open to public inspection.
