FR941130-0-00091 FR941130-0-00015 Changes: The Secretary is amending this provision to allow for an annual statement of account. Section 674.45␣Collection Procedures Comments: While a few commenters strongly supported the provision in this section that preempts state collection laws as they relate to allowing a collection agency to collect a Federal Perkins loan if the collection agency is not physically located in the state, they also recommended that the Secretary apply similar language to billing procedures, §674.43. Discussion: The Secretary is not aware of any state law that prohibits a collection agency from billing a borrower if that collection agency does not have residence in that particular state. Moreover, the Secretary has not been informed of any problem with a state that is prohibiting the billing of borrowers in this circumstance. Until such time as a problem develops, the Secretary sees no reason to add this provision. Changes: None. Section 674.47␣Costs Chargeable to the Fund Comments: There were a number of comments on this section, and they all recommended that institutions should be allowed to write-off non-defaulted small balances, in amounts of less than $25. The commenters felt that collecting on small balance loans is not cost-effective and this change would ease the paperwork and administrative burdens. Discussion: While it has been a longstanding policy, and, more recently, a regulatory provision, at the Department to allow institutions to write off defaulted accounts with balances of less than $25.00, it is not the policy to allow, nor do the current regulations allow, the write-off of non-defaulted loans, regardless of the size of the balance. This issue cannot be addressed in this final regulation, because the Secretary is required to provide the public an opportunity to make proposals and to provide comments in this area. However, the Secretary is sensitive to the issue raised by these commenters and will revisit this issue at a later date. Changes: The Secretary is making a minor modification to the language of this provision to incorporate the word ``defaulted.'' Section 674.51␣Special Definitions Comments: A large number of commenters objected to the definition of medical technician, because it excluded physical therapists, who are an integral component in providing health care services. One commenter also suggested that the Secretary provide the institutions with job titles for positions that qualify such as medical technicians. Discussion: The Secretary regrets any confusion that this section might have caused the commenters. The NPRM used the term ``allied health professional'' which became confused with the American Medical Association's Twenty-Eight Allied Health Careers. These twenty-eight careers are those areas in which the American Medical Association (AMA) accredits programs and only comprise a small proportion of ``allied health professions.'' ``Allied health professional'' is a generic term used to designate a large group of health-related personnel who assist, facilitate, or complement the work of physicians and other specialists in the health care system. ``Allied health professionals'' range from therapists and counselors to health care assistants. The Secretary intends ``allied health professional'' to be interpreted in its generic sense. The Secretary's intent was to include those health care professionals who might be working full-time except that the employment takes the form of part-time employment at more than one facility as well as those health care professionals who might be providing health care services in an environment that would not qualify as a health care facility (such as a school), or who might be working in a private facility. The Secretary believes that Congress did not intend to exclude any qualified nurses or medical technicians, as long as they are working full-time and providing health care services. The Secretary will not provide a list of ``allied health professions'' because the list of professions is too lengthy and does not remain static. The Secretary provides further clarification of issues such as this in the Student Financial Aid Handbook. Changes: The Secretary is revising sections 674.51(i), 674.51(m), 674.52(b), and 674.56(a) for clarity to ensure that all qualifying nurses and medical technicians will receive cancellation benefits.
