FR940921-0-00034 FR940921-0-00016 Including 1994 model year engines in the emissions trading and banking program and raises an issue whether engines manufactured in model year 1994 prior to the promulgation of this rule may be included in the program. A similar situation was confronted in the original banking and trading rule. There, EPA allowed banking for the full 1990 model year, even though the rule was promulgated on July 26, 1990. See 55 FR 30584, 30587. In that case, EPA placed certain restrictions on the inclusion of 1990 model year engines, to ensure credits were only given for significant reductions below the 1990 standards. This was to ensure that ``windfall'' credits from exceeding the arguably ``lax'' pre-1991 standards would not be used in the transition to the more stringent 1991 standards. As a result, if no restrictions on trading and banking were imposed, then the engines that had always exceeded the 1990 standards would for the first time be able to use the extra reductions as ``windfall'' credits to offset engines that did not yet meet the new and more stringent 1991 standards. See 55 FR at 30597. EPA does not believe such restrictions are necessary in this case. Since 1991, engines using other fuels, such as methanol, have been able to generate credits to offset higher emitting engines. EPA believes that gaseous-fueled engines should have an equal opportunity to use such credits as gasoline-, diesel-, and methanol-fueled engines, now that emissions standards and test procedures are in place in time for the 1994 model year. As EPA explained in the response to comments in the trading and banking final rule, CNG engines were not included at that time due to the absence of standards, test procedures, and certification protocols. See id at 30609. Now that these rules are in place, there is no longer any reason to disadvantage CNG engines vis a vis other fuels. In addition, EPA does not believe that the credits manufacturers might obtain from gaseous-fueled engines are ``windfall,'' since they arguably would not have manufactured such engines in model year 1994 but for EPA's actions to provide an incentive to do so. Rather, EPA believes manufacturers had an incentive to manufacture gaseous-fueled engines based on EPA actions prior to this final rule. EPA proposed these standards in November 1992, and began developing these standards substantially before that. EPA believes this overall incentive further supports allowing manufacturers to include all 1994 model year engines in the trading and banking program. The aftermarket conversion certification procedures contained in today's rule are available to converters as a way of obtaining an exemption from the tampering prohibition. Since this procedure creates an exemption and is optional it will be available upon publication in the Federal Register . EPA's current policy toward conversions will continue to apply to aftermarket conversions which have not received an exemption under this new program. 3 3 See March 4, 1993 Fact Sheet available in the public docket. The Administrative Procedure Act requires 30 days notice before a rule may become effective, except under certain circumstances such as when the rule recognizes an exemption or when the Agency can demonstrate good cause for immediate effect. The Agency believes it has good cause for this rule to take immediate effect in the case of the new vehicle standards since compliance with the new vehicle standards is optional until well after the 30 day period. In the case of aftermarket conversions, because this rule creates an exemption from the tampering prohibition under section 203 of the Act it does not require 30 days notice, and this exemption will be available upon publication in the Federal Register . B. New Vehicle Standards The new gaseous-fueled vehicle and engine emission standards contained in today's notice are effective with the 1997 model year. Optional compliance prior to the 1997 model year is available to manufacturers who wish to include their vehicles and engines in emissions averaging, trading and banking programs, as well as the CAFE program in the case of natural gas-fueled vehicles. In general, the Agency seeks to control vehicles operated on alternative fuels so that their emissions are no greater than their petroleum-fueled counterparts. Thus, the exhaust emission standards for gaseous-fueled vehicles are numerically equivalent to those which apply to other, currently regulated vehicles and engines. The only significant departure from this approach is in the area of hydrocarbon (HC) standards for natural gas fueled vehicles and engines. Prior to the 1994 model year, regulated vehicles ( i.e. , gasoline, petroleum diesel and methanol) are only required to meet total hydrocarbon (THC) standards. However, beginning with the 1994 model year, currently regulated light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks will also be required to meet separate nonmethane hydrocarbon (NMHC) standards as part of the Tier 1 requirements of the Clean Air Act. 4 For natural gas-fueled light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks only the NMHC standards will apply. In the case of natural gas-fueled heavy-duty engines, NMHC standards which provide the same degree of NMHC control as the current THC standards provide for petroleum-fueled vehicles will apply. In the case of LPG vehicles and engines, the HC standards are the same as those for currently regulated vehicles. A summary of today's gaseous-fueled vehicle emission standards is contained in Tables 1 through 4. 4 The Agency uses the phrase ``Tier 1'' to denote the 1994 and later model year standards in part because they are nearly identical to the Tier 1 standards prescribed by section 202(g) of the Clean Air Act for petroleum-fueled vehicles (56 FR 25724, June 5, 1991). Use of this phrase is not meant to suggest that gaseous-fueled vehicles are subject to the section 202(g) Tier 1 standards.
