FR940830-2-00037 FR940830-2-00015 3. Regulated Firms and Cooperatives. We further propose that, in order to receive a full volumetric refund, a claimant whose prices for goods and services are regulated by a governmental agency, i.e. a public utility, or an agricultural cooperative which is required by its charter to pass through cost savings to its member-purchasers, need only submit documentation of purchases used by itself or, in the case of a cooperative, sold to its members. However, a regulated firm or a cooperative will also be required to certify that it will pass any refund received through to its customers or member-customers, provide us with a full explanation of how it plans to accomplish the restitution, and certify that it will notify the appropriate regulatory body or membership group of the receipt of the refund. See Marathon, 14 DOE at 88,514&hyph;15. This requirement is based upon the presumption that, with respect to a regulated firm, any overcharges would have been routinely passed through to its customers. Similarly, any refunds received should be passed through to its customers. With respect to a cooperative, in general, the cooperative agreement which controls its business operations would ensure that the overcharges, and similarly refunds, would be passed through to its member-customers. Accordingly, these firms will not be required to make a detailed demonstration of injury. 4 4 A cooperative's purchases of gasoline from Beacon Bay which were resold to non-members will be treated in a manner consistent with purchases made by other resellers. See Total Petroleum, Inc./Farmers Petroleum Cooperative, Inc., 19 DOE ¶ 85,215 (1989). 4. Resellers and Retailers. a. Small Claims Presumption. We propose to adopt a ``small claims'' presumption that a firm which resold gasoline purchased from Beacon Bay and requests a small refund was injured by the overcharges. Under the small claims presumption, a reseller or retailer seeking a refund of $5,000 or less, exclusive of interest, will not be required to submit evidence of injury beyond documentation of the volume of gasoline it purchased from Beacon Bay during the period covered by the Remedial Order. See TOGCO, 12 DOE at 88,210. This presumption is based on the fact that there may be considerable expense involved in gathering the types of data necessary to support a detailed claim of injury; for small claims the expense might possibly exceed the potential refund. Consequently, failure to allow simplified refund procedures for small claims could deprive injured parties of their opportunity to obtain a refund. Furthermore, use of the small claims presumption is desirable in that it allows the OHA to process the large number of routine refund claims expected in an efficient manner. 5 5 In order to qualify for a refund under the small claims presumption, a reseller or retailer must have purchased less than 72,471 gallons of gasoline from Beacon Bay during the settlement agreement period. b. Mid-Level Claim Presumption. In addition, a reseller or retailer claimant whose allocable share of the refund pool exceeds $5,000, excluding interest, may elect to receive as its refund either $5,000 or 40 percent of its allocable share. 6 The use of this presumption reflects our conviction that these larger, mid-level claimants were likely to have experienced some injury as a result of the overcharges. See Marathon, 14 DOE at 88,515. In some prior special refund proceedings, we have performed detailed analyses in order to determine product-specific levels of injury. See, e.g., Getty Oil Co., 15 DOE ¶ 85,064 (1986). However, in Gulf Oil Corp., 16 DOE ¶ 85,381 at 88,737 (1987), we determined that based upon the available data, it was more accurate and efficient to adopt a single presumptive level of injury of 40 percent for all mid-level claimants, regardless of the refined product that they purchased, based upon the results of our analyses in prior proceedings. We believe that approach generally to be sound, and we therefore propose to adopt a 40 percent presumptive level of injury for all mid-level claimants in this proceeding. Consequently, an applicant in this group will only be required to provide documentation of its purchase volumes of gasoline from Beacon Bay during the Remedial Order period in order to be eligible to receive a refund of 40 percent of its total allocable share or $5,000, whichever is greater. 7 6 Under the mid-level presumption, a claimant which purchased between 72,471 gallons and 181,177 gallons of gasoline from Beacon Bay would be eligible to receive a principal refund, exclusive of interest, of $5,000. A claimant purchasing more than 181,177 gallons of petroleum products would be eligible for a principal refund equal to 40 percent of its allocable share. 7 A claimant who attempts to make a detailed showing of injury in order to obtain 100 percent of its allocable share but, instead, provides evidence that leads us to conclude that it passed through all of the overcharges, or that it was injured in an amount less than the presumed level refund, may not necessarily receive a full presumption-based refund. Instead, such a claimant may receive a refund which reflects the level of injury established in its application.
