FR940826-2-00106 FR940826-2-00055 Conclusion For the foregoing reasons, the Court should deny the motions of BellSouth and Southwestern Bell for complete removal of the equal access and provisions of the Decree as applied to wireless businesses; and should grant the motion of the Bell Companies for a waiver of the interexchange restriction subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the accompanying proposed order. July 25, 1994. Respectfully submitted, Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General. Robert E. Litan, Deputy Assistant Attorney General. Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530. Richard Liebeskind, Jonathan M. Rich, Assistant Chiefs, Luin P. Fitch, Jr., Deborah R. Maisel, Brent E. Marshall, Don Allen Resnikoff, N. Scott Sacks, Kathleen M. Soltero, Attorneys. Communications & Finance Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 555 Fourth Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20001, (202) 514&hyph;5621. Attorneys for the United States. June 14, 1994. Michael K. Kellogg, Esq., Kellogg, Huber & Hansen, 1301 K Street, NW., Suite 1040 East, Washington, DC 20005. Re: United States v. Western Electric Co., et al., Bell Companies' Request for a Generic Wireless Waiver Dear Mr. Kellogg: The Department has concluded its investigation and analysis of the Bell Companies' request, submitted as modified on November 12, 1993, for a waiver of the interexchange line of business restriction of Section II(D)(1) of the Modification of Final Judgment (``MFJ'') as applied to their ``wireless'' businesses, and other relief (the ``Generic Wireless Waiver''). The Bell Companies (``BOCs'') may proceed to file their motion for that waiver with the Court. The Department intends to support the Generic Wireless Waiver, as proposed in the Bell Companies' submissions of September 24 and November 12, 1993, only to the extent stated in this letter. The Department reserves its right and responsibility to modify its position if it appears to the Department, in light of comments of interested persons, further investigation or subsequent developments, that a change of position is appropriate. The discussion herein follows the form of the BOCs' proposed order of September 24, 1993, as modified by your letter of November 12, 1993. I. Interexchange Services. the Department intends to support the BOCs' request for a waiver of the interexchange prohibition, subject to the conditions stated in the proposed order and model equal access plan, on the following conditions: a. That the authority to provide interexchange services is limited to the provision by resale of switched interexchange services. Our current views is that not more than forty-five percent of any BOC cellular system's resold interexchange service should be purchased from any one interexchange carrier. b. That the conditions on the proposed waiver apply to any entity that is a BOC within the meaning of the MFJ. 1 1 These conditions likewise apply to the relief sought in Sections II(b), II(c) and III of the proposed order, and to the transmission of IS&hyph;41 or comparable administrative messages pursuant to Section II(a). The Department recommends that Section II(a) be separated into two sections for ease of reference. c. That the scope of the authority to provide interexchange services is restricted to (1) Telecommunications originating in a cellular exchange, 2 as currently configured, or other similarly configured networks, distinct from the landline local exchange, wherein radio is used to connect the network with a customer who is not at a fixed location. The BOCs have based their reasoning supporting a waiver and the design of their proposed order and equal access plan on the architecture of their existing cellular systems, and the Department will not support a waiver that is not limited to such systems or systems with similar architectures. 2 ``Cellular exchange'' within the meaning of this letter refers to an exchange service offering commercial mobile services, as defined in 47 U.S.C. ยง332(d)(1), in the 800 MHz radio bands. The Department understands that such exchange services are provided by companies that are, pursuant to FCC regulation, separate subsidiaries from local telephone exchange companies (``LECs''), and that the principal facilities used to provide cellular exchange service, e.g., switching equipment and radio base stations, are physically and operationally separate from LEC facilities. (2) Telecommunications intended by the originator to be directed to a cellular exchange, as described above, but that the cellular exchange subscriber has forwarded to another destination (including a voice mailbox or similar storage facility). The authority to provide interexchange services under this condition is limited to that portion of the interexchange service from the cellular system to which the telecommunication was directed by the originator to the ultimate destination. This condition specifically does not authorize the provisions of interexchange services from the point of origination to the cellular system (e.g., an ``800 access to cellular'' service), which the BOCs have not sought in this proceeding. d. That the authority be conditioned on an explicit requirement that: ``Each Bell operating telephone company shall offer to all interexchange carriers exchange access and exchange services for such access on an unbundled basis that is equal in type, quality and price to that provided to any interexchange service provided by the Bell company or any affiliate thereof.''
