FR940919-0-00089 FR940919-0-00016 The Agency believes, however, that certifications should identify which hazardous constituents may be present in the waste. This is necessary in order that there be some record that the waste indeed requires treatment of these constituents before it can be land disposed. As explained below, existing regulations already require mention of the presence of underlying hazardous constituents in some situations. EPA is slightly amending those regulations today to make the requirement uniform, as discussed below. If a generator does not treat a prohibited characteristic waste, then the generator must prepare the standard notification and certification required by §268.7(a)(1) (for wastes that have not been treated to meet the treatment standard) (see §268.9(d), first clause). These requirements explicitly require mention of underlying hazardous constituents (§268.7(a)(1)(ii)). If a generator partially treats a waste, however, for example by decharacterizing it but not treating the underlying hazardous constituents, there is a slight gap in the existing rules. Those rules require that a one-time notification and certification be prepared (§268.9(d)) and that the certification ``must state the language found in 268.7(b)(5)'' (§268.9(d)(2)). The §268.7(b)(5) certifications, however, do not contemplate the possibility that wastes may require additional treatment for underlying hazardous constituents. To allow for this possibility, EPA is amending §268.9(d) to state that in the event underlying hazardous constituents in a decharacterized waste have not been fully treated, the certification shall so state. EPA is also adding the following new certification to §268.7(b)(5) to account for this circumstance: I certify under penalty of law that the waste has been treated in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 268.40 to remove the hazardous toxicity characteristic or the characteristics of ignitability and corrosivity. This decharacterized waste contains underlying hazardous constituents that require further treatment to meet universal treatment standards. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certification, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment. The Agency proposed, alternatively, that generators could be required to certify what underlying hazardous constituents are in the organic TC waste and whether they meet treatment standards, in a manner similar to the existing certification requirement for generators of wastes that meet the treatment standards as generated (see 40 CFR 268.7(a)(2)(ii)) (58 FR 48134). This suggestion was generally not supported by commenters, and EPA is not adopting this approach in this final rule. Before considering broader changes, EPA will see if the amended requirement in §268.9(d)(2)(i) discussed above is sufficient to create an adequate record. B. LDR Notification 1. Constituents To Be Included on the LDR Notification EPA solicited comment on how to limit the underlying hazardous constituents that must be monitored in organic TC wastes, and consequently reported on the LDR notification. Commenters on this issue said that the regulated community should only be required to address those constituents which are in the organic TC wastes as generated, prior to any subsequent mixing with other wastes. This is the approach being adopted in this rule. Such an approach is identical to the approach adopted in the May 24, 1993 Interim Final Rule (58 FR 29873) and is supported by commenters. As a simplifying measure, EPA is also slightly amending the language of §268.7(a)(1)(ii) and §268.7(b)(4)(ii). The language in these paragraphs required that the hazardous constituents in F001&hyph;F005 spent solvents, F039, wastes subject to the California list provisions of §268.32 or RCRA section 3004(d), and underlying hazardous constituents in characteristic wastes be listed on the LDR notification. This language is being changed so that if all the hazardous constituents are present in the waste (and thus the generator/treater will be treating all the constituents), then there is no longer a need to list all the constituents on the notification form. If, however, a subset of constituents are present in the waste (and thus the generator/treater will only be treating these constituents), the constituents in the waste must continue to be listed on the notification form. 2. Management in Subtitle C-Regulated Facilities The Agency has information that many of the organic TC wastes that are not managed in CWA, or SDWA systems are being treated in hazardous waste management units (primarily incinerators) subject to RCRA subtitle C. In such a case, the notification, certification, and recordkeeping requirements set out in 40 CFR 268.7 apply (which includes identification of the underlying hazardous constituents reasonably expected to be present in the organic TC waste). For organic TC wastes, once the waste is no longer hazardous, however, further recordkeeping and documentation requirements are set out in 40 CFR 268.9. Section 268.9 requires that the generator or treater (including generators who treat, see 51 FR 40598, November 7, 1986) prepare a one-time notification which is sent to the EPA Region or authorized state and also kept in the generator's or treater's files. Treaters must certify that they are familiar with the treatment process used at their facility and that the process can successfully treat the waste to meet the treatment standards without impermissible dilution. See §268.7(b)(5), which applies to persons who treat formerly characteristic wastes (see existing §268.9(d)(2)). The Agency believes that, normally, at least some waste analysis is needed to make a good faith showing for meeting the treatment standards, given the number of hazardous constituents that could be covered by those standards. 3. Potential Management of Decharacterized Wastes at a Subtitle D Waste Management Facility
