FR940525-1-00082 FR940525-1-00008 (d) Dietary saturated fat and cholesterol and risk of coronary heart disease_ (1) Relationship between dietary saturated fat and cholesterol and risk of coronary heart disease. (i) Cardiovascular disease means diseases of the heart and circulatory system. Coronary heart disease is the most common and serious form of cardiovascular disease and refers to diseases of the heart muscle and supporting blood vessels. High blood total- and low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels are major modifiable risk factors in the development of coronary heart disease. High coronary heart disease rates occur among people with high blood cholesterol levels of 240 mg per decaliter (mg/dL) (6.21 millimoles per liter (mmol/L) or above and LDL-cholesterol levels of 160 mg/dL (4.13 mmol/L) or above. Borderline high risk blood cholesterol levels range from 200 to 239 mg/dL (5.17 to 6.18 mmol/L) and 130 to 159 mg/dL (3.36 to 4.11 mmol/L) of LDL-cholesterol. Dietary lipids (fats) include fatty acids and cholesterol. Total fat, commonly referred to as fat, is composed of saturated fat (fatty acids containing no double bonds), and monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fat (fatty acids containing one or more double bonds). (ii) The scientific evidence establishes that diets high in saturated fat and cholesterol are associated with increased levels of blood total- and LDL-cholesterol and, thus, with increased risk of coronary heart disease. Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol are associated with decreased levels of blood total- and LDL-cholesterol and, thus, with decreased risk of developing coronary heart disease. (2) Significance of the relationship between dietary saturated fat and cholesterol and risk of coronary heart disease. (i) Coronary heart disease is a major public health concern in the United States, primarily because it accounts for more deaths than any other disease or group of diseases. Early management of risk factors for coronary heart disease is a major public health goal that can assist in reducing risk of coronary heart disease. There is a continuum of mortality risk from coronary heart disease that increases with increasing levels of blood LDL-cholesterol. Individuals with high blood LDL-cholesterol are at greatest risk. A larger number of individuals with more moderately elevated cholesterol also have increased risk of coronary events; such individuals comprise a substantial proportion of the adult U.S. population. The scientific evidence indicates that reducing saturated fat and cholesterol intakes lowers blood LDL-cholesterol and risk of heart disease in most individuals. There is also evidence that reducing saturated fat and cholesterol intakes in persons with blood cholesterol levels in the normal range also reduces risk of heart disease. (ii) Other risk factors for coronary heart disease include a family history of heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, cigarette smoking, obesity, and lack of regular physical exercise. (iii) Intakes of saturated fat exceed recommended levels in many people in the United States. Intakes of cholesterol are, on average, at or above recommended levels. One of the major public health recommendations relative to coronary heart disease risk is to consume less than 10 percent of calories from saturated fat, and an average of 30 percent or less of total calories from all fat. Recommended daily cholesterol intakes are 300 mg or less. (3) Requirements. (i) All requirements set forth in ยง381.414 shall be met. (ii) Specific requirements_ (A) Nature of the claim. A health claim associating diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol with reduced risk of coronary heart disease may be made on the label or labeling of a poultry product described in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; Provided, That: ( 1 ) The claim states that diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol ``may'' or ``might'' reduce the risk of heart disease; ( 2 ) In specifying the disease, the claim uses the terms ``heart disease'' or ``coronary heart disease''; ( 3 ) In specifying the nutrient, the claim uses the terms ``saturated fat'' and ``cholesterol'' and lists both; ( 4 ) The claim does not attribute any degree of coronary heart disease risk reduction to diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol; and ( 5 ) The claim states that coronary heart disease risk depends on many factors. (B) Nature of the food. The product shall meet the requirements for ``low fat,'' ``low saturated fat,'' and ``low cholesterol'' as defined in ยง381.462, except that the product may meet all the requirements for ``extra lean'' in ยง381.462. (4) Optional information. (i) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors in addition to saturated fat and cholesterol about which there is general scientific agreement that they are major risk factors for this disease: A family history of coronary heart disease, elevated blood total- and LDL-cholesterol, excess body weight, high blood pressure, cigarette smoking, diabetes, and physical inactivity. (ii) The claim may indicate that the relationship of saturated fat and cholesterol to heart disease is through the intermediate link of ``blood cholesterol'' or ``blood total- and LDL-cholesterol.'' (iii) The claim may include information from paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section, which summarizes the relationship between dietary saturated fat and cholesterol and risk of coronary heart disease and the significance of the relationship. (iv) In specifying the nutrient, the claim may include the term ``total fat'' in addition to the terms ``saturated fat'' and ``cholesterol.'' (v) The claim may indicate that it is consistent with ``Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans.'' (vi) The claim may include information on the number of people in the United States who have coronary heart disease. The source of this information must be identified, and it must be current information from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
