FR940628-1-00017 FR940628-1-00001 82.6␣Interstate movement of dead birds and dead poultry from a quarantined area. 82.7␣Interstate movement of manure and litter from a quarantined area. 82.8␣Interstate movement of eggs, other than hatching eggs, from a quarantined area. 82.9␣ Interstate movement of hatching eggs from a quarantined area. 82.10␣Interstate movement of vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment from a quarantined area. 82.11␣Issuance of permits. 82.12␣Other interstate movements and special permits. 82.13␣Denial and withdrawal of permits and special permits. 82.14␣Removal of quarantine. 82.15␣Replacement birds and poultry. Subpart B_Chlamydiosis in Poultry 82.19␣Definitions 82.20␣General restrictions. 82.21␣Vehicles, cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment used for infected poultry. 82.22␣Cleaning and disinfecting premises. 82.23␣Issuance of permits. 82.24␣Other interstate movements and special permits. 82.25␣Denial and withdrawal of permits and special permits. Subpart A_Exotic Newcastle Disease §82.1 Definitions. As used in connection with this subpart, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth in this section. Administrator. The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any individual authorized to act for the Administrator. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. Bird. Any member of the class aves other than poultry. Dressed carcasses. Carcasses of birds or poultry that have been eviscerated, with heads and feet removed. END. Any velogenic Newcastle disease. END is an acute, rapidly spreading, and usually fatal viral disease of birds and poultry. Exposed. At risk of developing END because of association with birds or poultry infected with END, excrement from birds or poultry infected with END, or other material touched by birds or poultry infected with END, or because there is reason to believe that association has occurred with END or vectors of END, as determined by either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian. Federal representative. An individual employed and authorized by the Federal government to perform the tasks required by this subpart. Federal veterinarian. A veterinarian employed and authorized by the Federal government to perform the tasks required by this subpart. Hatching eggs. Eggs in which birds or poultry are allowed to develop. Infected. Affected by the virus or bacterium that causes the specified disease. Interstate. From one State into or through any other State. Known to be exposed. Determined by either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian to be at risk of developing END because of association with birds or poultry infected with END, excrement from birds or poultry infected with END, or other material touched by birds or poultry infected with END, or because there is reason to believe that association has occurred with END or vectors of END, as determined by either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian. Known to be infected. Determined by either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian to be affected by the virus or bacterium that causes the specified disease. Litter. Material that is used to collect and absorb bodily wastes from birds or poultry. Moved. Shipped, transported or otherwise moved, or delivered or received for movement, by any person. Official seal. A serially numbered metal or plastic strip, consisting of a self-locking device on one end and a slot on the other end, that forms a loop when the ends are engaged and that cannot be reused if opened, or a serially numbered, self-locking button that can be used for this purpose. Person. Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or other legal entity. Pet bird. Any bird that is kept for personal pleasure and is not for sale. Poultry. Chickens, doves, ducks, geese, grouse, guinea fowl, partridges, pea fowl, pheasants, pigeons, quail, swans, and turkeys.
