FR940202-2-00107 FR940202-2-00071 G. Other Prophylactic Measures 1. Vaccination of Patients Although pneumococci are not a major cause of nosocomial pneumonia, they have been identified as etiologic agents of serious nosocomial pulmonary infection and bacteremia.316&hyph;318 The following factors render patients at high risk of complications from pneumococcal infections: "65 years of age, chronic cardiovascular or pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus, alcoholism, cirrhosis, cerebrospinal fluid leaks, immunosuppression, functional or anatomic asplenia, or HIV infection. Pneumococcal vaccine is effective in preventing pneumococcal disease. 319,320 Because two-thirds or more of patients with serious pneumococcal disease have been hospitalized at least once within 5 years before their pneumococcal illness, offering pneumococcal vaccine in hospitals, e.g., at the time of patient discharge, should contribute substantially to preventing the disease. 319,321 2. Prophylaxis With Systemic Antimicrobial Agents Systemic antimicrobial administration has been a prevalent practice in the prevention of nosocomial infections, including pneumonia, especially in patients who are weaned off mechanical ventilators, postoperative, and/or critically ill. 322 However, the efficacy of such practice is questionable; and the potential for superinfection, which may result from any antimicrobial therapy, is a problem. 84,322&hyph;326 3. Kinetic Therapy for the Immobilized State Continuous lateral rotational therapy (CLRT) or ``kinetic'' therapy is a recently introduced maneuver for prevention of pulmonary and other complications from prolonged immobilization or bed rest, such as in patients with acute stroke, critical illness, head injury or traction, blunt chest trauma, and/or mechanically assisted ventilation.327&hyph;332 CLRT involves the use of a bed that turns continuously and slowly (about eight full rotations per hour) along its longitudinal axis. Among the hypothesized benefits of CLRT are improved drainage of secretions within the lungs and lower airways, increased tidal volume, and reduction of venous thrombosis with resultant pulmonary embolization. 174,333&hyph;335 However, the efficacy of CLRT in preventing pneumonia needs further evaluation because available studies yielded variable results. 327&hyph;330 In addition, the studies either involved small numbers of patients, 328 lacked adequate randomization, 327 had no clear definition of pneumonia, 327 did not distinguish between community-acquired and nosocomial pneumonia, 328,332 or did not adjust for possible confounding factors such as mechanical ventilation, endotracheal intubation, nasogastric intubation, and enteral feeding. 327 LEGIONNAIRES' DISEASE Legionnaires' disease is a multisystem illness, with pneumonia, caused by Legionella spp. In contrast, Pontiac fever is a self-limited influenza-like illness, without pneumonia, that is associated with Legionella spp. 336 I. Epidemiology Since identification of the etiologic agent, numerous outbreaks of nosocomial Legionnaires' disease have been reported and have provided the opportunity to study the epidemiology of epidemic legionellosis. In contrast, the epidemiology of endemic Legionnaires' disease has not been well elucidated. The overall proportion of nosocomial pneumonias due to Legionella spp. in North America has not been determined, although individual hospitals have reported a ranges of 0%&hyph;14%. 337&hyph;339 Because diagnostic tests for Legionella spp. infection are not routinely performed on all patients with hospital-acquired pneumonia in most hospitals, this range probably underestimates the incidence of Legionnaires' disease. Legionella spp. are commonly found in a variety of natural and man-made aquatic environments 340,341 and may enter hospital water systems in low or undetectable numbers. 342,343 Cooling towers, evaporative condensers, heated potable-water-distribution systems within hospitals, and locally produced distilled water can provide a suitable environment for legionellae to multiply. Factors known to enhance colonization and amplification of legionellae in man-made water environments include temperatures of 25&hyph;42 ○C, 344&hyph;349 stagnation, 350 scale and sediment, 346 and the presence of certain free-living aquatic amoebae that are capable of supporting intracellular growth of legionellae. 351,352 A person's risk of acquiring legionellosis following exposure to contaminated water depends on a number of factors, including the type and intensity of exposure and the exposed person's health status. 353&hyph;355 Persons with severe immunosuppression or chronic underlying illnesses, such as hematologic malignancy or end-stage renal disease, are at markedly increased risk for legionellosis. 355&hyph;358 Persons in the later stages of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome are also probably at increased risk of legionellosis, but data are limited because of infrequent testing of patients. Persons with diabetes mellitus, chronic lung disease, or non-hematologic malignancy, those who smoke cigarettes, and the elderly are at moderately increased risk. 336 Nosocomial Legionnaires' disease has also been reported among patients at children's hospitals. 359,360 Underlying disease and advanced age are not only risk factors for acquiring Legionnaires' disease but also for dying from the illness. In a multivariate analysis of 3,524 cases reported to CDC from 1980 through 1989, immunosuppression, advanced age, end-stage renal disease, cancer, and nosocomial acquisition of disease were each independently associated with a fatal outcome. 355 The mortality rate among 803 persons with nosocomially acquired cases was 40% compared with 20% among 2,721 persons with community-acquired cases, 355 probably reflecting increased severity of underlying disease in hospitalized patients.
