FR941110-2-00081 FR941110-2-00041 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5104&hyph;3] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before December 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information or to obtain a copy of this ICR, contact Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Administration and Resources Management Title: Cooperative Agreements and Superfund State Contracts for Superfund Response Actions (OMB Control No. 2010&hyph;0020; EPA ICR No. 1487.05). Abstract: This is an extension of an existing collection of information to support the administrative requirements set forth for cooperative agreements funded under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), also known as ``Superfund''. CERCLA, as implemented at 40 CFR Part 35 Subpart O, sets forth the pre-award, post-award, and after-the-grant requirements for receiving and managing a Superfund State contract or Superfund cooperative agreement. The information is necessary to qualify grant/cooperative agreement applicants for funding, monitor compliance of grant/cooperative agreement recipients with statutory and regulatory requirements, perform cost recovery, and close-out awards. Recipients must perform activities that include preparing and submitting: (1) standardized applications for funding; (2) certifications; (3) technical performance, property inventory, procurement and financial reports; and (4) other information necessary to support cost recovery and provide EPA with the status of activities under the grant/cooperative agreement. Recipients must also develop and maintain records related to: (1) accounting and finances; (2) cost comparison and user rate analysis, (3) property disposition and (4) health and safety plans, community relations plans, and quality assurance plans. The information is used by EPA project officers, grant specialists, and finance officials to manage/oversee clean-up activities at Superfund sites. The information is also used to update the CERCLA information system (CERCLIS) which tracks progress made at Superfund sites. Burden Statement: Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 9 hour per response annually, including time for gathering information, completing and reviewing the collection of information, and submitting the information to the EPA. Public recordkeeping is estimated to average 1 hour per recordkeeper annually, including the time for preparing and maintaining records, plans and other information. Respondents: Local, State and Indian tribe applicants for, and recipients of, Superfund grant/cooperative awards. Estimated Number of Respondents: 1110. Estimated Number of Responses Per Respondent: 1. Frequency of Collection: Quarterly and annually. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 9,990 hours. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (2136), 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, ␣␣and Timothy Hunt, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th St., NW., Washington, D.C. 20503. Dated: November 4, 1994. David Schwarz, Acting Director for Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27877 Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
