FR940324-0-00025 FR940324-0-00007 PART 799_[AMENDED] Supplement No. 1 to ยง799.1_[Amended] 2. In Supplement No. 1 to ยง799.1 (the Commerce Control List), Category 1 (Materials), ECCN 1C18A is revised and a new ECCN 1C93F is added, as follows: 1C18A Items on the International Munitions List Requirements Validated License Required: QSTVWYZ Unit: Kilograms Reason for Control: NS GLV: $3,000 GCT: No GFW: Yes (Advisory Note Only). List of Items Controlled a. Ethyl and Methyl centralites. b. NN-Diphenylurea (unsymmetrical diphenylurea). c. Methyl-NN-diphenylurea (methyl unsymmetrical diphenylurea). d. Ethyl-NN-diphenylurea (ethyl unsymmetrical diphenylurea). e. Ethyl phenyl urethane. f. Diphenyl urethane. g. Diortho tolyl-urethane. h. 2-Nitrodiphenylamine. i. p-Nitromethylaniline. j. 2,2' Dinitropropanol. k. Bis(2,2' dinitropropyl) formal and acetal. l. 3-Nitraza-1,5 pentane diisocyanate. m. Guanidine nitrate. n. Hydrogen peroxide in concentrations of 85%. o. Charges specially designed for civilian applications, containing military explosives, except those items described in 1C93. TECHNICAL NOTE: Military high explosives are solid, liquid or gaseous substances or mixtures of substances that, in their application as primary, booster, or main charges in warheads, demolition and other military applications, are required to detonate. ADVISORY NOTE: Licenses are likely to be approved for export to satisfactory end-users in Country Groups QWY and the PRC of certain explosive substances and mixtures in reasonable quantities for civilian or industrial purposes when made into cartridges or charges of an exclusively civilian or industrial nature, such as propellants for sporting purposes or shooting gallery practice; cartridges for riveting guns; and explosive charges for agricultural purposes, public works, mines, quarries or oil-well drilling. The following are the substances or mixtures to which this procedure applies: a. Nitrate-based (40 percent or more) and provided they do not contain more than 40 percent nitroglycol/nitroglycerin or no more than 16 percent TNT; b. Nitrocellulose with a nitrogen content of over 12.2 percent; c. Nitroglycerin; d. Single base nitrocellulose; and e. Sodium azide and other inorganic azides. * * * * * 1C93F Oil Well Perforators Requirements Validated License Required: SZ, Iran, Syria, South African military and police Unit: Number Reason for Control: FP GLV: No GCT: No GFW: No
