FR940406-0-00102 FR940406-0-00011 Under this approach, the vehicle manufacturer's certification application must include a statement that there is nothing about the vehicle, its fuel system, or fuel that is counter to EPA's assessment as discussed above, and the manufacturer's certification that the vehicle meets the refueling emission standard (even without a control system). EPA retains the opportunity to test vehicles to ensure that they comply with the emission standard during certification confirmatory testing, Selective Enforcement Audits, and in-use testing. EPA also retains the right to retract the engineering evaluation option for diesel vehicles if the RVP of in-use diesel fuel increases or is expected to increase beyond 1 psi (7 kPa) or a significant increase in fuel tank temperatures is expected. Since exhaust and evaporative emission requirements now exist for all new methanol-fueled (neat and blend) vehicles, these shall be required to comply with the ORVR standards under the same phase-in schedule as gasoline-fueled vehicles. EPA expects that these vehicles will use a technology similar to that used to comply with the evaporative emission requirement. The refueling control requirement will be applied to other dedicated, dual-fuel, bi-fuel, and flexible-fuel vehicles using other fuels (e.g., dedicated and hybrid electric vehicles, ethanol and ethanol blends, compressed and liquid natural gas, liquified petroleum gas) as regulations covering these fuels are implemented in the future. Lead time, safety, and other factors will be considered in the course of these actions. Full testing and engineering evaluation certification options will be considered. B. Implementation 1. Leadtime, Effective Model Year and Phase-in Requirements Section 202(a)(6) of the Act specifies a four model year lead time before ORVR requirements are to become effective for LDVs (``vehicles manufactured beginning in the fourth model year after the model year in which the standards are promulgated''). After this four-year lead time, a three-year phase-in period begins, during which 40 percent, 80 percent, and 100 percent, respectively, of each manufacturer's sales of new LDVs will need to meet the ORVR requirements. Today's action is occurring early in the 1994 model year. Thus, ORVR requirements for LDVs will become effective with the 1998 model year. At least 40 percent of each manufacturer's LDV sales will need to meet ORVR requirements in model year 1998, 80 percent for model year 1999, and 100 percent for model years 2000 and later. Since the application of ORVR requirements to LDTs is under the general authority in section 202(a)(1), the specific lead time and phase-in requirements of section 202(a)(6) do not automatically apply. Rather, the standard ``shall take effect after such period as the Administrator finds necessary to permit the development and application of the requisite technology, giving appropriate consideration to the cost of compliance `` (Section 202(a)(2)). As discussed elsewhere in this preamble, EPA believes that the nature of ORVR technology for LDTs will be very similar to that for LDVs and that the cost of controls, incremental to the cost of enhanced evaporative emission controls, is minimal. EPA also does not believe that ORVR controls for LDTs present different safety issues than canisters on LDVs where there is now general consensus that there are no unreasonable risks. We therefore believe that the lead time required for developing these systems could be similar regardless of vehicle class. While several commenters requested a delay in the LDT ORVR requirement, commenters did not indicate that it was not technically feasible to develop ORVR controls for LDTs during this timeframe. However, comments from the vehicle manufacturers did express a concern that resource and facility constraints would make simultaneous development of ORVR systems for LDVs and all trucks problematic. They have also indicated that design, development and some in-use experience with ORVR systems on passenger cars would be helpful in the design of LDT systems. EPA has concluded that the resource and facility concerns expressed by the manufacturers and the desirability for in-use experience with ORVR systems can be balanced against the need for emission reductions by beginning the phase-in of ORVR requirements for LDTs after the program for LDVs has been fully implemented. In the mid-to-late 1990's gasoline-powered vehicle manufacturers will need to respond to new evaporative emission requirements, cold CO exhaust emission standards, and California and Clean Fuel Fleet exhaust emission standards among others. Most of these requirements apply to all three vehicle classes and entail several hundred vehicle/engine families. Under the statutory requirement the manufacturers will need to comply with LDV ORVR requirements in the same timeframe. And while complying with the enhanced evaporative and ORVR requirements simultaneously using an integrated control system reduces the burden relative to separate approaches for LDTs, a delay for LDTs is not unreasonable given the already existing requirements. This trade-off is also acceptable in the short-term since Stage II refueling controls are or will be in place in many ozone NAAs. However, for the reasons discussed above, EPA believes that ORVR controls are the preferred long term approach for control of refueling emissions from LDTs.
