FR940617-1-00037 FR940617-1-00012 4. One comment requested that scrubbing devices such as brushes or sponges that are impregnated with approved antimicrobial ingredients be included in the monograph. Another comment requested clarification of the agency's views on trays or kits that contain povidone-iodine and disposable instruments (scissors, forceps, and hemostats) packed in a sterile package, which are designed to reduce the incidence of cross-infection in hospitals. This tentative final monograph does not provide for the use of devices such as brushes or sponges impregnated with antimicrobials, or of trays or kits that contain povidone-iodine and disposable instruments, because the monograph is intended to regulate only OTC drug active ingredients. Since these comments were submitted, the agency has established procedures (see 21 CFR part 3) describing how it determines which agency component has primary jurisdiction for the premarket review and regulation of products comprised of any combination of a drug and a device. In addition, interested parties are encouraged to read the following document (Ref. 1) for guidance: ``Intercenter Agreement Between the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and the Center for Devices and Radiological Health.'' (See ยง3.5 (21 CFR 3.5).) This agreement is on file in the Dockets Management Branch (address above). (1) Intercenter Agreement Between the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research and the Center for Devices and Radiological Health in OTC Vol. 230001, Docket No. 75N&hyph; 183H, Dockets Management Branch. 5. One comment expressed concern that the tentative final monograph failed to provide consumers with an antibacterial skin cleanser for home use. The comment noted that, in addition to professional health care personnel, many consumers have a need for cleansing products containing antibacterial agents for the purpose of promoting good individual and family hygiene. Uses for such products include the following: (1) To reduce bacteria on the hands and face to a greater extent than can be accomplished with ordinary soap, and to prevent accumulation of bacteria from potential sources of contamination. The following examples were cited: Cleansing oneself after changing a baby's diaper, or after assisting aged or ill members of the household with their toilet needs, and before preparing a family meal. (2) The added benefit of an antibacterial cleanser for the minute cuts and abrasions from shaving and other minor traumas. (3) The need for an antibacterial cleanser other than bar soap on local parts of the body such as the face because soap (alkali salts of fatty acids) can be irritating or too drying for some individuals' needs. The comment recommended a new product class under proposed ยง333.90(a) (skin antiseptic) to be identified as ``Antimicrobial (or Antibacterial) Personal Cleanser'' with claims such as ``decreases bacteria on the skin'' and ``contains an antibacterial agent.'' The comment also suggested that the 10-day maximum use limitation would not be appropriate for this product class, but use could be restricted to 5 or 10 times daily. Another comment recommended that antimicrobial soaps be allowed to make claims relating to general health care and personal hygiene similar to the claims allowed for health-care personnel handwashes. The comment stated that an antimicrobial soap will reduce bacteria or the transfer of potentially pathogenic micro-organisms in the home and, therefore, serves as a preventive health care aid in controlling diseases. A third comment requested the addition of a fourth indication for alcohol active ingredients in proposed ยง333.98(b) to allow use as an antibacterial handwash to avoid cross-contamination from one individual to another. The comment argued that products containing alcohols are often used as handwashes by athletic trainers to help prevent the spread of skin infections from one individual to another in situations in which soap and water are not available, e.g., on the playing field. A fourth comment asserted that numerous other meaningful and truthful indications can be used which enhance the safe and effective use of a health-care personnel handwash. For example, the terms ``microbicidal cleanser'' or ``antiseptic germicidal skin cleanser'' are appropriate and meaningful terminology describing this use indication.
