FR940513-0-00080 FR940513-0-00019 II. Taxation of Estate's Transfers of an Interest in a Passive Activity or Former Passive Activity or an Interest in a Section 465 Activity Before Termination of the Estate The proposed regulations provide that if, before the termination of the estate, the estate transfers an interest in a passive activity or former passive activity to the debtor (other than by sale or exchange), the transfer is not treated as a disposition for purposes of any provision of the Code assigning tax consequences to a disposition. By way of example, the proposed regulations state that such transfers include transfers from the estate to the debtor of property that is exempt under section 522 of title 11 of the United States Code and abandonments of estate property to the debtor under section 554(a) of such title. The proposed regulations provide similar rules for the transfer of a section 465 activity. Several commentators objected on the grounds that these provisions are outside the scope of the regulatory authority of the IRS under section 1398(g) and (i). In general, these commentators maintained that the regulatory authority of the IRS is limited to listing attributes that pass from the debtor to the estate and that, upon termination of the estate, pass to the debtor. In addition, one commentator contended that the provisions relating to pre-termination transfers between the estate and the debtor constitute an improper attempt to amend by regulation the express language of section 1398(f)(2). Commentators also questioned the treatment of abandonments as nontaxable dispositions, reiterating many of the arguments set forth in In re A.J. Lane & Co. , 133 B.R. 264 (Bankr. D. Mass. 1991), which stated in dicta that abandonments are taxable dispositions. See also In re Rubin , 154 B.R. 897 (Bankr. D. Md. 1992). The final regulations retain the rules of the proposed regulations. Although section 1398 does not provide explicit rules relating to pre-termination transfers between the estate and the debtor, the Secretary has authority pursuant to section 7805(a) to issue interpretative regulations under section 1398. The IRS and the Treasury Department believe the rules adopted in the final regulations are consistent with the overall system established by section 1398 and, in the absence of a contrary statutory provision, are a reasonable exercise of the Secretary's authority under section 7805(a). Moreover, the rules adopted in the final regulations are consistent with the only appellate court case on point, which holds that the transfer (other than by sale or exchange) of an asset from the estate to the debtor before the termination of the estate is a nontaxable disposition. See In re Olson , 100 B.R. 458 (Bankr. N.D. Iowa 1989), aff'd , 121 B.R. 346 (N.D. Iowa 1990), aff'd , 930 F.2d 6 (8th Cir. 1991). III. Debtor's Succession to the Estate's Passive Activity Losses and Credits and Unused Section 465 Losses Before Termination of the Estate As a corollary to the treatment of the estate's transfer of an interest in a passive activity or former passive activity as a nontaxable disposition, the proposed regulations provide that if, before the termination of the estate, the estate transfers an interest in a passive activity or former passive activity to the debtor (other than by sale or exchange), the debtor succeeds to and takes into account the allocable portion of the estate's unused passive activity loss and credit attributable to the activity (determined as of the first day of the estate's taxable year in which the transfer occurs). The proposed regulations provide similar rules for section 465 losses. The objections submitted by one commentator generally parallel the previously discussed objections to the treatment of the estate's transfer of an interest in a passive activity or former passive activity before the termination of the estate as a nontaxable disposition. The final regulations retain the rules in the proposed regulations. IV. Effective Date The provisions of §§1.1398&hyph;1 and 1.1398&hyph;2 were proposed to be effective for bankruptcy cases commencing on or after November 9, 1992. Several commentators suggested alternative effective dates for the final regulations. One commentator recommended that a more appropriate effective date would be the date the regulations become final. Another commentator contended that, at least in certain situations, the regulations should be effective for bankruptcy cases commencing prior to November 9, 1992. The IRS and the Treasury Department believe that it is not necessary to delay the effective date because publication of the proposed regulations, which are being finalized without significant change, provided adequate notice of the new rules. In addition, limiting the application of the new rules to cases commenced after publication of the proposed regulations is clearly within the Treasury Department's authority to prescribe the extent to which regulations shall be applied without retroactive effect and conforms to the pattern of section 1398(g), which applies to cases commencing after March 25, 1981. Accordingly, the final regulations retain the effective date of the proposed regulations.
