FR940607-2-00009 FR940607-2-00006 In making its allegation of sales at less than fair value based on the factors of production methodology, petitioner relied extensively on U.S. costs for valuing the factors. Although the Department has accepted similar allegations in past antidumping investigations against the PRC, we prefer that the NME producers' factors be used and that they be valued in a comparable market economy, which is a significant producer of the merchandise. In response to our concern in this regard, petitioner provided a secondary basis for determining FMV, using prices from a market economy country. Section 773(c)(2) of the Act provides that FMV may be based on the price at which comparable merchandise produced in a market economy country is sold in other countries, including the United States. In accordance with section 773(c)(2) of the Act, petitioner provided information on the price at which disposable pocket lighters from the Philippines are being sold for export to the United States. For purposes of this initiation, we have accepted the Philippines as a surrogate country, because its economy is at a level of development comparable to the PRC's. ( See memoradnum to David L. Binder, Director-Division II, Office of Antidumping Investigations from David P. Mueller, Director, Office of Policy, dated December 4, 1991, regarding non market economy status and surrogate country selection, on file in Room B&hyph;099 of the Department of Commerce.) There is also evidence on the record that the Philippines is a producer of comparable merchandise, as required by section 773(c)(4) of the Act. Because the Philippine import price was on an f.o.b. basis, petitioner made no adjustments to this price. Fair Value Comparisons Based on the data provided by the petitioner, there is reason to believe that disposable pocket lighters from the PRC are being, or are likely to be, sold at less than fair value. The comparison of USP and FMV in the petition indicates a margin of 332.43 percent when FMV is based on factor values and a margin of 197.85 percent when FMV is based on Philippine export prices. It it becomes necessary at a later date to consider the petition as a source of best information available (BIA), we may review these calculation bases. Thailand Petitioner was unable to obtain actual sales price information on which to base USP. Petitioner, therefore, based USP on the customs value of imports from Thailand, as reported in the Department of Commerce IM&hyph;146 import statistics. No adjustments were made to these prices, because they were reported on an f.o.b. basis. Petitioner also was unable to obtain actual prices for sales in Thailand or for export to third countries. Accordingly, petitioner based FMV on its own costs, adjusted for known differences between the costs of petitioner and Thai producers. Fair Value Comparison Based on the data provided by the petitioner, there is reason to believe that disposable pocket lighters from Thailand are being, or are likely to be, sold at less than fair value. Furthermore, the comparison of USP and FMV in the petition indicates a margin of 172.78 percent. If it becomes necessary at a later date to consider the petition as a source of BIA, we may review these calculation bases. Initiation of Investigations We have examined the petition on disposable pocket lighters and have found that it meets the requirements of section 732(b) of the Act. Therefore, we are initiating antidumping duty investigations to determine whether imports of disposable pocket lighters from the PRC and Thailand are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value. ITC Notification Section 732(d) of the Act requires us to notify the ITC of these actions, and we have done so. Preliminary Determination by the ITC The ITC will determine by June 23, 1994, whether there is a reasonable indication that imports of disposable pocket lighters from the PRC and Thailand are causing material injury, or threaten to cause material injury, to a U.S. industry. A negative ITC determination will result in the investigations being terminated; otherwise, these investigations will proceed according to statutory and regulatory time limits. This notice is published pursuant to section 732(c)(2) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.13(b). Dated: May 31, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13721 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;M
