FR941007-1-00171 FR941007-1-00009 (B) Significant use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (C) Good responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (iii) Low satisfactory. The OTS shall rate a savings association's investment performance ``low satisfactory'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) An adequate level of qualified investments, although rarely in a leadership position, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (B) Occasional use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (C) Adequate responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (iv) Needs to improve. The OTS shall rate a savings association's investment performance ``needs to improve'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) A poor level of qualified investments, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (B) Rare use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (C) Poor responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (v) Substantial noncompliance. The OTS shall rate a savings association's investment performance as being in ``substantial noncompliance'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) Few, if any, qualified investments, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (B) No use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (C) Very poor responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (3) Service performance rating. The OTS shall assign each savings association's service performance one of the five ratings described below. (i) Outstanding. The OTS shall rate a savings association's service performance ``outstanding'' if, in general, the savings association demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are readily accessible to essentially all portions of its service area(s); (B) To the extent changes have been made, the savings association's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has improved the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) are tailored to the convenience and needs of its service area(s), particularly low- or moderate- income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and (D) It is a leader in providing community development services. (ii) High satisfactory. The OTS shall rate a savings association's service performance ``high satisfactory'' if, in general, the savings association demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are accessible to essentially all portions of its service area(s); (B) To the extent changes have been made, the savings association's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has not adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- and moderate- income geographies and to low- and moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) do not vary in a way that inconveniences certain portions of its service area(s), particularly lowand moderate-income geographies and low- and moderate-income individuals; and (D) It provides a relatively high level of community development services.
