FR941202-2-00172 FR941202-2-00098 Remedial action must be taken and documented, and the documentation must be maintained by the laboratory for five years from the date of participation in the PE test event. Failure to achieve an overall PE test event passing score for two consecutive PE test events or two out of three consecutive PE test events is unsuccessful performance. 3.0 On-Site Assessment 3.1␣Introduction The on-site assessment is an integral part of a lab accreditation program and will be one of the primary means of determining a laboratory's capabilities and qualifications. During the on-site assessment, the assessment team will collect information and make observations which will be used to evaluate the laboratory's conformance with established accreditation criteria. It is essential that the on-site assessment be conducted in a uniform, consistent manner throughout the nation to facilitate reciprocity among States, and for the laboratory community to accept the accreditation process. This section contains proposals and recommendations for conducting on-site assessments. 3.2␣On-Site Assessment Personnel 3.2.1␣Training The National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Conference (NELAC) will specify the minimum level of education and training for assessors, including refresher/update training. The NELAC will also develop criteria for training requirements. The assessor training course will be developed and implemented by EPA, NIST, or a non-Federal entity with oversight by EPA. A state may develop and implement it's own assessor training program, subject to EPA oversight, if the state program can meet the NELAC standards. 3.2.2 Qualifications A laboratory assessor may work for a Federal, State, or a third party accrediting body. An assessor, including each member of an inspection team, must be an experienced professional and hold at least a B.S. degree, or equivalent education and experience, in the specific discipline being evaluated. Each assessor must also have satisfactorily completed a laboratory accreditation training course and a health and safety training course, and take periodic update/refresher training, as specified by NELAC. Each new candidate assessor must undergo on-the-job training during one or more inspections until judged proficient. 3.2.3␣Additional Qualifications In addition, the assessors must: (a) Be familiar with the relevant legal regulations, accreditation procedures, and accreditation requirements;
