FR940916-1-00024 FR940916-1-00008 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD07&hyph;93&hyph;086] RIN 2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, Sarasota, FL AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: At the request of the Sarasota/Manatee Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) and the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT), (the bridge owner), the Coast Guard proposes to change the regulations governing the Siesta Key Drawbridge on SR758, Gulf Intracoastal Waterway mile 71.6, across Roberts Bay at Sarasota, Sarasota County, Florida. This change is intended to relieve highway congestion while still meeting the reasonable needs of navigation. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Commander (oan), Seventh Coast Guard District, 909 SE. 1st Avenue, Miami, FL 33131&hyph;3050, or be may be delivered to Room 406 at the above address between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. For information concerning comments the telephone number is 305&hyph;536&hyph;4103. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ian L. MacCartney, Project Manager, Bridge Section, at (305) 536&hyph;5646. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking [CGD7&hyph;93&hyph;086] and the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give the reason for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying. If not practical, a second copy of any bound material is requested. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to Mr. Ian MacCartney under ADDRESSES . The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Mr. Ian L. MacCartney, Project Manager, and LT. J.M. Losego, Project Counsel. Background and Purpose This drawbridge presently opens on signal except that from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. on weekends and holidays, the draw opens only on the hour, quarter-hour, half-hour and three quarter-hour. The MPO and FDOT requested that the bridge open only on the hour and half-hour during certain periods of each day to help reduce traffic delays, particularly during morning and afternoon commuter hours and on busy weekends. A comparison of highway traffic volumes between 1985 and 1993 indicated there has been an overall increase in traffic volume with current levels exceeding highway capacity (LOS F_parking lot conditions) on weekday afternoons during the winter season without any bridge openings. The number of bridge openings continue to average less than two per hour with a maximum of 4 openings per hour being experienced periodically during the winter season. Based on analysis of the highway traffic and bridge opening data provided by FDOT on June 28, 1993, the Coast Guard determined that most of the weekday delays were caused by back to back bridge openings which did not allow accumulated vehicle traffic to clear before the next opening.
