FR940721-2-00041 FR940721-2-00029 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Announcement 494] State Grants to Support Development of Nutrition Intervention Programs Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for grants to support the development of State and community nutrition intervention programs. This announcement addresses two distinct components: I. ``Nutrition Intervention Assistance'' for supporting the implementation of nutrition interventions. II. ``5 A Day Evaluation'' for supporting the evaluation of 5 A Day for Better Health nutrition intervention programs. Applicants may apply for either the Nutrition Intervention Assistance component or the 5 A Day Evaluation component or both components. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related specifically to the priority area of nutrition and, generally, to several other priority areas of health promotion and preventive services_including physical activity and fitness, heart disease, cancer, and diabetes. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section, ``Where to Obtain Additional Information.'') Authority This program is authorized under sections 301(a), [42 U.S.C. 241 (a)] and 317(k)(2), [42 U.S.C. 247b(k)(2)] of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants A. Nutrition Intervention Assistance Assistance will be provided only to the health departments of States or their bona fide agents. This includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and federally recognized Indian tribal governments. Eligible applicants for nutrition intervention program grants have been restricted to official health departments of States or their bona fide agents or instrumentalities because: 1. The methodology to conduct this program has been structured to support the national goals and objectives of ``Healthy People 2000.'' In many instances, State health departments have already embraced or established their own goals and objectives which match or are synonymous with those outlined in ``Healthy People 2000.'' 2. The conduct of Statewide health promotion, health education, and risk reduction programs directed towards reducing the prevalence of behavioral risks in the population lie solely with State Health Departments. 3. Program evaluation is expected to be useful to State Health Departments in program and intervention development. Because comparable methods are used from State to State and from year to year, States can compare data and intervention methods with other States and monitor the effects of interventions over time. B. 5 A Day Evaluation Eligible applicants are restricted to official health departments of States or their bona fide agents or instrumentalities for the reasons listed in (A) above. Eligibility for this component is further restricted to States who have established, clearly defined, evaluable, long range 5 A Day for Better Health projects in a specific community channel. Availability of Funds Approximately $740,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund approximately 29 awards. Awards may be made for the Nutrition Intervention Assistance, or 5 A Day Evaluation or both. A. Nutrition Intervention Assistance Approximately $450,000 is available to fund approximately 25 awards. It is expected that the average award will be $18,000, ranging from $10,000 to $30,000. States are encouraged to use these funds to expand the community involvement toward the goals of this program.
