FR941017-1-00004 FR941017-1-00001 3. Relocate source term and dose requirements that apply primarily to plant design into 10 CFR part 50. III. Genesis The proposed regulatory action reflects changes that are intended to (1) benefit from the experience gained in applying the existing regulation and from research; (2) resolve interpretive questions; (3) provide needed regulatory flexibility to incorporate state-of-the-art improvements in the geosciences and earthquake engineering; and (4) simplify the language to a more ``plain English'' text. In addition, the proposed regulatory action will benefit from public comments received on the first proposed revision of the regulations and guidance documents. The proposed regulatory action would apply to applicants who apply for a construction permit, operating license, preliminary design approval, final design approval, manufacturing license, early site permit, design certification, or combined license on or after the effective date of the final regulations. Criteria not associated with the selection of the site or establishment of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion (SSE) have been placed into 10 CFR part 50. This action is consistent with the location of other design requirements in 10 CFR part 50. Because the revised criteria presented in the proposed regulation would not be applied to existing plants, the licensing bases for existing nuclear power plants must remain part of the regulations. Therefore, the non-seismic and seismic reactor site criteria for current plants would be retained as subpart A and appendix A to 10 CFR part 100, respectively. The proposed revised reactor site criteria would be added as subpart B in 10 CFR part 100 and would apply to site applications received on or after the effective date of the final regulations. Non-seismic site criteria would be added as a new §100.21 to subpart B in 10 CFR part 100. The criteria on seismic and geologic siting would be added as a new §100.23 to subpart B in 10 CFR part 100. The dose calculations and the earthquake engineering criteria would be located in 10 CFR part 50 (§50.34(a) and Appendix S, respectively). Because Appendix S is not self executing, applicable sections of part 50 (§50.34 and §50.54) are revised to reference appendix S. The proposed regulation would also make conforming amendments to 10 CFR part 52. Section 52.17(a)(1) would be amended to reflect changes in 50.34(a)(1) and 10 CFR Part 100. IV. Alternatives The first alternative considered by the Commission was to continue using current regulations for site suitability determinations. This is not considered an acceptable alternative. Accident source terms and dose calculations currently primarily influence plant design requirements rather than siting. It is desirable to state basic site criteria which, through importance to risk, have been shown to be key to assuring public health and safety. Further, significant advances in understanding severe accident behavior, including fission product release and transport, as well as in the earth sciences and in earthquake engineering have taken place since the promulgation of the present regulation and deserve to be reflected in the regulations.
