FR940610-2-00079 FR940610-2-00053 Availability of Funds Section 2618, subsection (a) of the Public Health Service Act, ``Special Projects of National Significance,'' permits the Secretary to allocate up to ten percent of the funds provided for Part B of Title XXVI to award grants directly to public and non-profit private entities to promote the statute's objectives. Approximately $9.7 million is available in FY 1994, to fund 25 HIV service delivery model demonstration projects estimating an average annual project budget of $350,000. The evaluation and dissemination center budget will be based on the availability of funds in relation to the objective review panel's recommendations. Approximately $600,000 is available in FY 1994 for this Center. The budget and project periods for approved and funded projects will begin October 1, 1994. Project periods may be requested for up to five years. However, recommended support beyond the third year is subject to a determination by an objective review panel in conjunction with an assessment by the SPNS staff of the project's progress to date. All grants to support projects beyond the first budget year will be contingent upon the availability of funds, Congressional reauthorization of Ryan White CARE Act funding within the second project year, and satisfactory progress each year in meeting the project's objectives. All grantees funded to support HIV service delivery model demonstration projects under this Notice are encouraged to secure and show evidence of non-SPNS funding support equal to 20 percent of the approved project budget by the fourth project year, and equal to 40 percent of the approved project budget by the fifth year. Applicants are required to submit, in the initial application, budgets for each proposed project year. Eligible Applicants The statute, Section 2618 (a) (1), specifies that grants may be awarded to public and non-profit private entities to fund special programs for the care and treatment of people with HIV disease. Eligible entities may include, but are not limited to, State, local, or tribal public health, mental health, or substance abuse departments; public or non-profit hospitals; community-based service organizations (e.g., AIDS service organizations, primary health care clinics, family planning centers, AIDS discrimination and advocacy organizations, hemophilia centers, community mental health centers, substance abuse treatment centers, urban Indian health centers, migrant health centers, Ryan White CARE Act Title IIIb clinics, etc.); institutions of higher education; and national service provider and/or policy development associations/organizations. Allowable Costs The basis for determining allocable and allowable costs to be charged to PHS grants is set forth in 45 CFR part 74, Subpart Q and 45 CFR part 92 for State, local or tribal governments. The four separate sets of cost principles prescribed for public and private non-profit recipients are: OMB Circular A&hyph;87 for State, local or tribal governments; OMB Circular A&hyph;21 for institutions of higher education; 45 CFR part 74, Appendix E for hospitals; and OMB Circular A&hyph;122 for nonprofit organizations. Reporting and Other Requirements A successful applicant under this notice will submit semi-annual activity summary reports in accordance with provisions of the general regulations which apply under 45 CFR Part 74, Subpart J, ``Monitoring and Reporting of Program Performance,'' with the exception of State and local governments to which 45 CFR Part 92, Subpart C reporting requirements apply. As a condition of all awards funded under this Notice, grantees will be required to cooperate with HRSA and the SPNS Evaluation and Dissemination center(s) in any multi-site evaluation studies sponsored by the SPNS Program. Healthy People 2000 Objectives The Public Health Service urges applicants to address a specific objective of the Healthy People 2000 in their work plans. Potential applicants may obtain a copy of Healthy People 2000 (Full Report; Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;0) or Healthy People 2000 (Summary Report; Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;1) through the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;9325 (Telephone: (202) 783&hyph;3238). Federal Smoke-Free Compliance The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements which have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under No. 937&hyph;0195. Under these requirements, any community-based, non-governmental applicant must prepare and submit a Public Health System Impact Statement (PHSIS). The PHSIS is intended to keep State and local health officials apprised of proposed health services grant applications submitted from within their jurisdictions. Community-based, non-governmental applicants are required to submit, no later than the Federal due date for receipt of the application, the following information to the administrator of the State and local health agencies and to the State and local AIDS program director in the area(s) to be impacted by the proposal: (1) a copy of the face page of the application (SF 424); and, (2) a summary of the project, not to exceed one page, which provides: (a) a description of the population to be served; (b) a summary of the services to be provided; and, (c) a description of the coordination planned with the appropriate State or local health agencies. Copies of the letters forwarding the PHSIS to these authorities must be contained in the application materials submitted to this program. Executive Order 12372 The Special Projects of National Significance Grant Program has been determined to be a program subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, concerning intergovernmental review of Federal Programs, as implemented by 45 CFR Part 100. Under urgent conditions, the Secretary may waive any provision of this regulation. (See 45 CFR part 100.13.) The Secretary has waived 45 CFR Part 100 due to the compelling need to get funds to grantees. The OMB Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number for the Special Projects of National Significance is 93.928. Dated: May 3, 1994. John H. Kelso, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14088 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;P
