FR940627-0-00176 FR940627-0-00019 5. Section 79.6 is revised to read as follows: §79.6 Requirement for testing. Provisions regarding testing that is required for registration of a designated fuel or fuel additive are contained in subpart F of this part. 6. Section 79.10 is revised to read as follows: §79.10 Application for registration by fuel manufacturer. Any manufacturer of a designated fuel who wishes to register that fuel shall submit an application for registration including all of the information set forth in §79.11. If the manufacturer produces more than one grade or brand of a designated fuel, a manufacturer may include more than one grade or brand in a single application, provided that the application includes all information required for registration of each such grade or brand by this part. Each application shall be signed by the fuel manufacturer and shall be submitted on such forms as the Administrator will supply on request. 7. Section 79.11 is amended by revising the introductory text of the section, removing the period in paragraph (h) and adding a semicolon and paragraphs (i) and (j) to read as follows: §79.11 Information and assurances to be provided by the fuel manufacturer. Each application for registration submitted by the manufacturer of a designated fuel shall include the following: * * * * * (i) The manufacturer of any fuel which will be sold, offered for sale, or introduced into commerce for use in motor vehicles manufactured after model year 1974 shall demonstrate that the fuel is substantially similar to any fuel utilized in the certification of any 1975 or subsequent model year vehicle or engine, or that the manufacturer has obtained a waiver under 42 U.S.C. 7545(f)(4); and (j) The manufacturer shall submit, or shall reference prior submissions, including all of the test data and other information required prior to registration of the fuel by the provisions of subpart F of this part. 8. Section 79.12 is revised to read as follows: §79.12 Determination of noncompliance. If the Administrator determines that an applicant for registration of a designated fuel has failed to submit all of the information required by §79.11, or determines within the applicable period provided for Agency review that the applicant has not satisfactorily completed any testing which is required prior to registration of the fuel by any provision of subpart F of this part, he shall return the application to the manufacturer, along with an explanation of all deficiencies in the required information.
