FR940426-1-00155 FR940426-1-00018 (4) 48 CFR Part 31.2_Commercial organization (for-profit organization, other than a hospital or other organization name in OMB Circular A&hyph;122 as not subject to OMB Circular A&hyph;122). (c) Lobbying costs. In addition to the prohibition contained in 29 CFR part 93 and in accordance with limitations on the use of appropriated funds in Department of Labor Appropriation Acts, title V funds shall not be used to pay any salaries or expenses related to any activity designed to influence legislation or appropriations pending before the Congress of the United States. (d) Building repairs and acquisition costs. No Federal grant funds provided to a recipient or subrecipient under title V or this part may be expended directly or indirectly for the purchase, erection, or repair of any building except for the labor involved in: (1) Minor remodeling of a public building necessary to make it suitable for use by project administrators; (2) Minor repair and rehabilitation of publicly used facilities for the general benefit of the community; and (3) Minor repair and rehabilitation by enrollees of housing occupied by persons with low incomes who are declared eligible for such services by authorized local agencies. (3) Allowable fringe benefit costs. The cost of the following fringe benefits are allowable: initial and annual physical assessments, annual leave, sick leave, holidays, health insurance, social security, workman's compensation and any other fringe benefits approved in the grant agreement and permitted by the appropriate Federal cost principles found in OMB Circular A&hyph;87 and A&hyph;122, except as limited by §641.311(c). §641.404 Classification of costs. All costs must be charged to one of the following three cost categories: (a) Administration. The cost category of Administration shall include, but need not be limited to, the direct and indirect costs of providing: (1) Administration, management, and direction of a program or project; (2) Reports on evaluation, management, community benefits, and other aspects of project activity; (3) Assistance of an advisory council, if any; (4) Accounting and management information systems; (5) Training and technical assistance for recipient or subrecipient staff; (6) Bonding; and (7) Audits. (b) Enrollee wages and fringe benefits. The cost category of Enrollee Wages and Fringe Benefits shall include wages paid to enrollees for hours of community service assignments as described in §641.311 or training as described in §641.313, and the costs of fringe benefits provided in accordance with §641.311.
