FR940204-0-00045 FR940204-0-00020 Issue 2: Without critical habitat, the Service lacks jurisdiction to prevent or modify certain actions affecting the tidewater goby. Service Response: Although in some cases critical habitat may provide protection otherwise unavailable through the jeopardy standard, jurisdiction is available through the jeopardy standard and section 9, both of which may be aggressively applied to protect listed species. Issue 3: The Service should at minimum propose the Santa Ynez estuary as critical habitat now. Service Response: The Service intends to propose as critical habitat all tidewater goby habitat that may be essential to the species' conservation, as opposed to the piecemeal approach advocated in the recommendation to propose one estuary. In the interim, the Santa Ynez estuary is owned by the U.S. Air Force, which is subject to the section 7(a)(1) affirmative conservation mandate and the prohibitions against jeopardy contained in section 7(a)(2). Summary of Factors Affecting the Species After a thorough review and consideration of all information available, the Service has determined that the tidewater goby should be classified as an endangered species. Procedures found at section 4 of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act were followed. A species may be determined to be an endangered or threatened species due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to the tidewater goby ( Eucyclogobius newberryi ) are as follows: A. The present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range. Coastal development projects that result in the loss of coastal saltmarsh habitat are currently the major factor adversely affecting the tidewater goby. Coastal marsh habitats have been drained and reclaimed for residential and industrial developments. Waterways have been dredged for navigation and harbors resulting in permanent and direct losses of wetland habitats, as well as indirect losses due to associated changes in salinity. Coastal road construction projects have severed the connection between marshes and the ocean, resulting in unnatural temperature and salinity profiles that the tidewater goby cannot tolerate. Furthermore, upstream water diversions adversely affect the tidewater goby by altering downstream flows, thereby diminishing the extent of marsh habitats that occurred historically at the mouths of most rivers and creeks in California. Alterations of flows upstream of coastal lagoons have already changed the distribution of downstream salinity regimes. Since the tidewater goby has relatively narrow salinity tolerances, changes in salinity distributions due to upstream water diversions may adversely affect both the size and distribution of goby populations (D. Holland, Univ. of Southwestern Louisiana, pers. comm., 1991). Historically, the tidewater goby occurred in at least 87 of California's coastal lagoons (Swift et al. 1989). Since 1900, it has disappeared from approximately 50 percent of formerly occupied lagoons. A rangewide status survey conducted in 1984 found that 22 historic populations of tidewater goby had been extirpated (Swift et al. 1989). Only 5 years later, a status survey documented the disappearance of an additional 21 populations. In the San Francisco Bay area, 9 of 10 previously identified populations have disappeared (Swift et al. 1989, 1990). Losses in the southern part of the State have been the greatest, including 74 percent of the coastal lagoons south of Morro Bay. Three populations currently remain south of Ventura County. Since 1989, three additional tidewater goby populations have been lost in San Luis Obispo and Santa Cruz Counties (Swift et al. 1989, 1990). Five small populations have been rediscovered since 1984, but the overall losses indicate a decline of 35 percent rangewide in 6 years (Holland 1991a, 1991b, 1991c; Swift et al. 1991). Of the 43 remaining populations of tidewater gobies identified by Swift et al. (1990), most are small and threatened by a variety of human and natural factors. According to Swift et al. (1990), only eight extant localities contain populations that are considered large enough and free enough from habitat degradation to be safe for the immediate future. These areas are all located north of San Francisco Bay. The remaining lagoons are so small or modified that tidewater goby populations are restricted in distribution and vulnerable to elimination (Swift et al. 1989, 1990). The number of extirpated localities of gobies has left remaining populations so widely separated throughout most of the species' range that recolonization is unlikely. Several specific proposed and ongoing coastal development activities threaten habitats supporting tidewater gobies, including road widening and bridge replacement projects along Highway 101, water diversion projects in San Luis Obispo County, expansion of several State Park Recreation areas in Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo Counties, and hotel and golf course developments in San Luis Obispo and Marin Counties.
