FR940920-2-00065 FR940920-2-00027 H. Other Discharge Limitations No Floating Solids, or Visible Foam, or Oily Wastes: Region 10 has determined that the BCT effluent limitations guideline of no discharge of floating solids from the discharge of sanitary wastes should apply to all other discharges as well. Operators have been subject to a visible foam limit and an oily waste limit in previous permits issued by Region 10 and past practices have not resulted in violations. Surfactants, Dispersants, and Detergents: The draft permit contains a provision that the discharge of surfactants, dispersants, and detergents shall be minimized except as necessary to comply with the safety requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety Administration and the Minerals Management Service. These products contain primarily nonconventional pollutants. This provision previously appeared in the permits for the Beaufort Sea, Chukchi Sea, Norton Sound, Bering Sea, and Cook Inlet. Rubbish, Trash, or Other Refuse: The discharge of any solid material not authorized by this permit (as described above) is prohibited. This permit includes limitations set forth by the U.S. Coast Guard in 33 CFR part 151 for domestic waste disposal from all fixed or floating offshore platforms and associated vessels engaged in exploration of seabed mineral resources. These limitations, as specified by Congress apply to all navigable waters of the United States. This permit prohibits the discharge of ``garbage'' including food wastes, within 12 nautical miles from nearest land. Comminuted food waste (able to pass through a screen with a mesh size larger than 25 mm, approximately 1 inch) may be discharged from operations located 12 nautical miles or more from land. Graywater, drainage from dishwater, shower, laundry, bath and washbasins are not considered ``garbage'' within the meaning of the Coast Guard regulations. Incineration ash and non-plastic clinkers that can pass through a 25 mm mesh screen may be discharged greater than 3 miles from the nearest land; otherwise, ash and non-plastic clinkers can only be discharged beyond 12 nautical miles from nearest land. Other Toxic and Non-conventional Compounds: Under the proposed permit, prohibitions on discharges of the following pollutants are retained: halogenated phenol compounds, trisodium nitrilotriacetic acid, sodium chromate, and sodium dichromate. The class of halogenated phenol compounds includes toxic pollutants, and sodium chromate and sodium dichromate contain chromium, also a toxic pollutant. Trisodium nitrilotriacetic acid is a nonconventional pollutant. The discharge of these compounds was previously prohibited in the general permits for the Beaufort Sea, Chukchi Sea, Norton Sound, Bering Sea, and Cook Inlet.
