FR941121-0-00036 FR941121-0-00001 6. Dormant accounts . Credit unions must pay dividends on funds in an account, even if inactivity or the infrequency of transactions would permit the credit union to consider the account to be ``inactive'' or ``dormant'' (or similar status) as defined by state or other law or the account contract. 7. Insufficient funds . Credit unions are not required to pay dividends on checks or share drafts deposited to a member's account that are returned for insufficient funds. If a credit union accrues dividends on a check that it later determines is not good, it may deduct from the accrued dividends any dividends attributed to the proceeds of the returned check. If dividends have already been credited before the credit union determines the item has insufficient funds, the credit union may deduct the amount of the check and associated dividends from the account balance. The amount deducted will not be reflected in the dividend amount and annual percentage yield earned reported for the next period. 8. Account drawn below par value of a share . If a member draws his or her account below the par value of a share, dividends would continue to accrue on the account so long as any minimum balance requirement is met. However, under the NCUA Standard FCU Bylaws, if a member who reduces his or her share balance below the value of a par value share and does not increase the balance within at least six months, the credit union may terminate the member's membership. State-chartered credit unions may have similar termination provisions. (a)(2) Determination of Minimum Balance to Earn Dividends 1. General . Credit unions may set minimum balance requirements that must be met in order to earn dividends. However, credit unions must use the same method to determine a minimum balance required to earn dividends as they use to determine the balance upon which dividends will accrue and pay. For example, a credit union that calculates dividends on the daily balance method must use the daily balance method to determine if the minimum balance to earn dividends has been met. Similarly, a credit union that calculates dividends on the average daily balance method must use the average daily balance method to determine if the minimum to earn dividends has been met. Credit unions may have a par value of a share that is different from the minimum balance requirement to earn dividends. (See commentary to ยง707.4(b)(3)(i)). 2. Daily balance accounts . Credit unions that require a minimum balance to earn dividends may choose not to pay dividends for days when the balance drops below the required minimum balance if they use the daily balance method to calculate dividends. For example, a credit union could set a minimum daily balance level of $200 and pay dividends only those days the $200 daily balance is maintained. 3. Average daily balance accounts . Credit unions that require a minimum balance to earn dividends may choose not to pay dividends for the average daily balance calculation period in which the average daily balance drops below the required minimum, if they use the average daily balance method to calculate dividends. For example, a credit union could set a minimum average daily balance level of $200 and pay dividends only if the $200 average daily balance is met for the calculation period. 4. Beneficial method . Credit unions may not require members to maintain both a minimum daily balance and a minimum average daily balance to earn dividends, such as by requiring the member to maintain a $500 daily balance and a prescribed average daily balance (whether higher or lower). But a credit union could offer a minimum balance to earn dividends that includes an additional method that is ``unequivocally beneficial'' to the member such as the following: i. A credit union using the daily balance method to calculate dividends and requiring a $500 minimum daily balance could choose to pay dividends on the account (for those days the minimum balance is not met) as long as the member maintained an average daily balance throughout the month of $400.
