FR940216-0-00083 FR940216-0-00010 c. Emissions reductions. _In determining the emission reductions and the associated cost-effectiveness of VOC control, EPA employed a convention typically used in estimating the benefit of both mobile and stationary source VOC controls. This convention requires the determination of cost-effectiveness on the basis of annual tons of VOC reduced. Thus, even though VOC emission reductions required under section 211(k) occur only during the high ozone season, the convention is to calculate the cost of the fuel parameter control per ton of VOC removed as if the high ozone season emission reductions were spread over the whole year. Comments were received that questioned the appropriateness of evaluating the cost-effectiveness on an annualized tons reduced basis rather than on a summer tons reduced basis, since the program is a summer program. The purpose of applying this convention to the evaluation of Phase II RFG was to allow direct comparison of the cost-effectiveness of this program with the cost-effectiveness of other VOC control strategies, which is typically calculated on a year-round basis. The only other appropriate alternative would be to recalculate the cost-effectiveness of all other programs on the basis of cost per ton of control during the high ozone season, the only time period when emission reductions for the purposes of ozone control are of any significant value. Reductions in emissions of both exhaust and evaporative VOC are determined for a given fuel parameter change using the complex model. As discussed in earlier sections, the complex model statutory baseline emissions are based on 1990 vehicle technology, and compliance with the Phase II standards is measured relative to these base emissions. As explained in the RIA, EPA determined that the olefin level specified in the statutory baseline was not representative of the actual olefin level of gasoline in 1990. Phase I RFG includes no specific limits on olefins, and thus refiners can meet Phase I standards (under the complex model) by controlling any fuel parameters. However, refiners whose olefin baseline is significantly higher than the statutory level may need to reduce olefins to meet the no NO x increase requirement, putting them at a competitive disadvantage because olefin control is costly. Hence, using data from Bonner and Moore modelling as well as fuel surveys from cities across the country, the baseline olefin level was reevaluated and set at 13.1 vol% for the purposes of determining cost-effectiveness. Although the standards require reductions for baseline vehicles relative to the emissions from the statutory baseline fuel, the cost-effectiveness of a given fuel parameter control is measured based on actual, i.e., in-use emission reductions. For this reason, EPA determined the cost-effectiveness of fuel parameter changes relative to the incremental in-use emissions. The baseline in-use emissions were determined for 2003, a typical post-1999 year, using MOBILE5a with enhanced inspection and maintenance (I/M), as discussed in section IV. 22 Exhaust and evaporative percent reductions for in-use emissions are determined separately by applying the percent reduction in emissions predicted by the complex model to the in-use emissions, and then totalled to get total in-use emissions reductions. The cost, emissions reductions, and cost-effectiveness of incremental changes in fuel parameters for Phase II RFG is calculated relative to Phase I RFG. 22 Following the precedent set in the proposal, the in-use baseline for VOC Control Region 1 areas included an RVP of 7.8 psi. The standards set today are based on reductions relative to the statutory baseline fuel with an RVP of 8.7 psi, however. To determine the cost-effectiveness of the toxics standard, EPA employed the convention of basing cost-effectiveness on the number of cancer incidences avoided. The number of cancer incidences avoided is determined based on the reduction in emissions of each regulated air toxic. The complex model was used to calculate the annual reduction in both exhaust and evaporative emissions of each toxic for each fuel reformulation. Each toxic emission has a different unit risk factor, defined as the number of cancer incidences per year per gram-per-mile-emission per person. Therefore, the emissions of each toxic pollutant were converted to an estimate of annual cancer incidences using the risk factor for that pollutant and the population of the participating reformulated gasoline areas. The total cancer incidences resulting from the total toxics emissions were then calculated by summing the cancer incidences for the individual toxics.
