FR940516-2-00136 FR940516-2-00094 The program components of FHIP are described in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance at 14.408, Administrative Enforcement Initiative; 14.409, Education and Outreach Initiative; 14.410, Private Enforcement Initiative; and 14.413, Fair Housing Organizations Initiative. (b) Allocation Amounts For FY 1994, the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994 (approved October 28, 1993, Pub. L. 103&hyph;124), (94 App. Act) appropriated $20,481,000 for the FHIP program. Of this amount, $2,000,000 of Private Enforcement Initiative funds will be used to fund the second year of two-year projects approved under the FY 1993 FHIP NOFA; $2,000,000 of Private Enforcement Initiative funds will be made available for special projects to be announced in a separate NOFA; and $1,600,000 of Fair Housing Organizations Initiative funds will be used to fund the second year of two-year projects to establish new organizations approved under the FY 1993 FHIP NOFA. The remaining $14,881,000 is being made available on a competitive basis to eligible organizations that submit timely applications and are selected in response to this NOFA. The funding selections will be made on the basis of criteria for eligibility, factors for award, and completeness of budget information. The Department retains the right to shift funds between FHIP Initiatives, listed below, within statutorily prescribed limitations. The amounts included in this NOFA are subject to change based on fund availability. The total amount available under this NOFA will be divided among the four FHIP Initiatives as follows: (1) Administrative Enforcement Initiative. The amount of $1.5 million in FY 1994 funds is available under this NOFA for the Administrative Enforcement Initiative. (2) Education and Outreach Initiative. The amount of $3 million in FY 1994 funds is available under this NOFA for the Education and Outreach Initiative. Of this amount, $1.5 million is available for national programs, of which $200,000 is designated for Fair Housing Month activities. Of the remaining $1.5 million, $1 million is available for regional and local programs, and $500,000 is for community-based programs. (3) Private Enforcement Initiative. The amount of $4,981,000 in FY 1994 funds is available under this NOFA for the Private Enforcement Initiative. Of this amount, $2,981,000 will be available for two-year projects, with the commitment of second year funding, in an amount not to exceed the first year's funding, subject to annual appropriations and annual performance reviews. The remaining $2 million is for one-year projects. (4) Fair Housing Organizations Initiative. This NOFA makes $5.4 million in FY 1994 funds available for activities under the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative. Of this amount, $2.5 million in FY 1994 funds is available for the purpose of the continued development of existing organizations under the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative. The remaining $2.9 million will be available for two-year projects for the purpose of establishing new organizations, with the commitment of second year funding subject to annual appropriations and annual performance reviews. (c) Eligibility Eligible activities, eligible applicants, and additional requirements under each Initiative are listed below. All activities and materials funded by FHIP must be reasonably accessible to persons with disabilities. The Department is particularly interested in projects that address fair housing issues confronting persons with disabilities. (1) Administrative Enforcement Initiative (i) Eligible applicants. The Administrative Enforcement Initiative provides funding to State and local fair housing agencies administering fair housing laws certified by the Secretary as providing rights and remedies that are substantially equivalent to those provided in the Fair Housing Act. A State or local fair housing agency, to be eligible to participate in the Administrative Enforcement Initiative, must be certified by the Assistant Secretary as substantially equivalent under 24 CFR part 115, or have entered into an agreement with the Department for interim referrals, as provided in 24 CFR 115.11. (ii) Eligible activities. Funding will be available to support enforcement and compliance activities conducted by eligible State and local agencies. Eligible activities may include (but are not limited to) the following: (A) Projects that focus on the areas of mortgage lending, insurance redlining, and appraisal practices; (B) Discovering and providing remedies for discrimination in the public and private real estate markets and real estate-related transactions, including, but not limited to, the making or purchasing of loans, the provision of other financial assistance for sales and rentals of housing, including insurance redlining and appraisal practices, and housing advertising; (C) Implementing fair housing testing and other related enforcement activity programs; (D) Conducting investigations of systemic discrimination for further enforcement processing by State or local agencies, or for referral to HUD and the Department of Justice; and (E) Developing new procedures to increase the efficiency of operations, such as the use of computers for case processing, tracking, and Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) analysis. (iii) Additional requirements. (A) Testers in testing activities funded with Administrative Enforcement Initiative funds must not have prior felony convictions or convictions of crimes involving fraud or perjury, and they must receive training or be experienced in testing procedures and techniques. (B) Term of contract. Administrative Enforcement Initiative funding is only available for one-year projects, which may be for up to eighteen months in duration. (C) Projects that appear to be aimed solely or primarily at research or data-gathering unrelated to existing or planned fair housing enforcement programs will not be approved. Data-gathering activities will require OMB approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act before commencement of the activity. (D) No recipient of assistance under the Administrative Enforcement Initiative may use any funds provided by the Department for the payment of expenses in connection with litigation against the United States. (E) Case tracking log requirement. Recipients of funds under the Administrative Enforcement Initiative shall be required to record, in a case tracking log (or Fair Housing Enforcement Log) to be supplied by HUD, information appropriate to the funded project relating to the number of complaints of discrimination received; the basis of these complaints; the type and number of tests utilized in the investigation of each allegation; the time for case processing, including administrative or judicial proceedings; the cost of testing activities and case processing; and case outcome or relief provided. The recipient must agree to make this log available to HUD. (2) Education and Outreach Initiative (i) Eligible applicants. The following types of organizations are eligible to receive funding under the Education and Outreach Initiative:
