FR941006-2-00140 FR941006-2-00098 Federal Aviation Administration Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee; VHF Navigation and Communication Frequency Utilization Working Group AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of Establishment of a VHF Navigation and Communication Frequency Utilization Working Group. SUMMARY: Notice is given for the establishment of a VHF Navigation and Communication Frequency Utilization Working Group in support of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC) on General Aviation Issues. In addition to informing the public of this activity, this notice provides a point of contact for further information; a brief description of the working group's task and application procedures for working group membership. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Louis C. Cusimano, Assistant Executive Director for General Aviation Operations Issues, Flight Standards Service (AFS&hyph;800), 800 Independence Avenue S.W., Washington, DC 20591, Telephone: (202) 267&hyph;8452; FAX (202) 267&hyph;5094. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has established an Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC) (56 FR 2190, January 22, 1991; and 58 FR 9230, February 19, 1993). One area that the ARAC deals with is general aviation operations issues. The issues involve the operation of general aviation aircraft and certification of airmen. The VHF Navigation and Communication Frequency Utilization Working Group is being formed to formulate and present recommendations to the ARAC, which will determine whether to forward them to the FAA. Specifically, the Working Group's task is as follows: The VHF Navigation and Communication Frequency Utilization Working Group is charged with formulating and presenting recommendations on the implementation options, which will provide greater immunity from modulation interference while still allowing the United States to comply with the International Standards, Recommended Practices and Procedures for Air Navigation Services, contained in Annex 10 to the Convention of International Civil Aviation. To maximize opportunity for formulation and discussion of possible options, the working group should have a balanced membership from the aviation and broadcast industries. The working group should focus on the issues at hand, including: the economic impact of meeting the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) requirements, alternatives for achieving improved frequency protection, evolutionary implementation considerations, ICAO work on future VHF air/ground (A/G) communication system, the evolving U.S. position for the proposed 1995 ICAO divisional meeting on precision approach and landing systems mix, early implementation of the Global Positioning System and the U.S. Federal Radionavigation Plan. The VHF Navigation and Communication Frequency Utilization Working Group will be responsible to the ARAC for the following reports: A. The Working Group should recommend time line(s) for completion of the task, including the rationale, for consideration at the meeting of the ARAC to consider general aviation operations issues held following publication of this notice. B. The Working Group will give a status report on the task at each meeting of the ARAC held to consider general aviation operations issues. The VHF Navigation and Communication Frequency Utilization Working Group will be comprised of experts from those organizations having an interest in the tasks assigned. A Working Group member need not necessarily be a representative of one of the member organizations of the ARAC. An individual who has expertise in the subject matter and wishes to become a member of the Working Group should write the person listed under the caption FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT expressing that desire, describing his or her interest in the task, and the expertise he or she would bring to the Working Group. The request will be reviewed with the ARAC Assistant Chair for General Aviation Operations Issues and the Chair of the VHF Navigation and Communication Frequency Utilization Working Group, and the individual will be advised whether or not the request can be accommodated. The Secretary of Transportation has determined that the formation and use of the ARAC are necessary in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties of the FAA. Meetings of the ARAC to consider general aviation operations issues will be open to the public except as authorized by section 10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Meetings of the VHF Navigation and Communication Frequency Utilization Working Group will not be open to the public except to the extent that individuals with an interest and expertise are selected to participate. No public announcement of Working Group meetings will be made. Issue in Washington, DC, on September 29, 1994. Louis C. Cusimano, Assistant Executive Director for General Aviation Operations Issues, Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24693 Filed 10&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
