FR940204-2-00122 FR940204-2-00090 RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION Revised Policy Statement for the Disposition of Residential Units Which Were Previously Subject to Rent and Securities Regulations AGENCY: Resolution Trust Corporation. ACTION: Revised statement of policy. SUMMARY: The Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) has revised its policy statement concerning the abrogation of leases on units in properties which were subject to state and local rent or securities regulations prior to their acquisition by the RTC as conservator or receiver for an insured depository institution. This policy modifies the current Statement of Policy for the Disposition of Residential Units Which Were Previously Subject to Rent and Securities Regulations, dated February 22, 1991, by increasing to 130 percent of area median income the maximum income of households governed by paragraph 4B of this policy. EFFECTIVE DATE: This revised policy is effective February 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Barry R. Wides, Deputy Director, Affordable Housing Disposition Program, (800) 842&hyph;2970, extension 67138. (This is a toll-free number.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Purpose To revise the policy statement concerning the abrogation of leases on units in properties which were subject to state and local rent or securities regulations prior to their acquisition by the RTC as conservator or receiver for an insured depository institution. 2. Scope and Applicability This statement of policy of the RTC is applicable when the RTC as conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution acquires cooperative and/or condominium residential dwelling units which were subject to state or local rent or securities regulations prior to their acquisition by the RTC. 3. Background It is clearly the intention of the RTC to avoid displacing low- and moderate-income tenants from such units. However, in making this statement of policy, the RTC recognizes the competing interests associated with such regulated cooperative and condominium units. On the one hand, some state or local rent and securities regulations have provided for the regulation of rents and the continuation of certain tenancies at specified levels. On the other hand, the RTC's statutory duties are to expeditiously manage and resolve failed insured depository institutions, to maximize returns on their assets and comply with the affordable housing provisions of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA). The RTC, and ultimately the taxpayers, cannot be put in the position of continuing to underwrite rental of such units at a significant loss to the RTC, or be compelled to sell the units as tenant-occupied at greatly diminished values due to the possible applicability of the rent and securities regulations. The RTC has balanced the statutory mandates of the RTC and the state and local interests at issue, and has determined that disaffirmance or repudiation of leases of these units and the resulting preemption of state and local rent and securities regulations, is required in certain circumstances. The RTC has also determined that expanding the definition of low- and moderate-income from one hundred and fifteen percent (115 percent) of the median income in the area involved, to one hundred and thirty percent (130 percent) of the median income in the area involved, as determined by the U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with adjustments for family size, will assist the RTC in meeting its statutory mandate to maximize the preservation of the availability and affordability of residential real property for low- and moderate-income individuals without significantly adversely affecting the ability of the RTC to satisfy its numerous other statutory duties. Accordingly, the RTC hereby revises its Statement of Policy for the Disposition of Residential Units Which Were Previously Subject to Rent or Securities Regulations dated February 22, 1991, as stated in paragraph 4B below. All other material terms of the February 22, 1991, Statement of Policy remain unchanged. 4. Policy and Guidelines A. The policy of the RTC will be to exercise its disaffirmance or repudiation powers with regard to cooperative and/or condominium residential dwelling units which were subject to state or local rent or securities regulations prior to their acquisition by the RTC as conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution when it determines that: (1) The insured depository institution is a party to the lease; (2) the performance of which the conservator or receiver determines, in its discretion, to be burdensome; and (3) the disaffirmance or repudiation of which the conservator or receiver determines, in its discretion, will promote the orderly administration of the institution's affairs, the RTC will not repudiate the leases. B. Where the RTC finds that units are leased by low- or moderate-income tenants, the RTC will not exercise its disaffirmance or repudiation powers with respect to those units. For this purpose, a low- or moderate-income tenant is defined as a family or individual whose income does not exceed one hundred and thirty percent (130 percent) of the median income in the area involved, as determined by the U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), with adjustments for family size. C. Where the RTC determines to disaffirm or repudiate leases of such units, the RTC may, in its discretion, offer the units for sale to the existing tenants or negotiate other arrangements, on terms which the RTC finds acceptable, in accordance with its mandate to maximize recoveries on the assets of the institutions in its control. If the existing tenants decline or fail to purchase the units or to enter into any other agreement acceptable to the RTC, the RTC will be free to consummate the disaffirmance or repudiation and to take whatever action it deems appropriate for the disposition of the units. By order of the Executive Committee. Dated at Washington, DC this 31st day of January, 1994. Resolution Trust Corporation. John M. Buckley, Jr., Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2475 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6714&hyph;01&hyph;M
