FR940323-0-00055 FR940323-0-00020 Subpart E_Application Review §2517.500 How is an application reviewed? In reviewing an application for a grant or a subgrant, the Corporation, a State Commission, or a grantmaking entity will apply the following criteria: (a) The quality of the program proposed. (b) The innovation of, and feasibility of replicating, the program. (c) The sustainability of the program, based on_ (1) Strong and broad-based community support; (2) Multiple funding sources or private funding; and (3) Coordination with the State Plan under part 2513 of this chapter and other federally-assisted activities. (d) The quality of the leadership of the program, past performance of the program, and the extent to which the program builds on existing programs. (e) The applicant's efforts_ (1) To recruit participants from among residents of the communities in which projects would be conducted; (2) To ensure that the projects are open to participants of different ages, races, genders, ethnicities, abilities and disabilities, and economic backgrounds; and (3) To involve participants and community residents in the design, leadership, and operation of the program. (f) The extent to which projects would be located in areas that are_ (1) Empowerment zones, redevelopment areas, or other areas with high concentrations of low-income people; or (2) Environmentally distressed. Subpart F_Distribution of Funds §2517.600 How are funds for community-based service-learning programs distributed? All funds are distributed by the Corporation through competitive grants. Subpart G_Funding Requirements §2517.700 Are matching funds required? (a) Yes. The Corporation share of the cost of carrying out a program funded under this part may not exceed_ (1) Ninety percent of the total cost for the first year for which the program receives assistance; (2) Eighty percent of the total cost for the second year; (3) Seventy percent of the total cost for the third year; and (4) Fifty percent of the total cost for the fourth year and any subsequent year. (b) In providing for the remaining share of the cost of carrying out a program, each recipient of assistance must provide for that share through a payment in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including facilities, equipment, or services, and may provide for that share through State sources, local sources, or Federal sources (other than funds made available under the national service laws). (c) However, the Corporation may waive the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section in whole or in part with respect to any program in any fiscal year if the Corporation determines that the waiver would be equitable due to lack of available financial resources at the local level. §2517.710 Are there limits on the use of funds? Yes. The following limits apply to funds made available under this part: (a)(1) The recipient of a direct grant from the Corporation may spend no more than five percent of the grant funds on administrative costs for any fiscal year. (2) If a Corporation grantee makes a subgrant to an entity to carry out a service-learning program, the Corporation grantee may determine how the allowable administrative costs will be distributed between itself and the subgrantee. (b) Funds made available under this part may not be used to pay any stipend, allowance, or other financial support to any participant in a service-learning program under this part except reimbursement for transportation, meals, and other reasonable out-of-pocket expenses directly related to participation in a program assisted under this part. §2517.720 What is the length of a grant? A grant under this part is for a period of up to three years, subject to satisfactory performance and annual appropriations. §2517.730 May an applicant submit more than one application to the Corporation for the same project at the same time? No. The Corporation will reject an application for a project if an application for funding or educational awards for the same project is already pending before the Corporation. Subpart H_Evaluation Requirements §2517.800 What are the evaluation requirements for community-based programs? The evaluation requirements for recipients of grants and subgrants under part 2516 of this chapter, relating to school-based service-learning programs, apply to recipients under this part. PART 2518_SERVICE-LEARNING CLEARINGHOUSE Sec. 2518.100 ␣What is the purpose of a Service-Learning Clearinghouse? 2518.110 ␣What are the functions of a Service-Learning Clearinghouse? Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. §2518.100 What is the purpose of a Service-Learning Clearinghouse? The Corporation will provide financial assistance, from funds appropriated to carry out the activities listed under parts 2530 through 2533 of this chapter, to public or private nonprofit organizations that have extensive experience with service-learning, including use of adult volunteers to foster service-learning, to establish a clearinghouse, which will carry out activities, either directly or by arrangement with another such organization, with respect to information about service-learning. §2518.110 What are the functions of a Service-Learning Clearinghouse? An organization that receives assistance from funds appropriated to carry out the activities listed under parts 2530 through 2533 of this chapter may_ (a) Assist entities carrying out State or local service-learning programs with needs assessments and planning; (b) Conduct research and evaluations concerning service-learning; (c)(1) Provide leadership development and training to State and local service-learning program administrators, supervisors, project sponsors, and participants; and (2) Provide training to persons who can provide the leadership development and training described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; (d) Facilitate communication among entities carrying out service-learning programs and participants in such programs; (e) Provide information, curriculum materials, and technical assistance relating to planning and operation of service-learning programs, to States and local entities eligible to receive financial assistance under this title; (f) Provide information regarding methods to make service-learning programs accessible to individuals with disabilities; (g)(1) Gather and disseminate information on successful service-learning programs, components of such successful programs, innovative youth skills curricula related to service-learning, and service-learning projects; and (2) Coordinate the activities of the Clearinghouse with appropriate entities to avoid duplication of effort; (h) Make recommendations to State and local entities on quality controls to improve the quality of service-learning programs;
