FR941027-2-00018 FR941027-2-00010 B. Information Required in Addition to the Quarterly Report The Corporation is requesting that renewal applicants submit the following for consideration: 1. Updated statement of goals and objectives. 2. Workplan for the second program year. a. Program activities as they relate to goals and objectives: i. description of subgranting (number of continuation subgrants v. number of new subgrants); ii. state level infrastructure development; iii. plan for addressing Corporation priorities. b. Training and technical assistance plans for year two. c. Evaluation update. d. Program sustainability e. Efforts to replicate f. Innovative program elements 3. Updated personnel information (if applicable). 4. Second year budget narrative and form (Cost effectiveness). Learn and Serve America: Higher Education FY 1995 Policies and Priorities I. Policies and Guidelines for Renewals of Existing Grantees In general, the Corporation anticipates renewing grants for existing programs that meet quality standards. Renewal funding will not be automatic. Decisions will be based on two factors: progress to date (80%) and future plans (20%). A. Information on progress to date will be collected primarily through the semi-annual progress report (quarterly report for demonstration programs) and secondarily through other methods, that include informal monitoring, contact with program personnel and site visits. Progress reports will include the following information, which translate into criteria for renewal decisions: 1. Number of participants: a. The degree to which recruitment goals have been met. The amount of attrition observed. 2. Service and learning activities: a. The quality of service placements. The degree to which activities are well-supervised, well-suited to participants' skill and training, and designed to achieve demonstrable impacts on community needs. The quality of reflection activities. The clarity of learning objectives associated with these activities. 3. Implementation: a. The extent to which high-quality program staff have been recruited, selected, trained, and placed. The degree to which the program is following its timeline and implementation plan. The reasonableness of explanations for deviations from or adjustments to the timeline. 4. Progress toward objectives: a. The degree to which there is quantitative or other evidence of progress toward approved objectives related to community, participants, and institutional impacts. The degree to which the program has developed a system to collect data and demonstrate outcomes. 5. Progress toward sustainability: a. The degree to which the program has explored alternative sources of funding and built stronger institutional and community support. 6. Important findings from internal evaluation and monitoring: a. The reliability of mechanisms for feedback and continuous improvement. The degree to which participants, service beneficiaries, and partners are satisfied with the program. The extent to which the program has identified problems, areas for improvement, or lessons learned, and taken appropriate action. 7. Financial management and match: a. The extent to which the match has been raised. The extent to which a fundraising plan has been developed. The extent to which quarterly financial reports and up-to-date records of line-item expenditures show balanced and appropriate spending across program areas. The reasonableness of explanations for unusually low or high expenditures in particular budget lines. b. In addition, in making renewal decisions, the Corporation will take into account grantees' responsiveness to inquiries and requests from program staff and their timeliness in notifying program staff of major problems in implementation. B. Information on future plans will be collected through a brief application for renewal funding. Proposals should build on progress in the previous year, reflecting lessons learned and actions that correct weakenesses. The information will include: 1. Clear outcome objectives for the next year, consistent with objectives for the current year. 2. Next year's activities. 3. Implementation plan and timeline, reflecting lessons learned from the current year. 4. An update on expenditures and obligations under the current grant. 5. Next year's budget with detailed narrative. In general, first-year programs (non-demonstration) may apply for 90 percent of their current grant amounts. Second-year programs may apply for 80 percent of their current grant amounts.
