FR941026-2-00016 FR941026-2-00013 BPA develops and publishes a biennial integrated least cost plan, the Resource Program. In its Draft 1990 Resource Program, BPA said it would be willing to participate in up to three geothermal pilot projects. The purpose of these projects would be to initiate development, confirm resources, and determine the ability to develop three of the largest, most promising sites in the region. BPA agreed to purchase_in joint ventures with regional utilities_up to 10 average megawatts (aMW) from each of three projects. After receiving comments from customers supporting the projects, and after the Council approved this approach in its 1991 Power Plan, BPA published a solicitation that resulted in seven proposals. The objectives of BPA's solicitation were to: (1) Meet contractual obligations to supply requested, cost-effective power to BPA customers, having considered potential environmental impacts and mitigation measures in its decision; (2) Assure consistency with BPA's statutory responsibilities, including the Northwest Power Act, while taking into consideration the Council's Power Plan and Fish and Wildlife Program; and (3) Test the availability of geothermal energy to provide a reliable, economical, and environmentally acceptable alternative energy source to help meet the region's power needs. Three projects were selected for contract negotiations on December 17, 1991. One of the selected projects was a proposal by the California Energy Company (CEC) and the Eugene Water & Electric Board (EWEB) to develop a 30-aMW geothermal power plant and supporting facilities at Newberry Volcano, Oregon. This Administrative Record of Decision sets out the reasons for BPA's decision to execute a Power Purchase Agreement with CE Newberry, Inc. (a subsidiary of CEC), through which BPA will purchase electrical output from the proposed Newberry Project; to execute a Billing Credits Generation Agreement with EWEB for a portion of the output from the Newberry Project; and to provide wheeling services to EWEB for the transmission of this electricity to their system. Legal Authority BPA is a self-financing power marketing agency with the United States Department of Energy. BPA was established by the Bonneville Project Act of 1937, 16 U.S.C. 832 et seq., to market wholesale power from the Bonneville Dam and to construct power lines for the transmission of this power to load centers in the Northwest. As other Federal dams and transmission lines were built, the combined power and transmission facilities have been integrated into a single power supply system. Today, BPA markets power from 30 Federal hydroelectric projects and two nuclear plants. BPA's transmission systems contain 14,797 circuit miles and provide about half of the region's power and three-fourths of its transmission capacity. BPA sells wholesale electric power to 126 utilities, 13 direct service industrial customers (DSIs), and several government agencies. BPA's primary marketing area is the Pacific Northwest region, comprised of the states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, that portion of Montana lying west of the continental divide, and small portions of California, Utah, Wyoming, and Nevada. 16 U.S.C. 837 and 839a(14). BPA also has congressional authorization to sell or exchange wholesale power outside the Pacific Northwest to the extent that such power is surplus to the needs of the region. See 16 U.S.C. 837a. The Northwest Power Act directs BPA to serve the net power requirements of any Pacific Northwest electric utility requesting service, and to serve existing DSIs in the Pacific Northwest. 16 U.S.C. 839c(b)(1) and (d). Although BPA cannot own or construct electric generating facilities, the Northwest Power Act permits BPA to acquire rights to the output or capability of electric power resources. See 16 U.S.C. 839a(1) and 16 U.S.C. 839d. BPA may acquire a major resource (a resource having a planned capability greater than 50 aMW and acquired for more than 5 years, 16 U.S.C. 839a(12)) if it is consistent with the Council's Power Plan. 16 U.S.C. 839d(c)(1)(D). If the resource is not major, the Northwest Power Act instructs that the resource must be consistent with the priorities required of the Plan. 16 U.S.C. 839d(b)(1) and (2). The Northwest Power Act authorizes BPA to acquire experimental, developmental, demonstration, or pilot projects of a type with potential for providing cost-effective service to the region. 16 U.S.C. 839d(d). BPA is also directed by the Northwest Power Act to grant billing credits to a customer, if requested. 16 U.S.C. 839d(h). A billing credit agreement is a contract between BPA and a customer, under which BPA gives the customer a credit on its power bill for the difference between BPA's wholesale power rate and the cost of power from a new resource. The energy and capacity on which the credit is based is the net amount the resource reduces the customer's load on BPA. Finally, BPA must satisfy all requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. Description of Need BPA load forecasts for the 1990 Resource Program showed that if the medium load growth rate occurs, BPA must acquire 500 aMW by the year 2000 to meet customers' needs. Pacific Northwest Loads and Resources Study, 1990. If utility and DSI loads grow at the medium-high rate, BPA will need to acquire an additional 1,500 aMW by the year 2000. The analysis in BPA's Resource Programs Environmental Impact Statement (RPEIS) showed that geothermal is a reliable source of electric power that can help meet energy needs in the Pacific Northwest. Final Environmental Impact Statement: Resource Programs, 1993. 1990 Resource Program BPA's 1990 Resource Program, issued July 1990, defined the actions BPA would take to develop new resources to meet the power requirements of its customers. The 1990 Resource Program focused on Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993, and included near-term actions to prepare for these years. One of these actions was an offer to participate in geothermal pilot projects aimed at confirming resources and determining developability at three of the largest, most promising sites in the Pacific Northwest. The 1990 Resource Program was developed through an extensive public process that included a technical review panel. Many of the comments received supported BPA's participation in geothermal pilot projects. Council Plan The Council's 1991 Power Plan noted that the geothermal confirmation program in BPA's 1990 Resource Program was consistent with the recommendations of the Council's Research, Development, and Demonstration Advisory Committee. The Council's ``Recommended Activities for Implementing the 1991 Power Plan'' included geothermal demonstration projects initiated by BPA and the region's utilities. The Council acknowledged that energy costs of a demonstration plant would likely be higher than the marginal cost of other new resources, but the premium would decline over time. Pilot Project Solicitation Request for Proposals BPA published a Request for Proposals (RFP) in Commerce Business Daily on July 5, 1991. The RFP stated that BPA would be willing to purchase up to 10 aMW of electric power from each of three projects located in or near the BPA service area. Other conditions specified in the RFP were: •BPA would not finance projects but only purchase output •Part of the output from each project had to be purchased by another utility •Overall project size could be greater than 10 aMW •The proposed site had to be capable of supporting at least 100 MW •The proposed site had to be suitable for operation as a Federal geothermal unit •The resource area had to be undeveloped for electric power production •The power contract had to include an option for BPA to purchase subsequent output from the site •Projects that would allow BPA to be a cooperating agency in a BLM environmental process were strongly preferred These conditions were intended in part to limit the number of proposals likely to be submitted. BPA could devote only a small amount of staff time to evaluating proposals, and therefore tried to be quite specific about what it wanted. Project sponsors were encouraged to submit project outlines or summaries ahead of time before developing detailed proposals. This was intended to prevent developers from spending money developing proposals that would not meet program goals. Several developers met with program staff or discussed the RFP on an informal basis before submitting proposals. Letters of intent were due September 3, 1991, and proposals were due October 1, 1991.
