FR941117-2-00134 FR941117-2-00091 Nevertheless, because solicited transactions may entail individualized negotiation, the orders that comprise a solicited transaction may not adequately be exposed to the floor auction. Consequently, the crowd may not have sufficient time to digest and react to those orders' terms, causing the parties to a solicited transaction to preempt the crowd by executing it at the pre-negotiated price. The Commission believes that the CBOE's proposal strikes the proper balance of allowing members to solicit, in advance, the other side of an order, while ensuring at the same time that the order will be exposed to the trading crowd consistent with auction market principles. The proposal encourages disclosure of an original order to the trading crowd by making the priority of a solicited order dependent upon the degree of disclosure to the crowd, and upon whether the order improves the market. 11 Such disclosure gives members of the trading crowd the opportunity to participate in all transactions, including solicited transactions, and should ensure that customer orders receive the best price available on the CBOE floor. At the same time, the CBOE's proposal will enable members to search for contra-side interest for orders that will ultimately be brought down to the CBOE floor, thereby enhancing depth and liquidity on the CBOE floor. 11 As noted above, the priority principles set forth in the proposal are subject to customer limit order priorities in CBOE Rule 6.45. Absent the proposal, the only guidelines concerning solicited transactions are contained in a 1988 memorandum to the CBOE's membership. 12 The lack of codified Exchange rules governing such activity could cause uncertainty and hinder solicitation of additional trading interest. The Exchange's proposal introduces clear rules applicable to solicited transactions, and strengthens the ability of the Exchange to ensure that customer orders receive full consideration by the trading crowd. In addition, the proposed rule change will enable the Exchange to monitor more effectively transactions where orders have been solicited outside the trading crowd, and should ensure that transactions involving solicitation will be executed consistent with auction market principles. 12 See Memorandum from Market Performance Committee regarding Prior Knowledge of Orders/Rule 8.1 (Requirement that market maker transactions/order be initiated from the trading floor), dated January 20, 1988 (describing, among other things, situations in which it may be appropriate for a member representing an order to solicit buying or selling interest for the opposite side of the order). The Commission also believes that the commenter's concerns have been adequately addressed. In this regard, the Commission believes that it is appropriate for the CBOE to prohibit, as inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade, transactions by members based on the knowledge of imminent undisclosed solicited transactions, irrespective of a member's location in or out of the trading crowd at the time of the solicitation. Without this prohibition, such trading can threaten the integrity of the auction market or disadvantage unwittingly other market participants. Although the Commission recognizes that the trading restrictions may prevent a market maker from conducting certain transactions while in the crowd, we do not believe the proposal inhibits CBOE market makers from fulfilling their market making functions. The trading restrictions only will apply if the member has knowledge of all material terms and conditions, including the price of both sides of the trade, of an imminent undisclosed solicited transaction. General solicitations will not give rise to trading restrictions under the proposal. Moreover, market maker trades not based on undisclosed knowledge of the terms of a solicited transaction are not restricted. Thus, a market maker only will be subject to trading restrictions when he or she trades based on the information regarding an imminent transaction that is not disclosed to the trading crowd. It is reasonable for the CBOE to conclude that transactions effected under such circumstances are inconsistent with market making obligations, and should be restricted. Accordingly, the Commission believes that market makers will still be able to perform their functions fully, and will be expected to do so, notwithstanding the trading restrictions imposed under the rule. Finally, regarding the commenter's concerns that the terms in the CBOE's proposed rule are vague, the Commission agrees with the CBOE that, although subject to interpretation, when used in other contexts these terms have not posed a problem for the Exchange or the Commission.
