FR940627-0-00129 FR940627-0-00019 d. Ethanol. Ethanol formulations in the ethanol fuel family are defined as those containing at least 50 percent ethanol by volume. The final rule defines a single group (represented by E85) for the baseline category of ethanol F/FAs. Although in the NPRM, EPA proposed two baseline groups for the ethanol fuel family (i.e., E100 and E85), EPA expressed its intention to establish a single group for baseline ethanol formulations in the Reopening Notice. As discussed in the Reopening Notice, the rationale behind this decision is that fuel ethanol is required to contain at least five percent denaturant, which means that, in actuality, E100 formulations contain only 95 percent ethanol (i.e., E95). Furthermore, gasoline is normally used as the denaturant for ethanol fuels. EPA judged that there was little incremental value in requiring tests of E95 in addition to E85. Thus, the final rule creates a single baseline ethanol group represented by E85. However, EPA retains the authority to require testing on other members of any F/FA group under Tier 3 (see Section IX.A). The baseline ethanol category is comprised of ethanol and ethanol-gasoline F/FAs that: (1) Contain at least 50 percent ethanol by volume, (2) contain no more than 5 percent by volume of substances other than ethanol and gasoline, and (3) contain no elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, chlorine, and/or copper. The sulfur content of ethanol baseline formulations is limited to 0.004 percent sulfur by mass. Chlorine (as chloride) and copper are allowed in the baseline ethanol formulations at a maximum level of 0.0004 percent by mass for chloride and 0.07 mg/l for copper. Chlorine and copper are permitted in the baseline ethanol formulations because they are common contaminants remaining from ethanol production. The baseline ethanol category includes all ethanol fuels meeting the above criteria. The non-baseline ethanol category is comprised of ethanol formulations (i.e., containing at least 50 percent ethanol by volume) that meet the baseline limits on elemental composition, but contain more than 5 percent by volume of substances other than ethanol and gasoline. Atypical ethanol F/FAs contain elements in addition to those specified in the baseline ethanol category or exceed the specified limits for sulfur, chlorine, or copper. e. Methane. Methane F/FAs are defined as those containing at least 50 mole percent methane, including both compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquified natural gas (LNG). Baseline methane formulations must contain no elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and/or sulfur, and must contain no more than 20 mole percent of non-methane hydrocarbons. Sulfur content for baseline methane formulations (including additives) is limited to 16 parts per million (ppm) by volume. Methane formulations must contain added odorants with an elemental composition that satisfies the baseline methane definition. The baseline methane category includes all methane fuels (and associated additives) meeting the above criteria. Non-baseline methane formulations are those that exceed the limit of 20 mole percent non-methane hydrocarbons. Atypical methane formulations include products containing elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and/or sulfur, or exceed the baseline sulfur limit of 16 ppm by volume. f. Propane. Propane formulations are defined as those containing at least 50 percent propane by volume. The baseline propane category includes LPG formulations containing no elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and/or sulfur. Baseline LPG products are restricted to a maximum of 20 percent by volume for non-propane hydrocarbons. Sulfur content (including additives) is restricted to 123 ppm by weight. LPG formulations must have a distinctive odor. The elemental composition of odorants added to LPG formulations is limited to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur. The baseline propane category includes all propane fuels (and associated additives) meeting the above criteria. Non-baseline propane formulations are those that exceed the specified limit for non-propane hydrocarbons. Atypical propane formulations include LPG products that contain elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and/or sulfur, or exceed the baseline sulfur limit of 123 ppm by weight. 3. F/FA Groups The F/FA groups are subdivisions of the F/FA categories and represent the final level of product classification within the grouping system. The groups are the actual operating units of the grouping system. The objective underlying the group definitions is to sort F/FAs together when it is reasonable to assume that their emission products will be essentially the same on a qualitative basis.
