FR940224-0-00021 FR940224-0-00002 The legislative history of HCDA states that the Board should make a ``zero-based review'' of any exceptions it adopts. 10 The proposed exception is consistent with this directive. The Board has concluded that, where the bank is relying primarily upon the creditworthiness of the underlying maker, the accompanying extension of credit to an insider transferring the paper with recourse poses minimal risk of loss to the bank. 11 In addition like the previous three exceptions, the new exception is found in the National Bank Act, 12 and is incorporated as an exception to the individual lending limit in Regulation O. See 12 U.S.C. 84(c)(8); 12 CFR 215.2(h) and 215.4(c). 10 See 138 Cong. Rec. S17,914&hyph;15 (daily ed. October 8, 1992). 11 Although extensions of credit made in conformity with the proposed exception would not count toward a bank's aggregate lending limit, such extensions of credit would continue to be treated as extensions of credit under 12 CFR 215.3(4) (a) and (b) of Regulation O, as a safeguard against abuse of this exception. 12 All interpretations by the Comptroller of the Currency of the exceptions contained in 12 U.S.C. 84 are applicable to Regulation O to the extent that these exceptions are incorporated by reference into or otherwise adopted in Regulation O. Commenters generally supported the new exception, and no adverse comments were received. Three commenters argued that the proposed requirement that a designated officer of the bank certify in writing that the bank is relying primarily upon the maker of the discounted paper was too burdensome because it did not accommodate itself to bulk transactions in which the bank may perform only a statistical sampling of a discounted loan portfolio. One commenter asked the Board to clarify that the discount of consumer lease paper was included in the provision. Six commenters suggested adoption of additional exceptions contained in the National Bank Act, and one commenter suggested an additional exception not included in the National Bank Act. The requirement that a designated officer certify that the bank has followed appropriate underwriting procedures is found in the National Bank Act, and the Board has decided to maintain consistency with that Act. Concerning consumer lease paper, the Board notes that an interpretative letter concerning the circumstances under which a lease transaction may be considered to be an extension of credit for purposes of Regulation O has previously been issued. See Interpretative Letter dated April 8, 1976. The Board believes that it would be more appropriate to provide further guidance as to the treatment of particular transactions under Regulation O on a case-by-case basis. Additional exemptions found in the National Bank Act have not been adopted. Those are either limited exemptions, exemptions for credit secured by collateral that is not stable and liquid, or exemptions that would be difficult to administer in the Regulation O context. Other exemptions suggested by commenters would require statutory change. VI. Loans to Executive Officers The Board proposed three amendments to the rules governing extensions of credit by a bank to its executive officers: A new exemption to the limit for general purpose loans that are fully collateralized by certain categories of highly stable and liquid collateral; clarification that home mortgage loan refinancing, subject to certain limitations, is included in the category of home mortgage loans; and a restatement of the prior approval requirement in section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act. See 58 FR 47400, September 9, 1993.
