FR940928-2-00142 FR940928-2-00074 8. Presently, whenever an officer, director or employee of Equitable is subject to the automatic disqualification provisions of Section 9(a), Equitable must apply for a Commission order pursuant to Section 9(c) of the 1940 Act to exempt the person and Equitable from the disqualification provisions of Section 9(a). The circumstances under which the Commission has limited the disqualification provisions of Section 9(a) pursuant to Section 9(c) have become standardized. 3 These conditions include a requirement that, in cases where the disqualification arises solely because an applicant employs a person who is disqualified under Section 9(a) (1) or (2), the disqualified employee will not be involved in investment company or investment advisory activities. The requirement to submit such applications places an undue burden on both Equitable and the Commission without any public benefit if the individual does not participate in the operations or management of a registered investment company or in the sale of variable insurance contracts. 3 Delegation of Authority to Director of Division of Investment Management, Investment Company Act Release No. 18055 (Mar. 20, 1991). 9. Equitable currently maintains monitoring procedures to identify any insurance agent subject to a statutory disqualification. Similar monitoring procedures will remain in effect for officers, directors, and employees of Equitable who do not function as insurance agents or registered representatives. These procedures include: a. Insurance agents of Equitable are required to complete the disciplinary questions on Form U&hyph;4 (Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration or Transfer) before entering into a contract with Equitable; and b. If the response to any question on page 3 of Form U&hyph;4 is affirmative, a copy of the response is sent to Equitable's compliance department. Equitable then determines whether the insurance agent is subject to statutory disqualification under Section 15(b) of the 1934 Act or Section 9(a) of the 1940 Act and whether to proceed with the hiring process. Conditions for Relief Equitable agrees that if the requested exemptions are granted, Equitable will maintain its current monitoring procedures to identify officers, directors and employees subject to disqualification. Equitable will maintain a list of its officers, directors and employees who participate directly in the management or administration of any variable annuity separate account of Equitable and any registered investment company underlying Equitable's variable annuity separate accounts. Equitable also will maintain a list of its agents who, as registered representatives of Equico, offer and sell variable annuity contracts. These lists will be available to the staff of the Commission. The individuals named on the lists will remain subject to the automatic disqualification provisions of Section 9(a). Conclusion Applicant submits that, for all of the reasons stated herein, the requested exemptions from Section 9(a) of the 1940 Act meet the standards set out in Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act. Applicant asserts that the exemptions requested are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the policies and provisions of the 1940 Act. By the Commission. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23991 Filed 9&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
