FR940913-0-00069 FR940913-0-00027 (1) The certified value of the remaining life of the property recorded in the recipient's accounting records at the time of donation. (2) The current fair market value. However, when there is sufficient justification, HUD may approve the use of the current fair market value of the donated property, even if it exceeds the certified value at the time of donation to the project. (d) Volunteer services furnished by professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other skilled and unskilled labor may be counted as cost sharing or matching if the service is an integral and necessary part of an approved project or program. Rates for volunteer services shall be consistent with those paid for similar work in the recipient's organization. In those instances in which the required skills are not found in the recipient organization, rates shall be consistent with those paid for similar work in the labor market in which the recipient competes for the kind of services involved. In either case, paid fringe benefits that are reasonable, allowable, and allocable may be included in the valuation. (e) When an employer other than the recipient furnishes the services of an employee, these services shall be valued at the employee's regular rate of pay (plus an amount of fringe benefits that are reasonable, allowable, and allocable, but exclusive of overhead costs), provided these services are in the same skill for which the employee is normally paid. (f) Donated supplies may include such items as expendable equipment, office supplies, laboratory supplies or workshop and classroom supplies. Value assessed to donated supplies included in the cost sharing or matching share shall be reasonable and shall not exceed the fair market value of the property at the time of the donation. (g) The method used for determining cost sharing or matching for donated equipment, buildings and land for which title passes to the recipient may differ according to the purpose of the award, if paragraphs (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section apply. (1) If the purpose of the award is to assist the recipient in the acquisition of equipment, buildings or land, the total value of the donated property may be claimed as cost sharing or matching. (2) If the purpose of the award is to support activities that require the use of equipment, buildings or land, normally only depreciation or use charges for equipment and buildings may be made. However, the full value of equipment or other capital assets and fair rental charges for land may be allowed, provided that HUD has approved the charges. (h) The value of donated property shall be determined in accordance with the usual accounting policies of the recipient, with the following qualifications. (1) The value of donated land and buildings shall not exceed its fair market value at the time of donation to the recipient as established by an independent appraiser (e.g., certified real property appraiser or General Services Administration representative) and certified by a responsible official of the recipient. (2) The value of donated equipment shall not exceed the fair market value of equipment of the same age and condition at the time of donation. (3) The value of donated space shall not exceed the fair rental value of comparable space as established by an independent appraisal of comparable space and facilities in a privately-owned building in the same locality. (4) The value of loaned equipment shall not exceed its fair rental value. (5) The following requirements pertain to the recipient's supporting records for in-kind contributions from third parties. (i) Volunteer services shall be documented and, to the extent feasible, supported by the same methods used by the recipient for its own employees. (ii) The basis for determining the valuation for personal service, material, equipment, buildings and land shall be documented. ยง84.24 Program income. (a) HUD shall apply the standards set forth in this section in requiring recipient organizations to account for program income related to projects financed in whole or in part with Federal funds. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, program income earned during the project period shall be retained by the recipient and, in accordance with HUD regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, shall be used in one or more of the ways listed in the following. (1) Added to funds committed to the project by HUD and recipient and used to further eligible project or program objectives. (2) Used to finance the non-Federal share of the project or program. (3) Deducted from the total project or program allowable cost in determining the net allowable costs on which the Federal share of costs is based. (c) When HUD authorizes the disposition of program income as described in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, program income in excess of any limits stipulated shall be used in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (d) In the event that HUD does not specify in its regulations or the terms and conditions of the award how program income is to be used, paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall apply automatically to all projects or programs except research. For awards that support research, paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall apply automatically unless HUD indicates in the terms and conditions another alternative on the award or the recipient is subject to special award conditions, as indicated in ยง84.14. (e) Unless HUD regulations or the terms and conditions of the award provide otherwise, recipients shall have no obligation to the Federal Government regarding program income earned after the end of the project period.
