FR940603-2-00171 FR940603-2-00092 Program Income. Grantee recipients may charge for grant-related activities and products (e.g., materials developed and disseminated, workshop or training registration fees), as long as all income derived from such activities and products is added to funds committed to the grant and its activities. Specifically, this program income (gross income earned by the grantee, during the funding period, as a direct result of the grant award or its activities) must be used for purposes that further eligible program objectives (e.g., obtaining equipment or other assets required for the program). Program income may not be used to support or further a grantee's general organization, its programs or its services. Consultative Services. Applicants who offer consultative services for a fee to assist covered entities in complying with their ADA responsibilities or who provide legal representation services for free or for a fee to, or on behalf of, persons with disabilities should include a statement briefly describing the services provided. Alternate Formats (Print and Audiovisual). All materials produced in standard print must also be produced in large print, in Braille, and on audiotape in proportion to anticipated demand by persons with vision impairments in the targeted population(s). Audiotapes of lengthy materials must be voice- or tone-indexed. All copies of any videotapes produced must either be open-captioned or closed-captioned for persons with hearing impairments. If videotapes contain significant visual action, some of the closed-captioned tapes must be audio-described for persons with vision impairments. Effective Communication and Accessibility Requirements. If applicants propose to charge a fee for the materials they produce and disseminate, they must charge the same fee for alternate formats as for standard formats. Applicants who plan to list a voice telephone number on correspondence or promotional materials concerning the grant activities, or on materials produced under the grant, must also list a TTY telephone number. Applicants who do not have a TTY may include the cost of purchasing one in the proposed project budget. Applicants who plan to use an automated telephone information system to respond to voice calls concerning grant activities must provide comparable service for TTY users. The cost of establishing an automated TTY information system may not be included in the proposed project budget.
