FR941130-0-00135 FR941130-0-00020 However, nothing in the proposed rule would explicitly prohibit a transaction of this type. The operator would still have to have the requisite number of event tickets under contract before advertising or sales could begin; in other words, the variable must be price, not availability. Beyond that, the proposed rule requires that tour participants must receive promised event tickets ``at the tour price agreed to before departure'' or else the participant is entitled to a refund of the total tour price. If a participant agrees to a price consisting of a known value p plus an unknown value x, and the operator delivers the tour (including the event ticket) at that price, the operator has satisfied the requirements of the rule. The ANPRM sought comment on whether the rule would be impractical for events where the participants are known only a week in advance, such as the NCAA Final Four. All of the parties that commented on this issue thought that this should not be a problem, and that the rule should apply. As noted above, several commenters pointed out that the Final Four sells out months in advance even though the participating teams are not determined until the week before. Also, as FBA noted, the contestants in the Super Bowl have been determined only the week before on several occasions, and that does not appear to have either harmed the marketability of Super Bowl tours or resulted in additional consumer problems. Comments on NPRM; Final Rule In response to the NPRM we received individual comments from six organizations, plus identical letters from the National Association of Ticket Brokers and 38 of its members. The Football Bowl Association (representing all 19 post-season college football bowl games) and the National Collegiate Athletic Association filed comments repeating the support that these organizations had expressed for the rule in their comments on the ANPRM. However, both organizations also expressed disagreement with the Department's tentative decision not to apply the ``money back guarantee'' to secondary events on a Special Event Tour, such as a ticket to the Tournament of Roses Parade on a Rose Bowl tour. The FBA stated that such events are part of the Bowl Game ambience and might be just as important to some as tickets to the game itself. The NCAA said that in the case of multi-game tournaments, questions may arise concerning whether the primary event is the entire tournament or only the final championship game. The NCAA suggested that the words ``and tournaments'' be added to the list of examples of events contained in ยง381.5.
