FR940825-0-00135 FR940825-0-00022 (3) (5 points) The plan for providing high quality research and scholarly activities in which participants will be involved; (4) (5 points) The plan for involving faculty members in the design of research activities in which students will be involved; (5) (5 points) The plan for providing internships, seminars, and other educational activities designed to prepare undergraduate students for doctoral study; (6) (5 points) The plan for providing individual or group services designed to enhance a student's successful entry into postbaccalaureate education; (7) (3 points) The plan to inform the institutional community of the goals and objectives of the project; (8) (8 points) The plan to ensure proper and efficient administration of the project, including, but not limited to matters such as financial management, student records management, personnel management, the organizational structure, and the plan for coordinating the McNair project with other programs for disadvantaged students; and (9) (5 points) The follow-up plan that will be used to track the academic and career accomplishments of participants after they are no longer participating in the McNair project. (d) Quality of key personnel (9 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project on the basis of the following: (1)(i) The job qualifications of the project director. (ii) The job qualifications of each of the project's other key personnel. (iii) The quality of the project's plan for employing highly qualified persons, including the procedures to be used to employ members of groups underrepresented in higher education, including Blacks, Hispanics, American Indians, Alaska Natives, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (including Native Hawaiians). (2) In evaluating the qualifications of a person, the Secretary considers his or her experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the project. (e) Adequacy of the resources and budget (15 points). The Secretary evaluates the extent to which_ (1) The applicant's proposed allocation of resources in the budget is clearly related to the objectives of the project; (2) Project costs and resources, including facilities, equipment, and supplies, are reasonable in relation to the objectives and scope of the project; and (3) The applicant's proposed commitment of institutional resources to the McNair participants, as for example, the commitment of time from institutional research faculty and the waiver of tuition and fees for McNair participants engaged in summer research projects. (f) Evaluation plan (7 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of the evaluation plan for the project on the basis of the extent to which the applicant's methods of evaluation_ (1) Are appropriate to the project's objectives; (2) Provide for the applicant to determine, in specific and measurable ways, the success of the project in_ (i) Making progress toward achieving its objectives (a formative evaluation); and (ii) Achieving its objectives at the end of the project period (a summative evaluation); and (3) Provide for a description of other project outcomes, including the use of quantifiable measures, if appropriate. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;15) ยง647.22 How does the Secretary evaluate prior experience? (a) The Secretary reviews information relating to an applicant's performance as a grantee under its expiring McNair project. In addition to the application under review, this information may be derived from performance reports, audit reports, site visit reports, and project evaluation reports received by the Secretary during the project period about to be completed. (b) The Secretary evaluates the applicant's performance as a grantee on the basis of the following criteria: (1) (3 points) Whether the applicant consistently served the number and types of participants the project was funded to serve. (2) (4 points) Whether the applicant was successful in providing the participants with research and scholarly activities and whether those activities had an impact on project participants. (3) (8 points) The extent to which the applicant met or exceeded its funded objectives with regard to project participants as demonstrated by the number of participants who_
