FR940505-1-00026 FR940505-1-00012 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Table of Contents I. Executive Summary A. Introduction B. EPA's Goals 1. Provide for the emissions reductions needed to meet EPA's obligations 2. Develop the FIPs in a manner which encourages and assists the implementation of air quality measures by State and local agencies 3. Minimize federal intrusion into state and local affairs 4. Minimize adverse socio-economic impacts 5. Ensure fairness with respect to impacts on population as a whole and on individual air pollution sources 6. Ensure that the federal government does its part to contribute to the solution C. Summary of the FIP Contents 1. Required emission reductions 2. Selection of control strategies 3. Specific control measures a. Stationary/area source measures b. Mobile source measures D. Role of State and Local Agencies 1. SIP responsibilities 2. State and local opportunities E. Public Involvement 1. Public participation in the development of the FIPs 2. Public meetings prior to proposal 3. Process for post-proposal public involvement 4. Solicitation of comment II. Background and Proposed SIP Actions A. Description of Affected Areas 1. Sacramento 2. Ventura 3. South Coast B. SIP Status 1. Introduction 2. Sacramento 3. Ventura 4. South Coast 5. State of California C. Proposed Action on South Coast SIP Revisions 1. CO Plan a. Statutory provision and General Preamble requirements b. Procedural requirements c. Emissions inventory d. Reasonably available control measures e. Attainment demonstration f. Quantitative milestones and RFP g. Adoption of mandatory measures (1) Enhanced I/M (2) Oxygenated fuels (3) Clean-fuel vehicle fleet program (4) Employee commute options program h. VMT forecast and contingency measures i. TCMs to offset growth in VMT j. Fully adopted and enforceable control measures k. Implications of EPA's proposed action 2. Ozone Rate of Progress Plan a. Statutory provisions and General Preamble requirements b. Description of plan c. Conditional approval of commitments d. Implications of EPA's proposed action III. California FIP A. Basis for the FIP Actions in Applicable law and EPA policies 1. FIP Obligation a. Introduction (1) Passage of the 1990 Amendments (2) Applicable law (3) New law applies b. The FIPs must demonstrate attainment (1) What attainment deadline governs? (a) Background (b) Current law (2) These FIPs need not address new requirements other than the requirements to demonstrate attainment (a) Reasonable Further Progress (b) Reasonably available control measures, including reasonably available control technology c. FIPs may use new provisions providing additional flexibility d. Maintenance demonstration for South Coast 2. Other issues relating to EPA's authority a. Comprehensive FIP authorities under the Clean Air Act b. EPA authority to charge fees c. Restrictions on EPA's authority regarding fees d. Land use e. Parking management f. Authority to order the State to implement specific measures requiring the State to legislate or expand money B. Overview of Components of Each FIP 1. Introduction a. Control approach b. FIP enforcement c. Application of FIP requirements to OCS sources d. Application of FIP requirements to sources located in Indian country e. Proposed rules without regulatory text 2. Common elements a. Mobile source regulations b. Stationary and area source regulations (1) Regulations for specific source categories (2) Regulations imposed statewide (3) Cap regulations 3. Sacramento Ozone a. Reduction requirements for 1999 and 2005 b. SIP rules c. FIP rules for 1999 and 2005 d. 1999 attainment option (1) Onroad heavy duty trucks (2) Nonroad growth cap (3) No drive days (4) Recreational boat fees or prohibitions e. EPA's preferred option (1) EPA authority to initiate bump-up (2) Rationale for bump-up to ``Severe'' (3) 2005 attainment option f. Summary of 1999 and 2005 attainment options g. Attainment demonstrations 4. Ventura Ozone a. Reduction requirements b. SIP rules c. FIP rules d. Attainment demonstration e. Alternative attainment date discussion 5. South Coast Ozone a. Reduction requirements b. SIP rules c. FIP rules d. Section 182(e)(5) provisions (1) statutory provision and General Preamble requirements (2) need for additional time to develop new technologies (3) federal role in support of technological development activities (a) Scope of EPA's responsibilities (b) Recent national initiatives ( 1 ) Climate Change Action Plan ( 2 ) Technology Innovation Strategy ( 3 ) Clean Car Initiative (c) SCAQMD Technology Advancement Office (4) Demonstration that progress requirements for 1990&hyph;2000 are met without need for ยง182(e)(5) measure reductions e. Attainment demonstration f. Alternative attainment date discussion 6. South Coast CO a. Reduction requirements b. Attainment demonstration c. Alternative attainment date discussion C. Stationary and Area Source Rules 1. Introduction a. Source category description and significance b. Selection of control strategies (1) source-specific RACT rules (2) traditional stationary source category rules (3) cap regulations (4) new technology measures under section 182(e)(5) c. Future evolution of rules 2. Regulations for specific sources a. Introduction and rationale for selection of sources b. Formica Corporation (Placer) c. Sierra Pine Limited (Placer) d. Michigan California Lumber Company (El Dorado) e. Reynolds Metals (Placer) 3. Regulations for specific source categories in the FIP areas a. Introduction (1) rationale for selection of rules and reduction rates (2) relationship to existing and pending SIP provisions (3) relationship to other applicable FIP provisions (4) rule structure b. Solvent cleaning operations (Sacramento, Ventura) c. Wood products coatings (Sacramento, Ventura) d. Auto refinishing operations(Sacramento) e. Adhesives and sealants (Sacramento) f. Can and coil coating (Sacramento) g. Commercial bakeries (Sacramento) h. Municipal waste landfills (Sacramento) i. Livestock waste management (Sacramento, South Coast, Ventura) j. Fugitive emissions (Sacramento, South Coast, Ventura)
