FR941107-0-00026 FR941107-0-00010 II. New Exchange Act Rule 3a12&hyph;11 and Amendments to Exchange Act Rules A. Background Section 12 of the Exchange Act 10 requires all securities listed on a national securities exchange to be registered under the Exchange Act. 11 Registration subjects the securities, whether debt or equity, to a number of regulatory provisions, including restrictions on borrowing, 12 periodic reporting by the issuer, 13 and proxy and information statement regulation. 14 In contrast, debt securities traded in the OTC market are not required to be registered under the Exchange Act, 15 and, therefore, such securities are not subject to the restrictions on borrowing or proxy and information statement regulation. These regulatory distinctions may have unnecessarily and unintentionally affected the structure and development of the debt markets. 10 15 U.S.C. 78 l . 11 Section 12(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78 l (a)] prevents any member, broker or dealer from effecting any transaction in any security listed on a national securities exchange unless the security is registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78 l (b)]. 12 Section 8(a) of the Exchange Act. 13 Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78m(a)]. 14 Sections 14 (a), (b) and (c) of the Exchange Act. 15 See Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78 l (g)], which only requires registration of equity securities. The New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE'') has advised the Commission that the additional regulatory requirements imposed on listed debt securities create significant disincentives for issuers to list their debt on the national securities exchanges and urged that exemptive action be taken to eliminate this disparity. To address this disparate regulatory treatment between listed and OTC-traded debt, the Commission is adopting new Exchange Act Rule 3a12&hyph;11 to exempt listed debt securities from the borrowing restrictions and most of the proxy and information statement rules. Listed debt securities, however, will remain subject to the registration and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. The Commission also is amending current Exchange Act rules in order to simplify the Exchange Act registration process by providing for the immediate effectiveness of Form 8&hyph;A registration statements pertaining to the listing of debt securities on a national securities exchange and eliminating the filing fee associated with the form. B. Exemption from the Borrowing Restrictions of the Exchange Act Under Section 8(a), a broker-dealer can pledge a listed security, other than an exempted security, only to a limited group of lenders: a member bank of the Federal Reserve System; a non-member bank that has filed with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (``Federal Reserve Board'') an agreement to comply with those provisions of the federal securities and banking laws that apply to member banks; 16 or another broker-dealer if such a loan is permissible under the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board. 17 There is, however, no comparable limitation on the available lenders for OTC securities. As a result, a broker-dealer can use bonds that are not listed on an exchange as collateral to secure financing from any lender. 16 Regulation U [12 CFR 221.1 et seq. ] requires that a non-member bank file an agreement that conforms to the requirements of Section 8(a) prior to extending any credit secured by any nonexempt security registered on a national securities exchange to broker-dealers who are borrowing in the ordinary course of business. See 12 CFR 221.4(a). 17 For example, Regulation T [12 CFR 220.1 et seq. ] authorizes a broker-dealer to clear or finance transactions for a specialist's market functions account. See 12 CFR 220.12(b).
