FR940727-2-00038 FR940727-2-00025 2. Respondent agrees that from the date this Agreement is accepted until the earliest of the dates listed in subparagraphs 2.a-2.b, it will comply with the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Agreement: a. three (3) business days after the Commission withdraws its acceptance of the Consent Order pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.34 of the Commission's Rules; or b. the day after the divestiture required by the Consent Order has been completed. 3. Respondent will hold the Schedule A Assets as they are presently constituted separate and apart on the following terms and conditions: a. The Schedule A Assets, as they are presently constituted, shall be held separate and apart and shall be operated independently of respondent (meaning here and hereinafter, Healthtrust excluding the Schedule A Assets) except to the extent that respondent must exercise direction and control over the Schedule A Assets to assure compliance with this Agreement or the Consent Order, and except as otherwise provided in this Agreement. b. Prior to, or simultaneously with its acquisition of the Holy Cross assets in Utah, respondent shall organize a distinct and separate legal entity, either a corporation, limited liability company, general or limited partnership (``New Company'') and adopt constituent documents for the New Company that are not inconsistent with other provisions of this Agreement or the Consent Order. Respondent shall transfer all ownership and control of all Schedule A Assets to the New Company. c. The board of directors of the New Company, or, in the event respondent organizes an entity other than a corporation, the governing body of the entity (``New Company Board'') shall have five members. Respondent may elect the members of the New Company Board; provided, however, that the New Company Board shall include no more than two members who are a director, officer, employee, or agent of respondent (``the respondent's New Company Board member(s)''). The New Company Board shall include a chairman who is independent of respondent and is competent to assure the continued viability and competitiveness of the Schedule A Assets. Meetings of the New Company Board during the term of this Agreement shall be stenographically transcribed and the transcripts retained for two (2) years after the termination of this Agreement. d. Respondent shall not exercise direction or control over, or influence directly or indirectly, the Schedule A Assets, the independent Chairman of the Board of the New Company, the New Board, or the New Company or any of its operations or businesses; provided, however, that respondent may exercise only such direction and control over the New Company as is necessary to assure compliance with this Agreement or the Consent Order. e. Respondent shall maintain the viability and competitiveness and the marketability of the Schedule A Assets and shall not sell, transfer, encumber (other than in the normal course of business), or otherwise impair their viability and competitiveness or their marketability. f. Except for the respondent's New Company Board members, respondent shall not permit any director, officer, employee, or agent of respondent to also be a director, officer, or employee of the New Company. g. The New Company shall be staffed with sufficient employees to maintain the viability and competitiveness of the Schedule A Assets, which employees shall be selected from Holy Cross's existing employee base and may also be hired from sources other than Holy Cross. h. With the exception of the respondent's New Company Board Members, respondent shall not change the composition of the New Company Board unless the independent chairman consents. The independent chairman shall have power to remove members of the New Company Board for cause. Respondent shall not change the composition of the management of the New Company except that the New Company Board shall have the power to remove management employees for cause.
