FR941205-2-00167 FR941205-2-00074 Changes: None. Comment: Two commenters voiced support for this priority and one of these two commenters recommended that the training projects be housed in an Historically Black College or University (HBCU). The other commenter believed that the priority should establish appropriate liaisons with postsecondary education institutions with significant enrollment of students representing culturally diverse backgrounds, particularly Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Discussion: The Secretary appreciates this support and notes that the regulations in 34 CFR 396.2 concerning eligibility for an award would include applications for training grants from Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Changes: None. Rehabilitation Training Purpose of Program: The Rehabilitation Training program supports projects to ensure that skilled personnel are available to provide rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities through vocational, medical, social, and psychological rehabilitation programs, through supported employment programs, through independent living services programs, and through client assistance programs. The program supports projects to maintain and upgrade basic skills and knowledge of personnel employed to provide state-of-the-art service delivery systems and rehabilitation technology services. For Further Information Contact: Robert Werner, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Room 3322 Switzer Building, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2649. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8291. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. Priority Priority_National Clearinghouse of Rehabilitation Training Materials Background The Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA) has funded a clearinghouse for rehabilitation training materials since 1961. Over the years, the clearinghouse has facilitated the development and dissemination of material for use in the training of rehabilitation personnel. Regulations for the Rehabilitation Training program in 34 CFR 385.42 state that a set of any training materials developed under the Rehabilitation Training program must be submitted to any information clearinghouse designated by the Secretary. The project funded under this priority would be designated to receive training materials developed by other projects during the project's duration. Users of the clearinghouse cover the range of rehabilitation providers, but most frequently include State vocational rehabilitation agency personnel, rehabilitation counselors, rehabilitation educators, community rehabilitation program personnel, and advocates for individuals with disabilities. The Secretary has identified a maximum possible project period of 60 months. The Secretary believes that at least 36 months will be necessary to meet the requirements of the priority. The Secretary will be assessing, during the third year of the project period, whether there is a need to provide funding beyond 36 months. Priority The project must_ •Demonstrate experience and capacity to provide for a national clearinghouse of rehabilitation training materials; •Identify and gather rehabilitation information and training materials for use in preparing pre-service and in-service education and training for rehabilitation personnel; •Disseminate, in a cost-effective manner, rehabilitation information and state-of-the-art training materials and methods to rehabilitation personnel to assist them in achieving improved outcomes in vocational rehabilitation, supported employment, and independent living; and •Provide linkages and policies for the exchange of information and referral of inquiries with other existing clearinghouses and information centers supported by the U.S. Department of Education, including the Educational Resources Information Center and the National Rehabilitation Information Center.
