FR940722-2-00022 FR940722-2-00014 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Floodplain Statement of Findings for Proposed K&hyph;901 Operable Unit, Remedial Investigation Activities at the K&hyph;25 Site, Oak Ridge, TN AGENCY: Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Floodplain Statement of Findings. SUMMARY: This is a Floodplain Statement of Findings for the proposed K&hyph;901 Operating Unit (OU) remedial investigation activities at the Oak Ridge K&hyph;25 Site, prepared in accordance with 10 CFR 1022. DOE proposes to conduct remedial investigation activities in the 100-year floodplain of the Clinch River located in Roane County, Tennessee. DOE prepared a floodplain assessment describing the effects, alternatives, and measures designed to avoid or minimize potential harm to or within the affected floodplain. DOE will endeavor to allow 15 days of public review after publication of the statement of findings before implementing the proposed action. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Information on the proposed action, including maps of potentially disturbed floodplain area, is available from: Mr. Robert C. Sleeman, Director, Environmental Restoration Division, U.S. Department of Energy, P.O. Box 2001, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831&hyph;8541, (615) 576&hyph;0715. Further information on general DOE floodplain environmental review requirements is available from: Ms. Carol M. Borgstrom, Director, Office of NEPA Oversight, (EH&hyph;25), U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;4600 or leave a message at (800) 472&hyph;2756. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a Floodplain Statement of Findings for the proposed remedial investigation activities on the K&hyph;901 OU at K&hyph;25, prepared in accordance with 10 CFR Part 1022. A Notice of Floodplain/Wetlands Involvement was published in the Federal Register [58 Fed Reg 51624 (October 4, 1993)] and a floodplain assessment was completed; no wetlands are involved in the proposed action. DOE is proposing to conduct remedial investigation activities in characterize the site as to ground-water quality, movement, and interaction with surface water and the types and levels of contaminants present and being released from the OU. Surface water and sediment investigations would provide information to evaluate migration pathway and contaminant load transported by the pathway. Soil investigation activities would focus on delineating contamination within the OU and defining specific contaminant sources. The proposed action employs various sampling techniques including: (1) installation of ground-water monitoring wells; (2) drilling boreholes with a hollow-stem auger drilling rig; and (3) using hand augers and other manual sampling methods. Some of the sampling activities associated with K&hyph;901 OU would be located in the 100-year floodplain of the Clinch River. None of these activities would adversely impact the floodplain or measurably change flood levels. Rather, implementation of the proposed action would have an overall positive effect on the environment and human health by providing information to delineate contamination within the OU in order that remedial actions can be taken to reduce the amount of contaminants entering the environment. Drilling equipment access to some sampling sites may require some new gravel roads and the removal of some trees; however, use of existing roadways and clearings would be optimized to reduce tree and vegetation removal. While most roadways would be reclaimed and revegetated, some would be left in place to provide access to monitoring wells. In addition, approximately 5 to 10 temporary drilling pads (25 ft × 25 ft × 1 ft) would be required; the land under these pads would be reclaimed and revegetated at the conclusion of the action. Site access road construction and pad installation activities would not measurably reduce the flood storage capacity of the floodplain, interfere with stream flow, or produce hazardous flood velocities; therefore, no special mitigative measures would be required. Best management practices, such as the placement of seals on the monitoring wells to prevent infiltration of surface water and the mixing of ground water, would be implemented to ensure that only minimal amounts of disturbance to the floodplain would occur. Two alternatives to the proposed action were considered_no action and the relocation of sampling locations outside of the floodplain. Both alternatives would ensure no disturbance of the floodplain but would seriously impact efforts to characterize the site, result in an unacceptable remedial action plan, and would not be protective of human health or the environment because the nature and extent of contamination would not be fully known. The proposed action has been designed to avoid or minimize impacts to the 100-year floodplain and no adverse impacts to the floodplain are expected to occur. The proposed action does confirm to applicable State floodplain standards. DOE will endeavor to allow 15 days of public review after publication of the statement of findings prior to implementing the proposed action. Issued in Washington, D.C., on July 12, 1994. James W. Wagoner, Acting Director, Office of Eastern Area Programs, Office of Environmental Restoration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17896 Filed 7&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P&hyph;M
