FR940202-1-00010 FR940202-1-00004 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;203&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;301 Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;301 airplanes. This proposal would require modification of the sidewall panels in the passenger cabin. This proposal is prompted by a report that inadequate venting between the cabin and the compartments beneath the floor could occur during rapid fuselage decompression. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent collapse of the floor and subsequent injury to passengers. DATES: Comments must be received by March 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;203&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from de Havilland, Inc., Garratt Boulevard, Downsview, Ontario M3K 1Y5, Canada. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, room 202, Valley Stream, New York. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jon Hjelm, Aerospace Engineer, Airframe Branch, ANE&hyph;172, FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, room 202, Valley Stream, New York 11581; telephone (516) 791&hyph;6220; fax (516) 791&hyph;9024. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 93&hyph;NM&hyph;203&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;203&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion Transport Canada Aviation, which is the airworthiness authority for Canada, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;301 airplanes. Transport Canada Aviation advises that, during a post-certification review of the design for cabin venting between compartments, the manufacturer discovered that the cabin and the compartments beneath the floor could be inadequately vented during rapid fuselage decompression of these airplanes. This condition is the result of movement of the sidewall panels in the passenger cabin, which may partially block the vents along the bottom edges of the panels. This condition, if not corrected, could result in collapse of the floor and subsequent injury to passengers. De Havilland has issued Service Bulletin No. 8&hyph;25&hyph;53, dated August 4, 1989, that describes procedures for modification of the sidewall panels in the passenger cabin (Modification No. 8/1339). The modification entails bonding spacers along the lower edge of the cabin sidewall panels to provide support. Installation of the spacers will ensure that intercompartmental venting is maintained in the event of rapid fuselage decompression. Transport Canada Aviation classified this service bulletin as mandatory and issued Canadian Airworthiness Directive No. CF&hyph;90&hyph;26, dated November 29, 1990, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Canada. This airplane model is manufactured in Canada and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of ยง21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, Transport Canada Aviation has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of Transport Canada Aviation, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States.
