FR940523-2-00043 FR940523-2-00024 [Docket No. CP94&hyph;224&hyph;000] Northern Natural Gas Co.; Intent to Prepare an Environmental Assessment for the Proposed EF Expansion Project and Request for Comments on Environmental Issues May 17, 1994. The staff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC or the Commission) will prepare an environmental assessment (EA) that will discuss environmental impacts of the construction and operation of natural gas pipeline facilities proposed in the EF Expansion Project. 1 This EA will be used by the Commission in its decision-making process to determine whether an environmental impact statement is necessary and whether or not to approve the project. 1 Northern Natural Gas Company's (Northern) application was filed with the Commission under section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act. Summary of the Proposed Project The applicant proposes to construct and operate the following facilities: A. Three segments of approximately 11.95 miles of pipeline: •1.28 miles of 30-inch-diameter pipeline in Washington County, Minnesota (C-Line Extension); •2.82 miles of 30-inch-diameter pipeline in Steele County, Minnesota (D-Line Extension); •7.85 miles of 8-inch-diameter pipeline in Morrison County, Minnesota (Alexandria Branchline Loop); and B. modify nine existing Town Border Stations (TBS) (see appendix 1). The proposed facilities would be used to transport up to 19,288 Mcfd to Minnegasco, a Division of Arkla, Inc. and Great Plains Natural Gas Company. The general location of these facilities is shown in appendix 2. 2 2 Appendices 2 and 3 are not being printed in the Federal Register . Copies are available from the Commission's Public Reference Branch, room 3104, 941 North Capitol Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426, or call (202) 208&hyph;1371. Copies of the appendices were sent to all those receiving this notice in the mail. Land Requirements for Construction The proposed pipeline would be built adjacent and parallel to existing rights-of-way. Northern intends to use a 75-foot-wide construction right-of-way. About 25 to 35 feet of the planned 75-foot width would use existing right-of-way. Consequently, about 35 to 50 feet of new clearing would be required in most areas. Following construction, about 25 feet of the construction right-of-way would be allowed to revert to its former land use. Additional working space would be required adjacent to the planned construction right-of-way at road and stream crossings. The EA Process The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires the Commission to take into account the environmental impacts that could result from an action whenever it considers the issuance of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity. NEPA also requires us to discover and address concerns the public may have about proposals. We call this ``scoping''. The main goal of the scoping process is to focus the analysis in the EA on the important environmental issues. By this Notice of Intent, the Commission requests public comments on the scope of the issues it will address in the EA. All comments received are taken into account during the preparation of the EA. The EA will discuss impacts that could occur as a result of the construction and operation of the proposed project under these general headings: •geology and soils •water resources, fisheries, and wetlands •vegetation and wildlife •endangered and threatened species •land use •cultural resources •hazardous waste
