FR940217-1-00092 FR940217-1-00014 (iii) Financial and compliance auditing. (iv) Mailing of documents prepared by the institution. (v) Warehousing of records; and (3) Notwithstanding the exclusions referred to in paragraph (2) of this definition, include any activity comprised of any function described in paragraph (1) of this definition. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088) * * * * * 4. Section 668.11 is revised to read as follows: §668.11 Scope. (a) This subpart establishes standards that an institution must meet in order to participate in any Title IV, HEA program. (b) Noncompliance with these standards by an institution already participating in any Title IV, HEA program or with applicable standards in this subpart by a third-party servicer that contracts with the institution may subject the institution or servicer, or both, to proceedings under subpart G of this part. These proceedings may lead to any of the following actions: (1) An emergency action. (2) The imposition of a fine. (3) The limitation, suspension, or termination of the participation of the institution in a Title IV, HEA program. (4) The limitation, suspension, or termination of the eligibility of the servicer to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 5. Section 668.12, as proposed to be amended in a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking published on July 10, 1992 (57 FR 30830), is further amended by removing the period at the end of proposed redesignated paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(B) and adding, in its place, a semi-colon and adding new paragraphs (b)(2)(v) and (b)(2)(vi) to read as follows: §668.12 Institutional participation agreement. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (v) That it is liable for all_ (A) Improperly spent or unspent funds received under the Title IV, HEA programs, including any funds administered by a third-party servicer; and (B) Refunds that the institution or its servicer may be required to make; and (vi) That it will not knowingly_ (A) Employ in a capacity that involves the administration of the Title IV, HEA programs or the receipt of funds under those programs, an individual who has been convicted of, or has pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving the acquisition, use, or expenditure of Federal, State, or local government funds, or has been administratively or judicially determined to have committed fraud or any other material violation of law involving those funds; (B) Contract with an institution or third-party servicer that has been terminated under section 432 of the HEA for a reason involving the acquisition, use, or expenditure of Federal, State, or local government funds, or that has been administratively or judicially determined to have committed fraud or any other material violation of law involving those funds; or (C) Contract with or employ any individual, agency, or organization that has been, or any of whose officers or employees have been_ ( 1 ) Convicted of, or pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving the acquisition, use, or expenditure of Federal, State or local government funds; or ( 2 ) Administratively or judicially determined to have committed fraud or any other material violation of law involving Federal, State, or local funds. * * * * * 6. Section 668.13 as amended by the regulations published in the Federal Register on June 8, 1993 (58 FR 32201) (effective date pending) is amended by removing paragraphs (c)(4) and (g); redesignating paragraph (c)(5) as (c)(4) and paragraphs (h) through (j) as paragraphs (g) through (i), respectively; adding the word ``or'' after the semi-colon in paragraph (c)(3); and revising redesignated paragraph (c)(4), paragraph (d)(3), and redesignated paragraphs (g) introductory text and (h) to read as follows:
