FR940128-2-00146 FR940128-2-00093 The MCHB places special emphasis on improving service delivery to women and children from culturally identifiable populations who have been disproportionately affected by barriers to accessible care. This means that projects are expected to serve and appropriately involve in project activities members of ethnoculturally distinct groups, unless there are compelling programmatic or other justifications for not doing so. The Bureau's intent is to ensure that project interventions and outcomes are of benefit to culturally distinct populations and to insure that the broadest possible representation of culturally distinct and historically under-represented groups is supported through programs and projects sponsored by the MCHB. The Department will review applications for funds under the above mentioned categories as competing applications and, with particular attention to inclusion of women and persons from culturally distinct populations, will fund those which, in the Department's view, best meet the statutory purposes of the HIV Demonstration Program for Children, Adolescents, and Families and address achievement of the Healthy People 2000 objectives related to HIV infection. Review Criteria Applications for grant categories will be reviewed and rated by objective review panels using the review criteria specified below, as appropriate. Please note that there are different criteria for Category (1) and Category (2) applicants. •For Category (1) HIV Demonstration Projects: _Adequacy of documentation of the impact of HIV/AIDS on children, youth, women, and families in the service area including: identification of HIV risk factors, description of trends in the HIV epidemic, and determination and documentation of unmet service needs. _Ability to demonstrate an organized comprehensive system of family-centered, community-based, coordinated care, including the following features: (1) Collaboration/coordination with appropriate community agencies and providers, particularly State Title V agencies, other Ryan White programs, and Healthy Start agencies (2) linkages to primary care, and (3) appropriate referral mechanisms. _Adequacy of efforts to develop linkages with clinical trials and activities undertaken to facilitate access of the target population to trials, or identification of proposed activities to overcome barriers. _Clarity of delineation of goals and objectives for the grant period and appropriateness of the timeline for proposed activities. Consistency of the plan with the goals of Title IV and the extent to which the plan addresses the needs identified in the needs assessment. _Adequacy of the strategy and proposed steps to utilize and report data and evaluation for program planning and management, as well as for measuring the efficacy and effectiveness of the program. _Organizational structure, staffing, and oversight necessary to implement the proposed goals and objectives. _Adequacy of the proposed budget; budget justification based on project methodology and required resources. _Evidence of ability to obtain funding from other public and private funding sources or indication of problems in accessing such funds. _For competing renewal applicants only, demonstration of an organized, comprehensive system of care and progress in meeting the goals of the current project period will be assessed. •For Category (2) Comprehensive Care Initial Development Grants:
