FR941104-2-00087 FR941104-2-00052 G. To a Federal, State, local or foreign government agency maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to a decision of INS concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit. H. To the Office of Management and Budget in connection with the review of private relief legislation as set forth in OMB Circular No. A&hyph;19 at any stage of the legislative coordination and clearance process as set forth in the Circular. I. To other Federal agencies for the purpose of conducting national intelligence and security investigations. J. To an applicant, petitioner or respondent or to his or her attorney or representative as defined in 8 CFR 1.1(j) in connection with any proceeding before INS. K. To a Federal, State, or local government agency to assist such agencies in collecting the repayment of loans, or fraudulently or erroneously secured benefits, grants, or other debts owed to them or to the United States government, and/or to obtain information that may assist INS in collecting debts owed to the United States Government; to a foreign government to assist such government in collecting the repayment of loans, or fraudulently or erroneously secured benefits, grants, or other debts owed to it provided that the foreign government in question (1) provides sufficient documentation to establish the validity of the stated purpose of its request, and (2) provides similar information to the United States upon request. L. To student volunteers whose services are accepted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3111 or to students enrolled in a college work study program pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2751 et seq. M. To the news media and the public pursuant to 28 CFR 50.2 unless it is determined that release of the specific information in the context of a particular case would constitute an unwarranted invasion of a personal privacy. N. To a Member of Congress or staff acting on the Member's behalf when the Member or staff requests the information on behalf of and at the request of the individual who is the subject of the record. O. To the General Services Administration and the National Archives and Records Administration in records management inspections conducted under the authority of 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906. POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR STORING, RETRIEVING, ACCESSING, RETAINING, AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM: STORAGE: Most A-file and C-file records are paper documents and are stored in file folders. Some microfilm and other records are stored in manually operated machines, file drawers, and filing cabinets. Those index records which can be accessed electronically are stored in a data base on magnetic disk and tape. RETRIEVABILITY: These records are indexed and retrieved by A-file or C-file number, name, and/or date of birth. SAFEGUARDS: INS offices are located in buildings under security guard, and access to premises is by official identification. All records are stored in spaces which are locked during non-duty office hours. Many records are stored in cabinets or machines which are also locked during non-duty office hours. Access to automated records is controlled by passwords and name identifications. RETENTION AND DISPOSAL: A-file records are retained for 75 years from the closing date or date of last action and then destroyed. C-file records are to be destroyed 100 years from March 31, 1956. Automated index records are retained only as long as they serve a useful purpose and then they are deleted from the system disk and/or tape.
