FR940104-2-00014 FR940104-2-00009 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, DoD. ACTION: Notice of the TRICARE Demonstration Project in California and Hawaii. SUMMARY: Notice was previously given in the Federal Register (53 FR 23783&hyph;23784) of June 24, 1988, that a demonstration project, called the CHAMPUS Reform Initiative (CRI), would be conducted by contract under the provisions of chapter 55, title 10, section 1092, to test a different method for financing and delivering health services under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS). Delivery of services under that contract began August 1, 1988, for all beneficiaries who reside in the states of California and Hawaii, and is scheduled to end January 31, 1994. The TRICARE demonstration project in California and Hawaii is a continuation of the CRI demonstration project and includes five option periods, the execution of which would result in five years of service delivery under the new contract. An evaluation of the significant new features of the demonstration will be conducted. The objectives of the demonstration are to enhance beneficiary access and continuity of care, contain health care costs, and improve coordination between the military and civilian components of the Military Health Services System (MHSS). DATES: February 1, 1994, for CHAMPUS beneficiaries in California and Hawaii. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard E. Bellamy, Chief, Coordinated Care Branch, OCHAMPUS, Aurora, CO, 80045&hyph;6900, telephone (303) 361&hyph;1336. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Register Notice referenced above described in detail the CRI demonstration project, which includes a choice for beneficiaries of three benefit options; CHAMPUS Prime, a health maintenance organization (HMO) benefit; CHAMPUS Extra, a preferred provider organization (PPO) benefit; and standard CHAMPUS, an indemnity benefit. The benefit options under this TRICARE demonstration (called TRICARE Prime, TRICARE Extra, and TRICARE Standard) are the same as those described in the Federal Register Notice for the CRI demonstration. There are only five significant differences for beneficiaries and providers between the CRI demonstration project and the TRICARE demonstration project in California and Hawaii: _The new contractor is Aetna Government Health Plans. Aetna subcontracts with Hawaii Medical Service Association (HMSA) for the provision of health care in Hawaii, and with Blue Cross and Blue Shield of South Carolina (operating under the name of Palmetto Government Benefits Administrators) for claims processing services. _Beneficiaries with a civilian Primary Care Manager (PCM) will need a referral in order to obtain covered services at a Military Treatment Facility (MTF) or a PRIMUS/NAVCARE clinic (except for emergency services, or for pharmacy services obtained at an MTF). _MTF Commanders may consider the availability of health care from civilian network providers, in addition to availability from MTF providers, in determining whether to issue a Nonavailability Statement (NAS) to beneficiaries. Standard NAS procedures for beneficiaries apply. _The CHAMPUS home health care demonstration (as outlined in the CHAMPUS Operations Manual, Part Two, Chapter 20, Addendum B) is included in this demonstration. _Beneficiaries who receive care from network providers in the states of California and Hawaii, but who are not residents of those states, obtain the TRICARE Extra benefits (payments based on discounted provider rates and reduced coinsurance). Duration It is expected that the demonstration status of this program will end upon promulgation of final regulations, expected in 1994, which will provide permanent authority for implementation of managed care enrollment programs by the Department. In any event, the effect of this Notice shall expire September 30, 1994. Dated: December 27, 1993. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;57 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
