FR940613-1-00029 FR940613-1-00003 (d) Requirements. In addition to other requirements that may be imposed by the applicable state statutes and regulations and other federal statutes and regulations, including ยง303.15 of this chapter, an insured mutual state savings bank shall not convert to the stock form of ownership unless the following requirements are satisfied: (1) The subscription offering of the stock to be offered or sold in the conversion shall provide a stock purchase priority to eligible depositors, other depositors and others entitled to vote on the bank's proposed conversion residing in the bank's local community or within 100 miles of a home office or branch of the converting bank; (2) Employee stock ownership plans shall not have priority over subscription rights of eligible depositors; (3) Any direct community offering by the converting bank shall give a purchase priority to natural persons residing in the bank's local community or within 100 miles of a home office or branch of the bank; (4) The proposed conversion shall be approved by a vote of at least a majority of the bank's depositors and other stakeholders of the bank who the bank's trustees reasonably determine are entitled to vote on the conversion, unless the applicable state law requires a higher percentage, in which case the higher percentage shall be used. Voting may be in person or by proxy; (5) Management shall not use proxies executed outside the context of the proposed conversion to satisfy the voting requirement imposed in paragraph (d)(4) of this section; and (6) In addition to the materials to be submitted to the FDIC pursuant to ยง303.15(c) of this chapter, the bank must submit to the FDIC: (i) A full appraisal report on the value of the converting bank and the pricing of the stock to be sold in the conversion. The report must be prepared by an independent appraiser and must include a complete and detailed description of the elements that make up an appraisal report, justification for the methodology employed and sufficient support for the conclusions reached therein, including a full discussion of the applicability of each peer group member and documented analytical evidence supporting any variance (above or below) the institution proposing to convert may have from the peer group statistics and a complete analysis of the institution's pro forma earnings which should include its full potential once the institution fully deploys its new capital pursuant to its business plan; and (ii) A business plan which must include, in part, a detailed discussion of how the capital acquired in the conversion will be utilized, expected returns resulting from the plan and a justification for any proposed stock repurchases. (e) Restriction on repurchase of stock. An insured mutual state savings bank that has converted from the mutual to stock form of ownership may not repurchase its capital stock within one year following the date of its conversion to stock form. Any stock repurchases after the one year period shall be subject to the requirements of section 18(i)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(i)(1)). (f) Stock benefit plan limitations. No converted insured mutual state savings bank shall, for one year from the date of the conversion, implement a stock option plan or management or employee stock benefit plan, other than a tax-qualified employee stock ownership plan, unless each of the following requirements is met: (1) Each of the plans was fully disclosed in the proxy soliciting and conversion stock offering materials; (2) All such plans are approved by a majority of the bank's stockholders, or in the case of a recently formed holding company, its stockholders, prior to implementation and no sooner than the first annual meeting following the conversion; (3) In the case of a savings bank subsidiary of a mutual holding company, all such plans are approved by a majority of stockholders other than its parent mutual holding company prior to implementation and no sooner than the first annual meeting following the stock issuance; (4) For stock option plans, stock options are granted at no lower than the market price at which the stock is trading at the time of grant; and (5) For management or employee stock benefit plans, no conversion stock is used to fund the plans. By the order of the Board of Directors. Dated at Washington, D.C., this 31st day of May, 1994. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Robert E. Feldman, Acting Executive Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14007 Filed 6&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6714&hyph;01&hyph;P
