FR940406-2-00152 FR940406-2-00090 5. Appeals If an application for either a Resident Capacity grant or a Predevelopment grant is denied, the applicant will have the right to appeal that denial to the Department. The appeal must be made within 45 days of application rejection to: Multifamily Preservation Division, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, NW., room 6284, Washington DC, 20410. The Department will make a binding determination within 45 days of the appeal. 6. Award Notification If an applicant is awarded and accepts a Resident Capacity or Predevelopment grant, the applicant must inform the residents of the property about the award, by posting a notice or through a resident meeting or both, within three weeks of the applicant's acceptance of the award. V. Intermediary Application Process A. Obtaining Intermediary Applications Intermediary application kits are available from the Multifamily Preservation Division, Department of Housing and Urban Development, room 6284, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410; telephone (202) 708&hyph;2300; and the Multifamily Housing Clearinghouse, P.O. Box 6424, Rockville, MD 20850, telephone 1&hyph;800&hyph;955&hyph;2232. B. Submitting Applications Applications will be submitted to the Multifamily Preservation Division Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW., room 6284, Washington, DC 20410. Applications must be received no later than June 6, 1994. No facsimiled (FAXed) applications will be accepted. Any application received after 5:00 p.m., E.D.T., on the due date will not be accepted for processing and will be returned to the applicant. Any corrections to deficient applications made in accordance with Section V.E of this NOFA may be transmitted by facsimile; however, the original subsequently must be submitted by mail. C. Submission Requirements An intermediary must provide the following: (1) A completed application, including the following, as applicable: (a) OMB Standard Form 424; (b) Identification of proposed geographic area in which it will perform intermediary activities; (c) Information about how the applicant meets the Factors for Award listed in Section III.E(2) of this NOFA; (d) Information about the applicant, including its history, its staff and their qualifications, and its experience; (e) Summary of plan to advertise grant availability, distribute applications, review applications, disburse funds, and monitor activities under the grant; (f) Evidence of tax exempt status, if applicable; (g) Certification that the intermediary will not receive payment, directly or indirectly, from the proceeds of the grants it has approved; (h) Certification that assistance provided under this NOFA will not be used to supplant or duplicate other resources for the proposed activities. For purposes of this paragraph, ``other resources'' means resources provided from any source other than under this NOFA; (i) Other disclosures, certifications, and assurances (including Drug-Free Workplace and Anti-Lobbying certifications), as required under the law and this NOFA; and (j) Other information and materials as may be described in the application kit. D. Intermediary Selection Process The selection process for intermediaries consists of a threshold screening to determine whether the application meets the technical requirements for application submission contained in this NOFA and the application kit. If the application meets the technical requirements, it will be reviewed and ranked by the Preservation Division in HUD Headquarters according to the selection criteria in Section III.E of this NOFA. Within 60 days from the application deadline, the Preservation Division will notify an intermediary of its selection or rejection. Selected intermediaries will be required to sign a grant agreement. If no intermediary is selected for a particular State, the HUD field offices will administer the grants directly. E. Corrections to Deficient Applications If an application submitted by an intermediary is found to be deficient in a nonsubstantive manner, the Department will inform the applicant of such deficiency within 15 days after the application deadline and the applicant will have seven days to submit revisions to its application. Nonsubstantive deficiencies are those that are not integral to the application's review, such as a certification. If an application is substantively deficient at the time of application deadline, the application will be rejected.
