FR940228-1-00076 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary intends to use provisional certification as a mechanism for monitoring an institution that has not previously participated or one that has changed ownership, until it has time to establish a track record. In keeping with current practice, the Secretary does not intend to certify any initial applicant until it has successfully completed a period of provisional certification. Because many of the requirements for certification cannot be met until an institution has participated in the Title IV, HEA programs for a period of time, an initially participating institution would still have the opportunity to participate while establishing a record that demonstrates compliance with all of the proposed current standards for participation. The Secretary notes that certain factors of financial responsibility and administrative capability, such as requirements governing the appropriate handling of Title IV, HEA program funds and timely submission of required audits and other reports, cannot be judged until an institution has Title IV, HEA program funds to administer. In these cases, instead of certifying that an institution meets all the standards of subpart B, the Secretary certifies that an institution has demonstrated that it meets all the standards it can currently and that it will be able to meet all the standards in subpart B to qualify it for full certification within a period of time specified by the Secretary. Such an institution will receive a modified program participation agreement. For the same reasons, the Secretary also intends to use provisional certification for all institutions that undergo a change of ownership. Provisional certification would permit them to participate in Title IV, HEA programs while demonstrating over time that they can meet the standards for participation under the new ownership. In addition, the HEA provides that the Secretary may use provisional certification for institutions that are currently participating who will have their financial responsibility and administrative capability determined for the first time. Some institutions have been participating in the Title IV, HEA programs since before the establishment of the financial responsibility and administrative capability standards, and have never undergone a certification review. These institutions may be allowed the time necessary to establish that they can remedy any deficiencies found and meet the standards for participation. Finally, under the provisions of the Technical Amendments of 1993, the Secretary may provisionally certify a participating institution that is undergoing a certification review if the Secretary believes that the institution is in a financial or administrative position that could jeopardize the institution's ability to perform its financial responsibilities under its program participation agreement. The Secretary may provisionally certify an institution under this provision if the institution's participation has been limited or suspended under subpart G of this part, or voluntarily enters into provisional certification. Thus, the Secretary proposes to use provisional certification as a probationary period for some participating institutions, if the Secretary determines that the institutions are capable of meeting the standards for full certification by the end of that period. For example, the Secretary might find that an institution applying for recertification on its own fails to meet one of the standards in proposed ยง668.15. If the Secretary determines that the failure could jeopardize the institution's ability to meet its financial responsibilities, such as the payment of refunds, the Secretary would provisionally certify the institution.
