FR940202-2-00097 FR940202-2-00071 Wednesday February 2, 1994 Part II Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Draft Guideline for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia; Notice of Comment Period Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 22␣/␣Wednesday, February 2, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Draft Guideline for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia: Part 1. ``Issues on Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia_1994'' and Part 2. ``Recommendations for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia''; Notice of Comment Period AGENCY: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Public Health Service (PHS), Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice is a request for review and comment of the draft Guideline for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia. The Guideline consists of two parts entitled ``Issues on Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia_1994,'' and ``Recommendations for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia,'' prepared by the Hospital Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC) and the National Center for Infectious Diseases (NCID), CDC. DATES: Written comments on the draft document must be received on or before April 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on this document should be submitted in writing to the CDC, Attention: Pneumonia Guideline Information Center, Mailstop A07, 1600 Clifton Road, NE., Atlanta, Georgia 30333. To order copies of the Federal Register containing the document, contact the U.S. Government Printing Office, Order and Information Desk, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;9329, at (202) 783&hyph;3238. Specify the date of the issue requested and stock number 069&hyph;001&hyph;000&hyph;70&hyph;0. See page II of the Federal Register for additional ordering and cost information. In addition, the Federal Register may be viewed and photocopied at most libraries designated as U.S. Government Depository Libraries and at many other public and academic libraries that receive the Federal Register throughout the country. The order-desk operator can tell you the location of the U.S. Government Depository Library nearest you. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The Pneumonia Guideline Information Center, (404) 332&hyph;2569. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This document updates and replaces the previously published CDC Guideline for the Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia. Emphasis is placed on bacterial pneumonias, including gram-negative bacillary pneumonias and Legionnaires' disease; pneumonia due to Aspergillus spp.; and lower respiratory tract infections caused by respiratory syncytial and influenza viruses. Part I, ``Issues on Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia_1994,'' was prepared by staff of NCID, CDC, and provides the background for the HICPAC-consensus recommendations contained in Part II, ``Recommendations for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia.'' HICPAC was established in 1991 to provide advice and guidance to the Secretary, DHHS; the Assistant Secretary for Health; the Director, CDC; and the Director, NCID, regarding the practice of hospital infection control and strategies for surveillance, prevention, and control of nosocomial infections in U.S. hospitals. The committee also advises the CDC on periodic updating of guidelines and other policy statements regarding prevention of nosocomial infections. The Guideline for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia is the first of a series of CDC guidelines being revised by HICPAC and NCID, CDC. Dated: January 25, 1994. Walter R. Dowdle, Deputy Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
