FR941021-0-00124 FR941021-0-00020 (C) An indirect cost proposal covering all or part of the budget period and applicable to the activities for which DOE may provide funding will be submitted to the cognizant agency for approval no later than three months after the beginning date of the initial budget period of the DOE award or, for subsequent budget periods, in accordance with any schedule established by the cognizant agency; or (ii) If not assigned to a cognizant agency, the applicant includes, in the application, data that is current, complete, accurate, and sufficient to allow the Contracting Officer to determine a rate(s) for indirect costs. If the total approved budget will not exceed $100,000 or if the amount requested for indirect costs does not exceed $5,000, DOE may waive the requirement for negotiation of a rate and, in lieu thereof, provide a reasonable allowance for such costs. (2) Indirect cost proposals shall be prepared and submitted in accordance with the applicable Federal cost principles and instructions from the cognizant agency or from DOE, as appropriate. (3) If a subaward under an award or subaward provides for the payment of indirect costs, the recipient or subrecipient shall be responsible for negotiating appropriate indirect costs, using the cost principles applicable to the subrecipient or contractor, unless the subrecipient or contractor has negotiated an applicable rate directly with DOE or another Federal department or agency. DOE may review and audit the procedures a recipient or subrecipient uses in conducting indirect cost negotiations. (c) Fee or profit. No increment above cost may be paid to a recipient or subrecipient under a DOE award or subaward, except for SBIR recipients as provided in §600.181(d)(3). A fee or profit may be paid to a contractor providing goods or services under a contract with a recipient or subrecipient. §600.128 Period of availability of funds. Where a funding period is specified, a recipient may charge to the award only allowable costs resulting from obligations incurred during the funding period and any pre-award costs authorized by DOE. Property Standards §600.130 Purpose of property standards. Sections 600.131 through 600.137 set forth uniform standards governing management and disposition of property furnished by the Federal Government or whose cost was charged to a project supported by a Federal award. Recipients shall observe these standards under awards and shall not impose additional requirements, unless specifically required by Federal statute or program regulations. The recipient may use its own property management standards and procedures provided it observes the provisions of §§600.131 through 600.137. §600.131 Insurance coverage. Recipients shall, at a minimum, provide the equivalent insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired with DOE funds as provided to property owned by the recipient. Federally-owned property need not be insured unless required by the terms and conditions of the award. §600.132 Real property. Unless otherwise provided by statute or program regulations, the requirements concerning the use and disposition of real property acquired in whole or in part under awards are as follows. (a) Title to real property shall vest in the recipient subject to the condition that the recipient shall use the real property for the authorized purpose of the project as long as it is needed and shall not encumber the property without approval of DOE. (b) The recipient shall obtain written approval by DOE for the use of real property in other federally-sponsored projects when the recipient determines that the property is no longer needed for the purpose of the original project. Use in other projects shall be limited to those under federally-sponsored projects (i.e., awards) or programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by DOE. (c) When the real property is no longer needed as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the recipient shall request disposition instructions from DOE or its successor Federal awarding agency. DOE will give one or more of the following disposition instructions. (1) The recipient may be permitted to retain title without further obligation to the Federal Government after it compensates the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property attributable to the Federal participation in the project. (2) The recipient may be directed to sell the property under guidelines provided by DOE and pay the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property attributable to the Federal participation in the project (after deducting actual and reasonable selling and fix-up expenses, if any, from the sales proceeds). When the recipient is authorized or required to sell the property, proper sales procedures shall be established that provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return. (3) The recipient may be directed to transfer title to the property to the Federal Government or to an eligible third party provided that, in such cases, the recipient shall be entitled to compensation for its attributable percentage of the current fair market value of the property. §600.133 Federally-owned and exempt property.
