FR940713-2-00141 FR940713-2-00081 B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Commission published the Exchange's rule proposal to list SCOR securities in July 1993. 7 Several comment letters were received by the Commission, including comments from the California Department of Corporations 8 and NASAA's Small Business Capital Formation Committee. 9 While these comment letters generally supported the Exchange's overall policy objectives to facilitate capital formation for small companies and to provide public investors in those securities with more liquidity, the agencies recommended that revisions be made to the Exchange's rule proposal to strengthen the qualitative listing requirements in order to ensure adequate investor protection. They also suggested that more precise language be incorporated to assure that the listings requirements would not be waived. 7 See Exchange Act Release No. 32514 (June 25, 1993), 58 FR 35496 (July 1, 1993). 8 See letter from Brian A. Thompson, Acting Commissioner of Corporations, State of California, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, dated July 21, 1993. 9 See letter from Neal E. Sullivan, Chairman, NASAA's Small Business Capital Formation Committee, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, dated July 30, 1993. The Commission also received 15 supportive comment letters from small companies and individuals. In the months that followed (September 1993 through May 1994) the Exchange consulted extensively with the California Department of Corporations and NASAA 10 to resolve the above-mentioned comments as well as other questions that were subsequently raised during this time interval. After careful review and consideration of all the information received from the aforementioned parties, the Exchange incorporated new language into the rules that the Exchange Staff believes satisfactorily addresses these comments. A number of minor changes have been made throughout the filing for stylistic and clarification purposes. 10 In February 1994, the Exchange was advised by Barry Guthary, Chairman of NASAA's Small Business Capital Formation Committee, that our initiative to list SCOR securities would be more appropriately reviewed by the NASAA Small Business Sales Practices Committee chaired by Deborah Bortner, Assistant Securities Administrator, State of Washington Securities Division. Consequently, since March 1994, the Exchange has received constructive and valuable input from this committee. In a letter dated April 14, 1994, the Exchange received a formal response from Ms. Bortner's committee regarding the Exchange's amended rule proposal. The most substantive comments received by the Exchange that precipitated this amendment are categorically discussed below. Representations of Approval for Listing In the original proposal, NASAA was troubled by the lack of a definitive enforcement standard precluding companies (or underwriters) from falsely claiming in a prospectus that the securities being offered were approved for listing on the Exchange. The Exchange appreciated NASAA's concerns that a company or broker-dealer may employ such a scheme to defraud any prospective investor by misrepresenting that SCOR securities have been approved for listing. To address this concern, the Exchange has added more precise language that clearly prohibits this practice. 11 11 See proposed Rule 3.2(t), Commentary .06. Qualitative Listing Requirements As mentioned above, the California Department of Corporations and NASAA suggested that the Exchange incorporate additional qualitative factors that would be evaluated in determining a company's listing eligibility. Therefore, the Exchange expanded and provided further specificity to the guidelines to be considered in the review of any listing application. The standards set forth in proposed Rules 3.2(a) and 3.2(t)(6) are intended to provide guidelines that will be strictly enforced. The fact that an applicant may meet the numerical requirements does not mean that its application will be necessarily approved. Compliance with Listing Requirements for Minimum Price and Market Capitalization In a letter dated March 21, 1994, the California Department of Corporations questioned how and when the initial listing requirement for market capitalization would be calculated. In order to eliminate any potential confusion in determining whether the issuer satisfies the initial price per share and market capitalization requirements, the Exchange decided to provide further specificity to the pricing guidelines. 12 The Exchange felt that any direct reference to the term ``market value'' as proposed in the original rule filing would be inappropriate because there is no practical means to establish how and when market value is calculated. 12 See proposed Rule 3.2(t)(3) and subsections (iv) and (v) of proposed Rule 3.2(t)(6). Trading Environment The Exchange received comment letters from the California Department of Corporations and NASAA, dated March 21 and April 13, 1994, respectively, which expressed similar concerns regarding the role and obligations of the specialist in trading SCOR securities. On May 2, 1994, the Exchange provided the California Department of Corporations with a formal response to their inquiry and cited specific provisions of Exchange regulations governing a specialist's trading obligations, capital requirements, and performance standards. In this letter, the Exchange made a strong commitment toward ensuring that their SCOR listing policies and trading procedures would be effectively applied and well administered. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period: (i) As the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the PSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;92&hyph;42 and should be submitted by August 3, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16954 Filed 7&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
