FR941012-2-00022 FR941012-2-00008 To calculate constructed value, petitioner adjusted its own manufacturing costs for a standard black zinc plated wheel insert for known differences in costs between the United States and Taiwan. We adjusted the reported material costs to account for revenue received by petitioner from the sale of scrap material. Because the plating costs included selling, general and administrative expenses as well as the profit of petitioner's plater, we have adjusted the plating expenses to exclude these amounts. For overhead, utilities were adjusted using a ratio of Taiwanese to U.S. electricity costs. Other components of petitioner's overhead were adjusted using the ratio of Taiwanese to U.S. labor costs. Certain components of overhead were not adjusted by petitioner. Because we view this industry sufficiently labor intensive to justify using the ratio of Taiwanese to U.S. labor costs to adjust overhead, we have applied the labor ratio uniformly to all components of overhead (except utilities). Additionally, because petitioner allocated overhead expenses (inclusive of expenses related to petitioner's plating operation) over payroll expenses (exclusive of plating wages), we have added plating wages to petitioner's calculation of payroll expenses. Petitioner provided two hourly wage rates for Taiwanese manufacturing workers, one obtained from private research, the other obtained from a public source. Because of the Department's preference for publicly available information, we selected the latter and adjusted it as follows: 1) we disallowed petitioner's inclusion of an annual bonus because petitioner's wage rate calculation did not include bonuses; and 2) we inflated the wage rate for one year instead of two, as calculated by petitioner, because we determined that the wage rate was from 1992. The statutory minimum percentages of 10 percent for selling, general and administrative expenses and eight percent for profit were relied upon in petitioner's calculation. After the above adjustments were made, the recalculated dumping margin for wheel inserts produced on a screw machine is 46.28 percent. Initiation of Investigation Pursuant to section 732(c) of the Act, the Department must determine, within 20 days after a petition is filed, whether a petition sets forth an allegation necessary for the initiation of an antidumping duty investigation, and whether the petition contains information reasonably available to the petitioner supporting the allegation. We have examined the petition for wheel inserts from Taiwan, as amended, and have found that it meets the requirements of section 732(b) of the Act. Therefore, we are initiating an antidumping duty investigation to determine whether imports of wheel inserts from Taiwan are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value. If this investigation proceeds normally, we will make our preliminary determination by February 22, 1995. International Trade Commission (ITC) Notification Section 732(d) of the Act requires us to notify the ITC of these actions and we have done so. Preliminary Determinations by the ITC The ITC will determine by October 30, 1994, whether there is a reasonable indication that imports of wheel inserts from Taiwan are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry. Pursuant to section 733(a) of the Act, a negative ITC determination will result in the investigation being terminated; otherwise, the investigation will proceed according to statutory and regulatory time limits. This notice is published pursuant to section 732(c)(2) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.13(b). Dated: October 5, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25221 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
