FR940328-1-00019 FR940328-1-00007 C. Disease or predation. Jackrabbits ( Lepus californicus ) have been documented grazing the San Bernardino County, California, site during midsummer (Thomas, pers. comm., 1993). The effect of this predation on Parish's alkali grass is unknown. No significant disease has been observed in this species. D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. Parish's alkali grass is included as a Highly Safeguarded species on the list of plants protected under the Arizona Native Plant Law (ARS 3&hyph;901), administered by the Arizona Department of Agriculture. A␣ Highly␣ Safeguarded␣ species␣ is␣ one ``* * * whose prospects for survival in this State are in jeopardy* * *.'' The protections afforded a Highly Safeguarded species include restrictions on collecting and a requirement for salvage permits. However, all known populations of Parish's alkali grass in Arizona occur on tribal lands where the Arizona Native Plant Law does not apply. This species is not currently protected on the Navajo or Hopi reservations in Arizona. Under title 17 section 507(b) of the Navajo Tribal Code and Navajo Nation Council Resources Committee Resolution RCF&hyph;014&hyph;91, the Navajo Fish and Wildlife Department has developed the Navajo Nation Endangered Species List (NESL) for tribal lands. Parish's alkali grass is currently listed on the NESL as a Group 4 species, meaning there is insufficient information to list it as endangered or threatened on the NESL. There are currently no restrictions on its collection and/or the modification of its habitat on the Navajo reservation. The Navajo Fish and Wildlife Department is in the process of revising the status of Parish's alkali grass (Hevron, pers. comm., 1993). Although Parish's alkali grass is not listed as endangered by the State of California, it is on List 1B of the California Native Plant Society's Inventory of Rare and Endangered Vascular Plants of California. List 1B plants are considered ``rare, threatened, or endangered in California and elsewhere.'' Under the guidelines of the California Environmental Quality Act, List 1B species are considered equivalent to State-listed species for the purposes of disclosing project impacts to sensitive resources in environmental assessments. However, such disclosure does not confer protection from project impacts on these species. Parish's alkali grass is protected in the State of New Mexico by the New Mexico Native Plant Protection Act (NMFRCD Rule No. 91&hyph;1). This law prohibits collection without a permit from the New Mexico Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department. E. Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence. Low population numbers and limited distribution make this species vulnerable to extinction from both natural and manmade threats. Further reduction in population numbers could reduce the reproductive capability and genetic potential of this species. There is a potential threat of deliberate destruction of plants by individuals concerned about the perceived loss of property rights resulting from listing species under the Act. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in determining to propose this rule. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list Parish's alkali grass as endangered without critical habitat. Endangered status is appropriate because there are few remaining populations and the species' habitat is vulnerable to hydrologic alteration, development, grazing impacts, and other disturbances. Critical habitat is not being proposed for the reasons discussed below. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary propose critical habitat at the time a species is proposed to be endangered or threatened. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat is not prudent for Parish's alkali grass at this time. Service regulations (50 CFR 424.12(a)(1)) state that designation of critical habitat is not prudent when one or both of the following situations exist_(1) The species is threatened by taking or other human activity, and identification of critical habitat can be expected to increase the degree of such threat to the species, or (2) such designation of critical habitat would not be beneficial to the species. As discussed under Factors B and E in the ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species,'' Parish's alkali grass is threatened by taking (including vandalism to habitat), an activity difficult to enforce against and only regulated by the Act with respect to plants in cases of (1) removal and reduction to possession of listed plants from lands under Federal jurisdiction, or their malicious damage or destruction on such lands; and (2) removal, cutting, digging up or damaging or destroying in knowing violation of any State law or regulation, including State criminal trespass law. Such provisions are difficult to enforce, and publication of critical habitat descriptions and maps would make Parish's alkali grass more vulnerable and increase enforcement problems. Pertinent Federal, State, and local government agencies have been notified of the proposed listing of this species. Other interested parties will be notified either by mail or by public notice in local newspapers. Private landowners that have not yet been notified will be notified of the location and importance of protecting this species' habitat, following publication of this proposal. Protection of this species' habitat will be addressed through the recovery process and through the section 7 jeopardy standard. Therefore, it would not now be prudent to propose critical habitat for Parish's alkali grass. Available Conservation Measures
