FR940505-1-00027 FR940505-1-00012 (1) oil and gas production facilities and pipeline transfer stations (2) gas processing facilities, refineries, bulk plants, bulk terminals, and chemical plants k. Service stations (Sacramento, South Coast, Ventura) l. Waste burning (Sacramento, South Coast, Ventura) m. Residential water heaters (Sacramento) n. Stationary internal combustion engines (Sacramento) o. Industrial, commercial, and institutional boilers, steam generators, and process heaters (Sacramento) (1) biomass boilers (2) gaseous/liquid fuel-fired boilers (equal to or greater than 5 mmBTU) (3) gaseous/liquid fuel-fired boilers (greater than 1 but less than 5 mmBTU) p. Gas turbines (Sacramento) 4. Regulations imposed statewide a. Introduction_rationale for statewide control b. Architectural coatings (1) relationship to national rule development (2) relationship to local rules (3) alternative reduction approaches (a) fees (b) corporate average VOC emissions (CAVE) limit (c) manufacturers bubble c. Consumer products (1) FIP promulgation of existing CARB rules (a) consumer products (b) antiperspirants and deodorants (2) aerosol paints (3) alternative reduction approaches (4) need for additional reductions d. Pesticides (1) Summary and applicability (2) Specific provisions (3) Reporting, recordkeeping and test methods (4) Relationship to State rules (5) Relationship to FIFRA 5. Cap regulations a. Introduction (1) rationale for approach (2) reduction rate (3) withdrawal of rules based on SIP progress (4) relationship to other applicable FIP provisions (5) implementation and enforcement issues (a) compliance mechanisms (b) EPA resources (c) emission quantification mechanisms b. Control approach (1) rule structure (2) applicability and exemptions (3) determination of baseline emissions (4) compliance plans (5) reporting, recordkeeping, and compliance requirements (6) penalties c. Industrial and commercial solvents and coatings d. VOC emissions associated with the manufacturing of products e. Disposal of materials containing VOCs f. Commercial food preparation and/or baking g. Petroleum and natural gas extraction, processing, and storage h. NO X emission sources (1) Source category description (2) Issues i. Alternatives to the FIP cap program (1) Trading of emissions (2) Manufacturers bubble for industrial and commercial solvents and coatings (a) introduction (b) withdrawal of rules based on SIP progress (c) relationship with other FIP provisions (d) implementation date (e) applicability (f) exemption limit (g) conceptual design (h) recordkeeping and reporting (i) implementation and enforcement issues (3) The use of other economic instruments to incentivize emission reductions D. Mobile Sources 1. Overview of mobile source issues and measures a. Emissions credit for the California Motor Vehicle Control Program b. Summary of mobile source FIP measures (1) Programs for light-duty vehicles (2) Programs for medium-duty vehicles (3) Programs for heavy-duty vehicles (4) Programs for nonroad vehicles and engines (a) nonroad heavy-duty engines (b) small nonroad equipment (5) Programs for national transportation sources and Federal activities (a) locomotives (b) commercial aviation (c) general aviation (d) military installations (6) Programs to reduce vehicle miles traveled (a) employee commute options programs (b) parking cash out (7) Special issues for mobile sources (a) inspection and maintenance (b) retrofit programs for mobile sources (c) adjustments based on local control of VMT growth 2. Program for onroad light-duty vehicles and engines a. Overview b. Air quality significance c. Enhanced inspection and maintenance (1) Introduction (2) Enhanced I/M (3) Background (4) Summary of proposed Federal enhanced I/M program (a) Applicability (b) Enforcement (c) Network type (d) Test type and procedure (e) Vehicle coverage and test frequency (f) Waivers and special warranty protection (g) Enforcement and oversight (h) Convenience issues (i) Onroad testing (j) Program start date d. Enhanced in-use compliance programs for light-duty vehicles e. Onhighway motorcycles f. Discussion of emission registration and fee systems for light-duty vehicles g. Parking cash-out h. Importation of vehicles into California 3. Programs for onroad heavy-duty vehicles and engines a. Overview b. Air quality significance c. Enhanced in-use compliance program for heavy-duty vehicles 4. Programs for nonroad vehicles and engines a. Overview (1) Statutory authority (2) General nonroad background (3) Sierra Club suit (4) Rationale for implementing the federal programs in the FIP areas
