FR940602-1-00046 FR940602-1-00013 (5) Pallets shall be stacked or placed to prevent falling, collapsing or otherwise causing a hazard under standard operating conditions. (6) Disposable pallets intended only for one use shall not be reused for hoisting. ยง1918.63 Chutes, gravity conveyors and rollers. (a) Chutes shall be of adequate length and strength to support the conditions of use, and shall be free of splinters and sharp edges. (b) When necessary for the safety of employees, chutes shall be equipped with sideboards to afford protection from falling objects. (c) When necessary for the safety of employees, provisions shall be made for stopping objects other than bulk commodities at the delivery end of the chute. (d) Chutes and gravity conveyor roller sections shall be firmly placed and secured to prevent displacement, shifting, or falling. (e) Gravity conveyors shall be of sufficient strength to safely support the weight of materials placed upon them. Conveyor rollers shall be installed in a manner that prevents them from falling or jumping out of the frame. (f) Frames shall be kept free of burrs and sharp edges. ยง1918.64 Powered conveyors. (a) Emergency stop. Readily accessible stop controls shall be provided for use in an emergency. Whenever the operation of any power conveyor requires personnel to work in the immediate vicinity of the conveyor, the conveyor controls shall not be left unattended while the conveyor is in operation. (b) Guarding. All conveyor and trimmer drives which create a hazard shall be adequately guarded. (c) Approved for location. Electric motors and controls on conveyors and trimmers used to handle grain and exposed to grain dust shall be of the type approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory for use in Class II, Division I locations. (See ยง1910.7 of this chapter.) (d) Grain trimmer control box. Each grain trimmer shall have a control box located on the weather deck in close proximity to the spout feeding the trimmer. (e) Grain trimmer power cable. Power cables between the deck control box and the grain trimmer shall be used only in continuous lengths without splice or tap between connections. (f) Portable conveyors. Portable conveyors shall be stable within their operating ranges. When used at variable fixed levels, the unit shall be secured at the operating level. (g) Delivery and braking. When necessary for the safety of employees, provisions shall be made for braking objects at the delivery end of the conveyor. (h) Electric brakes. Conveyors using electrically released brakes shall be so constructed that the brakes cannot be released until power is applied, and that the brakes are automatically engaged if the power fails or the operating control is returned to the ``stop'' position. (i) Starting powered conveyors. Powered conveyors shall not be started until all employees are clear of the conveyor or have been warned that the conveyor is about to start. (j) Loading and unloading. The area around conveyor loading and unloading points shall be kept clear of obstructions during conveyor operations. (k) Lockout/tagout. (1) Conveyors shall be stopped and their power sources locked out and tagged out during maintenance, repair, and servicing, unless power is necessary for testing or for making minor adjustments. (2) The starting device shall be locked out and tagged out in the stop position before an attempt is made to remove the cause of a jam or overload of the conveying medium. (l) Safe practices. (1) Only designated persons shall operate, repair or service powered conveyors. (2) The employer shall direct employees to stay off operating conveyors. (3) Conveyors shall be operated only with all overload devices, guards and safety devices in place and operable. ยง1918.65 Mechanically powered vehicles used aboard vessels. (a) Applicability. This section applies to every type of mechanically powered vehicle used for material or equipment handling aboard a vessel.
