FR940114-0-00007 FR940114-0-00003 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 94 [Docket No. 93&hyph;103&hyph;3] Change in Disease Status of Belgium Because of Rinderpest and Foot-and-Mouth Disease AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are declaring Belgium free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease. Rinderpest has not existed in Belgium since 1920 and there have been no outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease since 1976. This action removes the prohibition on the importation from Belgium into the United States of ruminants and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat from ruminants, and relieves restrictions on the importation from Belgium of milk and milk products from ruminants. This action does not relieve restrictions on the importation from Belgium of swine and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat from swine, because Belgium has not been declared free of hog cholera and swine vesicular disease. We also are adding Belgium to a list of countries that, although declared free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease, are subject to restrictions on the importation of their meat and other animal products into the United States. Finally, we also are adding Belgium to the list of countries from which the importation into the United States of llamas and alpacas is restricted. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 31, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Marolo Garcia, Senior Staff Veterinarian, National Center for Import-Export, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 757, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7830. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 94 (referred to below as ``the regulations'') govern the importation into the United States of specified animals and animal products to prevent the introduction into the United States of various diseases, including rinderpest, foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), bovine spongiform encephalopathy, African swine fever, hog cholera, and swine vesicular disease (SVD). These are dangerous and destructive communicable diseases of ruminants and swine. On September 13, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 47834&hyph;47836, Docket No. 93&hyph;103&hyph;1) a proposal to amend the regulations by adding Belgium to the list in ยง94.1(a)(2) of countries that are declared to be free of rinderpest and FMD. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 30-day period ending on October 13, 1993. During that period, we received one comment from a national dairy association requesting that we reopen and extend the comment period so that its members would have ample time to prepare and submit comments. In response, on October 28, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 57971&hyph;57972, Docket No. 93&hyph;103&hyph;2) a document reopening and extending the comment period until November 29, 1993. We considered all comments received following the date of publication of the proposed rule and on or before the new comment period closing date. We received only one comment by the new comment period closing date, from a national dairy cattle breed association, which fully supported our proposed rule. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule without change. Effective Date This is a substantive rule that relieves restrictions and, pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, may be made effective less than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . This rule removes the prohibition on the importation into the United States, from Belgium, of ruminants and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat from ruminants and relieves restrictions on the importation, from Belgium, of milk and milk products from ruminants. We have determined that approximately 2 weeks are needed to ensure that Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service personnel at ports of entry receive official notice of this change in the regulations. Therefore, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this rule should be made effective 15 days after publication in the Federal Register . Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. For this action, the Office of Management and Budget has waived its review process required by Executive Order 12866. We are adding Belgium to the list in part 94 of countries declared to be free of rinderpest and FMD. This action removes the prohibition on the importation into the United States, from Belgium, of ruminants and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat from ruminants, and relieves restrictions on the importation, from Belgium, of milk and milk products from ruminants. This action does not relieve restrictions on the importation of live swine and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat of swine from Belgium because Belgium is still considered to be affected with hog cholera and SVD. Based on available information, the Department does not anticipate a major increase in exports of ruminants and fresh, chilled, or frozen meat of ruminants from Belgium into the United States as a result of this rule. The value of total U.S. imports of cattle in 1991 was $951.6 million, and the value of total U.S. imports of sheep in 1991 was about $1.6 million. The United States did not import any cattle or sheep from Belgium during 1991. In fact, no cattle or sheep were imported into the United States from any country in Western Europe during 1991 (USDA, Economic Research Service (ERS), ``Foreign Agricultural Trade of the United States: Calendar Year 1991 Supplement,'' 1992). Western Europe is not a source of ruminants for the United States; any increase in the import of ruminants from Belgium as a result of this rule will have a negligible impact on existing trade patterns. Currently, due to APHIS restrictions, the United States does not import uncooked meat or meat products from Belgium. In 1991, total meat production in the United States (excluding pork) was just under 10.7 million metric tons, while total meat production in Belgium (excluding pork) was 385,000 metric tons, less than four percent of United States production. It is improbable that Belgium will begin to export any significant portion of its meat products to the United States as a result of this rule. Therefore, we estimate that the effect of this rule on domestic meat prices or supplies will be insignificant.
