FR940119-1-00005 FR940119-1-00001 The amendments made under Public Law 102&hyph;237 support efforts to target the E&T program towards fewer, harder to employ participants or to offer more intensive components to a smaller segment of the food stamp population. Given these amendments, the Department believes it must suspend the current method for distributing the $15 million performance-based funds and, in its place, implement a method which will not penalize State agencies that place fewer participants and/or operate more intensive components. If the current method for distributing performance funds is left unchanged, State agencies that elect to target fewer participants will lose performance-based funding. Thus, the current method for distributing funds is a barrier to the State agencies' implementation of amendments made by Public Law 102&hyph;237. The Department considered numerous options for revising the methodology for distributing performance-based funds. All options were viewed with two purposes in mind_to remove barriers for those State agencies that wish to target their E&T programs and to reward State agencies equitably for their performance. After careful consideration of these options, the Department is proposing in this rule to freeze performance-based funds at the levels the State agencies received in FY 1993. This rule proposes that the freeze of performance-based funding remain in effect for two years from the date of promulgation of this rule in final form. On February 12, 1992, the Department notified State agencies in writing of the freeze of performance-based funding to the FY 1993 level. FY 1994 performance-based funds were distributed based on this methodology. The Department believes there are several advantages for freezing performance-based funds. First, the proposed freeze does not prohibit State agencies from either modifying their E&T program to target smaller populations or retaining the current broad-based program. Therefore, this proposal would provide the State agencies with the flexibility to move their E&T programs in the direction they believe is most appropriate for their work registrant population. However, no State agency would be penalized for meeting the lower standard. Second, the State agencies would know the amount of their performance-based funding levels for the foreseeable future. In reaching its decision to propose a freeze on performance-based funds, the Department considered numerous other options. These included: (1) Distributing the funds on the basis that is currently used for distributing the $60 million nonperformance-based funds (i.e., work registrant population); (2) rewarding performance on the basis of how many participants complete a component or leave a component to take a job; (3) modifying the current definition of a ``placement'' (e.g., include volunteers and/or exclude NOAA's); and (4) providing extra credit to State agencies that target hard-to-employ populations (e.g., allow credit only for service to certain hard-to-employ groups such as long-term recipients of food stamp benefits or individuals who have not completed high school). Even though each of these options has merit, the Department rejected the options in favor of a freeze. The option for distributing the $75 million Federal E&T grant on the basis of each State agency's work registrant population was rejected because it would not distribute the $15 million E&T funds on the basis of performance, as required by law. The second option, rewarding performance for completed E&T components or job entries was rejected because it would base performance on outcomes. Because section 907(a) of Public Law 102&hyph;237 specifically delays outcome-based performance standards until coordination with the JOBS program can be achieved, the Department believes the option would not be consistent with the law. The Department is also reluctant to implement changes to program areas which will, in all likelihood, be changed again when the outcome-based performance standards are implemented. Under the third option, the Department would have redefined ``placements'' in calculating the success of a State agency's performance. None of the possible redefinitions examined, however, would have resulted in moving away from rewarding States with high numbers of placements over those with low numbers. Thus, all of the possible changes would have penalized States that reduce the number of people served_contrary to the Congressional intent underlying the amendment.
