FR940628-1-00009 FR940628-1-00001 The current regulations do not require cleaning and disinfection of cages, equipment, or similar articles that have been used for END-infected birds and poultry. Since cages and other equipment that have been used to handle infected birds and poultry could spread END, we are proposing in proposed §82.14(g) that, as a condition of removal of a quarantine, all cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment used for birds or poultry infected with or exposed to END, or their excrement or litter, must either be reduced to ashes by incineration, or be cleaned and disinfected in accordance with 9 CFR part 71. If cleaning and disinfection is chosen, it would be required that the articles be inspected after cleaning, and before disinfection, by a Federal or State representative, and then be disinfected in the presence of a Federal or State representative. It would be required that a disinfectant listed in 9 CFR part 71 be used. The same cleaning and disinfecting procedures would be required for premises where birds or poultry infected with or exposed to END were located, to prevent the transmission of END from the premises to birds or poultry. Miscellaneous Footnote 6 to current §82.4 states that we will give pet bird owners a copy of the agreement they sign and that it will contain the names and addresses of Federal and State officials in the State where they are taking their pet birds. This footnote also states that we will notify State officials in that State that the pet birds are being brought into that State. None of this material is necessary as part of the regulations. Addresses of Federal and State officials are available in local telephone directories. Because the statement that we will notify State officials relates to agency management, the Administrative Procedure Act does not require us to publish it in our regulations. We are therefore proposing to delete this material. We are proposing to delete current §82.6, which, among other things, requires the banding of certain psittacine birds moved interstate from California. On March 16, 1982, we published an interim rule in the Federal Register (47 FR 11243&hyph;11246, Docket No. 82&hyph;019), amending the regulations to add §82.6. Then, on April 20, 1982, we published another interim rule in the Federal Register (47 FR 16772&hyph;16773, Docket No. 82&hyph;037) suspending the section until further notice. The reason for suspending the section was that we could not provide necessary inspection services. Although this section has been inactive since April 20, 1982, it has continued to appear in the Code of Federal Regulations. We believe this is confusing. In addition, we are still not able to provide the inspection services required by §82.6. Therefore, we are proposing to delete this section. Changes Affecting Both the END and the Chlamydiosis Regulations Certain of the substantive changes we are proposing to current part 82, subpart A, apply to both the END and the chlamydiosis regulations. We discuss these proposed changes in the following paragraphs. Permits and Special Permits The current regulations in part 82, subpart A, regarding both END and psittacosis/ornithosis (chlamydiosis), do not require a permit for the interstate movement of restricted items, if the items are moved in accordance with the regulations. We are proposing to require that a permit accompany such movements (provisions regarding the issuance of permits are set forth in proposed §§82.11 and 82.23), and that a copy of the permit be received by the State animal health official and the Veterinarian in charge for the State of destination within 72 hours of the arrival of the shipment at the destination listed on the permit. An application for a permit would have to include: (1) The applicant's name and mailing address; (2) the name and mailing address of the person who would receive the birds, poultry, or other items; (3) the addresses of both the origin and destination of the shipment; (4) the number and types of birds, poultry, and other items intended for interstate movement; and (5) the reason for interstate movement. In the case of interstate movement under the END regulations, the applicant for a permit would also be required to submit a declaration or affidavit listing the requirements in the regulations for interstate movement of the items in question, and stating that the applicant will move the items interstate only if all of the listed requirements are met (§82.11(b)). This declaration or affidavit would help us determine whether to issue a permit, by demonstrating whether the applicant has the knowledge of the regulations necessary to comply with them. Due to the highly infectious nature of END and the high rate of mortality it causes among birds and poultry, we consider such knowledge a critical condition for the issuance of a permit. We are also proposing in both the END and the chlamydiosis regulations to provide for special permits for the movement of restricted items interstate in any way or to any destination the regulations do not otherwise allow. Special permits would be issued in those relatively infrequent occasions when articles could be moved without the risk of disease spread under safeguards that are not specifically provided for in the regulations. As with permits, in the case of interstate movements, a copy of the special permit would have to be received by both the State animal health official and the Veterinarian in charge for the State of destination within 72 hours of the arrival of the shipment at the destination listed on the special permit. A special permit would also be required for the disposal of items and the cleaning and disinfection of items, vehicles, and premises using a method not provided in the regulations. (Provisions regarding the issuance of special permits are set forth in proposed §§82.12 and 82.24.) We need to have information in our files showing when, where, and what restricted items are being moved interstate. We also need to have information in our files showing what items have been destroyed, or cleaned and disinfected, and the method used. This information is important in helping us trace disease outbreaks to their source and to enforce the regulations. In connection with the proposed permit requirements, we are proposing regulations that would allow us to deny an application for a permit or special permit and to withdraw a permit or special permit after we have issued it. (See proposed §§82.13, and 82.25.) The Administrator could deny an application if he or she determines that the applicant is not complying with or could not comply with the regulations or any special conditions needed to prevent the dissemination of END or chlamydiosis, or, in the case of a special permit, that it is not required under the regulations. Under the proposed regulations, the Administrator may withdraw a permit or special permit, orally or in writing, if he or she determines the person to whom the permit or special permit has been issued is violating either the regulations or some condition specified in the permit or special permit. The Administrator could withdraw the permit or special permit without advance notice if he or she determines that the public health, interest, or safety is threatened. The Administrator would then provide reasons in writing why he or she denied or withdrew the permit or special permit. The proposed provisions would also provide for an appeals process. In cases where there was a conflict as to any material fact, the person denied the permit or special permit, or from whom a permit or special permit is withdrawn, would be given an opportunity for a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the denial or withdrawal.
