FR940811-2-00133 FR940811-2-00084 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration [Docket No. 93&hyph;51, Notice No. 2] Criteria for Use of Blue ``Star of Life'' for Emergency Medical Services AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice amends NHTSA's guidelines for the authorized use of the blue ``Star of Life'' symbol for emergency medical services. Comments received in response to an earlier notice suggested uses for this symbol that were not considered when these guidelines were first developed. These amendments are intended to provide additional flexibility to the States within the purposes for which the blue Star of Life was originally registered as a certification mark. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan D. Ryan, Chief, Emergency Medical Service Division, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590; phone (202) 366&hyph;5440. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: NHTSA's Authority The Secretary of Transportation approved the use of the blue ``Star of Life'' as a symbol for the Department's Emergency Medical Services program in a memorandum dated November 18, 1976. On February 1, 1977, the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks issued to NHTSA a certificate of registration for the blue ``Star of Life'' symbol as a certification mark. This registration gives NHTSA exclusive legal authority to control the use of the mark throughout the United States, and remains in effect for 20 years. It may be renewed for an additional 10 years in accordance with 15 U.S.C. section 1059. Current Guidelines In accordance with its registration as a certification mark, the blue ``Star of Life'' may be used on emergency medical care vehicles to certify that they meet DOT standards, by emergency medical care personnel to certify that they are trained to meet DOT standards, and on road maps and highway signs to indicate the location of or access to qualified emergency medical care services. In a memorandum dated September 14, 1977, NHTSA authorized States and Federal agencies that are involved with emergency medical services to permit use of the blue ``Star of Life'' certification mark in accordance with criteria and specifications outlined in the memorandum. Request for Modification of Guidelines In July 1992, a State requested an advisory opinion from NHTSA on the use of the blue ``Star of Life'' symbol in the State's Emergency Medical Services-Do Not Resuscitate (EMS&hyph;DNR) program. The State proposed to use the mark to alert State certified prehospital emergency medical care providers that a person wearing a bracelet which displays the ``Star of Life'' and the letters ``EMS&hyph;DNR'' does not wish to be resuscitated. NHTSA determined that this use does not meet the criteria outlined in the memorandum dated September 14, 1977. Accordingly, NHTSA denied the State's request to use the ``Star of Life'' in connection with the EMS&hyph;DNR program. In response to NHTSA's decision to deny the State's request, the National Association of EMS Physicians (NAEMSP), the National Association of State Emergency Medical Services Directors (NASEMSD), and the American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP) contacted NHTSA to express their support for use of the blue ``Star of Life'' by the State's EMS&hyph;DNR program. These organizations made four primary arguments in support of the proposed use of the ``Star of Life'' for EMS&hyph;DNR purposes. First, they contended that the proposed use would provide EMS personnel with a consistent location where they could look for EMS orders on terminally ill persons who desire not to undergo resuscitation. The organizations indicated that they consider the proposed use appropriate because the DNR bracelet would alert EMS personnel of a medical condition or appropriate medical treatment. Second, the organizations asserted that the ``Star of Life'' is a unique symbol widely recognized by EMS personnel, which has come to symbolize the entire EMS system rather than the limited criteria in the September 1977 NHTSA memorandum. Third, the organizations contended that since NHTSA has ``historically'' granted State EMS offices some discretionary authority regarding use of the ``Star of Life,'' NHTSA should allow State EMS offices to determine the use of the ``Star of Life'' on EMS&hyph;DNR bracelets within their respective States. Finally, at the time the guidelines were developed, the possibilities for the use of the ``Star of Life'' on a DNR bracelet were not considered. The organizations urged NHTSA to reexamine the appropriate use of the symbol and either rescind or reissue the guidelines to permit such use. Federal Register Notice Requesting Comments NHTSA continued to have concerns about expanding the authorized uses of the blue ``Star of Life.'' However, it also recognized that the current guidelines for the authorized use of the blue ``Star of Life'' certification mark had not been revised since their publication in September 1977. Accordingly, the agency decided that it was appropriate to reevaluate the guidelines in view of the current trends and possible uses for the symbol and to examinate the symbol's purpose and whether it should be expanded at this time.
