FR940719-1-00073 FR940719-1-00015 Paragraph (h) of the proposal would require that a record be made of the results of the weekly examination, including the results of air and methane measurements, either by the certified person or by a person designated by the operator. The proposal clarifies that the results of methane tests would be recorded as the percentage of methane measured by the examiner, as opposed to being characterized by terms such as ``trace.'' Recording a percentage would provide more precise information for the reviewing officials. If the record is made by a person designated by the operator, the certified person would be required to verify the record by initials and date by or at the end of the shift for which the examination was made. Paragraph (h) of §75.364 would also include provisions identical to those proposed in paragraph (f) of §75.360 and paragraph (c) of §75.363 for countersigning records and for keeping the records in a state-approved book or in a bound book with sequential machine-numbered pages. As discussed above under the section-by-section discussion for §75.360 (f), the requirements for countersigning would increase safety, particularly through increasing the awareness of the appropriate mine officials of the hazardous conditions requiring correction. Section 75.370␣Mine Ventilation Plan; Submission and Approval MSHA is proposing to revise portions of §75.370 to address comments received relative to the role of the representative of the miners in the ventilation plan approval process. Paragraph (a) would be revised by the proposal, paragraphs (b) and (e) would be revised and redesignated as paragraphs (c) and (f), a new paragraph (b) would be added, and other paragraphs would be redesignated as appropriate. One comment received was that the miners who work under the plan are often in the best position to know the effect of proposed revisions. The Agency has consistently recognized the importance of input from the miners' representative in all aspects of the plan-approval process. This is clear in the preamble to the existing standard, which states: MSHA agrees with commenters that miners have a stake in the implementation of the ventilation plan at each mine. Recognizing this role and the importance of mine plans to an effective safety and health program, commenters noted that many operators provide miners with a copy of the proposed plan before it is submitted to MSHA for approval. The commenters also noted that some existing wage and hour agreements in the industry address this issue, and under these contracts miners have the right to review plan provisions before they are submitted to MSHA. Also, MSHA district managers meet with miners' representatives to discuss plan provisions upon request and have accepted written material the miners would like MSHA to consider while the plan is being reviewed. Related to this issue, miners have the right under §103(g) of the Act to request an inspection by MSHA of any alleged hazardous condition in the mine. Under the final rule, these practices and procedures will continue to involve miners' representatives in the development of meaningful and effective plans. MSHA recognizes that the operator has the legal responsibility for developing a ventilation plan. In that context, the Agency has reconsidered whether the role of the miners' representative in the plan-approval process should be formalized in this rule. To clarify the intent of the Agency and to assure that the miners' representative has an opportunity to comment on each proposed ventilation plan and revision submitted, the Agency is proposing several changes to the existing standard. As discussed in more detail below, the basic approach proposed is for the miners' representative to be given the opportunity to review proposed ventilation plans and revisions and submit comments to MSHA. MSHA would review the plan and consider all timely comments received in making its determination to approve or disapprove a proposed plan. Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of the proposal would require that at the time of submittal of a ventilation plan or a revision to an existing ventilation plan to the Agency by the operator, the operator would also be required to provide a copy of the plan or revision to the representative of miners. This requirement is intended to assure that the miners and their representative are promptly made aware of what is being submitted and are afforded time to comment. Additionally, the proposal would continue to require in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) that a copy of the proposed plan or any proposed revisions be made available for inspection by the representative of the miners. Although this proposal may appear superfluous in light of the proposed requirement in paragraph (a)(3)(i), it is the Agency's opinion that the review process and the submittal of comments in a timely manner are facilitated by requiring that the proposed plan or revision be made available for inspection by the representative of miners as well as providing the representative with a copy. Further, in those instances where a representative of miners has not been designated, it is necessary that miners have a copy of the plan available for inspection. Paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of the proposal retains the existing requirement that copies of the proposed plan and proposed revisions be posted on the mine bulletin board and clarifies that posting is required at the time of submittal. The Agency believes that the posting requirement is necessary to assure that all miners at a mine will have the opportunity to review the proposed plan or revision and provide input during the review process. The Agency solicits comments on this approach to providing miners with information relative to proposed ventilation plans and revisions.
