FR941130-0-00025 FR941130-0-00003 Separately, the OTS published a proposal to amend the conversion regulations and the regulations governing stock offerings by savings association subsidiaries of mutual holding companies (MHC stock offerings) by adding a new ``convenience and needs'' standard to existing approval standards for such transactions. 2 Under the proposed standard, the OTS would consider the extent to which the transaction would affect the convenience and needs of the communities served by the applicant. 2 See 59 FR 22764 (May 3, 1994). In evaluating transactions under this standard, the OTS would review the applicant's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), 3 the contents of the business plan submitted in support of the conversion, and other factors relating to the applicant's performance in meeting the convenience and needs of its delineated community. Under the proposal, the OTS could deny an application or approve it on the condition that the applicant improve certain aspects of its CRA performance record or address particular credit or lending needs of the communities that it serves. 3 See 12 U.S.C. 2901&hyph;2907. The OTS worked with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) on the interim final rule and this final rule to ensure greater consistency in the regulatory standards and policies in this area. II. Summary of Comments and Analysis of Issues The public comment period for the interim final rule closed on June 17, 1994. The OTS received 75 comment letters. Twenty-seven comment letters were submitted by financial institutions or their holding companies, including 20 letters from federally-chartered savings associations and seven letters from other financial institutions and holding companies. Of the remaining 48 comment letters, persons in their individual capacity submitted 15, law firms submitted 13, state trade associations submitted six, a national trade association submitted one, city and state banking commissioners submitted three, various groups representing financial institutions submitted seven, a financial regulatory ``shadow'' group submitted one and certified public accountants submitted two. The comment period on the proposed convenience and needs rule closed on July 18, 1994. The OTS received 12 comment letters, including five from trade associations and similar groups representing financial institutions, two from law firms representing thrifts, two from persons in their individual capacity, one from a state thrift regulatory authority, one from an association of state thrift regulatory authorities and one from a federally-chartered savings bank. The following is a discussion of the major issues raised by the commenters and a brief analysis and resolution of the issues. A. Revisions to the Appraisal Standards As noted in the preamble to the interim final rule, the integrity of the OTS' current conversion program rests, in large part, on the existence of independent and accurate appraisals of converting associations. 4 When the initial conversion regulations were adopted in 1974, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the predecessor agency to the OTS, expressed concerns about underpricing conversion stock and stated that no method of conversion could be considered equitable unless the conversion stock was accurately appraised and sold at its pro forma market value. 5 4 See 59 FR 22725, 22726 (May 3, 1994). 5 See 39 FR 9142 (March 7, 1974). The OTS believes that the appraisal process has adequately addressed conversion valuation issues during most of the period since 1974. As also noted in the preamble to the interim final rule, however, the OTS has been concerned that some recent appraisals were setting pro forma market values that were significantly below the market value of the converting association. In response to these concerns, the OTS, in the interim final rule, revised the conversion regulations to formalize the current practice of requiring a full appraisal report and justification for the methodology employed. The OTS also clarified the provision in the conversion regulations that requires that the conversion applicant submit information demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the OTS, the independence and expertise of the appraiser. The revised regulations allow the OTS to censure, suspend or bar an appraiser from practicing before the OTS in egregious cases of consistent undervaluation on the part of an appraiser.
