FR940511-0-00022 FR940511-0-00009 5. Section 206.434 is amended by revising paragraph (c)(4), redesignating paragraphs (d) and (e) as paragraphs (f) and (g) respectively, and adding new paragraphs (d) and (e) to read as follows: §206.434 Eligibility. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (4) Property acquisition or relocation, as defined in §206.434(d); * * * * * (d) Property acquisition and relocation requirements. A project involving property acquisition or the relocation of structures and individuals is eligible for assistance only if the applicant enters an agreement with the FEMA Regional Director that provides assurances that: (1) The following restrictive covenants shall be conveyed in the deed to any property acquired, accepted, or from which structures are removed (hereafter called in section (d) the property): (i) The property shall be dedicated and maintained in perpetuity for uses compatible with open space, recreational, or wetlands management practices; and (ii) No new structure(s) will be built on the property except as indicated below: (A) A public facility that is open on all sides and functionally related to a designated open space or recreational use; (B) A rest room; or (C) A structure that is compatible with open space, recreational, or wetlands management usage and proper floodplain management policies and practices, which the Director approves in writing before the construction of the structure begins. (iii) After completion of the project, no application for additional disaster assistance will be made for any purpose with respect to the property to any Federal entity or source, and no Federal entity or source will provide such assistance. (2) In general, allowable open space, recreational, and wetland management uses include parks for outdoor recreational activities, nature reserves, cultivation, grazing, camping (except where adequate warning time is not available to allow evacuation), temporary storage in the open of wheeled vehicles which are easily movable (except mobile homes), unimproved, previous parking lots, and buffer zones. (3) Any structures built on the property according to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, shall be floodproofed or elevated to the Base Flood Elevation plus one foot of freeboard. (e) Inapplicability of the Uniform Relocation Act. The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 does not apply to real property acquisition projects which meet the criteria identified below: (1) The project provides for the purchase of property damaged by the major, widespread flooding in the States of Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wisconsin during 1993; (2) It provides for such purchase solely as a result of such flooding; (3) It is carried out by or through a State or unit of general local government; (4) The purchasing agency (grantee or subgrantee) notifies all potential property owners in writing that it will not use its power of eminent domain to acquire the properties if a voluntary agreement is not reached; (5) The project is being assisted with amounts made available for: (i) Disaster relief by the Federal Emergency Management Agency; or (ii) By other Federal financial assistance programs. * * * * * (Catalogue of Federal Domestic Assistance No. 83&hyph;516, ``Disaster Assistance'') Dated: May 4, 1994. James L. Witt, Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11422 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6718&hyph;02&hyph;P
