FR940804-0-00100 FR940804-0-00024 Thursday August 4, 1994 Part VI Department of Justice 28 CFR Part 77 Communications With Represented Persons; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 149␣/␣Thursday, August 4, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 28 CFR Part 77 [AG Order No. 1903&hyph;94] Communications With Represented Persons AGENCY: Department of Justice. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule governs the circumstances under which attorneys employed by the Department of Justice (``Department'') may communicate with persons known to be represented by counsel in the course of law enforcement investigations and proceedings. The purpose of this rule is to impose a comprehensive, clear, and uniform set of regulations on the conduct of government attorneys during criminal and civil investigations and enforcement proceedings. The rule is intended to ensure that government attorneys adhere to the highest ethical standards, while eliminating the uncertainty and confusion arising from the variety of interpretations of state rules, some of which have been incorporated as local court rules in a number of federal district courts. The rule establishes, prospectively, a general prohibition, subject to limited enumerated exceptions, against contacts with ``represented parties'' without the consent of counsel. This prohibition derives from the American Bar Association (``ABA'') Code of Professional Responsibility and its successor, the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct. The rule, on the other hand, generally permits investigative contacts with ``represented persons'': that is, individuals or organizations that are represented by counsel but that have not yet been named as defendants in a civil or criminal enforcement proceeding or arrested as part of a criminal proceeding. However, the rule does not permit contacts with represented persons without the consent of counsel for the purpose of negotiating plea agreements, settlements, or other similar legal arrangements. In addition, the Department intends to issue substantial additions to the United States Attorneys' Manual (``Manual'') to provide additional direction to Department attorneys when they deal with represented individuals and organizations, in order to accommodate more fully the principles and purposes underlying the state bar rules. Those provisions will further restrict government attorneys when they contact targets of criminal or civil law enforcement investigations who are known to be represented by counsel, and when they communicate with other represented persons. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: F. Mark Terison, Senior Attorney, Legal Counsel, Executive Office for United States Attorneys, United States Department of Justice, (202) 514-4024. This is not a toll-free number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background
