FR941110-0-00067 FR941110-0-00016 Section 1919(h)(2)(A)(i) of the Act expressly gives States the authority to impose payment denials with respect to new Medicaid admissions. While the Act also provides States with the opportunity to design other remedies, subject to Federal approval, that are as effective as those enumerated in the Medicaid law, we believe that it would be inappropriate for us to evaluate a remedy that would be aimed at the admissions of persons over whom the Medicaid law provides no jurisdiction. We believe it would be more appropriate to leave to State law remedies that extend as far as the commenters suggest. In any event, while a denial of payment for new Medicaid admissions does not reach all potential admissions, it will provide an incentive to a facility to correct deficiencies rapidly, which would serve to benefit not only Medicaid residents but all those persons who are receiving care at the facility regardless of payment source. Also, States may provide public notice of the imposition of the denial of payment for new admissions remedy which would alert potential residents to the situation in the facility. We are not accepting the suggestion that directed plans of correction be a required remedy. As discussed under ``Factors to be considered in selecting remedies'' later in this preamble, we have provided a revised enforcement scheme in this final rule that correlates the seriousness of noncompliance with the selection of remedies from within specified enforcement remedy categories. While we do not intend to mandate the specific selection of the directed plan of correction remedy from among the available enforcement actions for any specific level of actionable noncompliance, in other words, when the facility is not in substantial compliance, we note that it is always an enforcement option and it may be the only remedy used for lower level deficiencies. Comment: Some commenters requested that we require States to submit any alternative or additional remedies to a full State rulemaking process with an opportunity for comment. Other commenters believed that States should be allowed to implement additional or alternative remedies unless HCFA can demonstrate that the State remedies are not as effective as the HCFA remedies. Response: The States must follow any internal State procedures which govern the development and submittal of a Medicaid State plan amendment. The Act does not require nor do we believe our regulations should require specific procedures that would limit State prerogatives for promulgating enforcement policies. Similarly, section 1919(h)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act states that the State must demonstrate that any alternative remedies are as effective as the remedies specified in the Act. Comment: Commenters suggested that the effective remedies established by the States be made applicable to dually participating facilities. Response: We are accepting this comment with some clarification. Since States may establish their own sanctions through their respective State plan amendment, and since HCFA will be the entity imposing sanctions for dually participating facilities, it is highly likely that a State may choose to impose one of its own remedies on a Medicaid NF which HCFA would have no authority to impose against the Medicare provider agreement. It would not be rational for us to proceed with an enforcement scheme whereby a single facility, by virtue of participating in both Medicare and Medicaid, would be subject to a dual enforcement track. Also, and more importantly, since HCFA will be taking the lead on enforcement actions against dually participating facilities under part 498, we have concluded that HCFA needs to have the authority to impose these alternative or additional remedies against Medicare facilities in the States that have established these remedies. While we acknowledge that this would not permit consistency nationally relative to remedies available for dually participating facilities, we conclude that it is a realistic and necessary response to statutory intent that enforcement decisions made regarding the Medicaid agreement, which could include imposition of these ``other'' State remedies, will be applied by the Secretary to the Medicare agreement as well. Therefore, under the Secretary's general rulemaking authority, this final rule provides that, if the State's remedy is unique to the State plan and has been approved by HCFA, then that remedy, as imposed by the State under its Medicaid authority, can be imposed by HCFA against the Medicare provider agreement of a dually participating facility. Comment: One commenter suggested that the regulations create penalties for States that fail to implement the State enforcement rules. Response: The Act provides no specific penalty for State failure to implement the enforcement provisions of the Act, nor do we wish to add one. However, there are existing Medicaid rules regarding the submission of and adherence to State plan amendments. If a State does not comply with the Medicaid rules, the failure could lead to Medicaid administrative sanctions. Section 488.305␣Standard Surveys
