FR940812-2-00216 FR940812-2-00077 [Release No. 35&hyph;26097] Filings Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (``Act'') August 5, 1994. Notice is hereby given that the following filing(s) has/have been made with the Commission pursuant to provisions of the Act and rules promulgated thereunder. All interested persons are referred to the application(s) and/or declaration(s) for complete statements of the proposed transaction(s) summarized below. The application(s) and/or declaration(s) and any amendments thereto is/are available for public inspection through the Commission's Office of Public Reference. Interested persons wishing to comment or request a hearing on the application(s) and/or declaration(s) should submit their views in writing by August 29, 1994 to the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. 20549, and serve a copy on the relevant applicant(s) and/or declarant(s) at the address(es) specified below. Proof of service (by affidavit or, in case of an attorney at law, by certificate) should be filed with the request. Any request for hearing shall identify specifically the issues of fact or law that are disputed. A person who so requests will be notified of any hearing, if ordered, and will receive a copy of any notice or order issued in the matter. After said date, the application(s) and/or declaration(s), as filed or as amended, may be granted and/or permitted to become effective. Alabama Power Company (70&hyph;8191) Notice of Proposal to Amend Charter, or Alternatively, to Waive Charter Provision; Order Authorizing Solicitation of Proxies Alabama Power Company (``Alabama Power''), 600 North 18th Street, Birmingham, Alabama 35291, a public-utility subsidiary company of The Southern Company (``Southern''), a registered holding company, has filed a declaration under Sections 6(a)(2), 7, and 12(e) of the Act and Rules 62 and 65 thereunder. Alabama Power's charter currently provides that, without the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of shares of preferred stock at the time outstanding, Alabama Power shall not issue or assume any securities representing unsecured debt having maturities of less than 10 years (other than for the purpose of refunding or renewing outstanding unsecured securities resulting in equal or longer maturities or redeeming or otherwise retiring all outstanding shares of preferred stock or of any senior or equally ranking stock) if immediately after such issue or assumption: (1) The total outstanding principal amount of all securities representing unsecured debt will thereby exceed 20% of the aggregate of all existing secured debt and the capital stock, premiums thereon, and surplus, as stated on the books, or (2) the total outstanding principal amount of all securities representing unsecured debt of maturities of less than ten years will thereby exceed 10% of such aggregate. Alabama Power proposes to submit to its preferred stock shareholders and to its sole common stock shareholder, Southern, at a special meeting of such holders to be held on or about September 21, 1994, a proposal to amend Alabama Power's charter as follows. Alabama Power, without the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of shares of preferred stock at the time outstanding, shall not issue or assume any securities representing unsecured debt having maturities of less than 10 years (other than for the purpose of refunding or renewing outstanding unsecured securities resulting in equal or longer maturities or redeeming or otherwise retiring all outstanding shares of preferred stock or of any senior or equally ranking stock) if immediately after such issue or assumption the total outstanding principal amount of all securities representing unsecured debt will thereby exceed 20% of the aggregate of all existing secured debt and the capital stock, premiums thereon, and surplus, as stated on the books (``Proposal 1''). Should Proposal 1 fail to receive the necessary 662/3% vote of the total number of shares of preferred stock outstanding, and 662/3% vote from Southern as the owner of all outstanding shares of common stock, Alabama Power proposes to seek authority from its preferred shareholders to issue or assume, until October 1, 2004, additional unsecured debt. This unsecured debt will have maturities of less than ten years, and will exceed 10% of capital, surplus, and secured debt, provided that the amount of securities representing unsecured debt having maturities of less than ten years outstanding on January 1, 2005, shall not exceed such 10% limitation, and Alabama Power's total indebtedness represented by unsecured securities shall not exceed 20% of capital, surplus, and secured debt (``Proposal 2''). Proposal 2 requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number the shares of preferred stock outstanding. Alabama Power intends to solicit proxies from its preferred shareholders to approve the alternative proposals. Alabama Power has filed its proxy solicitation material and requests that the its declaration with respect to the solicitation of proxies for voting by its preferred shareholders to approve the alternative proposals be permitted to become effective forthwith as provided in Rule 62(d). It appearing to the Commission that Alabama Power's declaration regarding the proposed solicitation of proxies should be permitted to become effective forthwith, pursuant to Rule 62: It Is Ordered, that the declaration regarding the proposed solicitation of proxies, be, and it hereby is, permitted to become effective forthwith, under Rule 62, and subject to the terms and conditions as prescribed in Rule 24 under the Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19680 Filed 8&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
