FR940819-2-00023 FR940819-2-00011 Department's Position: In reaching these final results we have relied upon our general practice in a hyperinflationary economy which is to calculate a monthly average cost for each input. The Department believes that it is inappropriate to specifically identify inputs obtained at a lower cost to a particular product or production run. The furnaces used to produce silicon metal can produce other products that are not subject to review. Likewise, other furnaces used to produce non-subject merchandise can be used to produce silicon metal. Accordingly, any benefits derived from the use of a particular furnace relate to all products produced during the period of review. We note that in this case it is strictly a management decision as to which product will be made in the furnace which is receiving the less expensive input. As such, in months in which there were U.S. shipments of silicon metal, the furnace which utilizes less expensive electricity can be assigned to produce silicon metal. That same furnace could be assigned to produce ferrosilicon in months in which CBCC had U.S. sales of ferrosilicon, a product which is also subject to an antidumping duty order. In fact, during the period covered by this review, the furnace in question did produce both silicon metal and ferrosilicon. (Both silicon metal and ferrosilicon were also produced in other furnaces.) The facts of the instant case are consistent with the Department's position requiring the weight-averaging of the costs of merchandise produced in more than one facility. The Department has consistently held that it is inappropriate to make adjustments for cost differences between facilities when the merchandise produced in each is identical (see Department of Commerce Policy Bulletin No. 92.2, July 29, 1992, which is on file at the Central Records Unit). Comment 5: Petitioners contend that the Department verified that on several occasions CBCC paid an advance deposit on its electricity bill. Petitioners further contend that the Department should make an upward adjustment to CBCC's reported electricity costs to account for the effect of Brazilian inflation. CBCC argues that it received a credit from CEMIG (its energy supplier) for advance payment. CBCC asserts that the Department should deduct the amount of the credit from the invoiced amount since that represents the real ``cost'' of the item. Department's Position: In calculating the replacement cost of electricity obtained in each month of the period of review we used the invoiced price for that month. We did not reduce the invoiced amount for the effect of any ``credits'' CBCC may have obtained. Such a reduction would not properly reflect the replacement cost of electricity. Although this is a short-term monetary asset which is not subject to the balance sheet monetary corrections, through agreement, CEMIG credits CBCC for the value of cruzeiros as of the invoice date. This does not reduce the replacement cost of electricity CBCC obtained but merely reduces the nominal cruzeiro amount outstanding. Under the Department's replacement cost methodology each month's cost is measured in the monthly nominal invoiced cruzeiro amounts. Therefore, we have accepted the amounts billed by CEMIG as each month's replacement cost, without the effect of the ``credit.'' Comment 6: Petitioners note that CBCC reported electricity costs exclusive of the ICMS tax in its calculation of third-country COP. Petitioners contend that these tax payments should have been included in CBCC's calculation of electricity costs. Department's Position: We agree with petitioner. When using third-country sales as the basis of FMV, we must determine if the manufacturer incurred costs which resulted from the payment of taxes on the purchase of inputs. In this review period, CBCC incurred ICMS tax, a value added tax (``VAT''), in purchasing electricity. CBCC is able to offset some of this tax when it sells products in the home market because it charges and receives a VAT on its home market sales. In this case, even though the home market was not viable, CBCC did make some home market sales. However, there were not enough home market sales for the VAT charged and received on those sales to offset all of the VAT it paid on the electricity purchased to produce the merchandise sold in the third country. Accordingly, this resulted in a net cost to CBCC for the ICMS taxes paid in the production of silicon metal sold for export. As such, the Department included the net amount of the ICMS VAT in the submitted COP and CV amounts. This approach differs from that used in the Department's remand determination concerning the underlying investigation. In that determination, we made an allowance for an offset to the ICMS VAT paid currently for potential VAT to be received on future home market sales. Under this approach the ICMS was, in effect, excluded from the calculation of constructed value. We have subsequently reconsidered this methodology and have concluded that allowing such an offset for potential, future sales results in an adjustment that we now consider to be purely speculative. Accordingly, we will include in CV ICMS on inputs that are not offset by VAT charged and collected on actual home market sales which occur during the period of review. We believe our current approach better reflects the economic reality of the costs incurred during the period of review ( i.e. current costs are not tied to potential future events). Our approach in this case is consistent with the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, Ferrosilicon from Brazil, 59 FR 732, 737 (January 6, 1994). We believe this approach also is in accordance with the court's remand instructions on this issue in Camargo Correa Metais, S.A. v. United States , Slip. Op. 93&hyph;163 (CIT August 12, 1993).
