FR940719-2-00111 FR940719-2-00062 Exhibit B.2._ Members of the Potential Agency Respondent Universe 1␣ 1Baltimore 1Boston 1Chicago 1Los Angeles 1New York PHA Housing Authority of Baltimore City (HABC) Boston Housing Authority (BHA) Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles (HACLA) New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA). NPO Community Assistance Network (CAN) Metropolitan Boston Housing Partnership Inc. (MBHP) Leadership Council for Metropolitan Open Communities (LC) Fair Housing Congress of Southern California (FHCSC) Northern Manhattan Improvement Corporation (NMIC) Sub(s) Baltimore Urban League; Neighborhood Intervention Strategies, Inc.; Baltimore Neighborhoods, Inc None None beyond shelter (bs) None. B2␣Statistical Methods This section contains five parts. B2.1 presents the MTO demonstration's stratification and sampling plans. Section B2.2 discusses sampling procedures. B2.3 presents the justification of level of accuracy achieved by the sample sizes. Section B2.4 discusses any problems requiring specialized sampling procedures. Section B2.5 addresses the topic of use of less frequent data collection cycles. B2.1␣Stratification and Sampling Plans The sample for the evaluation will consist of families who apply to the demonstration and are randomly assigned to one of three groups: •The experimental group, which will receive geographically restricted certificates or vouchers, along with counseling and assistance in finding a private unit to lease; •The Section 8 control group, which will receive regular Section 8 certificates or vouchers, which are geographically unrestricted; and •The in-place control group, which will receive no certificates or vouchers, but will continue to receive project-based assistance. Exhibit B.3 shows the optimal allocation of the sample among these three groups. This allocation assumes: •The Department is interested in estimating the difference in impacts between the MTO treatment and the regular Section 8 program (or, alternatively, the difference in impacts between living in the central city outside housing projects and living in the suburbs); •The lease-up rate in the Section 8 group will be 70 percent; and •1,800 certificates or vouchers will be available for the demonstration, all of which can be used interchangeably as MTO certificates or vouchers or as regular Section 8 certificates or vouchers. The exhibit shows two alternative sample allocations (and total sample sizes), one based on an assumed lease-up rate of 20 percent in the experimental group and one based on an assumed lease-up rate of 40 percent in that group. 18 Because the certificates and vouchers issued to the experimental group participants can only be used in certain low-poverty areas outside the neighborhoods where these families would ordinarily seek housing, we expect that even with special counseling and assistance their lease-up rate will be substantially lower than that of the regular Section 8 group. However, given the limited experience with this type of program, it is very difficult to predict what that rate will be. Therefore, we show sample allocations for lease-up rates that bracket the likely range of rates for this group. 18 The 20 percent estimate is based on the experience of the Gautreaux program in Chicago. The 40 percent lease-up rate was estimated by Professor Paul Fischer from his research on the Cincinnati mobility program. Under the assumption of a 20 percent lease-up rate, it will require 4,500 families in the experimental group and 1,286 families in the Section 8 control group to produce 900 leased-up families in each, the optimal division of certificates or vouchers between the two groups. An additional 3,214 families will be required for the in-place control group, for a total sample size of 9,000 families. With a 40 percent lease-up rate in the experimental group, only 2,250 families would be needed in that group to produce 900 leased-up families. Under this assumption, the optimal number of in-place controls also falls to 964, for a total sample size of 4,500 families.
