FR941102-1-00125 FR941102-1-00020 2. Quantification of Payment for Order Flow The proposed amendments would establish definitions of ``monetary payment for order flow'' and ``non-monetary payment for order flow.'' The term monetary payment for order flow would be defined in section 10b&hyph;10(e)(10) to mean ``any monetary payment, discount, rebate or reduction of fee to the extent that the payment, discount, rebate or reduction exceeds the fee charged.'' The term non-monetary payment for order flow would be defined in section 10b-10(e)(11) to mean ``any payment for order flow received other than monetary payment for order flow.'' The Adopting Release, while requiring additional disclosure of payment for order flow practices, does not require disclosure of the amount of any payment for order flow. Certain of the proposed amendments to Rule 11Ac1&hyph;3 would focus on this disclosure. For monetary payment for order flow, the broker-dealer would be required by Rule 11Ac1&hyph;3(a) (3) and (4) to disclose the aggregate amount of monetary payment for order flow received annually, and the range of monetary payment for order flow received on a per share basis. The proposed amendments to Rule 11Ac1&hyph;3(a) (5) and (6) would require broker-dealers to disclose to customers at account opening and annually thereafter, an estimate of the aggregate value of non-monetary payment for order flow received by the broker-dealer in return for directing order flow on an annual basis, and an estimate of the range of non-monetary payment for order flow received on a per share basis. The proposal calls for an estimate of non-monetary payment for order flow, recognizing that precision may not be possible. To the extent that a broker-dealer finds it difficult to estimate the per share value of non-monetary payment for order flow, the Commission would envision permitting the broker-dealer to assume the value of the non-monetary compensation was equal to the cash per share payment for order flow received from the same source, or, if none, similar sources. The assumption would be that a broker-dealer, in choosing the form of payment for order flow, would demand a value that is commensurate with the amount of cash that could be received from the same or competing market maker or specialist. Commenters are requested to identify alternative methods by which firms might arrive at an estimate of the value of non-monetary payment for order flow. 6 6 Commenters are also requested to indicate the extent to which valuations may vary depending on the form of non-monetary compensation or other factors, and whether this would pose problems for estimating and disclosing the valuations. The proposed rule would require an estimate of the range of non-monetary payment for order flow received by the broker-dealer expressed on a per share basis. To comply with this requirement, broker-dealers would be expected to use the estimate required by Rule 11Ac1&hyph;3(a)(5) in calculating the range of values to be disclosed. The proposed rule would recognize expressly that the calculation of values represents an estimate. 7 7 One commenter believes that value estimates of non-monetary compensation may be based on fair value as determined in good faith by the management of the broker-dealer. See letter from Alan B. Levenson, Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P. and Irving M. Pollack (on behalf of Herzog, Heine, Geduld, Inc.), to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, dated December 9, 1993.
