FR940214-1-00011 FR940214-1-00004 Information indicating that the commodities can be imported and distributed without negative impact upon domestic production, prices and marketing of same or like products. ยง1499.6 Criteria for entering into Program Agreements. (a) Section 416(b). (1) In determining whether to enter into a section 416(b) Program Agreement, CCC will give priority consideration to the donation of commodities to support activities designed to meet emergency situations, followed by non-emergency humanitarian feeding activities, and, finally, activities using monetized proceeds. Within this prioritization, CCC will consider the following evaluation criteria: (i) Applicant Capability (A) Organizational experience and current institutional capacity to implement and manage the type of program proposed (targeted food distribution, targeted food distribution and monetization, or monetization for economic and other development activities). (B) Experience working in the targeted country. (C) Experience and capability level of personnel who will be responsible for implementing and managing the program. (ii) Quality and technical soundness of proposal (A) Assessment of need and rationale are well presented and demonstrate actual need. (B) Program objectives and expected outcomes are reasonable and realistic and show an understanding of the opportunities and constraints to achieving the program objectives. (C) Plan for achieving program objectives is completely and clearly described and is logical for the type of program being implemented and includes, where appropriate, the following: ( 1 ) Description of transportation mechanisms, facilities, storage and warehousing plans, distribution methods, recipients or participants, and local institutions or entities involved with the project. ( 2 ) Description of how the commodity will be sold and any reprocessing or repackaging. ( 3 ) For the use of monetized proceeds, description of activities or costs that will be paid for by the generated local currencies. ( 4 ) Appropriateness and adequacy of organizational structure for the management of the agreement, including the clear articulation of lines of authority and relationships between the applicant and the various institutions and entities it proposes to involve. (D) Records and accountability methods for monitoring the program, including the distribution of commodities or use of local currencies, and the method by which the Cooperating Sponsor intends to evaluate the success of the proposal are clearly described and appropriate. (E) Demonstrates that the program will contribute to strengthening institutions, entities, or capabilities in the recipient country. (iii) USDA Management responsibilities USDA assessment of commodity need and acceptability in terms of cost, storability, acceptability, and nutritional impact of proposed commodities. (b) Food for Progress. In determining whether to enter into a Food for Progress Foreign Donation Agreement, CCC will consider the extent to which the recipient country is committed to carry out, or is carrying out, policies that promote economic freedom, private domestic production of food commodities for domestic consumption, and the creation and expansion of efficient private domestic markets for the purchase and sale of such commodities. CCC shall require Cooperating Sponsors to submit a Plan of Operation similar to the Plan of Operation described in ยง1499.5(b) when CCC determines such would be necessary to identify specific activities to be undertaken by the Cooperating Sponsor in order to accomplish the purposes of the Food for Progress program. In such case, proposed activities will be evaluated in accordance with the criteria set forth at ยง1499.6(a)(2). ยง1499.7 Apportionment of costs.
