FR940720-2-00158 FR940720-2-00087 3. Applicants state that the proposed distribution fee is an appropriate method to help defray Security Life's costs associated with the sale of the Contracts. Applicants represent that Security Life will monitor the performance of the Variable Account to ensure that with respect to any Contract owner the cumulative sum of the distribution fee and the withdrawal charge will not exceed 9% of the total premiums paid. Applicants state that assurance that the sum of such charges will never exceed 9% of premiums paid can be obtained by monitoring the performance of the Variable Account. Applicants represent that if the performance of the Variable Account should be so favorable so that it is possible that the 9% limit may be reached under any outstanding Contract, Security Life will promptly commence monitoring Contracts on an individual basis to make sure that the limit is not exceeded. 4. Applicants represent that the 1.25% mortality and expense risk charge is within the range of industry practice for comparable annuity products. Applicants state that this representation is based upon an analysis of publicly available information about selected similar industry products, taking into consideration such factors as the method used in charging sales loads, any contractual right to increase charges above current levels and the existence of charges against separate account assets for other than mortality and expense risks. Security Life will maintain at its principal office, available to the Commission, a memorandum setting forth in detail the products analyzed in the course of, and the methodology and results of, the comparative survey made. 5. Applicants acknowledge that the distribution fee and the withdrawal charge will be insufficient to cover all costs relating to the distribution of the Contracts and that if a profit is realized from the mortality and expense risk charge, all or a portion of such profit may be offset by distribution expenses not reimbursed by the distribution fee and the withdrawal charge. Notwithstanding the above, Security Life has concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed distribution financing arrangements made with respect to the Contracts will benefit the Variable Account and the Contract owners. The basis for such conclusion is set forth in a memorandum which will be maintained by Security Life at its principal office and will be available to the Commission. 6. Security Life represents that the Variable Account will invest only in an underlying mutual fund which undertakes, in the event it should adopt any plan under Rule 12b&hyph;1 to finance distribution expenses, to have such plan formulated and approved by a board of directors, a majority of the members of which are not ``interested persons'' of such fund within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the Act. Conclusion Applicants submit that for the reasons and upon the facts set forth above, the exemptions requested are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17588 Filed 7&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
