FR940505-1-00148 FR940505-1-00012 The proposed control strategy treats all commercial airlines identically, and the proposed strategy envisions compliance by international air carriers as well as domestic airlines. EPA believes that international air carriers are required to comply with all applicable rules and regulations, including air quality laws. Therefore, EPA is not proposing to treat foreign air carriers any differently than the domestic commercial airlines, subject to any supervening requirements in treaty obligations. During the comment period on the proposed control strategy, EPA will be contacting the Department of Transportation, the Department of State, and other federal agencies to ensure consistencies with relevant rules, regulations, and agreements. EPA will also explore any additional requirements or flexibility for the handling of fees collected from foreign carriers. ( 4 ) Ground Access Vehicles Controlled by Other FIP Elements. The proposed control strategy only applies to aircraft and related emission sources that are under the direct control of commercial air carriers. This is because the other major sources of emissions operating at airports, such as GAV and stationary sources, are being substantially controlled under other regulations. Emissions from significant stationary sources are controlled under stationary source rules implemented by the state and local agencies or the FIP. Emissions from GAV are comprehensively regulated under state rules and other FIP measures. Also, in conjunction with promulgating the proposed strategy, EPA is recommending amending provisions in the Airports and Airways Improvement Act (``AAIA''), 49 U.S.C. Section 2210, that limit the airport proprietor's ability to spend landing fee revenues on projects that reduce GAV emissions through promoting mass transit or eliminating congestion. ( 5 ) Issues for Specific Comment. EPA requests comment on the desirability of removing the Ventura and Sacramento control areas from this commercial aircraft control strategy. EPA requests comment on whether stationary source emission reduction targets are appropriate for use with the commercial aircraft control strategy. EPA requests comment on the desirability of using a two-year average for establishing a baseline inventory, although EPA notes that any multi-year average must represent 1990 emissions in some manner consistent with Clean Air Act requirements. EPA requests comment on the desirability and feasibility of modifying the basin-wide emissions target to lock in emissions reductions that will result from non-FIP requirements such as the Airport Noise and Capacity Act. EPA proposes today to allocate GSE operated by fixed-base operators to specific airlines based on servicing provided under contract agreements, and requests comment on possible alternatives to such an allocation strategy. EPA requests comment on potential alternatives to the ozone-season control period proposed today. EPA requests comment on the appropriate schedule of reduction for the seasonal emission cap even though the final (2005) emission cap would not change. EPA requests comment on a triggering mechanism that would prevent implementation of the fee system as long as the area-wide commercial aircraft emission allowance target is achieved. EPA requests comment on what fee levels will achieve the objective of discouraging noncompliance without being excessive. EPA requests comment on alternative methods for establishing activity factors that may be automatically updated based on prior-year operational data. The airlines have reported using as a ``rule of thumb'' 200 pounds of payload for each passenger, which includes the weight of the passenger and his or her luggage. EPA requests comment on whether this is an appropriate and equitable value. EPA requests comment on the possible incorporation of an emissions credit program as part of the control strategy proposed today, and on ways to involve state and local agencies in order to make more trading opportunities available to the airlines. EPA requests comment on the desirability of issuing additional specific technical guidance concerning emissions calculations for aircraft operations. EPA requests comment on the desirability of requiring airlines to submit baseline reports, and on possible alternative methods for establishing a reasonable baseline emissions inventory. EPA requests comment on the current emissions inventory methodology that uses airport-specific average summer day, mid-morning mixing heights for July and August 1990 as the basis for calculating aircraft climbout and approach emissions. (The amount of time spent in each of these operational modes depends on the height of the inversion layer.) Alternatively, a single default mixing height (e.g., 3000 feet above ground level) could be used for all aircraft operations. This could simplify the calculation procedure, but may not be as representative. EPA requests comment on the desirability of requiring airlines to submit compliance plans, and on the information that should be provided in such plans should they be required. EPA requests comment on the desirability of providing exemptions from the requirements of this control program for certain types of emergency or atypical commercial aircraft operations beyond the control of aircraft operators. EPA requests comment on the desirability and feasibility of establishing a de minimus exemption for this control program. The Agency requests comment on the legal and policy implications of a strategy that has the potential to create incentives to limit operations at airports in the FIP areas. EPA requests comment on the relationship between EPA's legal authority under sections 110(c) and 231 if the strategy results in the regulated industry having as a principal option, reliance on technology-forcing aircraft engine advances to meet the emission reduction targets.
