FR940817-2-00184 FR940817-2-00090 [Release No. 3434512; File No. SR&hyph;MBSCC&hyph;94&hyph;3] Self-Regulatory Organizations; MBS Clearing Corporation; Notice of Amendments and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change Relating to Corporate Governance Changes August 10, 1994. On June 21, 1994, MBS Clearing Corporation (``MBSCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''). 1 The Commission published notice of the proposed rule change in the Federal Register on July 18, 1994. 2 On July 15, July 22, August 4, and August 9, 1994, MBSCC filed amendments to the proposed rule change. 3 No comments have been received on the filing. As discussed below, the Commission is approving the proposed rule change, including the amendemnts, on an accelerated basis. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34337 (July 8, 1994), 59 FR 36457. 3␣Amendment No. 1 corrected a typographical error in the filing. Letter from David T. Rusoff, Foley & Lardner, to Jerry Carpenter, Division of Market Regulation (``Division''), Commission (July 14, 1994). Amendment No. 2 clarified certain provisions of the Shareholders Agreement. Letter from Daniel B. Silver, Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton to Jerry Carpenter, Division, Commission (July 21, 1994). Amendment No. 3 clarified the procedure for shareholders to terminate the Shareholders Agreement. Letter from David T. Rusoff, Foley & Lardner, to Jerry Carpenter, Division, Commission (August 3, 1994). Amendment No. 4 provided for a limitation on the voting entitlements of bank holding companies. Letter from David T. Rusoff, Foley & Lardner, to Jerry Carpenter, Division, Commission (August 9, 1994). I. Description MBSCC is currently a wholly owned subsidiary of the Chicago Stock Exchange, Incorporated (``CHX''). CHX has agreed to sell all of CHX's ownership interest in MBSCC to MBSCC participants and the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC''). 4 After the transaction is completed, participants of MBSCC will own 100% of Class A common shares of MBSCC, and NSCC will own 100% of Class B common shares of MBSCC. 5 4 CHX will sell all of its shares to a corporation formed for the sole purpose of acquiring MBSCC stock (``MBSCC Acquisition Corporation''). MBSCC participants will own 90% of MBSCC Acquisition Corporation, and NSCC will own 10% of MBSCC Acquisition Corporation. After the sale of MBSCC stock to MBSCC Acquisition Corporation, MBSCC Acquisition Corporation will be merged into MBSCC with MBSCC being the surviving corporation. 5 All MBSCC participants will have the opportunity to purchase shares in MBSCC in proposition to their usage of MBSCC. After the initial sale to participants, participants who are not shareholders will be entitled to purchase one share of Class A common stock. All shareholders will be required to sign the Shareholders Agreement described below. The proposed rule change adopts corporate governance changes for MBSCC consistent with the transaction described above. The proposed rule change amends Article FOURTH of MBSCC's Certificate of Incorporation, amends various provisions of MBSCC's By-Laws and Rules, and authorizes MBSCC to enter into a Shareholders Agreement. Article FOURTH of MBSCC's Certificate of Incorporation is amended to increase the number of shares of stock that MBSCC is authorized to issue and to divide the common stock into Class A and Class B shares. The increased number of authorized shares permits MBSCC participants to hold MBSCC shares in proportion to their usage of MBSCC without creating fractional shares. The division of the common stock into Class A and Class B shares provides a mechanism whereby NSCC, which will purchase 100% of Class B shares, is assured one seat on the board of directors of MBSCC. The amendments to the By-Laws and the Shareholders Agreement set forth, among other things, the number of directors, their eligibility, and the manner in which directors will be elected. Specifically, the amendment to Article 3, Section 3.1 of the By-Laws increases the size of the MBSCC board to thirteen from its present size of eleven directors. 6 In addition, Article 3, Section 3.1 of the By-Laws and Section 2 of the Shareholders Agreement require that each director, other than the NSCC director and one director that represents the management of MBSCC, must be an officer or general partner of or hold a similar management position with a participant of MBSCC (``Participant Director'') and that no more than one officer, partner, director, or employee of a participant may serve as director at any given time. 6 Pursuant to Article 3, Section 3.2 of the By-Laws and pursuant to the proposed Shareholders Agreement, one of the newly created slots on the MBSCC board is for NSCC's delegate to the board, and one slot is for an additional representative of participants. NSCC will elect one director of the Class III directors for so long as NSCC owns Class B shares. Section 3.1 of the By-Laws provides for a staggered board of directors with each of the three classes elected once every three years.
