FR941117-0-00151 FR941117-0-00011 (1) Licensees must perform or obtain an engineering analysis to ensure that interference to the service of other cellular systems will not result from the implementation of auxiliary services or alternative cellular technologies. (2) Alternative technology and auxiliary service operations are exempt from the channeling requirements of §22.905, the modulation requirements of §22.915, the wave polarization requirements of §22.367, the compatibility specification in §22.933 and the emission limitations of §§22.357 and 22.917, except for emission limitations that apply to emissions outside the assigned channel block. (e) Provision of resale capacity. Each cellular system licensee must permit unrestricted resale of its service, except that a licensee may apply resale restrictions to licensees of cellular systems on the other channel block in its market after the five year build-out period for licensees on the other channel block has expired. §22.903 Conditions applicable to former Bell Operating Companies. Ameritech Corporation, Bell Atlantic Corporation, BellSouth Corporation, NYNEX Corporation, Pacific Telesis Group, Southwestern Bell Corporation, U.S. West, Inc., their successors in interest and affiliated entities (BOCs) may engage in the provision of cellular service only in accordance with the conditions in this section, unless otherwise authorized by the FCC. BOCs may, subject to other provisions of law, have a controlling or lesser interest in or be under common control with separate corporations that provide cellular service only under the following conditions: (a) Access to landline facilities: BOCs must not sell, lease or otherwise make available to the separate corporation any transmission facilities that are used in any way for the provision of its landline telephone services, except on a compensatory, arm's-length basis. Separate corporations must not own any facilities for the provision of landline telephone service. Access to landline exchange and transmission facilities for the provision of cellular service must be obtained by separate corporations on the same terms and conditions as those facilities are made available to other entities. (b) Independence. Separate corporations must operate independently in the provision of cellular service. Each separate corporation must_ (1) Maintain its own books of account; (2) Have separate officers; (3) Employ separate operating, marketing, installation and maintenance personnel; and, (4) Utilize separate computer and transmission facilities in the provision of cellular services. (c) Research or development. Any research or development performed by BOCs for separate corporations, either separately or jointly, must be on a compensatory basis. (d) Transactions. All transactions between the separate corporation and the BOC or its affiliates that involve the transfer, either direct or by accounting or other record entries, of money, personnel, resources, other assets or any things of value, shall be reduced to writing. A copy of any contract, agreement or other arrangement entered between such entities with regard to interconnection with landline network exchange and transmission facilities must be filed with the FCC within thirty days after the contract, agreement, or other arrangement is made. A copy of all other contracts, agreements or arrangements between such entities shall be kept available by the separate corporation for inspection upon reasonable request by the FCC. The provision shall not apply to any transaction governed by the provision of an effective state or federal tariff. (e) Promotion. BOCs must not engage in the sale or promotion of cellular service on behalf of the separate corporation. However, this does not prohibit joint advertising or promotional efforts by the landline carrier and its cellular affiliate. (f) Proprietary information. BOCs must not provide to any such separate corporation any customer proprietary information, unless such information is publicly available on the same terms and conditions. (g) Provision of other Public Mobile services. Separate corporations may include, as part of their operations, the provision of other Public Mobile services.
