FR940413-2-00126 FR940413-2-00061 CS Holding and its Worldwide Affiliates Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94 -31; Exemption Application No. D&hyph;9605] Exemption CS Holding and each of its affiliates (collectively, CS Holding), except Banque Leu Luxembourg (BLL), shall not be precluded from functioning as a ``qualified professional asset manager'' pursuant to Prohibited Transaction Exemption 84&hyph;14 (PTE 84&hyph;14, 49 FR 9494, March 13, 1984) solely because of a failure to satisfy Section I(g) of PTE 84&hyph;14, as a result of affiliation with BLL, including any current or future affiliate of CS Holding, other than BLL, which is, or in the future may become, eligible to serve as a QPAM under PTE 84&hyph;14. Effective Date: This exemption is effective as of December 17, 1993. For a more complete statement of the facts and representations supporting the Department's decision to grant this exemption, refer to the notice of proposed exemption published on February 9, 1994 at 59 FR 6049. WRITTEN COMMENTS: The Department received one written comment and no requests for a hearing. The comment was submitted on behalf of the applicant, CS Holding, in supplementation of the Notice of Proposed Exemption (the Notice). The matters addressed in the applicant's comment are summarized as follows: 1. The Notice indicated that the location of CS Holding and Affiliates is New York, New York. The applicant states that the corporate headquarters of CS Holding is actually located in Zurich, Switzerland, and its affiliates operate in a variety of worldwide locations. Accordingly, the exemption heading has been amended to include this information. 2. The operative exemption language in the Notice concluded with the following phrase: ``*␣*␣* including any current or future affiliate of CS Holding, other than BLL, which in the future may become eligible to serve as a QPAM under PTE 94&hyph;14.'' The applicant requests, in the interests of completeness and accuracy, that the words ``is or'' be inserted between the words ``which'' and ``in''. In response to this request, the operative exemption language in the final exemption includes the requested insertion, and the phrase reads as follows: ``*␣*␣* including any current or future affiliate of CS Holding, other than BLL, which is, or in the future may become, eligible to serve as a QPAM under PTE 94&hyph;14.'' 3. The Notice states that the proposed exemption was requested ``on behalf of CS Holding affiliates that are banks, investment banking firms, or registered investment advisers which are or may become eligible to serve as QPAMs.'' The applicant comments that it is more accurate to state that the proposed exemption was requested ``on behalf of CS Holding affiliates that include banks, investment banking firms, and investment advisers which are, or may become, eligible to serve as QPAMs.'' After consideration of the entire record, the Department has determined to grant the exemption, as supplemented by the applicant's comment. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ronald Willett of the Department, telephone (202) 523&hyph;8881. (This is not a toll-free number.)
