FR940505-1-00358 FR940505-1-00012 (2) Coatings subject to the requirements of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act are exempt from the labeling requirements listed under paragraph (d) of this section. ยง52.2960 Pesticides. (a) Applicability. (1) The requirements of this section shall apply to all persons located inside or outside of the affected area who produce agricultural and/or structural pesticides that are registered in the State of California. (2) The requirements of this section shall apply to all persons who distribute and/or store agricultural and/or structural pesticides within the affected area, unless such person can demonstrate both that the pesticide is intended only for shipment and use outside of the affected area, and that the person has taken reasonable prudent precautions to assure that the pesticide is not distributed within the affected area. Activities which shall not qualify as such reasonable prudent precaution include but are not limited to: (i) Distribution to a retail distributor within the affected area; or (ii) Failure to clearly identify pesticides as not for sale or use within California. (3) The requirements of this section shall apply to all persons who apply agricultural and/or structural pesticides within the affected area. (4) For the purposes of this section, the affected area is the State of California. For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise specified, the effective date is April 1, 1995. (b) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions will apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q) or the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), 7 U.S.C. 136 et seq. Agricultural pesticide means a pesticide intended for: (1) Use in the commercial production, transportation or storage of agricultural commodities, including but not limited to food, feed and fiber crops, farm animals, forest and timber commodities, ornamentals, flowers and turf; (2) Use in, on or around agricultural premises or buildings, including but not limited to barns, silos, animal enclosures, greenhouses and similar agricultural structures; or (3) Use on terrestrial, aquatic or forestry sites not directly related to the production of agricultural commodities, including but not limited to rights-of-way, golf courses, parks, mosquito control use, farm ponds, pasture and rangeland. A pesticide is not an agricultural pesticide if it is intended solely for: residential, institutional, industrial or structural pest control; consumer or personal use, including use on pets; non-commercial production of agricultural commodities (e.g., home gardens); or research or experimental pest control. Applicator means any person who uses or supervises the use of any pesticide. Distributor means any person who distributes, sells, offers for sale, holds for distribution, holds for sale, holds for shipment, ships, delivers for shipment, releases for shipment, or receives and (having so received) delivers or offers to deliver. The term does not include the holding or application of registered pesticides or use dilutions thereof by any applicator who provides a service of controlling pests without delivering any unapplied pesticide to any person so served. The term ``distribute'' means to distribute, sell, offer for sale, hold for distribution, hold for sale, hold for shipment, ship, deliver for shipment, release for shipment, or receive and (having so received) deliver or offer to deliver any pesticide. This includes persons who distribute pesticides to applicators or to other dealers or distributors. EPA means the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Reports submitted to EPA shall be addressed in care of U.S. EPA, Region IX (A&hyph;1&hyph;1), 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105. Exempt compounds means any of the following compounds: methane; ethane; 1,1,1-trichloroethane (methyl chloroform); trichlorotrifluoroethane (CFC-113); methylene chloride; trichlorofluoromethane (CFC&hyph;11); dichlorodifluoromethane (CFC&hyph;12); chlorodifluoromethane (HCFC&hyph;22); trifluoromethane (HFC&hyph;23); dichlorotetrafluoroethane (CFC&hyph;114); chloropentafluoroethane (CFC&hyph;115); dichlorotrifluoroethane (HCFC&hyph;123); tetrafluoroethane (HFC&hyph;134a); dichlorofluoroethane (HCFC&hyph;141b); chlorodifluoroethane (HCFC&hyph;142b); 2-chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (HCFC&hyph;124); pentafluoroethane (HFC&hyph;125); 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethane (HFC&hyph;134); 1,1,1-trifluoroethane (HFC&hyph;143a); 1,1-difluoroethane (HFC&hyph;152a); and perfluorocarbon compounds which fall into these classes_ cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated alkanes; cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated ethers with no unsaturations; cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated tertiary amines with no unsaturations; or sulfur-containing perfluorocarbons with no unsaturations and with sulfur bonds only to carbon and fluorine. Person means any firm, business establishment, association, partnership, corporation or individual, whether acting as principal, agent, employee, or other capacity including any governmental entity or charitable organization. Pesticide means any substance or mixture of substances intended for preventing, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest; and any substance or mixture of substances intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant. Producer means the person who manufacturers, prepares, compounds, propagates, or processes any pesticide or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide. The term ``produce'' means to manufacture, prepare, compound, propagate, or process any pesticide or active ingredient used in producing a pesticide. The dilution by individuals of formulated pesticides for their own use and according to the directions on registered labels shall not itself result in such individuals being included in the definition of ``producer'' for the purposes of this section. Registered , with respect to a pesticide product, means that the product has been approved for sale and distribution within the State of California pursuant to the California Food and Agricultural Code (Division 7, Chapter 2, Article 4, ยง12811).
