FR940913-0-00081 FR940913-0-00027 §84.71 Closeout procedures. (a) Recipients shall submit, within 90 calendar days after the date of completion of the award, all financial, performance, and other reports as required by the terms and conditions of the award. HUD may approve extensions when requested by the recipient. (b) Unless HUD authorizes an extension, a recipient shall liquidate all obligations incurred under the award not later than 90 calendar days after the funding period or the date of completion as specified in the terms and conditions of the award or in HUD instructions. (c) HUD shall make prompt payments to a recipient for allowable reimbursable costs under the award being closed out. (d) The recipient shall promptly refund any balances of unobligated cash that HUD has advanced or paid and that is not authorized to be retained by the recipient for use in other projects. OMB Circular A-129 governs unreturned amounts that become delinquent debts. (e) When authorized by the terms and conditions of the award, HUD shall make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after closeout reports are received. (f) The recipient shall account for any real and personal property acquired with Federal funds or received from the Federal Government in accordance with §§84.31 through 84.37. (g) In the event a final audit has not been performed prior to the closeout of an award, HUD shall retain the right to recover an appropriate amount after fully considering the recommendations on disallowed costs resulting from the final audit. §84.72 Subsequent adjustments and continuing responsibilities. (a) The closeout of an award does not affect any of the following. (1) The right of HUD to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review. (2) The obligation of the recipient to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions. (3) Audit requirements in §84.26. (4) Property management requirements in §§84.31 through 84.37. (5) Records retention as required in §84.53. (b) After closeout of an award, a relationship created under an award may be modified or ended in whole or in part with the consent of HUD and the recipient, provided the responsibilities of the recipient referred to in §84.73(a), including those for property management as applicable, are considered and provisions made for continuing responsibilities of the recipient, as appropriate. §84.73 Collection of amounts due. (a) Any funds paid to a recipient in excess of the amount to which the recipient is finally determined to be entitled under the terms and conditions of the award constitute a debt to the Federal Government. If not paid within a reasonable period after the demand for payment, HUD may reduce the debt by paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section. (1) Making an administrative offset against other requests for reimbursements. (2) Withholding advance payments otherwise due to the recipient. (3) Taking other action permitted by statute. (b) Except as otherwise provided by law, HUD shall charge interest on an overdue debt in accordance with 4 CFR Chapter II, ``Federal Claims Collection Standards.'' Subpart E_Use of Lump Sum Grants §84.80 Conditions for use of Lump Sum (fixed price or fixed amount) grants. (a) Heads of awarding activities (HAAs) shall determine and publish the funding arrangement for award programs having a published program regulation or Notice of Funding Availability. For other awards, discretion may be provided to Grant Officers to determine the funding arrangement on a transaction basis. In such cases, Grant Officers shall document the basis for selection of the funding arrangement in the negotiation record. Appropriate consideration to fixed amount (lump sum) awards shall be made if one or more of the following conditions are present:
