FR941206-0-00197 FR941206-0-00019 (5) Procedure to determine the exit concentration limit (C t ) for a treated hazardous waste. (i) The point of waste origination for each hazardous waste treated by the process at the same time shall be identified. (ii) If a single hazardous waste stream is identified in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, then the exit concentration limit (C t ) shall be 100 ppmw. (iii) If more than one hazardous waste stream is identified in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, then the VO concentration of each hazardous waste stream at the point of waste origination shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. The exit concentration limit (C t ) shall be calculated by using the results determined for each individual hazardous waste stream and the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER06DE94.007 where: C t = Exit concentration limit for treated hazardous waste, ppmw. x = Individual hazardous waste stream ``x'' that has a VO concentration less than 100 ppmw at the point of waste origination as determined in accordance with the requirements of §265.1084(a). y = Individual hazardous waste stream ``y'' that has a VO concentration equal to or greater than 100 ppmw at the point of waste origination as determined in accordance with the requirements of §265.1084(a). m = Total number of ``x'' hazardous waste streams treated by process. n = Total number of ``y'' hazardous waste streams treated by process. Q x = Annual mass quantity of hazardous waste stream ``x'', kg/yr. Q y = Annual mass quantity of hazardous waste stream ``y'', kg/yr. x = Average VO concentration of hazardous waste stream ``x'' at the point of waste origination as determined in accordance with the requirements of §265.1084(a), ppmw. (6) Procedure to determine the organic reduction efficiency (R) for a treated hazardous waste. (i) The organic reduction efficiency for a treatment process shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. The sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour. (ii) The point of each hazardous waste stream entering the process and each hazardous waste stream exiting the process that is to be included in the calculation of the organic reduction efficiency for the process shall be identified. (iii) For each run, the following information shall be determined for each hazardous waste stream identified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section using the following procedures: (A) The mass quantity of each hazardous waste stream entering the process (Q b ) and the mass quantity of each hazardous waste stream exiting the process (Q a ) shall be determined. (B) The VO concentration of each hazardous waste stream entering the process (C b ) during the run shall be measured in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(5)(iv)(A) through (a)(5)(iv)(D) of this section. The VO concentration of each hazardous waste stream exiting the process (C a ) during the run shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section. Samples shall be collected as follows: ( 1 ) For a continuous process, the samples of the hazardous waste entering and samples of the hazardous waste exiting the process shall be collected concurrently. ( 2 ) For a batch process, the samples of the hazardous waste entering the process shall be collected at the time that the hazardous waste is placed in the process. The samples of the hazardous waste exiting the process shall be collected as soon as practicable after the time when the process stops operation or the final treatment cycle ends. (iv) The waste volatile organic mass flow entering the process (E b ) and the waste volatile organic mass flow exiting the process (E a ) shall be calculated by using the results determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section and the following equations: E:GRAPHICSER06DE94.008 where: E a = Waste volatile organic mass flow exiting process, kg/hr. E b = Waste volatile organic mass flow entering process, kg/hr. m = Total number of runs (at least 3) j = Individual run ``j'' Q bj = Mass quantity of hazardous waste entering process during run ``j'', kg/hr. Q aj = Average mass quantity of waste exiting process during run ``j'', kg/hr. C aj = Measured VO concentration of hazardous waste exiting process during run ``j'' as determined in accordance with the requirements of §265.1084(b)(4)(iv), ppmw. C bj = Measured VO concentration of hazardous waste entering process during run ``j'' as determined in accordance with the requirements of §265.1084 (a)(5)(iv)(A) through (a)(5)(iv)(D), ppmw. (v) The organic reduction efficiency of the process shall be calculated by using the results determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section and the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER06de94.009 where: R = Organic reduction efficiency, percent. E b = Waste volatile organic mass flow entering process as determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section, kg/hr. E a = Waste volatile organic mass flow exiting process as determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section, kg/hr. (7) Procedure to determine the organic biodegradation efficiency (R bio ) for a treated hazardous waste. (i) The fraction of organics biodegraded (F bio ) shall be determined using the procedure specified in 40 CFR part 63, appendix C of this chapter.
