FR940705-2-00207 FR940705-2-00091 Appendix I&hyph;III&hyph;K. Blattner, F.R., B.G. Williams, A.E. Bleche, K. Denniston-Thompson, H.E. Faber, L.A. Furlong, D.J. Gunwald, D.O. Kiefer, D.D. Moore, J.W. Shumm, E.L. Sheldon, and O. Smithies, Charon Phages: Safer Derivatives of Bacteriophage Lambda for DNA Cloning, Science 1977, 196, pp. 163&hyph;169. Appendix I&hyph;III&hyph;L. Donoghue, D.J., and P.A. Sharp, An Improved Lambda Vector: Construction of Model Recombinants Coding for Kanamycin Resistance, Gene, 1977, 1, pp. 209&hyph;227. Appendix I&hyph;III&hyph;M. Leder, P., D. Tiemeier and L. Enquist (1977), EK2 Derivatives of Bacteriophage Lambda Useful in the Cloning of DNA from Higher Organisms: The gt WES System, Science, 1977, 196, pp. 175&hyph;177. Appendix I&hyph;III&hyph;N. Skalka, A., Current Status of Coliphage AEK2 Vectors, Gene, 1978, 3, pp. 29&hyph;35. Appendix I&hyph;III&hyph;O. Szybalski, W., A. Skalka, S. Gottesman, A. Campbell, and D. Botstein, Standardized Laboratory Tests for EK2 Certification, Gene, 1978, 3, pp. 36&hyph;38. Appendix J. Biotechnology Research Subcommittee The National Science and Technology Council's Committee on Fundamental Science determined that a subcommittee should be continued to identify and coordinate Federal research efforts, identify research needs, stimulating international cooperation, and assess national and international policy issues concerning biotechnology sciences. The primary emphasis will be on scientific issues to increase the overall effectiveness and productivity of the Federal investment in biotechnology sciences, especially regarding issues which cut across agency boundaries. This subcommittee is called the Biotechnology Research Subcommittee. Membership of the Biotechnology Research Subcommittee will include Federal agencies that support biotechnology research. Agencies represented are: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Department of Commerce, Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Interior, Department of Justice, Department of State, Department of Veterans Affairs, Agency for International Development, Environmental Protection Agency, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and National Science Foundation. The Biotechnology Research Subcommittee will function in an advisory capacity to the Committee on Fundamental Science, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the Executive Office of the President. The Biotechnology Research Subcommittee will review the scientific aspects of proposed regulations and guidelines as they are developed.
