FR941007-1-00056 FR941007-1-00009 The agencies could have adjusted an institution's rating upward under the investment test to take into account whether the institution's investments were particularly innovative or met a special need or whether the institution's activities in connection with the investments were particularly complex or intensive. The agencies also would have been able to adjust an institution's rating upward if the institution had made a large amount of investments that would have been qualified investments except that they failed to benefit the institution's service area. Downward adjustments would have been justified only in exceptional cases. Commenters criticized several aspects of the proposal. Most notably, many banking industry commenters expressed dissatisfaction with the test's focus on the amount of qualified investments relative to an institution's risk-based capital. They felt reliance on any such investment-to-capital ratio would unfairly penalize well-capitalized institutions. Community groups commented on various aspects of how the term ``qualified investments'' was defined and the banking industry criticized the restriction that qualified investments must benefit the institution's service area. The investment test in the revised proposal has been modified to address the principal concerns raised in the comments. The reliance on the ratio of qualified investments to risk-based capital has been eliminated. Rather, under the revised proposal, the agencies would focus on the dollar amount of the institution's qualified investments (independent of the institution's capital), the innovativeness and complexity of the qualified investments and their connection to credit needs, and the institution's responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. Further, the revised proposal clarifies the definition of ``qualified investments.'' 2 Qualified investments are lawful investments, deposits, membership shares in a credit union, and grants that primarily benefit low- or moderate-income individuals or businesses or farms with under $1 million in annual revenues or that qualify as small businesses under SBA regulations; and that address affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs that are not being met in the normal course of business by the private market. The agencies intend the limitation regarding needs not being met by the private market to exclude untargeted municipal bonds and standard mortgage-backed securities. The revised proposal also would clarify that grants, membership shares in a credit union, and other non-loan financial support can qualify as qualified investments. Under the definition, a qualified investment would not otherwise be disqualified because an institution receives favorable treatment (for example as a tax deduction or credit) for them under the Internal Revenue Code. In addition, under the revised proposal, qualified investments no longer would need to benefit an institution's service area, provided the investments benefit a broader statewide or regional geographic area that includes the institution's service area. This change would conform with the broader geographic scope permitted for community development loans discussed previously. 2 Examples of qualified investments identified by the agencies include, but are not limited to, investments and grants: in or to financial intermediaries (including, but not limited to CDFIs, CDCs, minority- and women-owned financial institutions, and low-income or community development credit unions) that primarily lend or facilitate lending in low- and moderate-income areas or to low- and moderate-income individuals in order to promote affordable housing and/or community economic development; in support of organizations engaged in affordable housing rehabilitation and construction, including multifamily rental housing; in support of organizations promoting small businesses, including Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs), and specialized SBICs; in and to not-for-profit organizations serving low- and moderate-income housing needs and/or other community economic development needs; to support or develop facilities that promote community economic development in low- and moderate-income areas or for low- and moderate-income individuals, such as day care facilities, in projects eligible for low-income housing tax credits; in state and municipal obligations that specifically support affordable housing or other community economic development to benefit low- and moderate-income individuals or areas; to not-for-profit organizations serving low- and moderate-income housing and/or other community economic development needs, such as home-ownership counseling, home maintenance counseling, credit counseling, and other financial services education; and in or to organizations supporting activities essential to the capacity of low- and moderate-income individuals or geographies to utilize credit or to sustain economic development. The revised proposal deletes the definition of small business from the December proposal that some commenters criticized as too complicated. Instead, the qualified investment and community development loan definitions refer to investments and loans that benefit businesses with annual revenues under $1 million or that would qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program. The $1 million figure was chosen because it is used in Regulation B to differentiate among borrowers for requirements concerning adverse action notices and application retention. The new proposed definitions also maintain a treatment of small business that conforms to the SBA definitions, as required by law for federal agencies.
