FR940913-2-00090 FR940913-2-00065 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 50&hyph;409] Dairyland Power Cooperative; La Crosse Boiling Water Reactor; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering the issuance of a Confirmatory Order modifying the August 7, 1991, Order (the Decommissioning Order) which authorized the Dairyland Power Cooperative (DPC, the licensee) to decommission the La Crosse Boiling Water Reactor (LACBWR). LACBWR is located 19 miles south of La Crosse, Wisconsin. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The proposed action would allow DPC to: (i) make limited changes in the facility or procedures as described the Decommissioning Plan; and (ii) conduct certain tests and experiments not described in the Decommissioning Plan, without prior NRC approval. The licensee requested, by letters dated August 2, and August 5, 1994, that the NRC issue an order that revises the Decommissioning Order to allow DPC limited flexibility under its Decommissioning Plan. This action is consistent with the flexibility under 10 CFR 50.59 afforded to a licensee authorized to operate a production or utilization facility and afforded by other Decommissioning Orders issued by the NRC. The Need for the Proposed Action The LACBWR has been shut down since April 30, 1987. All spent fuel has been removed from the reactor and is stored in the fuel element storage well. The licensee's authority to operate LACBWR was removed by license Amendment No. 56, dated August 4, 1987. The licensee is authorized to possess but not operate the LACBWR. The NRC in its Order (Decommissioning Order) of August 7, 1991, directed DPC to decommission the reactor facility in accordance with its Decommissioning Plan and the Commission's regulations. This action was taken in response to the licensee's application for authorization to decommission the facility, dated December 21, 1987, as revised February 22, 1988, September 9, 1988, September 30, 1988, January 26, 1989, March 28, 1989, June 6, 1989, October 3, 1989, July 25, 1990, May 10, 1991, and July 25, 1991. Neither the August 7, 1991, Decommissioning Order which directed the licensee to decommission the reactor facility, nor the approved Decommissioning Plan, contained an approved procedure that would allow the licensee to: (i) make changes in the facility or procedures as described the Decommissioning Plan; or (ii) conduct tests or experiments not described in the Decommissioning Plan, without prior NRC approval. The LACBWR is currently in SAFSTOR in accordance with the approved LACBWR Decommissioning Plan. This Confirmatory Order would modify the Decommissioning Order and allow the licensee to: (i) make limited changes in the facility or procedures as described the Decommissioning Plan; or (ii) conduct certain tests or experiments not described in the Decommissioning Plan without prior NRC approval. Environmental Impact of the Proposed Action The proposed action, procedural in nature, does not involve any significant environmental impacts. The proposed Confirmatory Order modifies the Decommissioning Order to allow the licensee to: (i) make changes in the facility or procedures as described the Decommissioning Plan; or (ii) conduct tests or experiments not described in the Decommissioning Plan without prior NRC approval provided they do not involve an unreviewed safety question or a significant environmental impact not previously evaluated. Since the proposed action does not involve a change in plant operation or configuration, there is reasonable assurance that the proposed action would not increase the probability or the consequence of an accident or reduce the margin of safety. No changes would be made in the types or quantities of effluent that may be released offsite. Further, there would be no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative radiation exposure. Accordingly, the NRC concludes that this proposed action would result in no significant radiological environmental impact. With regard to potential non-radiological impacts, the proposed action does not affect non-radiological plant effluent and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the NRC concludes that there are no significant non-radiological impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the NRC has concluded that there are no measurable environmental impacts associated with the proposed action, any alternative with equal or greater environmental impacts need not be evaluated. The principal alternative would be to deny the request. This would not significantly reduce environmental impacts of plant decommissioning and would result in reduced flexibility. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not previously considered in the Environmental Assessment included as an enclosure to the Decommissioning Order. Agencies and Persons Consulted This Environmental Assessment was prepared by the NRC staff, primarily within the Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, Rockville, Maryland. The NRC staff consulted with a representative of the State of Wisconsin regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action, and the State did not provide comments. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon this Environmental Assessment, the staff concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Therefore, the NRC has determined not to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for the proposed Confirmatory Order. For further details with respect to this action, see the licensee application for the order dated August 2, and August 5, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission Public Document Room, Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the La Crosse Public Library, 800 Main Street, La Crosse, Wisconsin 54601. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 2nd day of September, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Michael F. Weber, Acting Chief, Low-Level Waste and Decommissioning Projects Branch, Division of Waste Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22594 Filed 9&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
