FR941110-0-00123 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Some commenters suggested that the regulations state that complaints may be accepted from anonymous sources or provide for the anonymity of complainants if requested. Response: We recognize there are instances when it is necessary to protect the identity of a complainant to avoid possible reprisal. In keeping with this, States are instructed in the State Operations Manual to take appropriate precautions to protect a complainant's anonymity and privacy, if possible. While we do not believe we can guarantee anonymity should an adverse action result from the investigation, we would expect that ultimately the issue before a trier of fact would be the substantial compliance or noncompliance with certification requirements, not the identity of the individual who brought the allegation to the survey agency's attention. We are revising ยง488.332 to provide that, if possible, the State survey agency takes appropriate precautions to protect a complainant's anonymity and privacy. Comment: Many commenters asked for an explanation of the term ``monitoring'' used in this section. There seemed to be a pervasive thought that the term as used in this section was analogous to the remedy of ``State monitoring'' found in ยง488.406. Response: We believe the term ``monitoring,'' as found in section 1819(g)(4) and 1919(g)(4) of the Act, is intended to encompass the entire survey process, which is to ascertain whether a facility is in substantial compliance with the requirements for participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs, or both. The use of this term in this section of the rules should not be construed as to alter the protocols for long term care surveys which are found in the State Operations Manual. Section 488.332(b) gives States flexibility to visit facilities at their discretion in order to determine whether or not they are in compliance with program requirements. It should not, as some commenters felt, be an option whether or not to follow up on deficiencies cited on previous visits. (Note the following comment and response regarding follow up visits.) Finally, we are changing the title of this section so that ``monitoring'' is distinct and separate from complaint investigation. Comment: Commenters asked whether or not follow up visits for determining correction of all cited deficiencies must be conducted. Response: The proposed rules do not change our position regarding the scheduling and conduct of follow up visits. This position is described in the State Operations Manual. Correction of noncompliance must be verified by some type of follow up activity; albeit, not necessarily by an on-site visit. The timing of follow up visits must be determined by factors such as the effect of the noncompliance on the care of the facility's residents and the date of correction specified in the provider's plan of correction. Comment: Some commenters suggested that investigations of complaints regarding violations of participation requirements be solely the responsibility of the State survey agency. Other commenters maintained that necessary referrals are not being made to other State agencies. Response: The Act provides that a State may maintain and utilize a specialized team for the purpose of identifying, surveying, gathering and preserving evidence and does not specify that such team be part of the survey agency. However, if a State uses a specialized team that is not part of the survey agency, the State survey agency is not absolved of its responsibility to properly document complaints and their findings and take required certification action with respect to a facility's Medicaid or Medicare participation, or both.
