FR941007-2-00048 FR941007-2-00027 The MOTOR CHALLENGE program was launched on October 19, 1993 by the Federal government (DOE) and industry with the signing of the MOTOR CHALLENGE Compact (dated October 13, 1993). As stated within the MOTOR CHALLENGE Compact, DOE would issue an appropriate notice to solicit participants in the MOTOR CHALLENGE Showcase Demonstrations. This notice satisfies such a commitment by DOE. Projects selected as Showcase Demonstrations by DOE will be those of greater interest as discussed under the Technical Evaluation Criteria and Review Process section. Project teams selected to participate will receive a variety of technical assistance from DOE, but will not receive financial assistance to implement the demonstration projects. Other projects that are evaluated and determined to be technically feasible and interesting, but are not selected as Showcase Demonstrations, will be recognized by DOE for inclusion as MOTOR CHALLENGE Case Study Briefs. All Case Study Brief project teams will be encouraged by DOE to continue their efficient electric motor system deployment. All Case Study Brief teams will be informed of the Showcase Demonstration projects' progress and experiences. The achievements and successful results from any Case Study Brief project can be recognized through the voluntary reporting of the energy savings and the associated greenhouse gas emission reductions into the DOE Electric Motor Systems Database by the industrial end-user project team. As one condition of proposing to be a Showcase Demonstration, DOE requires that each company, organization, and/or agency of a proposing team, simultaneously join the MOTOR CHALLENGE Partnership by submitting an appropriately completed application. (The availability of application forms is discussed in For Further Information Contact section above). Benefits of Industry Participation Industry will receive many benefits to participating as a MOTOR CHALLENGE Showcase Demonstration project team. The principal benefit of participation is for an individual company to achieve energy efficiency, productivity, and environmental performance goals faster than otherwise. This will primarily be accomplished by the adoption of a ``systems approach'' in the way electric motor and drives are utilized within industrial operations and processes. Participation in the Showcase Demonstration projects provides leveraged access to technical assistance, and more reliable information. Participants will use the experiences of the Showcase Demonstrations to replicate opportunities within similar applications. In addition, participants will gain national recognition for taking a leadership role in a unique industry/government partnership. A secondary benefit of participation is to catalyze and to solidify strategic alliances among team members that otherwise would be more difficult to initiate and/or to maintain. Specifically, the MOTOR CHALLENGE Showcase Demonstration project teams will be provided the following technical assistance and special access to DOE-funded activities: (1) Input to Development of Technical Tools and Best Practices DOE will support the development of design-decision tools, best practices, and guidelines on various electric motor system application topics (e.g., motors, adjustable speed drives, pumps, fans, compressors, etc.). Teams will provide input to DOE to ensure that the tools, materials, and procedures developed, appropriately meet industry's design and decision-making, needs and requirements. (2) Performance Validation DOE will pay for appropriate engineering consulting assistance to advise Showcase Demonstration teams on performance validation issues. Working jointly with individual teams, the consultants will assist and advise teams on the development and design of reliable experimental and performance measurement techniques so that the demonstration's costs and benefits can be validated. At the completion of each project the engineering consultants will prepare an independent performance validation. (3) Case Study Documentation and Dissemination DOE will pay for the development and documentation of a comprehensive case history for each Showcase Demonstration, and will disseminate the case study results subject to team member's and independent performance validator's review and approval. Likewise, DOE will provide a compendium of Case Study Briefs. (4) Access to Experts Group Through Oak Ridge National Lab, DOE will assemble an Experts Group of consultants, comprising of experts in, for example, electric motors, drives, fluid handling equipment, specific process industries, power systems, etc. Reasonable access to the Experts Group will be provided to the teams to acquire technical assistance and advice. (5) Participation in Showcase Demonstration Workshops Team members will be invited to DOE-sponsored workshops where all Showcase Demonstration teams will be provided the opportunity to exchange valuable information and to discuss common implementation experiences with industry counterparts. These workshops will also serve to inform participants of the latest available technology. Benefits to the Government The knowledge and experiences of the Showcase Demonstrations will be used in future DOE efforts to assist industry in replicating and implementing efficient electric motor systems. DOE intends that the long-term result of highlighting the exemplary and cost-effective benefits of the Showcase Demonstrations is the accelerated and increased market penetration of efficient electric motor systems within U.S. industry. The deployment of efficient industrial electric motor systems will contribute significantly to greater energy efficiency, reduced primary/source energy consumption, deferred new power generation capacity, improved industrial productivity and competitiveness, and enhanced environmental protection for the United States. Eligible Project Teams Only industrial or municipal electric motor system ``end-users'' are eligible to submit project preliminary-proposals, and for those preliminarily-selected as Showcase Demonstrations, final proposals. ``End-users'' are defined as those companies who own and operate the facility where the demonstration will occur. In addition to end-user participation, a project team may involve other partners including, but not limited to, motor and drive manufacturers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors, utilities, energy service companies, state energy offices, research institutions, etc. End-user proposers are encouraged to include such participation. Other non-end user entities are also encouraged to catalyze and support preliminary-proposal submission by end-user project teams.
