FR941222-0-00125 FR941222-0-00019 (5) If the amount of a borrower's monthly payment under an alternative repayment plan is less than the accrued interest on the loan, the unpaid interest is capitalized until the outstanding principal amount is 10 percent greater than the original principal amount. After the outstanding principal amount is 10 percent greater than the original principal amount, interest continues to accrue but is not capitalized. For purposes of this paragraph, the original principal amount is the amount owed by the borrower when the borrower enters repayment. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. ) 3. Section 685.209 is revised to read as follows: ยง685.209 Income contingent repayment plan. (a) General . (1) Under the income contingent repayment plan described in ยง685.208(f), a borrower may choose to repay under the formula described in paragraph (b) of this section or may choose to have payments capped as described in paragraph (c) of this section. The amount calculated under paragraph (b) of this section is called the ``formula amount,'' and the amount calculated under paragraph (c) of this section is called the ``capped amount.'' (2) Borrowers may choose to repay either the formula amount or the capped amount when they enter repayment and may change between the options one time each year. (3) The Secretary may determine that special circumstances, such as a loss of employment by the borrower or the borrower's spouse, warrant an adjustment to the borrower's repayment obligations. (4) Married borrowers may repay their loans jointly if they meet the following requirements: (i) The spouses have both chosen either the formula amount or the capped amount. (ii) The spouses filed a joint Federal income tax return for the most recent year for which the Secretary has obtained income information. (iii) The spouses submit a written request to the Secretary that includes their names and social security numbers. (5) Examples of the calculation of monthly repayment amounts and tables that shows monthly repayment amounts for borrowers at various income and debt levels are included in appendix A to this part. (b) Formula amount . (1) General . (i) If a borrower chooses to pay the formula amount under the income contingent repayment plan, the borrower generally makes monthly payments that are calculated using a percentage of the borrower's Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) called the ``payback rate.'' (ii) A borrower's monthly payment is equal to the borrower's AGI multiplied by the payback rate, divided by 12 months. However, a borrower's monthly payment is never larger than 20 percent of the borrower's discretionary income as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, divided by 12 months. Additionally, if the monthly repayment amount is less than $15, the borrower is not required to make a payment. (iii) For purposes of this section, discretionary income is defined as a borrower's AGI minus the amount of the ``HHS Poverty Guideline for all States (except Alaska and Hawaii) and the District of Columbia'' as published by the United States Department of Health and Human Services on an annual basis. 1 If a borrower provides documentation acceptable to the Secretary that the borrower has more than one person in the borrower's family, the Secretary applies the HHS Poverty Guideline for the borrower's family size. 1 The HHS Poverty Guidelines are available from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Room 438F, Humphrey Building, 200 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20201. (2) Payback rate. (i) A borrower's payback rate is based upon the borrower's Direct Loan debt when the borrower's first loan enters repayment and does not change unless the borrower obtains another Direct Loan or the borrower and the borrower's spouse obtain approval to repay their loans jointly under paragraph (a)(4) of this section. If the borrower obtains another Direct Loan, a new payback rate for all of the borrower's Direct Loans is calculated on the basis of the combined amounts of the loans when the last loan enters repayment. If the borrower and the borrower's spouse repay the loans jointly, the provisions under paragraph (b)(3) of this section apply. (ii) If the total amount of a borrower's Direct Loans is less than or equal to $1,000, the payback rate is four percent. If the total amount of a borrower's Direct Loans is greater than $1,000, the payback rate is four percent plus an additional percent that begins at zero and increases at a rate of 0.2 percent for each additional $1,000 borrowed up to a maximum payback rate of 15 percent. (iii) More specifically, if the total amount of a borrower's Direct Loans is greater than $1,000, the payback rate is the lesser of 0.15 or the following: 0.04 + (debt ^ 1,000) (0.000002). (3) Exception for certain married borrowers . (i) The combined monthly payment amount for married borrowers who repay their loans jointly under paragraph (a)(4) of this section and who repay the formula amount is the total of the individual monthly payment amounts for each borrower calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. (ii) The payback rate for each borrower is calculated separately on the basis of the amount of the outstanding debt on the borrower's Direct Loans at the time the borrower enters into joint repayment with the borrower's spouse. For purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary assumes that the AGI for each borrower is proportionate to the relative size of the borrower's individual debt. (iii) For purposes of determining whether a borrower's payment amount is larger than 20 percent of the borrower's discretionary income under paragraph (b)(1)(ii), a portion of the appropriate HHS Poverty Guideline for the borrowers' family size is applied to each borrower in proportion to the relative size of the individual borrower's debts.
