FR941122-2-00110 FR941122-2-00079 10. The prospectus for each Portfolio will contain a statement to the effect that a salesperson and any other person entitled to receive compensation for selling or servicing Portfolio shares may receive different compensation with respect to one particular class of shares over another in the same Portfolio. 11. The Distributor will adopt compliance standards as to when each class of shares may appropriately be sold to particular investors. Applicants will require all persons selling shares to agree to conform to such standards. 12. The conditions pursuant to which the exemptive order is granted and the duties and responsibilities of the trustees with respect to the Dual Class System will be set forth in guidelines which will be furnished to the trustees. 13. Each Portfolio will disclose the expenses, performance data, distribution arrangement, services, fees, sales loads, deferred sales loads, and exchange privileges applicable to both classes in every prospectus, regardless of whether both classes are offered through each prospectus. Each Portfolio will disclose the respective expenses and performance data applicable to all classes of shares of the Portfolio in every shareholder report. The shareholder reports will contain, in the statement of assets and liabilities and statement of operations, information related to each Portfolio as a whole generally and not on a per class basis. Each Portfolio's per share data, however, will be prepared on a per class basis with respect to all classes of shares of such Portfolio. To the extent any advertisement or sales literature describes the expenses or performance data applicable to any class of shares in a Portfolio, it will also disclose the respective expenses and/or performance data applicable to all classes of shares in such Portfolio. The information provided by the applicants for publication in any newspaper or similar listing of each Portfolio's net asset value and public offering price will present each class of shares separately. 14. Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the requested exemptive order will not imply SEC approval, authorization, or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that the Trust may make pursuant to its Administrative Services or Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plans in reliance on the exemptive order. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28781 Filed 11&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
