FR941230-2-00157 FR941230-2-00072 Coalition for Juvenile Justice*_$700,000 The Coalition for Juvenile Justice supports and facilitates the purposes and functions of each State's Juvenile Justice State Advisory Group (SAG). The Coalition, acting as a Federal advisory committee, reviews Federal policies and practices regarding juvenile justice and delinquency prevention, prepares and submits an annual report and recommendations to the President and Congress, and provides advice to the OJJDP Administrator. The coalition is also authorized to develop an information center for the SAG's and to conduct an annual conference to provide training for SAG members. National Juvenile Court Data Archive*_$611,000 The National Juvenile Court Data Archive collects, processes, analyzes, and disseminates automated data and published reports from the Nation's juvenile courts. The archive's reports examine referrals, offenses, intake, and dispositions in addition to specialized topics such as minorities in juvenile courts and specific offense categories. The archive also provides assistance to jurisdictions in analyzing their juvenile court data. In fiscal year 1995, the archive will enhance the collection, reporting, and analysis of more detailed data on detention, dispositions, risk factors, and treatment data using offender-based data sets from a sample of juvenile courts. The program will be implemented by the current grantee, the National Center for Juvenile Justice. No additional applications will be solicited in fiscal year 1995. Violence Studies*_$500,000 The 1992 Amendments to the JJDP Act require OJJDP to conduct a study on violence in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Los Angeles, California, Washington, D.C., and in at least one rural area. Building on the results of OJJDP's Program of Research on Causes and Correlates, these studies will address the incidence of violence committed by or against juveniles in urban and rural areas of the United States. In fiscal year 1993, OJJDP initiated these studies by supporting a planning phase and providing funding to each of four programs with fiscal year 1994 funds. It is anticipated that awards will be required to continue studies in two of the four designated sites in fiscal year 1995. No additional applications would be solicited in fiscal year 1995. Technical Assistance to the Juvenile Courts*_$389,943 The National Center for Juvenile Justice (NCJJ), the research division of the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges, provides four types of technical assistance under this grant: (1) information resources; (2) onsite consultation; (3) off-site consultation; and (4) a cross-site consultation. Emphasis will be placed on intermediate sanctions for handling juveniles involved in drug-related offenses and gang activities and other emerging issues confronting the juvenile court. The current grantee, the National Center for Juvenile Justice, will implement the program. No additional applications will be solicited in fiscal year 1995. P.A.C.E. Center for Girls, Inc.*_$150,000 The P.A.C.E. Center for Girls, Inc., will expand its program to several new sites and provide technical assistance to jurisdictions that wish to adopt the P.A.C.E. program model. P.A.C.E. provides juvenile court judges with an alternative program for at-risk teenage girls arrested for status and minor delinquent offenses. Fiscal year 1995 funds will support the second year of implementation. Douglas County, Nebraska*_$67,055 This is a grant for a youth pre-trial diversion program in Douglas County, Nebraska. It was initially funded in fiscal year 1994 for a two-year project period. Fiscal year 1995 funding will support second-year implementation. Shay Bilchik, Administrator, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;32280 Filed 12&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;18&hyph;M
