FR940725-2-00069 FR940725-2-00043 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration RIN: 0905-ZA71 Substance Abuse Treatment Conference Grants AGENCY: Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), HHS. ACTION: Notice of Availability of Funds and Request for Applications. SUMMARY: The Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT) is issuing this announcement for a program to support domestic conferences for the purpose of coordinating, exchanging, and disseminating information in furtherance of its mission to ensure the availability of effective treatment and recovery services for individuals who suffer from problems related to alcohol and other drugs (AOD) of abuse. This program is authorized under Section 507 of the Public Health Service Act. Applications are invited for conferences relating to AOD abuse treatment, including conferences for the purposes of information dissemination to the services community and the general public, and development of strategies for improving substance abuse treatment. The intended audiences for this announcement are principally consumer and treatment services-oriented constituency groups, including those representing State and local government, professional associations, voluntary organizations, and self-help groups that share a mutual interest with CSAT with respect to community consensus building, leadership, and advocacy of goals relating to AOD abuse treatment. This notice consists of three parts: Part I covers information on the legislative authority and the applicable regulations and policies related to the Substance Abuse Treatment Conference Grants program. Part II includes the programmatic description and activities and discusses eligibility, availability of funds, period of support and the receipt dates for applications. Part III describes special requirements of the program, the application process, the review and award criteria and lists contacts for additional information. Part I_Legislative Authority and Other Applicable Regulations and Policies Grants awarded under this announcement are authorized under Section 507(b)(6) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 290bb). Federal regulations at Title 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92, generic requirements concerning the administration of grants, are applicable to these awards. Grants must be administered in accordance with the PHS Grants Policy Statement (Revised April 1, 1994). The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number for this program is 93.218. As required by the ``PHS Grants Policy Statement,'' grantees are responsible for submitting an original and two (2) copies of the final report to the Grants Management Office, CSAT, within 90 days of completion or termination of a grant in support of a conference. Consistent with CSAT policy and in view of the addictive properties of nicotine and the established link between use of tobacco products and disease, the use of smoke-free conference meeting rooms is encouraged. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led national public health initiative. This Program Announcement, Substance Abuse Treatment Conference Grants, is related to the priority areas of addictions as articulated in the National Drug Control Strategy (e.g., women and their children, hard core abusers, relationship between alcohol/drug abuse and violence, service needs/delivery within the criminal justice system, comorbidity or the provision of mental health services as part of addictions treatment, health care reform). Potential applicants may obtain a copy of Healthy People 2000 (Full Report: Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00474&hyph;0) or Healthy People 2000 (Summary Report: Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;1) through the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;9325 (Telephone: 202&hyph;783&hyph;3238). The National Drug Control Strategy may be obtained by contacting the Drugs and Crime Clearinghouse (Telephone: 1&hyph;800&hyph;666&hyph;3332).
