FR940511-0-00068 FR940511-0-00015 The first activity prohibited is exploring for, developing or producing oil, gas or minerals within the Sanctuary. With regard to oil and gas, this regulation implements the requirements of Section 2207 of the Oceans Act of 1992 which prohibits ``oil or gas leasing or pre-leasing activity [from being] conducted within the area designated as the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary *␣*␣*.'' The resources and qualities of the coastal and offshore waters of the Olympic Peninsula, particularly the sea birds and pinnipeds that use the haul-out sites, kelp forests and rocks along the Olympic Coast, and the high water quality of the area, are especially vulnerable to oil and gas activities in the area. A prohibition on oil and gas exploration, development and production activities within the Sanctuary boundary partially protects Sanctuary resources and qualities from oil and gas activities. Only partial protection will be provided due to the remaining threat from oil and gas from vessel traffic transiting through and near the Sanctuary, particularly oil tankers not operating in accordance with the voluntary agreement of the Western States Petroleum Association to remain 50 nautical miles from shore. A prohibition on mineral activities within the Sanctuary is consistent with the prohibition on alteration of or construction on the seabed as discussed below. ``Mineral'' is defined to mean clay, stone, sand, gravel, metalliferous ore, nonmetalliferous ore, or any other solid material or other solid matter of commercial value. The prohibition on oil, gas and mineral activities additionally will prevent the negative effects of physical and possible chemical disturbances associated with extraction activities, e.g., destruction of benthic biota; resuspension of fine sediments; interference with filtering, feeding and respiratory functions of marine organisms; loss of food sources and habitats; and lowered photosynthesis and oxygen levels. The second activity prohibited is depositing or discharging from within the boundary of the Sanctuary any material or other matter except: (1) Fish, fish parts, chumming materials or bait used in or resulting from traditional fishing operations in the Sanctuary; (2) Biodegradable effluent incidental to vessel use and generated by marine sanitation devices approved in accordance with Section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (FWPCA), 33 U.S.C. 1322 et seq. ; (3) Water generated by routine vessel operations (e.g., cooling water, deck wash down and graywater as defined by Section 312 of the FWPCA) excluding oily-wastes from bilge pumping; (4) Engine exhaust; and (5) Dredge spoil in connection with beach nourishment projects related to harbor maintenance activities. This prohibition is necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities from the effects of pollutants deposited or discharged into the Sanctuary. After expiration of current permits, discharges from municipal treatment plants will be subject to the review process of §925.11. At a minimum, secondary treatment will be required. Depending on the risk to Sanctuary resources and qualities, greater treatment may be required. The intent of this prohibition is to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities from the effects of land and sea originating pollutants. The third activity prohibited is depositing or discharging, from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality, except for the five exclusions discussed above for the second prohibited activity. The fourth activity prohibited is moving, removing or injuring or attempting to move, remove or injure a Sanctuary historical resource. Historical resources in the marine environment are fragile, finite and non-renewable. This prohibition is designed to protect these resources so that they may be researched and information about their contents and type made available for the benefit of the public. This prohibition does not apply to moving, removing or injury resulting incidentally from traditional fishing operations. Historical resources located within the Sanctuary that are of significance to an Indian tribe(s) (e.g., submerged Indian villages) will be managed so as to protect other Sanctuary resources and the interests of the governing body of an Indian tribe(s) in such historical resources. If an Indian tribe determines that a historical resource of tribal significance may be researched, excavated or salvaged, the Sanctuary manager may issue a Sanctuary permit if the criteria for issuance have been met (See §925.9). Removal or attempted removal of any Indian cultural resource or artifact may only occur with the express written consent of the governing body of the tribe or tribes to which such resource or artifact pertains.
