FR940106-1-00061 FR940106-1-00011 Table 1._ Proposed 2 ppt Salinity Criteria 1Year type 1Roe Island [km 64] (days) 1Chipps Island [km 74] (days) 1Confluence [km 81] (days) Wet 133 148 150 Above normal 105 144 150 Below normal 78 119 150 Dry 33 116 150 Critically dry 0 90 150 Numbers indicate required number of days (based on a 14-day moving average) at or downstream from each location for the 5-month period from February through June. The water year classifications are identical to those included in the 1991 Bay/Delta Plan for the Sacramento River Basin. Roe Island salinity shall be measured at the salinity measuring station maintained by the USBR at Port Chicago (km 64). Chipps Island salinity shall be measured at the Collinsville station, and salinity at the Confluence shall be measured at the Mallard Slough station, both of which are maintained by the California Department of Water Resources. The Roe Island number represents the maximum number of days, based on the adjustment described below. Example: In a wet year, the 2 ppt isohaline must be maintained at or downstream of the Confluence at least 150 days during February through June, at or downstream of Chipps Island for at least 148 days during that same period, and, ignoring for a moment the adjustment described below, at or downstream of Roe Island for at least 133 days. Adjusting the Roe Island standard to reflect intra-year storm variability. As noted above, the proposed criteria at Roe Island are intended, in part, to replicate low salinity habitat conditions resulting from spring storm events. Storm events in the spring provide many benefits to aquatic resources of the estuary. Large areas of flooded vegetation provide ideal spawning for some species, high flows transport many planktonic larvae downstream, and translocation of low salinity habitat allows wide dispersion of many species which reduces predation (and perhaps competition) and replenishes otherwise isolated areas. In addition, the variability in salinity over a wide range is thought to be an important tool in preventing the buildup of molluscan species and, thus, ensures that more food will accumulate in the entrapment zone (Nichols 1985; Nichols and Pamatmat 1988). The proposed criteria at Roe Island, unadjusted, would fully protect low salinity habitat, but would not accurately reflect the historical natural variability in runoff and precipitation. The distribution of storm systems within the October to April wet season varies greatly year-to-year. In some years, all storm events are concentrated in early winter, whereas in others the storm events are evenly distributed or concentrated in the spring. This natural historical variability is reflected in the proposed salinity criteria. Without some form of adjustments, salinity criteria at a fixed downstream location would also result in more flows through the estuary than might be necessary to maintain water quality (that is, the ``water costs'' would be unnecessarily high). The flows necessary to hold the 2 ppt isohaline at a particular location in the estuary are substantially less than the flows needed to move that isohaline downstream to a different position. In the Bay/Delta, these higher flows used to move the isohaline could come either from natural storm events or from controlled reservoir releases. The proposed standard provides for an adjustment of the Roe Island standard to more closely replicate natural spring storm cycles. This adjustment will avoid adverse impacts on species (such as the winter-run salmon) dependent on upstream reservoir conditions. Under the proposal, the criteria of number of days for a given year type at Roe Island would not apply unless and until the average daily salinity at Roe Island attains the 2 ppt level through natural uncontrolled flows. Following the occurrence of such an event, the 14 day average salinity at Roe Island must not exceed 2 ppt for the number of days specified in Table 1. Therefore, the number of days listed under Roe Island represents the maximum of the number of days that may be required. In effect, this adjustment provides that the additional water needed to move the isohaline downstream to Roe Island will come from natural storms rather than from reservoir releases or export restrictions. This approach better reflects the natural variability in timing and quantity of runoff and significantly reduces the water supply impacts of the proposed criteria relative to criteria that do not account for this variability.
