FR940223-2-00193 FR940223-2-00099 11. Service of Documents 12. Written Submissions 18. Hearings 23. Language of Proceedings 25. Special Committee Deliberations 26. Reports 30. Reconvening of Special Committee 36. Completion of Special Committee Proceedings 38. Confidentiality 40. Ex Parte Contacts 41. Extension and Computation of Time 43. Responsibilities of the Responsible Secretary 45. Death or Incapacity The Parties, Having regard to Chapter Nineteen of the North American Free Trade Agreement between Canada, the United Mexican States and the United States of America; Acting pursuant to Article 1905.6 of the Agreement; Adopt the following Rules of Procedure, which shall come into force on the same day as the Agreement enters into force and from that day shall govern all special committee proceedings conducted pursuant to Article 1905 of the Agreement. Short Title 1. These rules may be cited as the Article 1905 Special Committee Rules . Statement of General Intent 2. These rules shall apply to special committee proceedings conducted pursuant to Article 1905 of the Agreement, unless the involved Parties otherwise agree. Where a procedural question arises that is not covered by these rules, a special committee may adopt an appropriate procedure that is not inconsistent with the Agreement. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of these rules and the Agreement, the Agreement shall prevail. Interpretation 3. In these rules, ``Agreement'' means the North American Free Trade Agreement; ``Complaining Party'' means a Party who requests, pursuant to Article 1905.2 of the Agreement, that a special committee be established; ``involved Secretariat'' means the responsible Secretariat or the section of the Secretariat located in the country of the other involved Party; ``legal holiday'' means (a) with respect to the Canadian Section of the Secretariat, every Saturday and Sunday, New Year's Day (January 1), Good Friday, Easter Monday, Victoria Day, Canada Day (July 1), Labour Day (first Monday in September), Thanksgiving Day (second Monday in October), Remembrance Day (November 11), Christmas Day (December 25), Boxing Day (December 26), any other day fixed as a statutory holiday by the Government of Canada or by the province in which the section is located and any day on which the offices of the Canadian Section of the Secretariat are officially closed in whole or in part, (b) with respect to the Mexican Section of the Secretariat, every Saturday and Sunday, New Year's Day (January 1), Constitution Day (February 5), Benito Juárez's Birthday (March 21), Labor Day (May 1), Battle of Puebla (May 5), Independence Day (September 16), Congressional Opening Day (November 1), Revolution Day (November 20), Transmission of the Federal Executive Branch (every six years on December 1), Christmas Day (December 25), any day designated as a statutory holiday by the Federal Laws or, in the case of Ordinary Elections, by the Local Electoral Laws and any day on which the offices of the Mexican Section of the Secretariat are officially closed in whole or in part, and (c) with respect to the United States Section of the Secretariat, every Saturday and Sunday, New Year's Day (January 1), Martin Luther King's Birthday (third Monday in January), Presidents' Day (third Monday in February), Memorial Day (last Monday in May), Independence Day (July 4), Labor Day (first Monday in September), Columbus Day (second Monday in October), Veterans' Day (November 11), Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November), Christmas Day (December 25), any day designated as a holiday by the President or the Congress of the United States and any day on which the offices of the Government of the United States located in the District of Columbia or the offices of the United States Section of the Secretariat are officially closed in whole or in part; ``Mexico'' means the United Mexican States; ``official publication'' means (a) in the case of the Government of Canada, the Canada Gazette, (b) in the case of the Government of Mexico, the Diario Oficial de la Federación, and (c) in the case of the Government of the United States, the Federal Register ; ``Party'' means the Government of Canada, the Government of Mexico or the Government of the United States; ``Responding Party'' means the Party against whom an allegation is made under Article 1905.1 of the Agreement; ``responsible Secretariat'' means the section of the Secretariat of the Responding Party; ``responsible Secretary'' means the Secretary of the responsible Secretariat; ``Secretariat'' means the Secretariat established pursuant to Article 2002 of the Agreement;
