FR941117-2-00100 FR941117-2-00064 NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION Guidelines for the Supervisory Review Committee AGENCY: National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). ACTION: Proposed Interpretive Ruling and Policy Statement 94&hyph;2 (IRPS 94&hyph;2). SUMMARY: The Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 (the Act) requires that NCUA and the federal banking agencies each establish an appeals process within the Agency to review material supervisory determinations made with respect to insured institutions. The NCUA Board proposes that the review process be carried out by a supervisory review committee consisting of senior staff members. This proposal sets forth the types of issues that are eligible for review by the committee as well as the composition, structure and procedures for the proposed committee. The Board requests comment on the committee concept as well as all other aspects of the proposal. DATES: Comments must be postmarked or received by December 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Becky Baker, Secretary to the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314 or comments via the electronic bulletin board to Becky Baker at 703&hyph;518&hyph;6480. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Hattie M. Ulan, Special Counsel to the General Counsel, at the above address or telephone 703&hyph;518&hyph;6540. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, Public Law 103&hyph;325 (the Act) was signed into law on September 23, 1994. Section 309 of the Act requires, among other things, that the NCUA and the federal banking agencies each establish an independent appellate process to review material supervisory determinations. The Act requires that the agencies provide the public with notice and opportunity to comment on proposed guidelines for the appellate process within 90 days of the Act's passage. The Act requires further that each agency's appellate process be established not later than 180 days after the Act's passage. The Act defines the terms ``material supervisory determinations'' and ``independent appellate process.'' Material supervisory determinations are defined to include determinations relating to (1) examination ratings; (2) adequacy of loan loss reserve provisions; and (3) loan classifications on loans that are significant to a credit union. The definition specifically excludes determinations made by NCUA to appoint a conservator or liquidating agent or a decision made under Section 212 of the FCU Act (12 U.S.C. 1790a) concerning NCUA approval of officials of newly chartered or troubled credit unions. Independent appellate process is defined as a review by an agency official who does not report, directly or indirectly, to the agency official who made the determination that is being reviewed. The Act also requires that the agencies ensure that appeals be heard and decided expeditiously and that safeguards exist for protecting the appellant from retaliation by agency examiners. In order to carry out the requirements of the Act, the NCUA Board proposes the establishment of a supervisory review committee composed of several senior NCUA personnel. The Board believes the committee will provide at least the following benefits for NCUA and credit unions: •Ensure more consistent application of supervisory policy throughout the Agency. •Enhance the level of fairness and due process afforded to credit unions and others who are involved in supervisory disputes with NCUA. •Reduce the number of cases that can only be resolved through judicial proceedings. •Provide a more comprehensive and accurate record in those cases that do result in such proceedings.
