FR941011-0-00034 FR941011-0-00011 The final regulations provide a rule coordinating the general asset account rules with the rules in ยง1.8611&hyph;9T(g)(3) relating to allocation and apportionment of interest expense under the asset method. A general asset account will be treated as a single asset for purposes of applying the rules in ยง1.861&hyph;9T(g)(3). If the general asset account generates income in more than one separate grouping (statutory and residual), then the account is a multiple category asset, as defined in ยง1.861&hyph;9T(g)(3)(ii), and the income yield from the general asset account must be computed as if the account were a single multiple category asset. The final regulations also provide rules for determining the source of income from a disposition of an asset in a general asset account. If the general asset account includes assets generating both United States and foreign source income, any amount of ordinary income, gain, or loss recognized on the disposition must be apportioned between United States and foreign sources based on the allocation and apportionment of depreciation allowed for the general asset account or for the disposed asset, as applicable. If the general asset account includes assets that generate foreign source income in more than one separate category under section 904(d)(1) or another section of the Internal Revenue Code, or under a United States income tax treaty that requires the foreign tax credit limitation to be determined separately for specified types of income, then the amount of ordinary income, gain, or loss recognized on the disposition that is treated as foreign source income must be allocated and apportioned to the applicable separate category or categories. Disposition of All Assets or the Last Asset. One commentator questioned whether the rule under the proposed regulations that provided that a general asset account terminates on the disposition of all of the assets in the account or the last asset in the account was mandatory. In response to this comment, the final regulations clarify that this rule is an optional rule for taxpayers that maintain records showing the disposition of assets in a general asset account. The final regulations also provide that a taxpayer adopts the rule by reporting the gain or loss on the taxpayer's income tax return for the taxable year in which the disposition of all of the assets, or the last asset, in the general asset account occurs. Qualifying Dispositions. Under the proposed regulations, a qualifying disposition of an asset in a general asset account occurs when the asset is disposed of as a direct result of a cessation, termination, curtailment, or disposition of a business, manufacturing or other income producing process, operation, facility, plant, or other unit (other than by transfer to a supplies, scrap, or similar account). One commentator recommended that the final regulations should provide an example showing that the sale of an undivided interest in mineral property, along with the related operating equipment, is a curtailment of a taxpayer's business and, thus, constitutes a qualifying disposition. A curtailment was intended to be limited to a genuine business contraction and not to include transactions involving the sale of an undivided interest, other than the taxpayer's entire interest in assets. To avoid any further misinterpretation, the final regulations delete the term ``curtailment.'' The final regulations also clarify that a taxpayer adopts the rule to terminate general asset account treatment for an asset in a qualifying disposition by reporting the gain, loss, or other deduction on the taxpayer's income tax return for the taxable year in which the qualifying disposition occurs. Anti-abuse rule. The final regulations add examples of transactions subject to the anti-abuse rule.
