FR940617-2-00062 FR940617-2-00040 Golden Field Office; Financial Assistance Award to International Geothermal Association Secretariat AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of Financial Assistance Award in Response to a Non-Competitive Financial Assistance Application. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2) is announcing its intention make a financial assistance award to the International Geothermal Association to encourage research, development and utilization of geothermal resources worldwide through the compilation, publication and dissemination of scientific and technical data and information. ADDRESSES: Questions regarding this announcement may be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden CO 80401, Attention: Ruth E Adams, Contract Specialist or at (303) 275&hyph;4722. The Contracting Officer for this action in John W. Meeker. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposal was a solicited application. The International Geothermal Association (IGA) Secretariat is the U.S. office, located in Berkeley, California, of the International Geothermal Association which is the parent organization with its headquarters in New Zealand. The objective of the IGA is to assist the Berkeley office in its outreach activities, encourage research, development and utilization of geothermal resources worldwide through the compilation publication and dissemination of scientific and technical data and information, both within the community of geothermal specialists and between geothermal specialists and the general public. The IGA Secretariat has been supported in the past by the Department of Energy through a contract with Sandia National Laboratory; however, the Department believes that the proposed effort will provide a benefit to the public and therefore a grant mechanism is a more appropriate funding method. Competition for this effort would have an adverse effect on continuity and completion of activities. The proposed project will contribute to the DOE mission of ``*␣*␣* providing the scientific and educational foundation and technology *␣*␣* necessary to achieve efficiency in energy use, diversity in energy sources, and access to technical information *␣*␣*''. The International Geothermal Association (IGA) will do this by supporting the U.S. geothermal industry through various activities and will work to create data bases and a business environment in which the U.S. geothermal industry can thrive, globally. The objectives of the IGA Secretariat, located in Berkeley, California, are to provide assistance in preparing and distributing the IGA newsletter (produced and published in the United States), developing educational programs appropriate for the IGA membership, stimulating international interest in geothermal energy, identifying potential international development opportunities, and continuing involvement in the Organizing Committee of the World Geothermal Conference 1995. The Secretariat also provides coordination of all activities, correspondence and meetings for the IGA, maintains the master list of the IGA membership as well as their potential members and works to enhance the benefits of IGA membership. The probability of meeting the objectives listed above are very high, given that the IGA has been successful in the past for similar endeavors. The staff of the International Geothermal Association Secretariat are qualified and positioned to provide this service. George Frye has been the Executive Director of the IGA Secretariat since February 1993, Mr. Frye has 20 years experience within the oil/gas/geothermal industry and is a registered professional engineer. The IGA Secretariat's base of operations is in the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in Berkeley, California, and is fully capable of meeting their needs. The budget proposed for the anticipated work has been reviewed and is considered to be appropriate and adequate. The public benefit to be derived through this grant with the IGA Secretariat is the increased awareness of international opportunities for the U.S. geothermal industry. Many countries throughout the world have the resources for geothermal energy. The U.S. geothermal industry is a world leader and is poised to exploit these resources. The IGA provides an invaluable global link where contacts are found and made, thereby facilitating the world-wide utilization of geothermal energy. The Services provided through the proposed grant fully supports the program's direction and objectives. The International Geothermal Association Secretariat is qualified and positioned to perform the above mentioned tasks. The IGA is an accepted and respected industry association and has approximately 1,970 members largely from the geothermal service industries. The IGA has established an information network which is continually growing. Competition for this effort would have a significant adverse impact on the continuation of the proposed activities. John W. Meeker, Chief, Procurement, Golden Field Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14835 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
