FR940304-1-00140 FR940304-1-00014 Another possible area of concern regarding this proposed standard is whether heat pump water heaters are physically able to be installed in existing space in the replacement market. The heat pump itself will require some additional space, and as was discussed in the product specific comments regarding classes for water heaters, the Department assumed a sufficient volume would be available to allow air circulation for the proper operation of the heat pump. The Department believes that medium and larger sizes of water heater installations would typically have sufficient space, being usually installed in areas such as basements or garages. For space-restricted applications DOE believes that technical solutions, such as heat pumps with provisions for ducting air flow, are available as well as integrated space conditioning and water heating heat pumps, which are already on the market, and could be used if and when the central heat pump system is replaced. For very small size installations, such as under-the-counter types, where sufficient space for a heat pump may not be readily available or where the economics of a heat pump may not be justified because the water heating loads are well below average, the use of electric instantaneous water heaters would be an effective alternate. A lower limit on the size of electric storage water heaters that the proposed standard would cover may also be a way of minimizing the space and low load concerns. The Department believes there are technical solutions to require the use of heat pump water heaters wherever electric storage water heaters are now used and required. This view was supported at the Hot Water Heat Pump Workshop held in Breckenridge, Colorado on June 30 through July 2, 1993. The proceedings of the workshop are made a part of the record of this notice and are available from the Department's Freedom of Information Reading Room. Other issues that may warrant further DOE analysis include consumer acceptance of possible increased noise from heat pump water heaters and anticipated increases in maintenance requirements in comparison to electric resistance water heaters. DOE is soliciting public comment on these issues, together with additional data or other information that might assist DOE in better assessing the impacts of this proposed standard on consumers and others. Because the Department has little information on the space constraints for replacement water heaters or the frequency with which small water heaters experience low annual water heating loads, the cost-effectiveness analysis of the proposed standard does not explicitly consider these factors. The Department believes the analysis is sufficient but would attempt to expand it to include any information on these or other related factors that becomes available during the public comment period. Based on this possible revised analysis, DOE would consider modifying either the proposed standard level for electric water heaters or the definition of the class of water heaters covered by the standard. If the analysis warrants, DOE may establish different classes for two or more sizes of electric water heaters. The Department specifically invites public comment on this expanded analysis and the regulatory alternatives described. c. Direct Heating Equipment 1. Efficiency Levels Analyzed The Department examined a range of standard levels for direct heating equipment. In reviewing the design options necessary to achieve those standard levels, the Department determined that a new energy descriptor was needed to adequately address some of the design options in the analysis because the current energy descriptor, annual fuel utilization factor, does not include electrical consumption. For example, design options such as adding an induced draft fan improve thermal efficiency but, at the same time, increase overall electrical consumption which, unless accounted for in the energy descriptor, could lead to higher Annual Fuel Utilization Efficiencies with little or no net energy savings. Because of the above, the Department conducted the analysis, and is proposing the standards, in terms of a new energy descriptor, annual efficiency. The test procedure to determine this energy descriptor is contained in the previously mentioned Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. Table 4&hyph;5 presents the five efficiency levels selected for analysis for the 16 classes of direct heating equipment. Level 5 corresponds to the highest efficiency level, max tech, considered in the engineering analysis.
