FR941202-2-00151 FR941202-2-00098 Each standing committee will consist of five members elected from the Active membership of the Conference to serve 5 years with one member being elected each year. All committee members shall be elected during a designated session of the Annual Meeting by a formal recorded vote of the members in attendance and eligible to vote on Conference motions. When necessary, an appointment will be made to any of the standing committees to fill a vacancy caused by death, resignation or retirement from active service by a committee member. The appointment is for the unexpired portion of the member's term. Section 2_Administrative Committees A. Terms. 1. Conference Management and Funding Committee. The term of service will be three years; two members to be appointed each of two years and one the third year. 2. Nominating Committee. The chair shall be the Conference Past Chair. Four members shall be appointed annually to serve one year. 3. Membership Committee. The term of service will be two years. Two members will be appointed one year and three the alternate year. 4. Auditing Committee. The term of service will be three years. Two members are to be appointed in each of two years and one in the third year. 5. Liaison Committee. The term of service will be three years. Two members are to be appointed in each of two years and one in the third year. 6. Contributors's Committee. This committee will consist of five contributors to serve two years. Three members will be appointed one year and two in alternate years. B. Duties. 1. Conference Management and Funding Committee. This committee prepares the annual budget for approval by the Board of Directors, sets and collects annual membership fees and conference registration fees, selects the place and dates of each Annual and Interim Meeting of the Council and manages the logistic details of the Interim and Annual meeting, certifies to the Treasurer the correctness of bills submitted to the Conference for payment, and publicizes the Annual and Interim Meetings. The Treasurer is an ex-officio member of this committee. 2. Nominating Committee. This committee presents a slate of nominees for all elective offices at the Annual Meeting. The names of these nominees shall appear in the report of the Nominating Committee and be published in the Conference Announcement. 3. Membership Committee. This committee initiates membership invitations and publicizes the Conference to prospective members. This committee also provides coordination and participation of Contributors in all affairs of the Conference. 4. Fiscal Auditing Committee. This committee arranges for annual audits of the Conference books. This committee reviews audit reports to the Board of Directors with recommendations as necessary to resolve discrepant audit findings or recommendations. 5. Liaison Committee. This committee provides liaison with international organizations, federal agencies, other groups and organizations. This committee provides and solicits information and develops a spirit of cooperation between NELAC and other organizations.
