FR940816-2-00060 FR940816-2-00045 Food and Drug Administration Advisory Committees; Notice of Meetings AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice announces forthcoming meetings of public advisory committees of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This notice also summarizes the procedures for the meetings and methods by which interested persons may participate in open public hearings before FDA's advisory committees. MEETINGS: The following advisory committee meetings are announced: Obstetrics and Gynecology Devices Panel of the Medical Devices Advisory Committee Date, time, and place. September 1 and 2, 1994, 8:30 a.m., Parklawn Bldg., conference rms. G, H, and I, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD. A limited number of overnight accommodations have been reserved at the Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza, 1750 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD. Attendees requiring overnight accommodations may contact the hotel at 301&hyph;468&hyph;1100 and reference the FDA Panel meeting block. Reservations will be confirmed at the group rate based on availability. Type of meeting and contact person . Open public hearing, September 1, 1994, 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m., unless public participation does not last that long; open committee discussion, 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.; closed presentation of data, 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.; open public hearing, September 2, 1994, 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m., unless public participation does not last that long; open committee discussion, 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Colin M. Pollard, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;470), Food and Drug Administration, 1390 Piccard Dr., Rockville, MD 20850, 301&hyph;594&hyph;1180. General function of the committee . The committee reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational devices and makes recommendations for their regulation. Agenda_Open public hearing . Interested persons may present data, information, or views, orally or in writing, on issues pending before the committee. Those desiring to make formal presentations should notify the contact person before August 29, 1994, and submit a brief statement of the general nature of the evidence or arguments they wish to present, the names and addresses of proposed participants, and an indication of the approximate time required to make their comments. Open committee discussion . On September 1, 1994, the committee will discuss general issues relating to devices to aid breast self exams. On September 2, 1994, the committee will discuss general issues relating to home uterine activity monitors. Closed presentation of data . On September 1, 1994, the committee will discuss trade secret and/or confidential commercial information regarding various medical devices used in obstetrics and gynecology that are currently being evaluated by FDA. This portion of the meeting will be closed to permit discussion of this information (5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(4)). Anesthesiology and Respiratory Therapy Devices Panel of the Medical Devices Advisory Committee Date, time, and place . September 2, 1994, 10 a.m., Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza, Plaza III Ballroom, 1750 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD. A limited number of overnight accommodations have been reserved at the Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza. Attendees requiring overnight accommodations may contact the hotel at 301&hyph;468&hyph;1100 and reference the FDA Panel meeting block. Reservations will be confirmed at the group rate based on availability. Type of meeting and contact person . Closed committee deliberations, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.; open public hearing, 1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m., unless public participation does not last that long; open committee discussion, 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Michael G. Bazaral, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;450), Food and Drug Administration, 1390 Piccard Dr., Rockville, MD 20850, 301&hyph;594&hyph;2623. General function of the committee . The committee reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational devices and makes recommendations for their regulation. Agenda_Open public hearing . Interested persons may present data, information, or views, orally or in writing, on issues pending before the committee. Those desiring to make formal presentations should notify the contact person before August 29, 1994, and submit a brief statement of the general nature of the evidence or arguments they wish to present, the names and addresses of proposed participants, and an indication of the approximate time required to make their comments. Open committee discussion . The committee will discuss a revision to the guidance document for clinical data to support premarket notification for apnea monitors. Closed committee deliberations . The committee will discuss trade secret and/or confidential commercial information regarding present and future device applications. This portion of the meeting will be closed to permit discussion of this information (5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(4)). Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee Date, time, and place . September 12, 1994, 8 a.m., Parklawn Bldg., conference rms. D and E, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD. Type of meeting and contact person . Open public hearing, 8 a.m. to 9 a.m., unless public participation does not last that long; open committee discussion, 9 a.m. to 12 m.; closed committee deliberations, 12 m. to 4:30 p.m.; Adele S. Seifried, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (HFD&hyph;9), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;4695. General function of the committee . The committee reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in treatment of cancer. Agenda_Open public hearing . Interested persons may present data, information, or views, orally or in writing, on issues pending before the committee. Those desiring to make formal presentations should notify the contact person before September 2, 1994, and submit a brief statement of the general nature of the evidence or arguments they wish to present, the names and addresses of proposed participants, and an indication of the approximate time required to make their comments. Open committee discussion . The committee will discuss: (1) New drug application (NDA) 20&hyph;452, Photofrin ® (Sterile Porfimer Sodium, QLT Phototherapeutics, Inc.), ``for the reduction of obstruction and palliation of dysphagia in patients with completely or partially obstructing esophageal cancer.'' Closed committee deliberations . The committee will discuss trade secret and/or confidential commercial information relevant to investigational new drug applications and pending NDA's. This portion of the meeting will be closed to permit discussion of this information (5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(4)). Neurological Devices Panel of the Medical Devices Advisory Committee Date, time, and place . September 16, 1994, 9:45 a.m., Piccard Bldg., conference rm. 100, 1390 Piccard Dr., Rockville, MD. Type of meeting and contact person . Open committee discussion, 9:45 a.m. to 10:15 a.m.; open public hearing, 10:15 a.m. to 11:15 a.m., unless public participation does not last that long; open committee discussion, 11:15 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.; closed committee deliberations, 1:30 p.m. to 4 p.m.; Levering Keely, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;450), Food and Drug Administration, 1390 Piccard Dr., Rockville, MD 20850, 301&hyph;594&hyph;1523. General function of the committee . The committee reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational devices and makes recommendations for their regulation. Agenda_Open public hearing . Interested persons may present data, information, or views, orally or in writing, on issues pending before the committee. Those desiring to make formal presentations should notify the contact person before September 2, 1994, and submit a brief statement of the general nature of the evidence or arguments they wish to present, the names and addresses of proposed participants, and an indication of the approximate time required to make their comments. Open committee discussion . The committee will discuss proposed guidance for biocompatibility of implanted neurological devices and the clinical utility of electroencephalograph devices. Closed committee deliberations . The committee will discuss trade secret and/or confidential commercial information regarding present and future FDA issues. This portion of the meeting will be closed to permit discussion of this information (5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(4)). General and Plastic Surgery Devices Panel of the Medical Devices Advisory Committee Date, time, and place . September 21, 1994, 8 a.m., Holiday Inn_Gaithersburg, Whetstone Rm., Two Montgomery Village Ave., Gaithersburg, MD. A limited number of overnight accommodations have been blocked at the Holiday Inn_Gaithersburg. Attendees requiring overnight accommodations may contact the hotel at 301&hyph;948&hyph;8900 and reference the FDA Panel meeting block. Reservations will be confirmed at the group rate based on availability. Type of meeting and contact person . Open public hearing, 8 a.m. to 9 a.m., unless public participation does not last that long; open committee discussion, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.; closed committee deliberations, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; Daniel G. Schultz, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;410), Food and Drug Administration, 1390 Piccard Dr., Rockville, MD 20850, 301&hyph;594&hyph;2092. General function of the committee . The committee reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational devices and makes recommendations for their regulation. Agenda_Open public hearing . Interested persons may present data, information, or views, orally or in writing, on issues pending before the committee. Those desiring to make formal presentations should notify the contact person before September 2, 1994, and submit a brief statement of the general nature of the evidence or arguments they wish to present, the names and addresses of proposed participants, and an indication of the approximate time required to make their comments. Open committee discussion . The committee will discuss the following draft guidance documents: (1) Electrosurgical devices, (2) medical lasers, (3) noninteractive wound and burn dressing, (4) interactive wound and burn dressing, and (5) sun protective clothing. Single copies of the draft guidance documents are available from the Division of Small Manufacturers Assistance, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;220), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 800&hyph;638&hyph;2041 or 301&hyph;443&hyph;6597. Closed committee deliberations . The committee will discuss trade secret and/or confidential commercial information regarding issues related to new technologies currently under review. This portion of the meeting will be closed to permit discussion of this information (5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(4)). Joint Meeting of the Clinical Chemistry and Clinical Toxicology Devices Panel and the Microbiology Devices Panel of the Medical Devices Advisory Committee Date, time, and place . September 22, 1994, 1 p.m., and September 23, 1994, 9 a.m., Holiday Inn_Gaithersburg, Whetstone/Walker Rms., Two Montgomery Village Ave., Gaithersburg, MD. A limited number of overnight accommodations have been blocked at the Holiday Inn_Gaithersburg. Attendees requiring overnight accommodations may contact the hotel at 301&hyph;948&hyph;8900 and reference the FDA Panel meeting block. Reservations will be confirmed at the group rate based on availability. Type of meeting and contact person . Closed committee deliberations, September 22, 1994, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; open public hearing, September 23, 1994, 9 a.m. to 10 a.m., unless public participation does not last that long; open committee discussion, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Cornelia B. Rooks or Freddie M. Poole, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;440), Food and Drug Administration, 2098 Gaither Rd., Rockville, MD 20850, 301&hyph;594&hyph;1243 or 594&hyph;2096. General function of the committee . The committee reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational devices and makes recommendations for their regulation. Agenda_Open public hearing . Interested persons may present data, information, or views, orally or in writing, on issues pending before the committee. Those desiring to make formal presentations should notify the contact person before September 8, 1994, and submit a brief statement of the general nature of the evidence or arguments they wish to present, the names and addresses of proposed participants, and an indication of the approximate time required to make their comments. Open committee discussion . The committee will discuss the use of alternate matrices: saliva, sweat, tears, hair, etc., for in vitro diagnostic devices, and replacement reagents for devices already cleared by the 510(k) process or approved by premarket approval application. In addition, the committee will discuss a draft document: ``Points to Consider for Collection of Data in Support of In Vitro Diagnostic Device Submissions for 510(k)'s.'' These documents will be available at the meeting. Closed committee deliberations . The committee will discuss trade secret and/or confidential commercial information regarding pending or future device submissions. This portion of the meeting will be closed to permit discussion of this information (5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(4)). Dermatologic Drugs Advisory Committee Date, time, and place . September 22 and 23, 1994, 8:30 a.m., Parklawn Bldg., conference rms. D and E, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD. Type of meeting and contact person . Closed committee deliberations, September 22, 1994, 8:30 a.m. to 12 m.; open committee discussion, 12 m. to 1 p.m.; open public hearing, 1 p.m. to 2 p.m., unless public participation does not last that long; open committee discussion, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.; open committee discussion, September 23, 1994, 8:30 a.m. to 12 m.; Ermona B. McGoodwin or Valerie M. Mealy, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (HFD&hyph;9), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;5455. General function of the committee . The committee reviews and evaluates data on the safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational human drugs for use in the treatment of dermatologic diseases. Agenda_Open public hearing . Interested persons may present data, information, or views, orally or in writing, on issues pending before the committee. Those desiring to make formal presentations should notify the contact person before September 16, 1994, and submit a brief statement of the general nature of the evidence or arguments they wish to present, the names and addresses of proposed participants, and an indication of the approximate time required to make their comments. Open committee discussion . The committee will discuss onychomycosis and determination of endpoints for clinical trials investigating treatment of onychomycosis. Closed committee deliberations . On September 22, 1994, the committee will discuss trade secret and/or confidential commercial information relevant to pending investigational new drug applications. This portion of the meeting will be closed to permit discussion of this information (5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(4)).Each public advisory committee meeting listed above may have as many as four separable portions: (1) An open public hearing, (2) an open committee discussion, (3) a closed presentation of data, and (4) a closed committee deliberation. Every advisory committee meeting shall have an open public hearing portion. Whether or not it also includes any of the other three portions will depend upon the specific meeting involved. The dates and times reserved for the separate portions of each committee meeting are listed above. The open public hearing portion of each meeting shall be at least 1 hour long unless public participation does not last that long. It is emphasized, however, that the 1 hour time limit for an open public hearing represents a minimum rather than a maximum time for public participation, and an open public hearing may last for whatever longer period the committee chairperson determines will facilitate the committee's work. Public hearings are subject to FDA's guideline (subpart C of 21 CFR part 10) concerning the policy and procedures for electronic media coverage of FDA's public administrative proceedings, including hearings before public advisory committees under 21 CFR part 14. Under 21 CFR 10.205, representatives of the electronic media may be permitted, subject to certain limitations, to videotape, film, or otherwise record FDA's public administrative proceedings, including presentations by participants. Meetings of advisory committees shall be conducted, insofar as is practical, in accordance with the agenda published in this Federal Register notice. Changes in the agenda will be announced at the beginning of the open portion of a meeting. Any interested person who wishes to be assured of the right to make an oral presentation at the open public hearing portion of a meeting shall inform the contact person listed above, either orally or in writing, prior to the meeting. Any person attending the hearing who does not in advance of the meeting request an opportunity to speak will be allowed to make an oral presentation at the hearing's conclusion, if time permits, at the chairperson's discretion. The agenda, the questions to be addressed by the committee, and a current list of committee members will be available at the meeting location on the day of the meeting. Transcripts of the open portion of the meeting may be requested in writing from the Freedom of Information Office (HFI&hyph;35), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 12A&hyph;16, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, approximately 15 working days after the meeting, at a cost of 10 cents per page. The transcript may be viewed at the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857, approximately 15 working days after the meeting, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Summary minutes of the open portion of the meeting may be requested in writing from the Freedom of Information Office (address above) beginning approximately 90 days after the meeting. The Commissioner has determined for the reasons stated that those portions of the advisory committee meetings so designated in this notice shall be closed. The Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA) (5 U.S.C. app. 2, 10(d)), permits such closed advisory committee meetings in certain circumstances. Those portions of a meeting designated as closed, however, shall be closed for the shortest possible time, consistent with the intent of the cited statutes. The FACA, as amended, provides that a portion of a meeting may be closed where the matter for discussion involves a trade secret; commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential; information of a personal nature, disclosure of which would be a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes; information the premature disclosure of which would be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed agency action; and information in certain other instances not generally relevant to FDA matters. Examples of portions of FDA advisory committee meetings that ordinarily may be closed, where necessary and in accordance with FACA criteria, include the review, discussion, and evaluation of drafts of regulations or guidelines or similar preexisting internal agency documents, but only if their premature disclosure is likely to significantly frustrate implementation of proposed agency action; review of trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information submitted to the agency; consideration of matters involving investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes; and review of matters, such as personnel records or individual patient records, where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Examples of portions of FDA advisory committee meetings that ordinarily shall not be closed include the review, discussion, and evaluation of general preclinical and clinical test protocols and procedures for a class of drugs or devices; consideration of labeling requirements for a class of marketed drugs or devices; review of data and information on specific investigational or marketed drugs and devices that have previously been made public; presentation of any other data or information that is not exempt from public disclosure pursuant to the FACA, as amended; and, deliberation to formulate advice and recommendations to the agency on matters that do not independently justify closing. This notice is issued under section 10(a)(1) and (2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. app. 2), and FDA's regulations (21 CFR part 14) on advisory committees. Dated: August 10, 1994. Linda A. Suydam, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19984 Filed 8&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
