FR940620-1-00078 FR940620-1-00009 (2) Nonconforming technical data markings. A nonconforming marking is a marking placed on technical data delivered or otherwise furnished to the Government under this contract that is not in the format authorized by this contract. Correction of nonconforming markings is not subject to 252.227&hyph;7037. If the contracting officer notifies the contractor of a nonconforming marking and the contractor fails to remove or correct the such marking within sixty (60) days, the Government may ignore or, at the Contractor's expense, remove or correct any nonconforming marking. (i) Relation to patents. Nothing contained in this clause shall imply a license to the Government under any patent or be construed as affecting the scope of any license or other right otherwise granted to the Government under any patent. (j) Limitation on charges for rights in technical data. (1) The contractor shall not charge to this contract any cost, including, but not limited to, license fees, royalties, or similar changes, for rights in technical data to be delivered under this contract when_ (i) The Government has acquired, by any means, the same or greater rights in the data; or, (ii) The data are available to the public without restrictions. (2) The limitation in paragraph (j)(1)_ (i) Includes costs charged by a subcontractor or supplier, at any tier, or costs incurred by the contractor to acquire rights in subcontractor or supplier technical data, if the subcontractor or supplier has been paid for such rights under any other Government contract or under a license conveying the rights to the Government; (ii) Does not include the reasonable costs of reproducing, handling, or mailing the documents or other media in which the technical data will be delivered. (k) Applicability to subcontractors or suppliers. (1) The contractor shall ensure that the rights afforded its subcontractors and suppliers under 10 U.S.C. 2320, 10 U.S.C. 2321, and the identification, assertion, and delivery processes of paragraph (e) of this clause are recognized and protected. (2) Whenever any technical data is to be obtained from a subcontractor or supplier for delivery to the Government under this contract, the contractor shall use this same clause in the subcontract or other contractual instrument, and require its subcontractors or suppliers to do so, without alteration, except to identify the parties. No other clause shall be used to enlarge or diminish the Government's, the contractor's, or a higher tier subcontractor's or supplier's rights in a subcontractor's or supplier's technical data. (3) Technical data required to be delivered by a subcontractor or supplier shall normally be delivered to the next higher-tier contractor, subcontractor, or supplier. However, when there is a requirement in the prime contract for data which may be submitted with other than unlimited rights by a subcontractor or supplier, then said subcontractor or supplier may fulfill its requirement by submitting such data directly to the Government, rather than through a higher-tier contractor, subcontractor, or supplier. (4) The contractor and higher-tier subcontractors or suppliers will not use their power to award contracts as economic leverage to obtain rights in technical data from their subcontractors or suppliers. (5) In no event shall the contractor use its obligation to recognize and protect subcontractor or supplier rights in technical data as an excuse for failing to satisfy its contractual obligation to the Government. (END OF CLAUSE) ALTERNATE I (XXX 1994) (l) Publication for sale. (1) This paragraph only applies to technical data in which the Government has obtained unlimited rights or a license to make an unrestricted release of technical data.
