FR940323-0-00050 FR940323-0-00020 (1) The local partnership must include an LEA and one or more community partners. The local partnership may include a private for-profit business or private elementary or secondary school. (2) The community partners must include a public or private nonprofit organization that has demonstrated expertise in the provision of services to meet educational, public safety, human, or environmental needs; was in existence at least one year before the date on which the organization submitted an application under this part; and will make projects available for participants, who must be students. (c) A local partnership, for a grant from a State or a grantmaking entity to implement, operate, or expand an adult volunteer program. The local partnership must include an LEA and one or more public or private nonprofit organizations, other educational agencies, or private for-profit businesses that coordinate and operate projects for participants who must be students. (d) A qualified organization, as defined in §2515.20 of this chapter, for a grant from a State or Indian tribe for planning or building the capacity of the State or Indian tribe. Subpart B_Use of Grant Funds §2516.200 How may grant funds be used? Funds under a school based service learning grant may be used for the purposes described in this section. (a) Planning and capacity-building for States and Indian tribes. (1) A State or Indian tribe may use funds to pay for planning and building its capacity to implement school-based service-learning programs. These entities may use funds either directly or through subgrants or contracts with qualified organizations. (2) Authorized activities include the following: (i) Providing training for teachers, supervisors, personnel from community-based agencies (particularly with regard to the utilization of participants) and trainers, conducted by qualified individuals or organizations experienced in service-learning. (ii) Developing service-learning curricula to be integrated into academic programs, including the age-appropriate learning components for students to analyze and apply their service experiences. (iii) Forming local partnerships described in §2516.110 to develop school-based service-learning programs in accordance with this part. (iv) Devising appropriate methods for research and evaluation of the educational value of service-learning and the effect of service-learning activities on communities. (v) Establishing effective outreach and dissemination of information to ensure the broadest possible involvement of community-based agencies with demonstrated effectiveness in working with school-age youth in their communities. (b) Implementing, operating, and expanding school-based programs. (1) A State, Indian Tribe, or grantmaking entity may use funds to make subgrants to local partnerships described in §2516.110 (b) to implement, operate, or expand school-based service-learning programs. (2) If a State does not submit an application that meets the requirements for an allotment grant under §2516.400, the Corporation may use the allotment to fund applications from those local partnerships for programs in that State. (3) Authorized activities include paying the costs of the recruitment, training, supervision, placement, salaries and benefits of service learning coordinators. (4) A grantmaking entity may also use funds to provide technical assistance and training to appropriate persons relating to its subgrants. (c) Planning programs. (1) A State may use funds to make subgrants to LEAs for planning school-based service-learning programs. (2) If a State does not submit an application that meets the requirements for an allotment grant under §2516.400, the Corporation may use the allotment to fund applications from LEAs for planning programs in that State. (3) Authorized activities include paying the costs of_ (i) The salaries and benefits of service-learning coordinators as defined in §2510.20 of this chapter; and (ii) The recruitment, training, supervision, and placement of service-learning coordinators who may be participants in an AmeriCorps program described in parts 2520 through 2524 of this chapter or who receive AmeriCorps educational awards. (d) Adult volunteer programs. (1) A State, Indian tribe, or grantmaking entity may use funds to make subgrants to local partnerships described in §2516.110 (c) to implement, operate, or expand school-based programs involving adult volunteers to utilize service-learning to improve the education of students. (2) If a State does not submit an application that meets the requirements for an allotment grant under §2516.400, the Corporation may use the allotment to fund applications from those local partnerships for adult volunteer programs in that State. (e) Planning by Indian tribes and U.S. Territories. If the Corporation makes a grant to an Indian tribe or a U.S. Territory to plan school-based service-learning programs, the grantee may use the funds for that purpose. Subpart C_Eligibility to Participate §2516.300 Who may participate in a school-based service-learning program? Students who are enrolled in elementary or secondary schools on a full-time or part-time basis may participate in school-based programs. §2516.310 May private school students participate? (a) Yes. To the extent consistent with the number of students in the State or Indian tribe or in the school district of the LEA involved who are enrolled in private nonprofit elementary or secondary schools, the State, Indian tribe, or LEA must (after consultation with appropriate private school representatives) make provision_ (1) For the inclusion of services and arrangements for the benefit of those students so as to allow for the equitable participation of the students in the programs under this part; and
