FR940804-2-00121 FR940804-2-00068 20. At and after the meeting, Gianotti offered to buy or barter time to get his programs distributed by defendant, but KBL refused to quote him a price. 21. KBL is and was owned directly or indirectly by TCI. 22. TCI directly or indirectly (through its subsidiary TCI of Pennsylvania, Inc.) dominated the Metropolitan Pittsburgh cable television market by having approximately half the cable television subscribers in the said market. 23. Because KBL was owned by TCI and/or Liberty (the two of which were related) which had more than half the cable subscribers in this area, KBL could and did exercise market power over collegiate sports television programming in the Metropolitan Pittsburgh area. 24. The existence of market power by KBL and TCI is evidenced by the following: (a) One of TCI's subsidiaries, TCI of Pennsylvania, refused to deal with TCS, an entity which first acquired cable television transmission rights to Pittsburgh Pirate baseball games. (b) TCI through various of its subsidiaries refused to deal with Sportschannel, an entity which offers sports programming of national and regional interest. If TCI of Pennsylvania had carried Sportschannel, Sportschannel would have competed with KBL for rights to regional sports events. (c) KBL reasonably believed it could impose a seat fee on commercial establishments such as bars which provide a television set for its patrons to watch programs on KBL and actually did impose such a fee. (d) KBL refused to deal with Gianotti on programming it previously found acceptable for the sole purpose of eliminating him as an intermediary between sports programming sources such as the University of Pittsburgh and other programming sources on the one side and KBL and the cable television systems on the other. (e) KBL and/or TCI is now attempting to acquire the Pittsburgh Pirates so that it can control broadcast, telecast and cable casting of Pirate games. (f) TCI became a co-owner of K-Prime Partners, Limited Partnership also known as Primestar on February 8, 1990, in an effort to dominate video sports programming. (g) TCI through its subsidiary TCI of Pennsylvania, Inc., has had the only cable television service within the City of Pittsburgh between 1984 and the present. (h) In December, 1993, TCI of Pennsylvania had approximately 385,000 cable television subscribers in the Metropolitan Pittsburgh area, more than half the total subscribers in this area. (i) TCI directly or indirectly through a subsidiary bought the City of Pittsburgh cable television franchise from Warner Cable Corp. in 1984 for approximately $93,400,000.00. (j) The Chief Executive Officer of TCI is John Malone, who also owns 50.4% of the common stock of Liberty Media, Inc., a Colorado business corporation. TCI and Liberty Media through their various subsidiaries have 10 million cable television subscribers, more than 25% of the total number of cable television subscribers of the United States. (k) John Malone, TCI and Liberty Media during the past two decades have embarked on a course of conduct designed to control cable television and by acquiring control over programming sources, technology and franchises. In particular, TCI and Liberty have, during this period of time acquired (1) 22% of Turner Broadcasting which provides TBS, TNT, CNN and the Cartoon Network. (2) 49% of QVC (3) 49% of the Discovery Channel (4) 42% of the Home Shopping Network (5) 33% of Court TV (6) 21% of Home Team Sports (7) 68% of SportsCom (8) 18% of Black Entertainment Network (9) 90% of Encore (10) 15.6% of The Family Channel (11) 15% of Interactive Network (1) In addition TCI and/or Liberty Media have become involved in partnerships or joint ventures in The Children's Channel, the Parliamentary Channel, TeleWest, The Sega Channel and Viewer Controlled Cable Television. (m) In April, 1993, KBL acquired exclusive broadcast rights for 4 years for the Pittsburgh Penguins for approximately $22,000,000.00. This acquisition enabled KBL to sell rights to certain games to broadcast stations such as KDKA&hyph;TV and to institute pay-per-view as to certain games. (n) KBL also acquired exclusive television broadcasting rights to the Pittsburgh Pirates. (o) KBL, after contracting with the University of Pittsburgh for men's basketball, was able to charge an additional fee to cable system operators for such programming, a fee over and above the regular charge for KBL programming 25. John Malone, through TCI and its subsidiaries and liberty Media and its subsidiaries has engaged in an effort to exercise monopolistic control over programming sources by the above acquisitions and by encouraging independent programming sources, such as The Learning Channel, to merge into entities over which they have control such as, The Discovery Channel. 26. The elimination of GTV as a programming source enabled KBL, an entity controlled by Malone, TCI and/or Liberty Media, to deal directly with the University of Pittsburgh on terms favorable to defendants for basketball by tying the acceptance of minor sports programming to basketball.
