FR941230-0-00130 FR941230-0-00021 ยง3402.3 Institutional eligibility. Proposals may be submitted by land-grant colleges and universities, by colleges and universities having significant minority enrollments and a demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences, and by other colleges and universities having a demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences. All applicants should be institutions that confer a graduate degree in at least one area of the food and agricultural sciences targeted for national needs fellowships, that have a significant ongoing commitment to the food and agricultural sciences generally, and that have a significant ongoing commitment to the specific subject area for which a grant application is made. It is the objective to award grants to colleges and universities which have notable teaching and research competencies in the food and agricultural sciences. The grants are specifically intended to support fellowship programs that encourage outstanding students to pursue and complete a graduate degree at such institutions in an area of the food and agricultural sciences for which there is a national need for the development of scientific and professional expertise. Therefore, institutions which currently have excellent programs of graduate study and research in the food and agricultural sciences dealing with targeted national needs are particularly encouraged to apply. Subpart B_Program Description ยง3402.4 Food and agricultural sciences areas targeted for national needs graduate fellowship grants support. Areas of the food and agricultural sciences appropriate for fellowship grant applications are those in which developing shortages of expertise have been determined and targeted by HEP for national needs fellowship grant support. When funds are available and HEP determines that a new competition is warranted, the specific areas and funds per area will be identified in a Federal Register notice announcing the program and soliciting program applications. ยง3402.5 Overview of National Needs Graduate Fellowship Grants Program. (a) The program will provide funds for a limited number of grants to support fixed graduate student stipends and fixed cost-of-education institutional allowances. These grants will be awarded competitively to eligible institutions. In order to encourage the development of special activities that are expected to contribute to Fellows' advanced degree objectives, the program will also provide competitive, special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowances for a limited number of USDA Graduate Fellows. (b) Based on the amount of funds appropriated in any fiscal year, HEP will determine: (1) Whether new competitions for graduate fellowships and/or special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowances will be held during that fiscal year; (2) The graduate degree level(s) to be supported_Master's and/or doctoral; (3) The proportion of appropriations to be targeted for the fellowship stipends for each respective graduate degree level supported; (4) The proportion of appropriations to be targeted for the cost-of-education institutional allowances for each respective graduate degree level supported; (5) The proportion of appropriations to be targeted for the special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowances for each respective graduate degree level supported; (6) The allowable stipend amount for each respective graduate degree level supported, the cost-of-education institutional allowance for each respective graduate degree level supported, and the maximum funds available for each special international study or thesis/dissertation research travel allowance for each respective graduate degree level supported; and (7) The maximum total funds that may be awarded to an institution under the program in a given fiscal year.
