FR940805-1-00096 FR940805-1-00013 (7) Immediate removal from program for disciplinary reasons. The administrator shall provide for the immediate return of a resident for an alleged disciplinary violation to a secure facility if the safety of the resident, other residents, staff or the security of the facility is at stake. (8) Disciplinary detention. The administrator shall remove residents from program for a disciplinary violation only after a hearing. (9) Record of disciplinary hearing. The persons conducting the disciplinary hearing shall make a written copy of the decision and its disposition and shall provide copies to the resident and the administrators of the secure and community residential facilities for review. Residents shall have the right to appeal the decision to the administrator of the community residential facility or the next level of authority. The disciplinary report shall be removed from all files of residents found not guilty of an alleged rule violation. (d) Removal from program _(1) Emergency removal. Pursuant to a placement order, the administrator of the facility or designee can order immediate removal from program and return to a secure facility when it is necessary to protect the resident or others. The immediate supervisor of the person ordering removal from program or the contracting officer shall review this action within three working days. (2) Return to program. The administrator or designee shall use a review process to reinstate a resident who has been removed from program. (e) Resident rights _(1) Access to courts, counsel and legal materials. Residents shall have the right to have access to attorneys, legal representatives, the courts and legal materials and to address uncensored communications to governmental authorities. (2) Freedom from discrimination. Residents shall have the right to be free from discrimination based on race, religion, national origin, tribal affiliation, sex, disability, political beliefs, favoritism or nepotism. Residents shall have the right to equal access to programs and work assignments as provided in the classification program. (3) Equal access for women. Male and female residents shall have the right to equal access to programs and services. (4) Right to communicate. Residents shall have the right to receive visits and to communicate or correspond with persons or organizations, subject only to the limitations necessary to maintain order and security. (5) Protection from harm. Residents shall have the right to protection from personal abuse, corporal punishment, personal injury, disease, property damage and harassment, by either staff or residents. (6) Freedom of personal grooming. Residents shall have the right to determine the length and style of scalp or facial hair, unless health and safety reasons exist. (7) Treatment. Residents shall have the right to medical, dental, mental health and substance abuse treatment and rehabilitative services as directed by the health authority. (f) Admission _(1) Admission policies. The facility shall have clearly defined written procedures governing admission. (2) Documentation of commitment. Court order, statute or compact shall document legal commitment authority. (3) Notification of non-acceptance. The administrator or designee shall advise the referring agency when a prospective resident is not accepted into the program, citing specific reasons. (4) Admission criteria. The administrator shall distribute a copy of admission policies and criteria to referring agencies and interested parties. (5) Admission process. Written procedures for admitting new residents shall include, at a minimum: (i) verification of court commitment papers or other legal documentation for placement; (ii) inventory of clothing and personal property taken into the facility; (iii) receipt of health record if required because of transfer; (iv) completion of admission form as required by these standards; (v) orientation; and (vi) assignment to a room. (6) Suicide screening. The administrator or designee shall ensure that all residents have been screened for suicide risk prior to acceptance in the community residential program. (7) Orientation. All newly admitted residents shall receive written or oral information in the language they understand. The admitting officer shall document completion of orientation by a statement that shall be signed and dated by the resident and employee. The orientation shall include, but not be limited to: (i) resident rules of conduct and potential disciplinary actions that may be taken; (ii) programs and services available in the facility or community; (iii) procedures for accessing health care services; and (iv) resident rights and privileges. (8) Personal property inventory. The admitting employee shall complete a written, itemized inventory of all personal property of newly admitted residents. The resident shall sign a waiver of liability for all personal property taken into the facility. (9) Regulation of resident property. The administrator or designee shall identify personal property that residents may receive or keep in their possession while in the facility, the sources from which these items may be obtained and how these items are received and inspected. (g) Classification _(1) Classification policy. The administrator or designee shall screen all residents and classify them as appropriate for community residential status prior to placement in the community residential facility. The administrator or designee shall review these policies and procedures annually and update them as necessary. (2) Prohibited segregations. The administrator shall prohibit the segregation of residents by race, color, creed, tribal affiliation, national origin, political beliefs, nepotism, favoritism or other prohibited criteria.
