FR940627-0-00157 FR940627-0-00019 EPA considers the FONB to be a well-validated standard test and recognizes its extensive use in the past. In the context of this F/FA emissions testing program, however, EPA believes that, rather than requiring the FONB on a standard basis within the Tier 2 testing regimen, the FONB is more appropriately reserved for use when a neurotoxicity concern has been identified and additional testing is needed to clarify the nature and/or significance of the potential adverse effects (e.g., within Tier 3). In regard to the GFAP assay, EPA judges that concerns about the amount of historical data are not sufficient justification to prevent its use in the F/FA program, given its high specificity and potential applicability as a screening test. This final rule thus includes the GFAP assay as an element in the Tier 2 assessment of potential neurotoxic effects. The GFAP assay is a biochemical assay that measures the level of a major intermediate filament protein of astrocytes (cells of the supporting structure of the nervous system) from brain tissues. An increase in the GFAP level is highly specific for detecting the existence and location of chemical-induced injury to the central nervous system (CNS) associated with astrocytic hypertrophy. However, due to its specificity, the assay does not provide information on other potential sites for neurotoxic effects. To provide a more comprehensive evaluation, today's rule supplements the GFAP assay with an expanded neurohistopathology examination as part of the 90-day subchronic inhalation study. The neurohistopathology involves the examination of several brain sections, including the cerebrum, cerebellum, medulla, cervical bulb of the spinal cord, and peripheral nerves (e.g., tibial or sciatic nerve). Testing guidelines for the neurotoxicity evaluation are included in ยง79.62, ยง79.66 (neuropathology assessment), and ยง79.67 (GFAP) of this final rule. Positive results at the end of the exposure period for neurotoxicity will be indicated by an increase in the GFAP level and/or abnormal gross or histopathological findings relative to appropriate control animals. The neurotoxicity screen is applicable to the evaluation of both combustion and evaporative emissions. C. Adequate Endpoint Information in Lieu of Tier 2 Tests One of the functions of the data search requirement under Tier 1 (as discussed in Section VII.A.2) is to enable F/FA manufacturers to examine the available literature and determine if adequate data exists (for both combustion and evaporative emissions, as applicable) that would satisfy the Tier 2 testing requirements, so that duplication of effort can be avoided. In addition to existing test data from protocols similar to those specified in the Tier 2 testing program, EPA will consider results from other test protocols to be adequate in lieu of new testing, as long as the alternative methods provide comparable information. Table 2 provides criteria for determining what constitutes adequate existing data in lieu of the specified Tier 2 tests, and includes an example list of comparable tests for each Tier 2 endpoint. EPA recognizes that changes and scientific advances in toxicology testing may result in the development of additional techniques and methods that could be applicable to the Tier 2 testing requirements of this program in the future. In deciding if a specific protocol is acceptable in lieu of a Tier 2 test, manufacturers must also address other specific criteria for Tier 2 requirements, as explained below.
