FR941222-1-00031 FR941222-1-00008 B. Dye and Pigment Industries Overview The dye and pigment industries are comprised of three separate industries, represented by three different trade associations. The Color Pigment Manufacturers Association (CPMA) represents pigment manufacturers, the Ecological and Toxicological Association of the Dyestuffs Manufacturing Industry (ETAD) represents dye manufacturers, and the International Association of Color Manufacturers (IACM) represents food, drug, and cosmetic (FD&C) colorants manufacturers. Dyes are intensely colored or fluorescent organic substances that impart color to a substrate by selective absorption of light. 2 When a dye is applied, it penetrates the substrate in a soluble form, after which it may or may not become insoluble. Dyes are retained in the substrate by physical absorption, salt or metal-complex formation, solution, mechanical retention, or by the formation of ionic or covalent chemical bonds. 3 2 ``Pigments_A Primer,'' reprinted from American Ink Maker, June 1989, Color Pigment Manufacturers Association. 3 Kirk-Othmer Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology_Volume 8, ``Dyes and Dye Intermediates.'' Dyes are used to color fabrics, leather, paper, ink, lacquers, varnishes, plastics, cosmetics, and some food items. Dye manufacture in the U.S. includes more than 2,000 individual dyes, the majority of which are produced in quantities of less than 50,000 pounds. In 1990, total U.S. dye production was 258 million pounds. In 1991, there were approximately 33 manufacturing plants operated by 20 companies that produce either azo, anthraquinone, or triarylmethane dyes. 4 4 1992 RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire Data. Pigments possess unique characteristics that distinguish them from dyes and other colorants. Pigments are colored, black, white, or fluorescent particulate organic or inorganic solids, usually insoluble in, and essentially physically and chemically unaffected by, the vehicle or substrate in which they are incorporated. The primary difference between pigments and dyes is that during the application process, pigments are insoluble in the substrate. Pigments also retain a crystalline or particulate structure and impart color by selective absorption or by scattering of light. With dyes, the structure is temporarily altered during the application process, and imparts color only by selective absorption. 5 5 ``Pigments_A Primer,'' reprinted from American Ink Maker, June 1989, Color Pigment Manufacturers Association. Pigments are used in a variety of applications; the primary use is in printing inks. There are fewer pigments produced than dyes, though pigment batches are generally larger in size. The U.S. total 1990 pigment production volume of approximately 415 million pounds is composed of 300 million pounds of inorganic pigments and 115 million pounds of organic pigments. 6 In 1991, there were approximately 27 domestic manufacturing plants operated by 20 companies 7 producing organic pigments subject to the settlement agreement. 6 CPMA meeting presentation, August, 1991. 7 1992 RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire Data. FD&C colorants are dyes and pigments that have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in food items, drugs, and/or cosmetics. Typically, FD&C colorants are azo or triarylmethane dyes and are similar or identical to larger-volume dye products not used in food, drugs, and cosmetics. Manufacture of FD&C colorants is identical to that for the corresponding dye or pigment, except that the colorant undergoes additional purification. Each FD&C colorant batch is tested and certified by the FDA. In 1991, there were approximately 7 domestic manufacturing plants operated by 5 companies 8 producing FD&C colorants subject to the EDF settlement agreement. 8 1992 RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire Data. This proposal addresses the three chemical classes of organic dyes and pigments specified in the settlement agreement: azos, anthraquinones, and triarylmethanes. Azos are the largest and most versatile chemical class. The various azo chemical structures are readily synthesized, typical product application methods are not complex, and a broad range of colors can be produced with excellent fastness properties. Azo colorants are used in essentially all organic dye applications, including textiles, paper, inks, coatings, plastics, and leather. Pyrazolones are a subset of azo dyes and pigments, named for the substituted pyrazolones that are used as coupling agents. The pyrazolone subclass is comprised mainly of yellow, orange, and red azo dyes and pigments. Pyrazolone dyes and pigments are used primarily in textiles and plastics, respectively. Despite high costs, anthraquinones are an important group of dyes due to superior fastness. They have applications on cotton, cellulose, and synthetic fibers. They have good affinity for the substrate, level dyeing power, and excellent fastness. Anthraquinone pigments are chemically identical to the corresponding dyestuffs and also exhibit high fastness properties. They are used primarily in automotive paints. There are many more anthraquinone dyes than pigments. Most anthraquinone dyes have not been developed into pigments due to technical constraints, as well as competition from less expensive substitutes. Perylene pigments, a subset of the anthraquinone chemical class, provide an economical alternative to heavy metal-containing red pigments. Their excellent thermal stability and fastness properties meet the standards for automotive finishes and other high-quality coatings. Triarylmethanes are characterized by their brilliancy of hue, intensity of color, and low fastness properties. Triarylmethane dyes typically are used in the textile industry and in the production of pigments. Pigments typically are used in the production of printing and duplicating inks.
