FR940603-2-00054 FR940603-2-00039 Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry [Announcement 431] Surveillance of Hazardous Substances Emergency Events Introduction The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a cooperative agreement program to conduct surveillance of hazardous substances emergency events. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority areas of Surveillance and Data Systems and Environmental Health. (To order a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section Where To Obtain Additional Information.) Authority This program is authorized in sections 104(i)(1)(E) and (15) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) (42 U.S.C. 9604 (i)(1)(E) and (15)). Smoke-Free Workplace The PHS strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants are the official public health departments of the States or their bona fide agents. This includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and federally recognized Indian tribal governments. Availability of Funds Approximately $1,000,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund approximately 15 awards. It is expected that the average new award will be $70,000 ranging from $60,000 to $80,000 per award. It is expected that the awards will begin on or about September 30, 1994, with a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 5 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. Grantees currently funded under ATSDR's Program Announcement 207 can apply and, if successful, the current award would roll over into this one (competitive renewal) for a project period of 5 years. If a current grantee applies under this competitive renewal announcement and is unsuccessful, it would not jeopardize the current award; ATSDR will honor the current awards through the expiration of the project period, subject to satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. If a current grantee should choose not to apply for this competitive renewal, ATSDR will honor the current award through the expiration of the project period, subject to satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. Use of Funds Funds may be expended for reasonable program purposes, such as personnel, travel, supplies, and services. Equipment may be purchased with cooperative agreement funds; however, justification must be provided which should include a cost comparison of purchase versus lease options. All purchased equipment must be compatible with ATSDR equipment and shall be returned to ATSDR at the completion of the project. Purpose The primary purpose of this cooperative agreement program is to assist State health departments in developing a state-based surveillance system for monitoring hazardous substances emergency events to allow the State health department to better understand the public health impact of hazardous substances emergencies. The objectives of the surveillance system are to: 1. Describe the distribution of hazardous substances emergencies within individual States; 2. Describe the type and cause of morbidity and mortality experienced by employees, first responders, and the general public as a result of selected hazardous substances emergencies; 3. Analyze and describe risk factors associated with the morbidity and mortality; and 4. Develop and propose strategies to reduce subsequent morbidity and mortality when comparable events occur in the future. Program Requirements All Hazardous Substances Emergency Event Surveillance (HSEES) will be performed in accordance with the methodology provided in the HSEES protocol. The protocol was developed to meet the objectives outlined under Purpose. A copy of the protocol will be provided in the application kit. For purposes of this program, the following criteria define an emergency event:
