FR941110-2-00168 FR941110-2-00114 Thursday November 10, 1994 Part VI Department of Energy Office of Nuclear Energy Management of Depleted Uranium Hexafluoride; Request for Recommendations; Alternative Strategies for the Long-Term Management of Depleted Uranium Hexafluoride Resources at Several Geographic Locations; Notices Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 217␣/␣Thursday, November 10, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Office of Nuclear Energy Management of Depleted Uranium Hexafluoride (UF 6 ); Request for Recommendations AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of request for recommendations. SUMMARY: DOE is preparing to assess several alternative strategies for the long-term management or use of depleted UF 6 . As part of that assessment, DOE is requesting recommendations from interested persons, industry, and other Government agencies for potential uses for the depleted UF 6 stored at the gaseous diffusion plants in Paducah, Kentucky, and Portsmouth, Ohio, and at the Oak Ridge Reservation in Tennessee, as well as for technologies that could facilitate the long-term management of this material. DATES: Individuals or organizations wishing to make recommendations should do so in writing by December 12, 1994, to ensure their consideration. ADDRESSES: Please submit recommendations to Mr. Charles E. Bradley Jr., Office of Uranium Programs, Office of Nuclear Energy, U.S. Department of Energy, 19901 Germantown Road, Germantown, MD 20874. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Background Uranium is a naturally-occurring radioactive element containing different isotopes, notably Uranium-238 (U-238) and Uranium-235 (U-235). The usability of uranium for controlled fission in nuclear chain reactions in most nuclear reactors depends on increasing the proportion of the U-235 isotope in the material through an isotopic separation process called enrichment. This process divides a stream of UF 6 into separate streams_one enriched in U-235 and the other depleted in U-235. The first large scale enrichment process was developed by the United States through the Manhattan Project in the 1940s. The process of enrichment used in the United States is called ``gaseous diffusion,'' and has continued under the auspices of the Atomic Energy Commission and its successor agencies, including DOE. On July 1, 1993, general responsibility for uranium enrichment was transferred from DOE to the United States Enrichment Corporation (USEC). Gaseous diffusion was developed, on a large scale, first at the Oak Ridge Reservation in Tennessee and, later, at plants located near Paducah, Kentucky, and Portsmouth, Ohio. Using UF 6 as feed material for the enrichment process, these plants produced highly enriched uranium for defense needs of the United States, as well as low enriched uranium for use as fuel in commercial nuclear reactors. The production of highly enriched uranium was discontinued in 1992 due to the reduced requirements of the U.S. defense programs. All diffusion operations at the Oak Ridge facility ceased in 1985. A major consequence of the gaseous diffusion process is the accumulation of a significant amount of depleted UF 6 . This material is so named because it is depleted in the percentage of the U-235 isotope, as compared to the original feed material. Most of this material is stored at the Paducah and Portsmouth Gaseous Diffusion Plants and at the Oak Ridge Reservation. The total amount in storage at these three sites is approximately 560,000 metric tons. Depleted UF 6 is a solid at ambient temperatures, and is stored in large cylinders holding approximately 14 tons each, stacked two layers high, which are subject to regular inspection and maintenance. About 29,000 cylinders are stored at Paducah, 13,000 at Portsmouth, and 5,000 at Oak Ridge. 2. DOE is publishing, elsewhere in today's Federal Register , an Advance Notice of Intent (ANOI) to prepare an EIS on alternative strategies for the long-term management of depleted UF 6 . The first step in the process to consider alternative approaches is this Request to the public, industry, and other Government agencies for information and suggestions for potential uses for depleted UF 6 and/or technologies that could facilitate the long-term management of the material. This Request will help to ensure that the resulting long-range management strategy will consider all reasonable alternatives. For purposes of responding to this Request, current regulatory requirements should not be considered a barrier to recommended uses or technologies. DOE will evaluate each submission to determine if it should be included as a reasonable alternative in the EIS, which will assess the environmental impacts of the various alternative management strategies.
