FR940825-1-00067 FR940825-1-00008 (2) For noncitizens who are 62 years of age or older or who will be 62 years of age or older and receiving assistance under a section 214 covered program on [insert the effective date of the final rule], the evidence consists of: (i) A signed declaration of eligible immigration status; and (ii) Proof of age document. (3) For all other noncitizens, the evidence consists of: (i) A signed declaration of eligible immigration status; (ii) The INS documents listed in §812.7; and (iii) A signed verification consent form. (c) Declaration. For each family member, the family must submit to the responsible entity a written declaration, signed under penalty of perjury, by which the family member declares whether he or she is a U.S. citizen or a noncitizen with eligible immigration status. (1) For each adult, the declaration must be signed by the adult. (2) For each child, the declaration must be signed by an adult residing in the assisted dwelling unit who is responsible for the child. (d) Verification consent form _(1) Who signs. Each noncitizen who declares eligible immigration status, must sign a verification consent form as follows: (i) For each adult, the form must be signed by the adult. (ii) For each child, the form must be signed by an adult member of the family residing in the assisted dwelling unit who is responsible for the child. (2) Notice of release of evidence by responsible entity. The verification consent form shall provide that evidence of eligible immigration status may be released by the responsible entity, without responsibility for the further use or transmission of the evidence by the entity receiving it, to: (i) HUD as required by HUD; (ii) The INS; and, if applicable; (iii) Another Federal agency, or a State or local government agency in accordance with Federal, State or local law that requires the release of the evidence to that agency. (iv) Notice of release of evidence by HUD. The verification consent form also shall notify the individual of the possible release of evidence of eligible immigration status by HUD. Evidence of eligible immigration status shall only be released to the INS for purposes of establishing eligibility for financial assistance and not for any other purpose. HUD is not responsible for the further use or transmission of the evidence or other information by the INS. (e) Individuals who do not contend to have eligible immigration status. If one or more members of a family elect not to contend that they have eligible immigration status and the other members of the family establish their citizenship or eligible immigration status, the family may be considered for prorated assistance under §812.11 despite the fact that no declaration or documentation of eligible status is submitted by one or more members of the family. The family must, however, identify to the responsible entity, the family member (or members) who will elect not to contend that he or she has eligible immigration status. (f) Notification of requirements of section 214 _(1) When notice is to be issued. Notification of the requirement to submit evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status, as required by this section, or to elect not to contend that one has eligible immigration status, as allowed by paragraph (e) of this section, shall be given by the responsible entity as follows: (i) Applicant's notice. Notification of the requirement to submit evidence of eligible status shall be given to each applicant at the time of application for financial assistance. Families whose applications are pending on [insert the effective date of the final rule] shall be notified of the requirements to submit evidence of eligible status as soon as possible after [insert the effective date of the final rule]. (ii) Notice to families already receiving assistance. For a family in occupancy on [insert the effective date of the final rule] notification of the requirement to submit evidence of eligible status shall be given to each at the time of, and together with, the responsible entity's notice of the first regular reexamination after that date, but not later than one year following [insert the effective date of the final rule]. (2) Form and content of notice. The notice shall: (i) State that financial assistance is contingent upon the submission and verification, as appropriate, of the evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status, as required by this section; (ii) Describe the type of evidence that must be submitted and state the time period in which that evidence must be submitted (see paragraph (g) of this section concerning when evidence must be submitted); and (iii) State that assistance will be prorated, denied or terminated, as appropriate, upon a final determination of ineligibility after all appeals have been exhausted (see §812.9 concerning INS appeal, and informal hearing process) or, if appeals are not pursued, at a time to be specified in accordance with HUD requirements. Families already receiving assistance also shall be informed of how to obtain assistance under the preservation of families provisions of §812.10. (g) When evidence of eligible status is required to be submitted. The responsible entity shall require evidence of eligible status to be submitted at the times specified in paragraph (g) of this section, subject to any extension granted in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. (1) Applicants. For applicants, the responsible entity must ensure that evidence of eligible status is submitted not later than the date the responsible entity anticipates or has knowledge that verification of other aspects of eligibility for assistance will occur (see §812.8(a)).
