FR940203-1-00021 FR940203-1-00005 This is not to suggest, however, that the disproportionate charges are being assessed only to the non-municipal licensees who have filed pending applications for a new license or who are presently involved in compliance proceedings. To the contrary, the annual charge assessments for this work are allocated among all of the non-municipal licensees as a class, and most of those licensees are neither seeking a new license nor involved in a compliance proceeding. Furthermore, it is reasonable to assume that in some future year the shoe may shift to the other foot. On average, over time, the licenses for municipal projects expire at the same frequency as the licenses for non-municipal projects, and the frequency of compliance proceedings also tends to even out. Thus, given the current concentration of resources on processing cases involving non-municipal projects, it is reasonable to assume that eventually some years will occur in which there will be an equally disproportionate burden of annual charge assessments on municipal projects vis-a-vis non-municipal projects. The net effect of the present categorization of costs according to the municipal/non-municipal status of the project, therefore, is not to permanently favor either one class or the other, but to create swings_both up and down_in the annual charges assessed to the two classes, depending on the particular mix of the Commission's workload in any given year. The Commission welcomes comment on all of these matters. The Commission recognizes the possibility that the elimination of generation as a factor might have a significant impact on some licensees, and welcomes comment on it. The Commission also recognizes that the charges for minor licensees may increase substantially, but believes that the current charge of five cents per horsepower has been so heavily eroded by inflation since it was adopted in 1963 as to have been rendered comparatively meaningless. For instance, the table in Appendix A at the end of this NOPR shows the following illustrative examples of increases in annual charges for minor licensees from the 1993 charge to the charge that would result from the amendments described in the Alternative A regulatory text: ␣ 1Minor licensee 1Current method charge 1Proposed method charge, fourth year Town of Rollingsford $100 $1,697 City of Marshall 22 367 City of Lewiston 67 1,134 STS Hydropower Ltd. 75 1,279 John A. Dodson 5 100 In particular, the Commission welcomes comment on whether there are distinctions between municipal and non-municipal projects that would justify the current difference in their allocation formulae or whether the substantial increases in some licensees' annual charges that would result from eliminating this distinction are reason enough to retain the distinction. The Commission recognizes that, in the case of major construction projects, the license may be in effect for several years before project construction is commenced and before the project commences operation and goes into service. With respect to non-municipal licensees, annual charges are payable each year from the date of issuance of the license but there is no incoming stream of revenue during those years because no power is being generated. Municipal licensees, on the other hand, do obtain an exemption from annual charges prior to and during the construction period because, since they are not generating power during that period, they are not selling power for profit. This is because §11.6(g) of the regulations provides a complete exemption from certain annual charges when a municipal project is under construction and not generating power, on the theory that the project is operating without profit within the meaning of the municipal exemption in FPA section 10(e).
