FR940831-0-00004 FR940831-0-00003 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 2 RIN 3150&hyph;AE85 Summary Report on the Status of Petitions for Rulemaking; Frequency agency: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. action: Final rule. summary: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is amending its regulations to reduce the frequency of the summary report on the status of petitions for rulemaking, which is included in the NRC Regulatory Agenda , from quarterly to semiannually. This action is necessary because the NRC has reduced the publication of the NRC Regulatory Agenda from quarterly to semiannually as the status of rulemaking actions and petitions for rulemaking is not subject to frequent change. The final rule reduces the level of NRC staff effort, paperwork, and distribution costs. effective date: September 30, 1994. for further information contact: David L. Meyer, Chief, Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, Telephone (301) 415&hyph;7162 or Toll Free 800&hyph;368&hyph;5642. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On May 11, 1994 (59 FR 24371), the NRC published a notice of proposed rulemaking to amend 10 CFR 2.802(g) to reduce the frequency of the summary report on the status of petitions for rulemaking from quarterly to semiannually. This report, which was developed in response to a petition for rulemaking (PRM&hyph;2&hyph;4), appears as part of the NRC Regulatory Agenda . The NRC Regulatory Agenda is a compilation of all rules on which the NRC has recently completed action, has proposed action, or is considering action, and all petitions for rulemaking that have been received by the Commission and are pending disposition. The NRC prepares and submits an agenda of its rulemaking activity for inclusion in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations , which is updated semiannually and published in the Federal Register . The NRC meets the public information requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 602) and Executive Order 12866 through its participation in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations . The Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations contains the same information concerning NRC rulemaking activity that is published in the NRC Regulatory Agenda . Public Comment The comment period for the proposed amendment closed June 10, 1994. The NRC received two public comments on the proposed action. Both commenters indicated their support for the reduction in the administrative burden and publication costs that would result from the reduced frequency of publication. The commenters also indicated that they would welcome the availability of the NRC Regulatory Agenda through electronic access. One commenter expressed concern that the rule would be implemented before the NRC Regulatory Agenda is made available through electronic communications. The NRC staff is continuing to explore the most appropriate alternatives for making the NRC Regulatory Agenda available electronically. When the most appropriate vehicle is selected and implemented, the NRC will announce the electronic availability of the NRC Regulatory Agenda in the Federal Register . The NRC notes that, as is current practice, an interested person may obtain information concerning NRC rulemaking procedures or the status of any rule contained in the NRC Regulatory Agenda by contacting the Rules Review and Directives Branch, (301) 415&hyph;7158. Persons outside the Washington, DC, metropolitan area may call toll-free 800&hyph;368&hyph;5642. For further information on the substantive content of any rule listed in the agenda, a person may contact the individual listed under the ``Agency Contact'' heading for that rule. In addition, on June 8, 1994, the Federal Register became available on Internet in a multitiered subscription service. This electronic version captures the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations , which is published in the Federal Register . The Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations includes a section on the status of NRC's rulemakings. One commenter expressed opposition to the proposed rule if it would cause delays in the processing of new petitions received by the NRC. The NRC notes that the processing of petitions for rulemaking is in no way related to the frequency with which the NRC Regulatory Agenda is published. Therefore, the adoption of this rule would not cause any delays in processing new petitions received by the NRC. The Final Rule The content and the status of the rulemaking actions and petitions for rulemaking summarized in the NRC Regulatory Agenda do not change frequently enough to justify a quarterly publication. Therefore, the NRC will publish the NRC Regulatory Agenda in January and July of each year. Section 2.802(g), concerning the frequency of the status of petitions for rulemaking, is revised to reflect this change. The NRC will continue to publish an updated agenda of its rulemaking actions in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations each April and October. Environmental Impact: Categorical Exclusion The NRC has determined that this final rule is the type of action described in categorical exclusion 10 CFR 51.22(c)(1). Therefore, neither an environmental impact statement nor an environmental assessment has been prepared for this final rule. Paperwork Reduction Act Statement This final rule contains no information collection requirements and therefore is not subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). Regulatory Analysis The NRC has not prepared a regulatory impact analysis for this final rule because it is an administrative action that would reduce the frequency of the summary report on the status of petitions for rulemaking, as included in the NRC Regulatory Agenda , from quarterly to semiannually. Regulatory Flexibility Certification As required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), the Commission certifies that this rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This is an administrative action that reduces the frequency of the summary report on the status of petitions for rulemaking, as included in the NRC Regulatory Agenda , from quarterly to semiannually. This action would have no economic impact on any NRC licensee, including small entities.
