FR940830-2-00046 FR940830-2-00022 Respect: Consideration and deference in the treatment of stakeholders. Responsiveness: Timely and empathetic consideration of and response to the needs, wants, and concerns of stakeholders. Scientific Credibility: Commitment to the pursuit of sound, dependable, leading edge science. Sincerity: Openness, frankness, and truthfulness in all stakeholder communications. Time/Timeliness: Adequate amount of time for stakeholders to participate in Department decision-making processes. Timely responses to stakeholder input and requests. Timely Departmental decision-making processes supported but not hindered or delayed by public participation. Accountability Senior departmental, program, and field managers are accountable for assuring that public participation activities meet the goals of this policy and the needs of stakeholders; are fully coordinated; and reflect Departmental principles and values. Managers are responsible for implementing plans that assure that public participation needs for their programs or projects are identified and satisfied in the decision-making process. Public Participation is a performance element for these managers. Guidance On Implementation of the Department's Public Participation Policy Public participation must be a fundamental component of the Department's program operations, planning activities, and decision-making. The business of the Department must be open to the full view and input of those whom it serves, consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and contracts. To ensure that we operate in this manner, the Department's Public Participation Policy was developed by a cross-cutting team that included field representatives. This policy marks a clear break with past practice by challenging the Department and its contractors to perform to a new standard of openness and service. Witin this policy framework, each site will develop its own public participation program and plan in consultation with stakeholders and with the concurrence of appropriate Headquarters program offices. In achieving the goals of public participation, managers are responsible for: •identifying, planning, funding, supporting, and implementing the appropriate level and scope of public participation activities in their programs; •ensuring that public participation principles, values, and processes are fully understood and practiced within their programs and at their sites; •providing necessary human, information, systems, and financial resources; and, •ensuring that their staff receive basic communication and public participation training, and where appropriate, advanced public participation training. To promote teamwork, share the benefits of experience and innovation at individual sites, and avoid unreasonable demands on site personnel or stakeholders, program and staff offices will coordinate public participation activities through the Office of Public and Consumer Affairs at Headquarters or with its counterpart in the field. This coordination in no way limits or dilutes field managers' authority to implement effective public participation programs or program managers' responsibility to plan, fund, and support appropriate levels of public participation in their programs. The effectiveness with which each site/program implements the Department's Public Participation Policy will be assessed annually, and these assessments must include the views and recommendations of stakeholders. Stakeholders will also be invited to participate in the processes used to develop critieria and measures for judging effectiveness. The Director of Public and Consumer Affairs will evaluate these annual assessments and recommend changes to improve the effectiveness of the Department's public participation efforts. While public participation processes must be tailored to meet specific site, program, and stakeholder needs, the following broad guidance provides a framework to assist management in implementing this policy Department-wide. Using the following critical policy elements and implementing actions as a guide, Headquarters and Field Elements should consult with stakeholders to develop appropriate public participation programs and activities. Critical Policy Elements I The Department recognizes that honesty and forthrightness in dealing with stakeholders, and consistent, credible, quality performance are the bases upon which to build public understanding and trust. Implementing Actions: •Department officials will be open, honest, and accurate in their public statements and accountable for diligent follow-up and timely results from the commitment they make. •Department officials will engage in an open and on-going communication process and consistently listen and respond to suggestions made by the public. The Department will incorporate public input into its decisions where appropriate and feasible and will provide feedback to the public on its reasoning. •Department officials will recognize and reward leadership and results in the area of public participation. II Departmental program development, planning, and decision-making processes will be clearly defined, with regular, easily identified access points for public input. Implementing actions: •Senior management will ensure that Department personnel, other Federal, State, and local officials, Tribes, and other stakeholders are appropriately integrated into their planning activities and decision-making processes.
