FR940419-2-00145 FR940419-2-00086 IHAs may contact Dominic A. Nessi, Director, Office of Native American Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., room 4140, Washington, DC 20410. Telephone (202) 708&hyph;1015. (This is not a toll free number). Hearing or speech impaired individuals may call HUD's TDD number (202) 708&hyph;0850. (This is not a toll-free number.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Purpose and Substantive Description (a) Authority Sec. 14, United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 14371); sec. 7(d) Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(d)). An interim rule revising the CIAP regulation, 24 CFR part 968, subparts A and B, for PHAs and 24 CFR part 905, subpart I, for IHAs, and streamlining the program was published on March 15, 1993. A final rule will be published shortly. (b) Major Changes In FY 1993, the CIAP was streamlined to make it easier for smaller HAs to participate in the program and to give smaller HAs the same flexibility as CGP agencies. The CIAP Application was simplified, the processing groups were reduced to two (Group 1 and Group 2), and the modernization types were reduced to two (Emergency and Other). Under the modernization type of ``Other'', the HA may apply for, and HUD may fund, a variety of needs, ranging from a single physical or management work item to complete rehabilitation. (c) Program Highlights (1) Departmental Priority Improving Public and Indian Housing is one of the Department's major priorities. Accordingly, a review is being made of the entire Public and Indian Housing Program. Specifically, the Department is very concerned about several aspects of the Modernization Program. (i) Design. When identifying physical improvement needs to meet the modernization standards, HAs are encouraged to consider design which supports the integration of public housing into the broader community. Although high priority needs, such as those related to health and safety, vacant/substandard units, structural or system integrity, and compliance with statutory, regulatory or court-ordered deadlines, will receive funding priority, HAs should plan their modernization in a way which promotes good design, but maintains the modest nature of public housing. The HA should pay particular attention to design and be receptive to creative, but cost-effective approaches suggested by architects, residents, HA staff, and other local entities. Such approaches can complement the planning for basic rehabilitation needs. It should be noted that there will be no increase in operating subsidy due to items added (for example, additional landscaping) to promote the blend of public housing into the surrounding neighborhood. (ii) Expediting the program. HAs are reminded that they are expected to obligate all funds within two years and to expend all funds within three years of program approval (Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) Amendment execution) unless a longer project implementation schedule is approved by the Field Office. If the HA does not obligate approved funds in a timely manner, the Department will recapture the funds unless there are clear, valid reasons for not meeting the obligation deadline; i.e., delays which are outside of the HA's control. (iii) Resident involvement and economic uplift. HAs are encouraged to explore and implement through all feasible means the involvement of residents in all aspects of the CIAP, from planning through implementation. In addition, HAs are encouraged to seek ways to employ residents in all aspects of the CIAP's operation and/or to develop means to promote contracting opportunities for resident-owned businesses. PHAs should use Section 3 provisions to the maximum feasible extent. (iv) Elimination of vacant units. Although the Department has a vacancy reduction effort specifically aimed at reducing vacancies, HAs are encouraged to apply for CIAP funds to address eligible vacancy problems (i.e., those which do not involve routine maintenance) to the extent such problems have not been funded through other sources. (2) Relationship to Technical Review Factors The Departmental goal of improving Public and Indian Housing is reflected in the technical review factors, set forth in section IV(c)(5), on which the Field Office scores each HA's CIAP Application. Based on the HA's total score, the Field Office then ranks each HA to determine selection for Joint Review. The technical review factors include the following Departmental initiatives to improve Public and Indian Housing: (i) Restoration of vacant units to occupancy; (ii) Resident capacity-building, including opportunities for resident management; (iii) Economic development, job training and employment opportunities for residents; (iv) Drug elimination initiatives; and (v) Partnership with local government.
