FR940324-2-00164 FR940324-2-00091 Section B_Budget Categories Allowability of costs are governed by applicable cost principles set forth in 45 CFR parts 74 and 92. Columns (1) and (5): In OCS applications, it is only necessary to complete Columns (1) and (5). Columns 1: Enter the total requirements for OCS Federal funds by the Object Class Categories of this section: Personnel-Line 6A: Enter the total costs of salaries and wages of applicant/grantee staff only. Do not include costs of consultants or personnel costs of delegate agencies or of specific project(s) or businesses to be financed by the applicant. Fringe Benefits-Line 6b: Enter the total costs of fringe benefits unless treated as part of an approved indirect cost rate which is entered on line 6j. Provide a breakdown of amounts and percentages that comprise fringe benefit costs. Travel-Line 6c: Enter total costs of all travel by employees of the project. Do not enter costs for consultant's travel. Provide justification for requested travel costs. Equipment-Line 6d: Enter the total costs of all non-expendable personal property to be acquired by the project. ``Non-expendable personal property'' means tangible property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit. An applicant may use its own definition of non-expendable personal property, provided that such a definition would at least include all tangible personal property as defined in the preceding sentence. (See Line 21 for additional requirements). Supplies-Line 6e: Enter the total costs of all tangible personal property (supplies) other than that included on line 6d. Contractual-Line 6f: Enter the total costs of all contracts, including (1) procurement contracts (except those which belong on other lines such as equipment, supplies, etc.) and (2) contracts with secondary recipient organizations including delegate agencies and specific project(s) to be financed by the applicant. Other-Line 6h: Enter the total of all other costs. Such costs, where applicable, may include but are not limited to insurance, food medical and dental costs (non-contractual), fees and travel paid directly to individual consultants, space and equipment rentals, printing and publication, computer use, training costs, including tuition and stipends, training services costs including wage payments to individuals and supportive services payments, and staff development costs. Total Direct Charges-Line 6i: Show the total of Lines 6a through 6h. Indirect Charges-Lines 6j: Enter the total amount of indirect costs. This line should be used only when the applicant currently has an indirect cost rate approved by the Department of Health and Human Services or another Federal agency or is awaiting such approval. With the exception of state and local governments, applicants should enclose a copy of the current rate agreement. If the applicant organization is in the process of initially developing or renegotiating a rate, it should immediately, upon notification that an award will be made, develop a tentative indirect cost rate proposal based on its most recently completed fiscal year in accordance with the principles set forth in the pertinent DHHS Guide for Establishing Indirect Cost Rates, and submit it to the appropriate DHHS Regional Office. It should be noted that when an indirect cost rate is requested, those costs included in the indirect cost pool should not be also charged as direct costs to the grant. Totals_Line 6k: Enter the total amounts of Lines 6i and 6j. The total amount should be shown in Section B, Column 1: Carry totals from Column 1 to Column 5 for all line items.
