FR940725-2-00052 FR940725-2-00036 Program Announcement for Grant Programs Funded Under Title VIII of the Public Health Service Act for Fiscal Year 1995 The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) announces that applications will be accepted for fiscal year (FY) 1995 Grants funded under the authority of title VIII of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by the Nurse Education and Practice Improvement Amendments of 1992, title II of Public Law 102- 408, Health Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992, dated October 13, 1992. These grant programs include Nursing Special Projects (section 820), Advanced Nurse Education Programs (section 821), Nurse Practitioner and Nurse-Midwifery Programs (section 822), Nursing Education Opportunities for Individuals from Disadvantaged Backgrounds (section 827), Professional Nurse Traineeships (section 830), and Grants for Nurse Anesthetists (section 831). This program announcement is subject to reauthorization of this legislative authority and to the appropriation of funds. The Administration's budget request for FY 1995 includes funding for each of these programs. Applicants are advised that this program announcement is a contingency action being taken to assure that should authority and funds become available for this purpose, awards can be made in a timely fashion consistent with the needs of the program as well as to provide for even distribution of funds throughout the fiscal year. Please see Table 1 for specific budget estimates for each of the grant programs. National Health Objectives for the Year 2000 The Public Health Service urges applicants to submit work plans that address specific objectives of Healthy People 2000. Potential applicants may obtain a copy of Healthy People 2000 (Full Report; Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00474&hyph;0) or Healthy People 2000 (Summary Report; Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;1) through the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402&hyph;9325 (Telephone 202&hyph;783&hyph;3238). Education and Service Linkage As part of its long-range planning, HRSA will be targeting its efforts to strengthening linkages between U.S. Public Health Service education programs and programs which provide comprehensive primary care services to the underserved. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Other Considerations In addition, funding factors may be applied in determining funding of approved applications. Please see specific information regarding each of the grant programs listed later in this notice. Definitions of three types of funding factors are listed below. A funding preference is defined as the funding of a specific category or group of approved applications ahead of other categories or groups of approved applications in a discretionary program, or favorable adjustment of the formula which determines the grant award in a formula grant program. A funding priority is defined as the favorable adjustment of aggregate review scores of individual approved applications when applications meet specified criteria in a discretionary program, or favorable adjustment of the formula which determines the grant award in a formula grant program. Special consideration is defined as the enhancement of priority scores by merit reviewers based on the extent to which applications address special areas of concern in a discretionary program, or favorable adjustment of the formula which determines the grant award in a formula grant program. It is not required that applicants request consideration for a funding factor. Applications which do not request consideration for funding factors will be reviewed and given full consideration for funding.
