FR940228-0-00024 FR940228-0-00002 (C) Oats not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 4 (grade U.S. sample grade) because of test weight or percentage of sound oats, or grading smutty, garlicky, or ergoty; (D) Rye not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 3 (grades U.S. No. 4 or worse) because of test weight, percent damaged kernels or thin rye, or grading smutty, garlicky, or ergoty; (E) Flaxseed not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 2 (grades U.S. sample grade) due to damaged kernels; or (ii) Substances or conditions are present, including mycotoxins, that are identified by the Food and Drug Administration or other public health organizations of the United States as being injurious to human or animal health. (3) Quality will be a factor in determining your loss only if: (i) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions resulted from a cause of loss against which insurance is provided under these crop provisions; (ii) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions result in a net price for the damaged grain that is less than the local market price of U.S. No. 2 production; (iii) All determinations of these deficiencies, substances, or conditions are made using samples of the production obtained by us or by a disinterested third party approved by us; and (iv) The samples are analyzed by a grain grader licensed under the authority of the United States Grain Standards Act or the United States Warehouse Act with regard to deficiencies in quality, or by a laboratory approved by us with regard to substances or conditions injurious to human or animal health. Test weight for quality adjustment purposes may be determined by one loss adjustor. (4) Production of small grains that is eligible for quality adjustment, as specified in paragraphs 11.(d) (2) and (3), will be reduced as follows: (i) The market price of the qualifying damaged production and the local market price will be the prices on the earlier of the date such quality adjusted production is sold or the date of final inspection for the unit. The price for the qualifying damaged production will be the market price for the local area to the extent feasible. Discounts used to establish the net price of the damaged production will be limited to those which are usual, customary, and reasonable. Any reduction in price due to the following factors will not be accepted: (A) Moisture content; (B) Damage due to uninsured causes; or (C) Drying, handling, processing, or any other costs associated with normal harvesting, handling, and marketing of the grain; except, if the price of the damaged production can be increased by conditioning, we may reduce the price of the production after it has been conditioned by the cost of conditioning but not lower than the value of the production before conditioning. We may obtain prices from any buyer of our choice. If we obtain prices from one or more buyers located outside your local market area, we will reduce such prices by the additional costs required to deliver the production to those buyers. (ii) The value of the damaged or conditioned production will be divided by the local market price to determine the quality adjustment factor. (iii) The number of bushels remaining after any reduction due to excessive moisture (the moisture-adjusted gross bushels (if appropriate)) of the damaged or conditioned production will then be multiplied by the quality adjustment factor to determine the net production to count. (e) Any production harvested from plants growing in the insured crop may be counted as production of the insured crop on a weight basis. 12. Late Planting and Prevented Planting (a) In lieu of paragraph 8.(b)(2) and subsection 1.(aa) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), insurance will be provided for acreage planted to the insured crop during the late planting period (see subsection (c)), and acreage you were prevented from planting (see subsection (d)). These coverages provide reduced production guarantees. The reduced guarantees will be combined with the production guarantee for timely planted acreage for each unit. The premium amount for late planted acreage and eligible prevented planting acreage will be the same as that for timely planting acreage. If the amount of premium you are required to pay (gross premium less our subsidy) for late planting acreage or prevented planting acreage exceeds the liability on such acreage, coverage for those acres will not be provided (no premium will be due and no indemnity will be paid for such acreage). For example, assume you insure one unit in which you have a 100 percent share. The unit consists of 150 acres, of which 50 acres were planted timely, 50 acres were planted 7 days after the final planting date (late planted), and 50 acres are unplanted and eligible for prevented planting coverage. To calculate the amount of any indemnity which may be due to you, the production guarantee for the unit will be computed as follows: (1) For timely planted acreage, multiply the per acre production guarantee for timely planted acreage by the 50 acres planted timely; (2) For late planted acreage, multiply the per acre production guarantee for timely planted acreage by 93 percent (0.93) and multiply the result by the 50 acres planted late; and (3) For prevented planting acreage, multiply the per acre production guarantee for timely planted acreage by 50 percent (0.50) and multiply the result by the 50 acres eligible for prevented planting coverage. The total of the three calculations will be the production guarantee for the unit. Your premium will be based on the result of multiplying the per acre production guarantee for timely planted acreage by the 150 acres in the unit.
