FR940926-1-00032 FR940926-1-00011 •refrigerated transport; •retail food refrigeration; •vending machines; •water coolers; •commercial ice machines; •household refrigerators; •household freezers; •residential dehumidifiers; •motor vehicle air conditioning; •residential air conditioning and heat pumps; •non-mechanical heat transfer; and •very low temperature refrigeration. In addition, each end-use is divided into retrofit and new equipment applications. EPA has not necessarily reviewed substitutes in every end-use for this NPRM. EPA has modified the list of end-uses for this sector for this SNAP update. First, EPA has changed the name of the heat transfer end-use to non-mechanical heat transfer. This change is intended to avoid confusion between systems that move heat from a cool area to a warm one (mechanical refrigeration) and systems that simply aid the movement of heat away from warm areas (non-mechanical heat transfer). The second change is that EPA added a new end-use, very low temperature refrigeration. Substitutes for this end-use have been reviewed since the final rule, and therefore have been added for this SNAP update. Finally, EPA has also reviewed substitutes for CFC&hyph;13, R&hyph;13B1, and R&hyph;503 industrial process refrigeration. Please refer to the final SNAP rule (59 FR 13044) for a detailed description of end-uses other than these three. EPA may continue to add other end-uses in future SNAP updates. a. Non-mechanical Heat Transfer. As discussed above, this end-use includes all cooling systems that rely on a fluid to remove heat from a heat source to a cooler area, rather than relying on mechanical refrigeration to move heat from a cool area to a warm one. Generally, there are two types of systems: systems with fluid pumps, referred to as recirculating coolers, and those that rely on natural convection currents, known as thermosyphons. b. Very Low Temperature Refrigeration. Medical freezers, freeze-dryers, and other small appliances require extremely reliable refrigeration cycles. These systems must meet stringent technical standards that do not normally apply to refrigeration systems. They usually have very small charges. Because they operate at very high vapor pressures, and because performance is critically affected by any charge loss, standard maintenance for these systems tends to reduce leakage to a level considerably below that for other types of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment. c. CFC&hyph;13, R&hyph;13B1, and R&hyph;503 Industrial Process Refrigeration. This end-use differs from other types of industrial refrigeration only in the extremely low temperature regimes that are required. Although some substitutes may work in both these extremely low temperatures and in systems designed to use R&hyph;502, they are acceptable only for this end-use because of global warming and atmospheric lifetime concerns. These concerns are discussed more fully below. 2. Substitutes for Refrigerants Substitutes fall into eight broad categories. Seven of these categories are chemical substitutes used in the same vapor compression cycle as the ozone-depleting substances being replaced. They include hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), hydrocarbons, refrigerant blends, ammonia, perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and chlorine systems. The eighth category includes alternative technologies that generally do not rely on vapor compression cycles. Please refer to the final SNAP rule (59 FR 13044) for more discussion of these broad categories. a. Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions. (1) CFC&hyph;12 Automobile and Non-automobile Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners, Retrofit and New. EPA is concerned that the existence of several substitutes in this end-use may increase the likelihood of significant refrigerant cross-contamination and potential failure of both air conditioning systems and recovery/recycling equipment. In addition, a smooth transition to the use of substitutes strongly depends on the continued purity of the recycled CFC&hyph;12 supply. In order to prevent cross-contamination and preserve the purity of recycled refrigerants, EPA is proposing several conditions on the use of all motor vehicle air conditioning refrigerants. For the purposes of this rule, no distinction is made between ``retrofit'' and ``drop-in'' refrigerants; retrofitting a car to use a new refrigerant includes all procedures that result in the air conditioning system using a new refrigerant. In particular, when retrofitting a CFC&hyph;12 system to use any substitute refrigerant, the following conditions must be met: •Each refrigerant may only be used with a set of fittings that is unique to that refrigerant. These fittings (male or female, as appropriate) must be used with all containers of the refrigerant, on can taps, on recovery, recycling, and charging equipment, and on all air conditioning system service ports. These fittings must be designed to mechanically prevent cross-charging with another refrigerant. A refrigerant may only be used with the fittings and can taps specifically intended for that refrigerant. Using an adapter or deliberately modifying a fitting to use a different refrigerant will be a violation of this use condition. In addition, fittings shall meet the following criteria, derived from Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) standards and recommended practices: _When existing CFC&hyph;12 service ports are to be retrofitted, conversion assemblies shall attach to the CFC&hyph;12 fitting with a thread lock adhesive and/or a separate mechanical latching mechanism in a manner that permanently prevents the assembly from being removed. _All conversion assemblies and new service ports must satisfy the vibration testing requirements of sections 3.2.1 or 3.2.2 of SAE J1660, as applicable, excluding references to SAE J639 and SAE J2064, which are specific to HFC&hyph;134a. _In order to prevent discharge of refrigerant to the atmosphere, systems shall have a device to limit compressor operation before the pressure relief device will vent refrigerant. This requirement is waived for systems that do not feature such a pressure relief device. _All CFC&hyph;12 service ports shall be retrofitted with conversion assemblies or shall be rendered permanently incompatible for use with CFC&hyph;12 related service equipment by fitting with a device attached with a thread lock adhesive and/or a separate mechanical latching mechanism in a manner that prevents the device from being removed. •When a retrofit is performed, a label must be used as follows: _The person conducting the retrofit must apply a label to the air conditioning system in the engine compartment that contains the following information: *_the name and address of the technician and the company performing the retrofit *_the date of the retrofit *_the trade name, charge amount, and, when applicable, the ASHRAE refrigerant numerical designation of the refrigerant *_the type, manufacturer, and amount of lubricant used *_if the refrigerant is or contains an ozone-depleting substance, the statement ``This refrigerant contains an ozone-depleting substance and it is therefore subject to the venting prohibition, recycling, and other provisions of regulations issued under section 609 of the Clean Air Act.'' *_if the refrigerant is not or does not contain any ozone-depleting substances, the statement ``This refrigerant does not deplete stratospheric ozone, and as of November 15, 1995, at the latest, it is subject to the venting prohibition, recycling, and other provisions of regulations issued under section 609 of the Clean Air Act.'' *_if the refrigerant displays flammability limits as measured according to ASTM E681, the statement ``This refrigerant is FLAMMABLE. Take appropriate precautions.''
