FR940127-1-00099 FR940127-1-00019 (b) Nothing in this part shall be construed as: Affecting, modifying or increasing the responsibility of the United States toward ANCSA corporation forest land, or affecting or otherwise modifying the Federal trust responsibility towards Indian forest land; or requiring or otherwise mandating an ANCSA corporation to apply for a contract, grant, or agreement for technical assistance with the Secretary. Such applications are strictly voluntary. §163.61 Evaluation committee. (a) The Secretary shall establish an evaluation committee to assess and rate technical assistance project proposals. This committee will include, at a minimum, local Bureau of Indian Affairs and Alaska Native representatives with expertise in contracting and forestry. §163.62 Annual funding needs assessment and rating. (a) Each year, the Secretary will request a technical assistance project needs assessment from ANCSA corporations. The needs assessments will provide information on proposed project goals and estimated costs and benefits and will be rated by the evaluation committee established pursuant to §163.61 for the purpose of making funding recommendations to the Secretary. To the extent practicable, such recommendations shall achieve an equitable funding distribution between large and small ANCSA corporations and shall give priority for continuation of previously approved multi-year projects. (b) Based on the recommendations of the evaluation committee, the Secretary shall fund such projects, to the extent available appropriations permit. §163.63 Contract, grant, or agreement application and award process. (a) At such time that the budget for ANCSA corporation technical assistance projects is known, the Secretary shall advise the ANCSA corporations on which projects were selected for funding and on the deadline for submission of complete and detailed contract, grant or agreement packages. (b) Upon the request of an ANCSA corporation and to the extent that funds and personnel are available, the Bureau of Indian Affairs shall provide technical assistance to ANCSA corporations to assist them with: (1) Preparing the technical parts of the contract, grant, or agreement application; and (2) Obtaining technical assistance from other Federal agencies. Subpart E_Cooperative Agreements §163.70 Purpose of agreements. (a) To facilitate administration of the programs and activities of the Department of the Interior, the Secretary is authorized to negotiate and enter into cooperative agreements between Indian tribes and any agency or entity within the Department. Such cooperative agreements include engaging tribes to undertake services and activities on all lands managed by Department of the Interior agencies or entities or to provide services and activities performed by these agencies or entities on Indian forest land to: (1) Engage in cooperative manpower and job training and development programs; (2) Develop and publish, cooperative environmental education and natural resource planning materials; and (3) Perform land and facility improvements, including forestry and other natural resources protection, fire protection, reforestation, timber stand improvement, debris removal, and other activities related to land and natural resource management. (b) The Secretary may enter into such agreements when he or she determines the public interest will be benefitted. Nothing in §163.70(a) shall be construed to limit the authority of the Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements otherwise authorized by law. §163.71 Agreement funding. In cooperative agreements, the Secretary is authorized to advance or reimburse funds to contractors from any appropriated funds available for similar kinds of work or by furnishing or sharing materials, supplies, facilities or equipment without regard to the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3324, relating to the advance of public moneys. §163.72 Supervisory relationship. In any agreement authorized by the Secretary, Indian tribes and their employees may perform cooperative work under the supervision of the Department of the Interior in emergencies or otherwise, as mutually agreed to, but shall not be deemed to be Federal employees other than for purposes of 28 U.S.C. 2671 through 2680, and 5 U.S.C. 8101 through 8193. Subpart F_Program Assessment §163.80 Periodic assessment report. The Secretary shall commission every ten years an independent assessment of Indian forest land and Indian forest land management practices under the guidelines established in §163.81. (a) The initial assessment shall, subject to the availability of appropriations, be completed no later than November 28, 1993. Subsequent assessments shall be conducted in the first year of each decade (e.g., 2000, 2010, etc.) and shall be completed within 24 months of their initiation date. Each assessment shall be initiated no later than November 28 of the designated year. (b) Except as provided in §163.83, each assessment shall be conducted by a non-Federal entity knowledgeable of forest management practices on Federal and private land. Assessments will evaluate and compare investment in and management of Indian forest land with similar Federal and private land. (c) Completed assessment reports shall be submitted to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the United States Senate and shall be made available to Indian tribes. §163.81 Assessment guidelines.
