FR941227-1-00002 FR941227-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 29 [Docket No. 94&hyph;ASW&hyph;3; Notice No. SC&hyph;94&hyph;3&hyph;SW] Special Condition: Bell Helicopter Textron Model 222U Helicopter, Electronic Flight Instrument System AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed special condition. SUMMARY: This notice proposes a special condition for the Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc., Model 222U helicopter modified by Heli-Dyne Systems, Inc. This helicopter will have a novel or unusual design feature associated with the Electronic Flight Instrument System. The applicable airworthiness regulations do not contain adequate safety standards for the protection of these critical function systems from the effects of external high intensity radiated fields (HIRF). This notice contains the additional safety standards that the Administrator considers necessary to establish a level of safety equivalent to that established by the airworthiness standards of part 29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations. DATES: Comments must be received on or before January 26, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments on this proposal may be mailed in duplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attn: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;ASW&hyph;3, Fort Worth, Texas 76193&hyph;0007, or delivered in duplicate to the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 2601 Meacham Blvd., Fort Worth, Texas. Comments must be marked Docket No. 94&hyph;ASW&hyph;3. Comments may be inspected in the Rules Docket weekdays, except Federal holidays, between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m.. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Robert McCallister, FAA, Rotorcraft Directorate, Policy and Procedures Group, Fort Worth, Texas 76193&hyph;0112; telephone (817) 222&hyph;5121. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of this proposed special condition by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the regulatory docket number and be submitted in duplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on this proposal. The special condition proposed in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments received will be available in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerning this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Persons wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 94&hyph;ASW&hyph;3.'' The postcard will be date and time stamped and returned to the commenter.
