FR941206-1-00068 FR941206-1-00007 1. The format must accommodate multiple compliance techniques for the various industry segments; 2. Given the large number of small businesses in this source category, the format must ensure that the cost of compliance is not excessive; 3. The format must ensure that an equivalent level of control is achieved by all affected sources; and 4. The format must facilitate enforcement by regulatory agencies. During the negotiation meetings, the Committee considered several formats for the finishing operations standards in addition to the selected format of pounds of VHAP emitted per pound of solids used. These included: (1) a percent efficiency format, (2) a limit on emissions of HAP per gallon of coating, and (3) a limit on emissions of HAP per gallon of solids. For all HAP-limit formats, including the one selected for the proposed standards, the quantity of HAP used annually is calculated as applied (the total emissions from a coating after any thinning by the furniture manufacturer). Therefore, if prepurchased coatings were diluted with thinner at a facility, this dilution was accounted for. A Measurement Work Group comprised of some of the Committee members was established by the Committee to investigate these potential regulatory formats. The Measurement Work Group determined that a percent reduction format was not appropriate for this source category. In debating a percent reduction format, the Measurement Work Group considered the fact that conventional control devices were not likely to be the compliance method of choice for this source category. Therefore, a straightforward measurement of capture and control device efficiency would not be sufficient to demonstrate compliance with a specific percent reduction. Instead, to implement a percent reduction format, baseline conditions at each affected source would have to be assessed. At an uncontrolled facility this would not be a problem; baseline conditions would be the current HAP emission rate. The percent reduction would be applied to this uncontrolled rate to calculate the controlled HAP emission rate required by the standards. Problems with the percent reduction format arise, however, if a facility has implemented control strategies prior to proposal of the MACT standards. If the same baseline year is selected for both the uncontrolled and controlled facility, the controlled facility would be required to control a greater quantity of HAP emissions than the uncontrolled facility. Thus, a percent reduction format was perceived as penalizing sources that initiated control strategies prior to proposal of the MACT standards. The Committee agreed with the Measurement Work Group's recommendation that a percent reduction format not be selected for this source category. Initially, the Measurement Work Group considered a limit on the pounds of HAP contained in a gallon of finishing material (lb HAP/gal), either for each finishing material or as an average across all finishing materials. In analyzing the data, however, the Measurement Work Group discovered that the pounds of HAP per gallon of finishing material format would not credit sources that switch to lower-emitting, higher-solids finishing materials. For example, a facility using a finishing material with a solids content of 40 percent and a HAP content of 3 lb/gal will emit fewer pounds of HAP than a facility using a finishing material with a solids content of 20 percent and a HAP content of 2 lb/gal because the first facility will use 50 percent less finishing material than the second. Because the HAP content of a finishing material is not directly related to the solids content, a comparison of the emission potential of two finishing materials using a lb/gal format cannot be made. As an alternative to the lb HAP/gal format, the Measurement Work Group considered a format of lb HAP/gal of solids. It was believed that this format would adequately credit sources that converted some or all of their conventional finishing materials to higher-solids coatings. A problem with the lb HAP/gal solids format, however, is that no EPA test method is currently available for accurately measuring the volume of solids in a finishing material.
