FR940228-0-00002 FR940228-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 7 CFR Part 319 [Docket No. 93&hyph;095&hyph;2] Importation of Apples, Apricots, Peaches, Persimmons, Pomegranates, and Citrus From Sonora AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the Fruits and Vegetables regulations by adding San Luis Rio Colorado to the list of definite areas in Sonora, Mexico, determined to be free from certain injurious insect pests and from which apples, apricots, grapefruit, oranges, peaches, persimmons, pomegranates, and tangerines may be imported without treatment for these pests. We have determined that this municipality is free from certain injurious insect pests known to occur in Mexico and known to attack these fruits. This action allows the importation of these fruits into the United States from San Luis Rio Colorado, in accordance with the regulations. We also are making other nonsubstantive changes for clarity. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Peter M. Grosser, Senior Operations Officer, Port Operations Staff, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 632, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;6799. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 7 CFR 319.56 through 319.56&hyph;8 (referred to below as the regulations) restrict the importation of fruits and vegetables to prevent the introduction and dissemination of certain injurious insects, including fruit and melon flies, that are new to or not widely distributed within and throughout the United States. Paragraphs (e) and (f) of ยง319.56&hyph;2 contain requirements for the importation of certain fruits and vegetables based on their origin in a definite area or district. The definite area or district must meet certain criteria, including criteria designed to ensure that the area or district is free from all or certain injurious insects. Paragraph (h) of ยง319.56&hyph;2 lists municipalities in Sonora, Mexico, that are considered free of five listed insect pests: Ceratitis capitata, Anastrepha ludens, A. serpentina, A. obliqua, and A. fraterculus. Apples, apricots, grapefruit, oranges, peaches, persimmons, pomegranates, and tangerines from municipalities in Sonora, Mexico, listed in paragraph (h) may be imported into the United States without treatment for these five insect pests. In a document published in the Federal Register on August 25, 1993 (58 FR 44779&hyph;44780, Docket No. 93&hyph;095&hyph;1), we proposed to add San Luis Rio Colorado to the list of municipalities in Sonora, Mexico, determined to be free from the five listed insect pests and from which apples, apricots, grapefruit, oranges, peaches, persimmons, pomegranates, and tangerines may be imported into the United States without treatment for these pests. We have determined that San Luis Rio Colorado meets all the criteria contained in ยง319.56&hyph;2 (e)(4) and (f). We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 30-day comment period ending September 24, 1993. We received one comment by that date from a State agency. The commenter expressed concern regarding Mexican Government enforcement efforts to prevent the introduction of fruit flies into San Luis Rio Colorado and requested any pertinent information that we used in formulating the proposed rule. We have since responded to the commenter and have provided him with the pest risk assessment we used in adding San Luis Rio Colorado to the list of Sonoran municipalities considered to be free of fruit flies. As indicated in the pest risk assessment, the Mexican Government performs fruit fly trapping surveys adequate to detect any fruit fly infestation in San Luis Rio Colorado. The Mexican Government also maintains roadside inspection stations to prevent the introduction of fruit flies through incoming produce. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule and in this document, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule without change. Effective Date This is a substantive rule that relieves restrictions and, pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, may be made effective less than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . Immediate implementation of this rule is necessary to provide relief to those persons who are adversely affected by restrictions we no longer find warranted. Making this rule effective immediately will allow interested producers and others in the marketing chain to benefit from this additional source of fruit. Therefore, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this rule should be effective upon publication in the Federal Register .
