FR940516-1-00087 FR940516-1-00006 •Inclusion of all farm and construction engines, state regulation of which is preempted under the CAA, •Development of an engine manufacturer's program to evaluate in-use emission deterioration, •Requirement that if catalysts are used in an engine family, catalyst durability must be confirmed by means of the evaluation procedure that is specified in this notice, •Defect reporting and voluntary recall, •Importation provisions, •General prohibitions and enforcement provisions, and •Production line Selective Enforcement Auditing (SEA). Certain elements of EPA's on-highway program are not being proposed for this Phase I rule including: •No certification requirement for engine durability demonstration, •No performance warranty, •No averaging, banking, and trading program, and •No useful life determination and no in-use enforcement. B. General Enforcement Provisions EPA, as authorized in the CAA, would enforce nonroad standards in a manner similar to on-highway standards. Section 213(d) of the Act provides that the standards promulgated under 213 ``shall be subject to sections (206, 207, 208, and 209), with such modifications of the applicable regulations implementing such sections as the Administrator deems appropriate, and shall be enforced in the same manner as standards prescribed under section (202).'' Section 206 specifies requirements for motor vehicles and motor vehicle engine compliance testing and certification; section 207 requires manufacturers to warrant compliance by motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines in actual use; section 208 requires recordkeeping by manufacturers of new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines and authorizes EPA to collect information and require reports; and section 209 preempts states and political subdivisions from adopting or enforcing standards relating to emission control, certification, or inspection of new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines, unless specifically authorized to do so by EPA. Pursuant to this authority, EPA is proposing in today's action regulations that require manufacturers of new small SI engines to obtain certification and that subject them to Selective Enforcement Auditing. Any manufacturer of a new small SI engine would be responsible for obtaining from the Administrator a certificate of conformity covering any engine introduced into commerce in the United States. The Agency is also proposing certain prohibited acts and general enforcement provisions similar to those for on-highway vehicles under sections 203, 204, 205, and 208 of the CAA. Section 203 specifies prohibited acts; section 204 provides for federal court injunctions of violations of section 203(a); section 205 provides for assessment of civil penalties for violations of section 203; and section 208 provides the Agency with information collection authority. The general enforcement language of section 213(d) provides the Agency's authority for applying section 203, 204, 205, and 208 of the CAA to new small SI engines and equipment. As applied to nonroad engines, vehicles and equipment under section 213(d), Phase 1 prohibited acts would include, but would not be limited to: •An engine manufacturer's introduction into commerce of new small SI engines that are not covered by a certificate of conformity issued by EPA, •The introduction into commerce of new small SI equipment and vehicles which do not incorporate the appropriate nonhandheld or handheld certified nonroad engine, •Tampering with emission control devices or elements of design installed on or in a small SI engine, and •Failure to provide information to the Agency if requested. EPA is also proposing regulations, under the authority of section 205 of the Act, which set forth the maximum statutory penalties for violating the prohibitions. EPA is proposing general information collection provisions similar to current on-highway provisions under section 208 of the Act which would include, but would not be limited to, the manufacturer's responsibility to provide information to EPA, perform testing if requested by EPA, and maintain records. In addition, EPA is proposing emission system defect reporting regulations which require manufacturers to report to EPA emission system-related defects that affect a given class or category of engines. EPA enforcement personnel would be authorized to gain entry and access to various facilities under section 208 and today's action proposes these entry and access provisions.
