FR940428-2-00104 FR940428-2-00052 3. The proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes do not change the type or increase the amount of effluents released offsite. No change in the methodology used to control radioactive waste or radiological environmental monitoring is proposed. Control of radioactive effluents and effluent monitor setpoints will be based on current dose to the public limitations. Under the proposed change, high radiation area measurements are more conservative and will not result in an increase in individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposures. Compliance with the limits of the revised 10 CFR 20.1301 will be demonstrated by operating within the limits of 10 CFR 50, Appendix I and 40 CFR 190. Therefore, these changes do not reduce the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: University of Texas at Arlington Library, Government Publications/Maps, 701 South Cooper, P.O. Box 19497, Arlington, Texas 76019. Attorney for Licensee: George L. Edgar, Esq., Newman and Holtzinger, 1615 L Street NW., suite 1000, Washington, DC 20036. NRC Project Director: Suzanne C. Black. TU Electric Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;445 and 50&hyph;446, Comanche Peak Steam Electric Station, Units 1 and 2, Somervell County, Texas Date of Amendment Request: February 14, 1994. Brief Description of Amendments: The proposed amendment would revise the Comanche Peak Steam Electric Station Units 1 and 2 technical specifications by reducing the frequency of reports for radiological effluents from semiannual to annual, and change the due date from within 60 days after January 1 and July 1 to prior to May 1. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of a previously evaluated accident. The proposed amendment does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The amendment involves only changes of reporting frequency and due date requirements for radiological effluent release reporting. These changes are administrative in nature and do not affect safe operation of the plant; therefore, accident probabilities or consequences are unaffected. 2. The proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed amendment does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed amendment is administrative in nature and does not involve any changes to plant design of configuration. For this reason, it will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident. 3. The proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The proposed amendment only changes the reporting frequency and due date requirements for radiological effluent release reporting. The reporting requirements for radiological effluent releases are administrative changes: therefore, there is not a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: University of Texas at Arlington Library, Government Publications/Maps, 701 South Cooper, P.O. Box 19497, Arlington, Texas 76019. Attorney for Licensee: George L. Edgar, Esq., Newman and Holtzinger, 1615 L Street NW., suite 1000, Washington, DC 20036. NRC Project Director: Suzanne C. Black.
