FR940217-1-00111 FR940217-1-00014 (1) Twelve months from the effective date of the limitation; or (2) A debarment or suspension under Executive Order 12549 or the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4. (d) If the institution or servicer requests removal of the limitation, the request must be in writing and show that the institution or servicer, as applicable, has corrected the violation or violations on which the limitation was based. (e) No later than 60 days after the Secretary receives the request, the Secretary responds to the institution or servicer_ (1) Granting its request; (2) Denying its request; or (3) Granting the request subject to other limitation or limitations. (f) If the Secretary denies the request or establishes other limitations, the Secretary grants the institution or servicer, upon the institution's or servicer's request, an opportunity to show cause why the participation or eligibility, as applicable, should be fully reinstated. (g) The institution's or servicer's request for an opportunity to show cause does not waive_ (1) The institution's right to participate in any or all Title IV, HEA programs if it complies with the continuing limitation or limitations pending the outcome of the opportunity to show cause; and (2) The servicer's right to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program, if the servicer complies with the continuing limitation pending the outcome of the opportunity to show cause. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094; E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 189), 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235)) 27. Section 668.111 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: §668.111 Scope and purpose. (a) This subpart establishes rules governing the appeal by an institution or third-party servicer from a final audit determination or a final program review determination arising from an audit or program review of the institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program or of the servicer's administration of any aspect of an institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program. (b) This subpart applies to any participating institution or third-party servicer that appeals a final audit determination or final program review determination. * * * * * 28. Section 668.112 is revised to read as follows: §668.112 Definitions. The following definitions apply to this subpart: (a) Final audit determination means the written notice of a determination issued by a designated department official based on an audit of_ (1) An institution's participation in any or all of the Title IV, HEA programs; or (2) A third-party servicer's administration of any aspect of an institution's participation in any or all of the Title IV, HEA programs. (b) Final program review determination means the written notice of a determination issued by a designated department official and resulting from a program compliance review of_ (1) An institution's participation in any or all of the Title IV, HEA programs; or (2) A third-party servicer's administration of any aspect of an institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 29. Section 668.113 is revised to read as follows: §668.113 Request for review. (a) An institution or third-party servicer seeking the Secretary's review of a final audit determination or a final program review determination shall file a written request for review with the designated department official. (b) The institution or servicer shall file its request for review and any records or materials admissible under the terms of §668.116 (e) and (f), no later than 45 days from the date that the institution or servicer receives the final audit determination or final program review determination. (c) The institution or servicer shall attach to the request for review a copy of the final audit determination or final program review determination, and shall_ (1) Identify the issues and facts in dispute; and (2) State the institution's or servicer's position, as applicable, together with the pertinent facts and reasons supporting that position. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 30. Section 668.114 is revised to read as follows: §668.114 Notification of hearing. (a) Upon receipt of an institution's or third-party servicer's request for review, the designated department official arranges for a hearing before a hearing official. (b) Within 30 days of the designated department official's receipt of an institution's or third-party servicer's request for review, the hearing official notifies the designated department official and the institution or, in the case of a third-party servicer, the servicer and each institution that contracts with the servicer of the schedule for the submission of briefs by both the designated department official and, as applicable, the institution or servicer. (c) The hearing official schedules the submission of briefs and of accompanying evidence admissible under the terms of §668.116 (e) and (f) to occur no later than 120 days from the date that the hearing official notifies the institution or servicer. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094)
