FR941205-0-00089 FR941205-0-00024 26. In light of the nature of this proceeding, the statutory instruction to amend, as necessary, §76.51, and the incorporation by reference of the issues in Docket 87&hyph;24, we conclude that the Notice amply alerted the public that potential amendments to that rule section could be made in the context of this specific proceeding. 12 The Commission explicitly sought public comment on what modifications to §76.51 would be necessary to fulfill the directive of Section 614(f), and we believe that specific market change proposals are a natural and logical outgrowth of the range of issues presented in the Notice and discussed in the comments filed in this proceeding. Accordingly, we are not persuaded by the petitioners that the Notice did not provide adequate notice to interested parties that specific amendments to §76.51 were likely to be considered in this proceeding. 12 Neither the APA nor the Commission's rules specifically required that the petitioners receive personal service of the particular market change proposals tendered in comments filed in this proceeding. Moreover, we observe that at least one petitioner, Outlet, notes that the filing of Triplett's submission was referenced in a public notice of comments received in this docket. However, we do not agree that the Commission was somehow obligated to indicate the nature of Triplett's comments, and the petitioners offer no support for that particular proposition. To the extent that Triplett incorporated by reference its previous request regarding Chillicothe, which was also noted in Docket 87&hyph;24, we do not believe that obviated the responsibility of interested parties to assess the nature of comments received in response to the general rulemaking issues specifically raised in the Notice. 27. We disagree with the petitioners' contentions that amendment of the Columbus market first required the issuance of an independent notice of proposed rulemaking. The fact that we said in the Notice that we may consider further revisions to §76.51 on an ad hoc basis did not preclude the Commission's taking specific action on particular modifications consistent with the guidance provided by the 1992 Cable Act where the record indicated that such changes were warranted. 13 13 We do not agree that the action taken with respect to a proposal to include Athens in the Atlanta market indicates that the Commission could only act in independent and separate rulemaking proceedings. The Georgia Public Television Commission (``GPTC''), licensee of noncommercial educational television station WGTV(TV), Athens, Georgia, sought to include Athens as a designated community in the Atlanta market essentially to increase the station's visibility and fund raising in the market. GPTC's proposal was not submitted in the instant proceeding directly or incorporated by reference, but rather in comments supporting the requested action in MM Docket 92&hyph;295, which specifically addressed the Rome proposal. Parties commenting on MM Docket 92&hyph;295 had no opportunity to comment upon the Athens proposal in the context of that proceeding. Moreover, GPTC's proposal differs significantly from the competition and carriage issues vis-á-vis commercial stations raised in either the instant proceeding or in MM Docket 92&hyph;295 (relating specifically to Rome). In light of the action taken in the Report and Order , the Commission appropriately terminated MM Docket 92&hyph;295, and invited GPTC to refile its proposal for consideration in an independent proceeding. 3. Selection of Signals . 28. Definition of Substantial Duplication. Section 614(b)(5) provides that a cable operator is not required to carry the signal of any local commercial television station that substantially duplicates the signal of another local commercial television station which is carried on its cable system, or to carry the signals of more than one local commercial television station affiliated with a particular broadcast network. 14 In the Report and Order, based on the legislative history of this section of the 1992 Cable Act, we decided that two stations ``substantially duplicate'' each other ``if they simultaneously broadcast identical programming for more than 50 percent of the broadcast week.'' For purposes of this definition, identical programming means the identical episode of the same program series. 15 14 Western Broadcasting Corporation of Puerto Rico, licensee of Station WOLE, Aguadilla, requests that the Commission reconsider its rules with respect to their application to WOLE, ``given the unique situation in Puerto Rico.'' We note that such a request is more appropriately made as a petition for special relief rather than as part of a general rulemaking proceeding. 15 We also consider programming to be duplicative where the stations involved are located in contiguous time zones and the hour of broadcast differs by one hour.
