FR940516-2-00161 FR940516-2-00097 3. Anti-Lobbying_ Persons (as defined at 15 CFR 28.105) are subject to the lobbying provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1352, ``Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions,'' and the lobbying section of the certification form prescribed above applies to applications/bids for grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for more than $100,000, and loans and loan guarantees for more than $150,000, or the single family maximum mortgage limit for affected programs, whichever is greater; and 4. Anti-Lobbying Disclosure_ Any applicant who has paid or will pay for lobbying using any funds must submit an SF-LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,'' as required under 15 CFR part 28, appendix B. Lower Tier Certifications_ Recipients shall require applicants/bidders for subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other lower tier covered transactions at any tier under the award to submit, if applicable, a completed Form CD&hyph;512, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying'' and disclosure form SF-LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.'' Form CD&hyph;512 is intended for the use of recipients and should not be transmitted to DOC. SF-LLL submitted by any tier recipient or subrecipient should be submitted to DOC in accordance with the instructions contained in the award document. Potential recipients may be required to submit an ``Identification-Application for Funding Assistance'' (Form CD&hyph;346), which is used to ascertain background information on key individuals associated with the potential recipient. All non-profit and for-profit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing, criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury, or other matters that significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. Applicants will also be subject to credit check reviews. A false statement on the application is grounds for denial or termination of funds and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. Applications under this program are subject to Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.'' If an application is selected for funding, DOC has no obligation to provide any additional funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion of DOC. If applicants incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal or written assurance that may have been received, there is no obligation on the part of DOC to cover preaward costs. Cooperative agreements awarded pursuant to pertinent statutes shall be in accordance with the Fisheries Research Plan (comprehensive program of fisheries research) in effect on the date of the award. Applicants are hereby notified that any equipment or products authorized to be purchased with funding provided under this program must be American-made to the maximum extent feasible in accordance with Public Law 103&hyph;121, sections 606(a) and (b). Classification This action has been determined to be ``not significant'' for purposes of E.O. 12866. Prior notice and an opportunity for public comment are not required by the Administrative Procedure Act or any other law for this notice concerning grants, benefits, and contracts. Therefore, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. This notice contains collections of information subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act, which have been approved by OMB under OMB control numbers 0348&hyph;0043 and 0605&hyph;0001. Dated: May 12, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11949 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 1:03 pm] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
