FR940527-1-00254 FR940527-1-00014 Table 2&hyph;1._ Recommended Update Factor for PPS Hospital Operating Payments, Fiscal Year 1994 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ Components of the Update Components applied to all hospitals: Fiscal year 1995 HCFA PPS market basket forecast a 3.7% Adjustment for difference between HCFA and ProPAC market baskets a 0.0 Correction for fiscal year 1993 forecast error ^1.1 Allowance for scientific and technological advances 0.3 Adjustment for productivity ^0.7 Adjustments for case-mix change (fiscal year 1994): Total DRG case-mix index change ^0.9 Real across-DRG case-mix change 0.7 Within-DRG case-complexity change 0.2 Net adjustment for case-mix change 0.0 s Additional adjustments to the standardized amounts: Adjustment for large urban areas b 0.0 Adjustment for other urban areas c 0.0 Adjustment for rural areas 3.1 d Total Update Factor Overall average 2.7 Large urban areas 2.2 Other urban areas 2.2 Rural areas 5.3 a Market basket forecast provided by the Health Care Financing Administration, Office of the Actuary, December 1993. The market basket forecast is subject to change as more current data becomes available. b Large urban areas = metropolitan areas with populations of one million or more. c Other urban areas = metropolitan areas with populations of less than one million. Adjustment for Scientific and Technological Advances_ The allowance for scientific and technological advances is a future-oriented policy target. It provides additional funds for hospitals to adopt quality-enhancing health care advances, even when they increase costs. To develop an informed judgment about the appropriate level of this allowance, ProPAC annually examines emerging, cost-increasing technologies and scientific developments. (See Appendix A for more information on the technologies contributing to the increase.) The Commission believes 0.3 percent is an appropriate level for the operating scientific and technological advances allowance for fiscal year 1995. Adjustment for Productivity Improvement_ The productivity adjustment is also a future-oriented policy target. The Commission believes it is reasonable to expect hospitals to achieve productivity improvements during fiscal year 1995 that are comparable to those achieved in other sectors of the economy. The recommended adjustment of ^0.7 percentage points is based on ProPAC's determination that hospital productivity should increase by 1.4 percent and that the savings from such productivity improvement should be shared equally by hospitals and the Medicare program. The Commission thinks it is appropriate for the costs of scientific and technological advances to be financed in part by expected productivity gains, to provide an incentive for hospitals to strive for productivity improvement as they adopt new technologies. (See Appendix A for more information on trends in hospital productivity.)
