FR940426-2-00049 FR940426-2-00035 Health Resources and Services Administration Special Projects of National Significance AGENCY: Health Resources and Services Administration, HHS. ACTION: Advance notice of application deadline date for special projects of national significance for fiscal year 1994. SUMMARY: The Health Resources and Services Administration's Bureau of Health Resources Development (BHRD) will provide funding for new grant applications during fiscal year 1994 to support innovative programs to advance knowledge and skills in the delivery of health and support services for people with HIV disease under the Special Projects of National Significance (SPNS) program. The SPNS program is designed to demonstrate and evaluate innovative and potentially replicable HIV service delivery models. A complete Notice of Availability of Funds (NOAF) will be published at a later date in the Federal Register giving a full description of specific funding categories and their program requirements. Proposals are being sought for HIV service delivery model projects that demonstrate and evaluate: [1] Comprehensive primary care service delivery systems for people with HIV within one of six distinct environments or settings, including people in managed care plans, people in capitated reimbursement systems, people in intermediate levels of care, people in rural areas, adolescents and young adults with symptomatic HIV disease, and women with HIV; [2] Coordinated delivery of HIV health and support services to specific mobile populations in the United States; [3] Reduction of cultural, linguistic, and/or organizational barriers to care in a geographically defined area targeting one of four specific populations (underserved populations, ethnic groups, substance abuse, discrimination); and, [4] Provider training and education models that develop, test, and evaluate strategies for increasing, improving or updating knowledge about HIV disease and its treatment for providers in three distinct provider groups. Applicants may also request additional funds which will be provided to one or more successful applicants to establish, either on site or by subcontract, evaluation and dissemination center(s) to work with all of the SPNS grantees funded under the HIV Service Delivery Models Categories [1] through [4]. The purpose of this announcement is to give advance notice to potential applicants of the amount of funding and the estimated application deadline date. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Potential applicants who wish to receive a grant application following the date of publication of the NOAF may contact the Grants Management Officer, Ms. Glenna Wilcom, Bureau of Health Resources Development, Health Resources and Services Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, room 7&hyph;15, Rockville, MD 20857, (301) 443&hyph;2280 FAX (301) 594&hyph;6096. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A Notice of Availability of Funds (NOAF) will be published in the Federal Register announcing program provisions, priorities, and evaluation criteria for this program. ␣ 1Program 1Application deadline 1Number of awards (est.) 1Funds available (est.) Special projects of national significance Approximately July 5, 1994 (45 days after publication of NOAF) 25 $9.7 million. Dated: April 20, 1994. John H. Kelso, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10020 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;P
