FR940926-1-00040 FR940926-1-00011 Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection_Proposed Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions: Total Flooding Agents 1Application 1Substitute 1Decision 1Conditions 1Comments Halon 1301 lTotal flooding agents C 3 F 8 lProposed acceptable where other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements: la. due to their physical or chemical properties, or b. where human exposure to the extinguishing agents may approach cardio sensitiza tion levels or result in other unacceptable health effects under normal operating conditions lUntil OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements, EPA proposes: For occupied areas from which personnel cannot be evacuated in one minute, use is permitted only up to concentrations not exceeding the cardiotoxicity NOAEL of 30. Although no LOAEL has been established for this product, standard OSHA requirements apply, i.e. for occupied areas from which personnel can be evacuated or egress can occur between 30 and 60 seconds, use is permitted up to a concentration not exceeding the LOAEL All personnel must be evacuated before concentration of C 3 F 8 exceeds 30% lDesign concentration must result in oxygen levels of at least 16%. The comparative design concentration based on cup burner values is approximately 8.8%. Users must observe the limitations on PFC acceptability by making reasonable efforts to undertake the following measures: (i) conduct an evaluation of foreseeable conditions of end use; (ii) determine that human exposure to the other alternative extinguishing agents may approach or result in cardiosensitization or other unacceptable toxicity effects under normal operating conditions; and (iii) determine that the physical or chemical properties or other technical constraints of the other available agents preclude their use; Documentation of such measures must be available for review upon request. The principal environmental characteristic of concern for PFCs is that they have high GWPs and long atmospheric lifetimes. Actual contributions to global warming depend upon the quantities of PFCs emitted. For additional guidance regarding applications in which PFCs may be appropriate, users should consult the description of potential uses which is included in the March 18, 1994 Rulemaking (59 FR 13043). See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ CF 3 I Proposed acceptable in normally unoccupied areas EPA proposes that any employee who could possibly be in the area must be able to escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge Manufacturer has not applied for listing for use in normally occupied areas. Preliminary cardio sensi tiza tion data indicates that this agent would not be suitable for use in normally occupied areas. EPA is awaiting results of ODP calculations. See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ Gelled halocarbon/dry chemical suspension Proposed acceptable in normally unoccupied areas EPA proposes that any employee who could possibly be in the area must be able to escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge The manufacturer's SNAP application requested listing for use in unoccupied areas only. See additional comment 2. ␣ Inert gas/powdered aerosol blend Proposed acceptable as a Halon 1301 substitute in normally unoccupied areas In areas where personnel could possibly be present, as in a cargo area, EPA proposes that the employer shall provide a pre-discharge employee alarm capable of being perceived above ambient light or noise levels for alerting employees before system discharge. The pre-discharge alarm shall provide employees time to safely exit the discharge area prior to system discharge The manufacturer's SNAP application requested listing for use in unoccupied areas only. See additional comment 2. Additional Comments 1_Must conform with OSHA 29 CFR 1910 Subpart L Section 1910.160 of the U.S. Code. 2_Per OSHA requirements, protective gear (SCBA) must be available in the event personnel must enter/reenter the area. 3_Discharge testing should be strictly limited only to that which is essential to meet safety or performance requirements. 4_The agent should be recovered from the fire protection system in conjunction with testing or servicing, and recycled for later use or destroyed.
