FR940524-2-00091 FR940524-2-00052 Finally, the NYSE states that the concept of sharing extension data by other SROs with the DEA is inconsistent with the intent of Rules 17d&hyph;1 and 17d&hyph;2 under the Act. The DEA initiatives were adopted in order to eliminate unnecessary duplication by concentrating regulatory functions within one SRO and relieving all other SROs of their responsibility to examine for compliance with relevant rules under the Act. C. Lack of Uniform Standards In its comment letter, the NYSE maintains that there are no uniform extension processing standards among the SROs, despite several SROs' assertions that their standards are comparable to those of the NYSE. The NYSE states that it does not believe that the CSE's standards for extension review are comparable to those of the NYSE, and it cites examples of situations taken from CSE extension reports that the NYSE would find unacceptable. The NYSE also believes that as long as filing extension requests with a firm's DEA is not mandatory, the Exchange is constrained from incorporating more effective regulatory tools into its system. The NYSE believes that those firms that require the greatest scrutiny and oversight will commence filing for extensions with another SRO if the NYSE takes restrictive action. The NYSE cites examples of broker-dealers that switched from the NYSE to the CSE after restrictive action was filed against them. The NYSE believes that the impetus for these switches was not efficiency or economics, as stated by the CSE, but rather to avoid regulations intended to ensure extensions are granted for legitimate purposes and to prevent excessive credit in the securities markets. Finally, the NYSE dismisses suggestions by some commenters that the ISG should develop these standards in conjunction with the Commission. The NYSE states that the purpose of ISG is to deal with market operations related projects rather than with credit issues. D. Miscellaneous Comments The NYSE states that the CSE was in error when it asserted that the cost associated with the Exchange's DEA function is already covered by the Exchange's fee structure. The NYSE states that it charges its members a regulatory service fee pursuant to Rule 129 for financial oversight responsibilities but such fee does not cover regulatory services with respect to sales practices which are a significant aspect of monitoring credit extensions. The NYSE disagrees with the CSE's assertion that extension processing by the CSE relieves the NYSE of regulatory expense, because the NYSE must conduct field examinations of all of its members, including those who process extensions through the CSE. The NYSE suggests that the CSE may be able to charge less per extension than the NYSE because the CSE has no field examination capabilities to monitor credit extension and thus, does not incur costs for maintaining an examination program. The NYSE disagrees with the concerns that approval of Rule 434 would give the NYSE monopoly power with respect to pricing. The NYSE states that it would impose a price increase unless appropriate. Moreover, the NYSE notes that any fee increase would be subject to Commission review. The NYSE states that it agrees with the FRB's conclusion that only SROs with some examination responsibilities should grant extensions, as well as its conclusion that it would be difficult or impossible to comply with the Regulation T requirement that exceptional circumstances warrant an extension if the SRO does not have an ongoing regulatory relationship with the broker-dealer requesting the extension. The NYSE also notes that it processes 85% of the extensions generated by its members and thus economics is not its major consideration in proposing Rule 434. The NYSE states that equal and effective regulation of its members is the primary goal of the proposal. The Exchange does not believe it is appropriate to allow a broker-dealer to grant extensions of time to its own customers given the potential for conflict between regulatory and customer service considerations. Finally, the NYSE states that, since its 1989 letter, it has continued to undertake enhancements to its automated extension processing system. In January, 1994, it implemented a system to transmit daily extension reports back to member organizations. According to the Exchange, over 99% of all extension requests received by the Exchange are processed and returned electronically to member organizations the same day so that extension data is available to them before the start of the next business day. The NYSE is not aware of any other SRO which provides this service. V. Discussion After careful consideration of the comments received as well as applicable statutory provisions, the Commission believes that proposed NYSE Rule 434, which would require all NYSE member firms for which the NYSE is the DEA to submit their requests for extensions of time for payment or delivery of securities to the NYSE, is consistent with the ACT, and in particular, sections 6(b) (5) and (8) of the Act. 60 60 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (5) and (8) (1988). Section 6(b)(5) of the Act requires, among other things, that the rules of an exchange be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. The Commission believes that proposed NYSE Rule 434 will serve to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and to protect investors and the public interest by enhancing the NYSE's ability to monitor the continued financial viability of its member firms where it is the DEA. In addition, the proposed rule will help the NYSE to ensure its members' compliance with the requirements of Regulation T and Rule 15c3&hyph;3 of the Act. The Commission also believes that NYSE Rule 434 will help to effectuate uniform standards for NYSE members' requests for extensions of time for payment or delivery of securities. The uniform application of the NYSE's standards to a large majority of its member firms' extension requests will promote fairness by helping to ensure equal treatment for NYSE member firms.
