FR940617-0-00051 FR940617-0-00005 Section 8. Non-Waiver. No waiver of any terms or conditions of this Contract, or the failure of either party to enforce strictly any such term or condition on one or more occasions, shall be construed as a waiver of the same or of any other terms or conditions of this Contract on any other occasion. Section 9. Releases Void. Neither party shall require releases or waivers of any personal rights from representatives or employees of the other in connection with visits to its premises, nor shall such parties plead such releases or waivers in any action or proceeding. Section 10. License. The Bidder shall comply with all applicable construction codes. (a) The Bidder warrants that it possesses contractor's license number XXXX issued to it by the State of XXXX in which the project(s) is located, and said license expires on XXXX , 19 XX . (b) The Bidder warrants that no license is required in the state in which the Project(s) is located. (Bidder shall cross out that subsection that does not apply) Section 11. Nonassignment of Contract. The Bidder shall not assign the Contract, effected by acceptance of this Proposal, or any part hereof, or enter into any contract with any person, firm or corporation, for the performance of the Bidder's obligations hereunder, or any part hereof, without the approval in writing of the Owner, the Surety, and the Administrator. However, the Bidder may subcontract the whole or any part of the installation work to be performed at the installation site, (as distinguished from furnishing and delivery of equipment and materials), provided that; (a) the Bidder shall remain responsible for the performance thereof and (b) the Bidder shall obtain the consent of the surety to such subcontract. A copy of such consent shall be submitted to the Owner and the Administrator. Section 12. Choice of Law. The rights and obligations of the parties and all interpretations and performance of this Contract shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of XXXXX except for its rules with respect to the conflict of laws. Section 13. Approval of the Administrator. The acceptance of this proposal by the Owner shall not create a contract unless such acceptance shall be approved in writing by the Administrator within ninety (90) days after the date hereof: By (Signature of Bidder) (Name_Type or Print) (Title) (Company Name of Bidder) (Address of Bidder) Attest: (Secretary) (Date) The Proposal must be signed with the full name of the Bidder. In the case of a partnership the Proposal must be signed in the firm name by each partner. In the case of a corporation the Proposal must be signed in the corporate name by a duly authorized officer and the Corporate seal affixed and attested by the Secretary of the Corporation.
