FR941117-2-00048 FR941117-2-00040 •Drafts all HCFA regulations and HCFA rulings and related clearance documents. •Establishes and assures compliance with editorial standards for clarity and uniformity of HCFA regulations and with the requirements of the Office of the Federal Register. •Recommends schedules for the development of regulations, tracks progress against these schedules, and develops routine and special reports on HCFA's regulatory activities. •Works jointly with HCFA components and the Office of the General Counsel to identify and resolve issues associated with each regulation. •Coordinates the review of regulations received for concurrence from other HCFA and Department of Health and Human Services' components and other government agencies and prepares the Bureau and HCFA response. •Prepares needed studies to assure completion of regulatory flexibility analysis consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act and regulatory impact analysis for small rural hospitals. •Manages the HCFA process for substantive review and clearance of regulations within HCFA, and with the Office of the General Counsel. •Provides training to HCFA regulation writers and clerical staff. •Maintains specialized word processing systems to assure efficient preparation of regulations documents. •Manages public comment process and maintains official agency regulations files. •Maintains current database of 42 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 400&hyph;End. (1) Division of Part A and Medicaid (FKA&hyph;61) •Reviews, analyzes and comments on specifications prepared by originating offices. Drafts, coordinates and clears payment and coverage regulations relating to Part A Medicare and special programs such as End Stage Renal Disease, Hospices, Home Health Agencies, Peer Review Organizations, Medicare Secondary Payer and Durable Medical Equipment. Also, drafts, coordinates and clears regulations related to eligibility for Medicare. •Reviews, analyzes and comments on specifications prepared by originating offices. Drafts, coordinates and clears regulations related to the Medicaid program such as Medicaid payment to providers, practitioners, and suppliers of all services; coverage of services under Medicaid; and eligibility of individuals for Medicaid. •Analyzes legislation related to Part A Medicare and Medicaid issues to determine necessity for changes in regulations. •Ensures the content of regulations is consistent with Federal Register requirements. •Negotiates and monitors schedules for preparation of regulations and coordinates with originating component the review of draft regulations, development of policy and analysis of issues. Negotiates resolution of policy issues necessary to meet regulation schedules. •Analyzes the economic impact, costs, savings, and effectiveness of draft regulations, to assure compliance with the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, Executive Order 12606, the Impact on the Family, Executive Order 12612, Federalism and specific impact on small rural hospitals as required by Public Law 100&hyph;203. •Coordinates review of regulations received for concurrence and prepares Bureau and HCFA response. •Indexes official regulation files to assist in post publication legal reviews. (2) Division of Part B and Operations (FKA&hyph;62) •Reviews, analyzes and comments on specifications prepared by originating offices. Drafts, coordinates and clears payment, coverage, and operations regulations relating to Physicians and Practitioners who are paid under the physician fee schedule, Outpatient Hospitals, Managed Care, Ambulatory Surgical Centers, Rural Health Clinics, Federally Qualified Health Centers, Alternative Service Delivery, and several Medicare Part B suppliers of products and services such as: laboratories, drugs, x-rays, ambulance services. •Analyzes legislation related to Part B Medicare and all other assigned areas to determine necessity for changes in regulations. •Ensures the content of regulations is consistent with Federal Register requirements. •Negotiates and monitors schedules for preparation of regulations and coordinates with originating component the review of draft regulations, development of policy, and analysis of issues. Negotiates resolution of policy issues necessary to meet regulation schedules.
