FR941206-0-00089 FR941206-0-00011 (iii) After the effective date, whether or not an approved permit program is effective in the State in which a source subject to these emissions standards is (or would be) located, an owner or operator who intends to construct a new source subject to these emissions standards or reconstruct a source subject to these emissions standards, or reconstruct a source such that it becomes a source subject to these emissions standards, shall notify the Administrator in writing of the intended construction or reconstruction. The notification shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but no sooner than the effective date of these standards) if the construction or reconstruction commences after the effective date of the standard. The notification shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the initial startup date but no later than 60 days after the effective date of this standard if the construction or reconstruction had commenced and the initial startup date has not occurred before the standard's effective date. The notification shall include all the information required for an application for approval of construction or reconstruction as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and §63.5(d)(3) and (4) of subpart A of this part. For sources subject to these emissions standards, the application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill the initial notification requirements of §63.9 of subpart A of this part. (2) If an owner or operator of a source subject to these emissions standards submits estimates or preliminary information in the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section and §63.5(d)(3) of subpart A of this part, respectively, in place of the actual emissions data or control efficiencies required in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(B)(8) and (ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit the actual emissions data and other correct information as soon as available but no later than with the initial notification of compliance status. (3) The owner or operator of any existing sterilization facility subject to this subpart shall also include the amount of ethylene oxide used during the previous consecutive 12-month period in the initial notification report required by §63.9(b)(2) and (3) of subpart A of this part. For new sterilization facilities subject to this subpart, the amount of ethylene oxide used shall be an estimate of expected use during the first consecutive 12-month period of operation. §63.367 Recordkeeping requirements. (a) The owner or operator of a source subject to the emissions standards in §63.362 shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in §§63.10(b) and (c) of subpart A of this part, according to the applicability in Table 1 of §63.360, and in this section. (b) The owners or operators of a source using 1 to 10 tons not subject to an emissions standard in §63.362 shall maintain records of ethylene oxide use on a 12-month rolling average basis (until the source changes its operations to become a source subject to an emissions standard in §63.362). These records shall be kept onsite at the source for a period of 5 years. (c) The owners or operators of a source using less than 1 ton shall maintain records of ethylene oxide use on a 12-month rolling average basis (until the source changes its operations to become a source subject to the emissions standards in §63.362). These records shall be kept onsite at the source for a period of 5 years. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29823 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
