FR940628-2-00094 FR940628-2-00071 DEPARTMENT OF STATE [Public Notice 2028] Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs; International Communications and Information Policy; Notice of Meeting The Department of State announces that the Office of International Communications and Information Policy will hold an ad hoc meeting on the future structure of the international treaty satellite organizations, INTELSAT and INMARSAT, and the role of the U.S. government in those organizations. The meeting will be held on Thursday, July 14, 1994 at 9:00 a.m. in the Dean Acheson Auditorium at the Department of State, 2201 C Street NW., Washington, DC 20520. The United States government has under consideration the issue of the future structure of the international treaty satellite organizations in an increasingly competitive environment. The United States is interested in ensuring the most dynamic, competitive and fair marketplace feasible for existing and prospective international satellite service providers. The government is seeking information and data on the implications for a competitive market structure in the event that INTELSAT and INMARSAT were either to cease being subject to existing international treaty arrangements or if those treaty arrangements were modified. The purpose of the meeting is to obtain views and information from the public and industry on what future structure of the organizations and their governing treaty arrangements will best assure that the interests and objectives of the U.S. and the international community are met. These interests and objectives include: U.S. economic interests, consumer benefits and fair competition, national security interests, strategic redundancy and reliability, universal service and maritime distress and safety services. The government is also interested in receiving comments on how the continuation of public service functions can be ensured and whether some form of continued intergovernmental oversight should continue. Whenever possible, comments should provide empirical evidence to support their assertions. Guidelines for Written Comment and Oral Testimony Written comments should be provided in triplicate and include the following information: 1. Name and affiliation of the individual responding; 2. Whether the comments offered represent the views of the individual's organization or are the respondent's personal views; 3. If applicable, a description of the respondent's organization, including the size, type of organization (e.g. business, trade group, university, non-profit organization) and principal types of business; 4. A brief, one-page summary of the comments submitted. Those wishing to present oral testimony must adhere to the following guidelines: 1. No one will be permitted to testify without prior approval. 2. Requests for presenting oral testimony and a written copy of the speaker's testimony must be submitted by Friday, July 8. 3. In addition to the guidelines for written comments above, requests to testify also should include the speaker's mailing address and phone and facsimile numbers. 4. The exact time allocated per speaker will be determined after the final number of parties testifying has been determined. Written comments and supporting data and requests for presenting oral testimony should be addressed to Robert Lutkoski, room 6317, Department of State, 2201 C Street NW., Washington, DC 20520 no later than Friday, July 8. Every attempt will be made to permit all interested persons an opportunity to present their views at the meeting. Reply comments may be submitted five working days after the meeting. Parties may request pursuant to FOIA exemptions confidentiality for any proprietary information submitted in support of their comments or reply comments. Admittance will be limited to the seating available (approximately 100). Entrance to the Department of State is controlled and will be facilitated if arrangements are made in advance of the meeting. Persons who plan to attend should advise Anika Scott by telephone (202&hyph;647&hyph;5212) or fax (202&hyph;736&hyph;4034) by Thursday, July 7. Attendees must provide their date of birth and Social Security number at the time they register their intention to attend and must carry a valid photo ID to the meeting to be admitted. Dated: June 22, 1994. Vonya B. McCann, Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Communications and Information Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15639 Filed 6&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;07&hyph;M
