FR941110-0-00069 FR941110-0-00016 We recognize that protocols and guidelines are necessary to promote consistent survey practice. However, whether or not a surveyor follows protocols must be subordinate in importance to whether or not a facility meets Federal participation requirements. Violations must be recognized and remedied appropriately if resident interests are to be protected and integrity is to remain in the enforcement system. Comment: One commenter questioned whether proposed ยง488.155(a)(3) conflicts with subpart III of Appendix P of the State Operations Manual, Transmittal No. 250. Section 488.155(a)(3) would require the State survey agency to include in the standard survey an audit of written plans of care and residents' assessments. Subpart III states that a review of the accuracy of resident assessments is to be performed as part of the extended survey which is triggered by the identification of a deficiency in quality of care during the standard survey. Response: There is no conflict because a review of comprehensive assessments and care plans is not limited to the extended survey. It is also a major part of the Quality of Care Assessment performed during the standard survey (see Task 5 in Appendix P of State Operations Manual Transmittal No. 250). The review that occurs during the extended survey is slightly different, though, in that surveyors are directed to review more recent care plan and assessment information, and are given more flexibility in choosing sample size than in the standard survey. Comment: One commenter suggested that we require surveyors to determine whether a facility attempted to accommodate both the exercise of a resident's rights and the resident's health when there appears to be a conflict. The commenter believed that accommodation should include exploration of care alternatives through a thorough care planning process in which the resident may participate. Response: Surveyors are presently instructed to make such determinations. At tag number F295 in the Interpretive Guidance to Surveyors, the surveyor is directed to determine whether the care plan reflects the facility's efforts to find alternative means to address a problem if a resident has refused treatment. Additional guidance concerning this matter is found at tags F174 and F158. We believe such specific instructions are more appropriately located in the State Operations Manual than in the regulation itself, so we are not incorporating them into the regulation. Comment: A few commenters suggested that we explicitly mention a review of the quantity and quality of nursing services staff in ยง488.305(a)(2) where we outline a survey of the quality of care. Response: Inherent in an evaluation of the indicators of care and services listed at ยง488.305(a)(2) is an examination of the quality of the staff providing them. As part of the observational portion of the Quality of Care Assessment, surveyors are directed to make observations of staff/resident interactions which necessarily involve evaluating the quality of care and services provided by the staff, which is an indication of the quality of the staff itself. For this reason we do not explicitly mention this assessment in the regulation. We do specifically address a review of staffing in Appendix P of the State Operations Manual Transmittal No. 250. Comment: One commenter recommended that we include, as part of the standard survey, private meetings between surveyors and family groups during evening and or weekend hours and another conference at the conclusion of the survey process to explain survey findings in lay person language.
