FR941027-2-00045 FR941027-2-00027 (a) SF&hyph;171's/résumés. (b) SF&hyph;7 Record Cards (current and former employees). (c) Official Personnel Folder (OPF). (d) Employee Performance Folders (EPF). (e) Individual Employee Master Files. (f) Discipline/Adverse Action Files. (g) Outside Employment Files. (h) Employee Medical File. (i) Grievance Files. (j) Appeal Files. Authority for Maintenance of the system: 2 U.S.C. 437c and 5 CFR part 293. Routine uses of records in the systems, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: (a) SF&hyph;171's/Résumés_used by Personnel staff and all levels of management to evaluate qualifications and make personnel selections. (b) SF&hyph;7 Record Cards_used by Personnel staff to verify salary, grade and service of current and former employees for use by prospective employers, credit bureaus, etc. (c) OPF_used by Personnel staff to process and record personnel actions, and by Personnel staff and line managers to evaluate skills, ability and qualifications for selection, promotion, and other personnel actions. (d) EPF_used by Personnel staff to record performance-related information such as performance appraisals, and by line managers as basis for personnel actions. (e) Individual Employee Master File_computer-stored record of all personnel actions and other pertinent employee data; used by Personnel staff to process and record personnel actions and by the authorized Data Systems staff and Payroll and Accounting staff to update and revise files, programs and produce required statistical reports. (f) Discipline and Adverse Actions_used by Personnel staff and line managers in considering decisions on such actions, and for appeals, grievances and hearings. (g) Outside Employment Files_used by Personnel and legal staff to consider requests for outside employment and to verify approval/disapproval. (h) Employee Medical Files_used by Personnel staff and line managers to record employee medical information pertinent to their performance/attendance/conduct, and in reviewing the impact of medical conditions on their employment. (i) Grievance Files_used by Personnel staff to record the disposition of employee grievances. (j) Appeal Files_used by Personnel staff top record the disposition of employee appeals. In addition to the above, in the event that a system of records maintained by this agency to carry out its functions indicated a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, local or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigation or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or rule, regulation or order issued pursuant thereto. A record from the system of records may be disclosed as ``routine use'' to a Federal, State or local agency maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to an agency decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the letting of a contract or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit. A record from this system of records may be disclosed to a Federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision in the matter. A record from this system of records may be disclosed to an authorized complaints examiner, equal employment opportunity investigator, administrative law judge, arbitrator or other duly authorized official engaged in investigation or settlement of a grievance, complaint or appeal filed by an employee. A record from this system of records may be disclosed to the U.S. Office of Personnel Management in accordance with the agency's responsibility for evaluation and oversight of Federal personnel management. A record from this system of records may be disclosed to officers and employees of a Federal agency for purposes of audit. Routine use for disclosure to the Department of Justice for use in litigation: It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such reports by the Department of Justice is deemed by the Federal Election Commission to be relevant and necessary to the litigation provided, however, that in each case the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected.
