FR940617-0-00131 FR940617-0-00026 EPA is working closely with Europe and other government agencies as well as with voluntary standard-setting organizations to develop new smoke test procedures. These procedures are not sufficiently developed at this time to reference or adopt. EPA is willing to use cooperatively developed and harmonized smoke test procedures that it determines meet its needs to control in-use smoke emissions. A mechanism has been provided in this rule to allow the use of such procedures via the alternative test procedures approval process. With this process, the manufacturer requests EPA approval to use the alternative test procedures in advance of certification. EPA has authority to grant such a request if the procedures are determined to be equivalent or better than the promulgated procedures. In the absence of a ``world-wide'' smoke procedure, EPA is confident the adopted procedures will reduce smoke emissions and will ensure harmonization with California. California has pointed out it has modified its test procedures somewhat by allowing the use of an in-line smokemeter. EPA has included provisions by which a manufacturer may use alternative measuring equipment upon demonstration that it correlates with the current opacity meter. G. Use of the On-highway Federal Test Procedure (FTP) EPA has decided not to allow use of the on-highway FTP for any aspect of nonroad engine certification. Based on data received during the comment period and discussed in the Response to Comments document, the ability of the on-highway test cycle to predict nonroad NO X emissions for some types of engines is uncertain. In addition, even those commenters in support of the on-highway FTP option stated that they would likely make minimal use of it. These reasons form the basis of EPA's decision not to adopt this option. H. Alternate Test Procedures for Constant Speed Engines A number of engine manufacturers requested that EPA allow use of an alternate test procedure for engines that use constant speed governors. These engines are typically used on applications such as generator sets that must be capable of holding one precise speed during operation. Commenters have stated that these engines are not properly represented by, and may not be capable of operating over, the 8-mode test procedures. Commenters recommended that EPA allow use of the ISO 8178&hyph;D2 test procedures (2-mode) for constant speed engines. EPA has a mechanism in the regulations that would allow this request for alternate test procedures to be made with full technical justification. Insufficient data were presented for EPA to determine the need and appropriateness of adopting the specific ISO 8178&hyph;D2 test procedures for constant speed engines in this final rule. However, there may be adequate technical justification for such an alternate test procedure. EPA has made available in the regulations provisions by which an engine manufacturer may propose to the Administrator the use of an alternate test procedure with adequate demonstration. This would be the appropriate mechanism for manufacturers of constant speed engines should they determine that the 8-mode test procedures are unrepresentative for their engines. I. Certification Test Fuel EPA is adopting test fuel requirements which allow an engine manufacturer to submit data either using a test fuel that falls within the specification in the proposed regulations, modified to expand the fuel sulfur range to greater than .05 percent to .5 percent fuel sulfur, or a lower sulfur test fuel that is consistent with the test fuel to be used in California. EPA retains the right to perform confirmatory or in-use enforcement testing using either test fuel. EPA modified the fuel sulfur concentration range of its proposed test fuel based on concerns that the range specified may inadvertently preclude the use of a fuel that could be available for use now or in the future. For example, the current proposal in Europe specifies a test fuel with sulfur content ranging from .1 percent to .2 percent. Should the final European requirements specify such a fuel in the future, EPA's proposal would not have allowed use of this fuel. As this is not EPA's intent, the Agency chose to broaden the range of fuel sulfur content specified in Table 4 to Appendix A of Subpart D in Part 89 of today's regulation. EPA proposed that all nonroad engines be certified using test fuel with a sulfur content of 0.2 to 0.5 percent sulfur by weight. EPA reasoned that although federal on-highway and California state-wide sulfur specifications will be .03 to .05 percent sulfur by weight, some diesel fuel producers will continue to provide fuel with a higher sulfur content for 49-state nonroad use. EPA believes some producers will decide not to incur the cost of purchasing and operating hydrotreating equipment necessary for sulfur removal in the absence of a requirement to provide low sulfur fuel for the federal nonroad segment of the market. Therefore, it is likely that the fuel available to the majority of nonroad engines will be higher sulfur fuel. Manufacturers requested to certify on low sulfur fuel because it will save them the cost of performing an extra test (that is, one on high sulfur fuel for the federal rule and one on low sulfur fuel for California). They argued that because the sulfur content of the fuel does not influence the production of NO X emission and smoke, they should be allowed to use low sulfur fuel for certification testing.
