FR940426-1-00152 FR940426-1-00018 (g) A recipient or subrecipient shall seek to obtain all training for enrollees from such sources as the JTPA and the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act at no cost to the project. Where training is not available from other sources, title V funds may be used for training. (h) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prevent or limit an enrollee from engaging in self-developmental training available from sources other than title V during hours other than hours of community service employment. (i) Nothing in this section shall preclude joint programs between title V programs and programs authorized by the Job Training Partnership Act, the Community Services Block Grant Act or the Carl D. Perkins Act. §641.314 Placement into unsubsidized employment. (a) In order to ensure that the maximum number of eligible individuals have an opportunity to participate in community service employment, the recipient or subrecipient shall employ reasonable means to place each enrollee into unsubsidized employment. (b) To encourage the placement of the enrollee into an unsubsidized job, the Department has established a goal of placing into unsubsidized employment the number of enrollees which equals at least 20 percent of the annual authorized positions within the project year. Whenever this goal is not achieved, the recipient shall develop and submit a plan of action for addressing this shortfall. (c) The recipient or subrecipient may contact private and public employers directly or through the State employment security agencies to develop or identify suitable unsubsidized employment opportunities; and should encourage host agencies to employ enrollees in their regular work forces. (d) The recipient or subrecipient shall follow-up on each enrollee who is placed into unsubsidized employment and shall document such follow-up at least once within 3 months of unsubsidized placement. §641.315 Maximum duration of enrollment. A maximum duration of enrollment may be established by the recipient in the grant agreement, when authorized by the Department. §641.316 Individual development plan-related terminations. When an enrollee refuses to accept a reasonable number of referrals or job offers to unsubsidized employment consistent with his or her IDP and there are no extenuating circumstances, the enrollee may be terminated from the SCSEP. Such a termination shall be consistent with administrative guidelines issued by the Department and the termination shall be subject to the applicable appeal rights and procedures described in the grant. §641.317 Status of enrollees. Enrollees who are employed in any project funded under the Act are not deemed to be Federal employees as a result of such employment. [Section 504(a).] §641.318 Over-enrollment. Should attrition or funding adjustments prevent a portion of project funds from being fully utilized, the recipient may use those funds during the period of the agreement to over-enroll additional eligible individuals. The number over-enrolled may not exceed 20 percent of the total number of authorized positions established under the grant agreement without the written approval of the Department. Payments to or on behalf of enrollees in such positions shall not exceed the amount of the unused funds available. Each individual enrolled in such a position shall be informed in writing that the assignment is of a short-term nature and may be terminated. The recipient shall first seek to maintain full enrollment in authorized positions and shall seek to schedule all enrollments and terminations to avoid excessive terminations at the end of the grant period. §641.319 [Reserved] §641.320 Political patronage. (a) No recipient may select, reject, promote, or terminate an individual based on that individual's political affiliations or beliefs. The selection or advancement of enrollees as a reward for political services, or as a form of political patronage, is prohibited. (b) There shall be no selection of subrecipients or host agencies based on political affiliation. §641.321 Political activities. (a) General. No project under title V or this part may involve political activities. (1) No enrollee or staff person may be permitted to engage in partisan or nonpartisan political activities during hours for which the enrollee is paid with SCSEP funds. (2) No enrollee or staff person, at any time, may be permitted to engage in partisan political activities in which such enrollee or staff person represents himself or herself as a spokesperson of the SCSEP program. (3) No enrollee may be employed or out-stationed in the office of a Member of Congress, a State or local legislator, or on any staff of a legislative committee. (4) No enrollee may be employed or out-stationed in the immediate office of any elected chief executive officer(s) of a State or unit of general government, except that: (i) Units of local government may serve as host-agencies for enrollees in such positions, provided that such assignments are nonpolitical; and
