FR940805-2-00048 FR940805-2-00032 Agreement Containing Consent Order In the matter of Boulder Ridge Cable TV, a corporation, Dean Hazen, individually and as an officer of respondent Boulder Ridge Cable TV, Inc., Weststar Communications, Inc., a corporation, and Rodney A. Hansen, individually. The Federal Trade Commission (``the Commission''), having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of Boulder Ridge Cable TV, and Dean Hazen, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and Rodney A. Hansen, individually and as a partner in Three Palms, Ltd., and it now appearing that Boulder Ridge Cable TV, a corporation, Dean Hazen, Rodney A. Hansen, and Weststar Communications, Inc., a corporation, are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed , by and between Boulder Ridge Cable TV, by its duly authorized officer, and Dean Hazen, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and by and between Weststar Communications, Inc., by its duly authorized officer, and Rodney A. Hansen, individually, and counsel for the Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Boulder Ridge Cable TV (hereafter ``Boulder Ridge''), is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California, with its principal office and place of business at 590 Kelly Ave., Half Moon Bay, California 94019. 2. Proposed respondent Dean Hazen is the president and majority shareholder of Boulder Ridge, and was the sole shareholder of Boulder Ridge at the time of the acts and practices being investigated. His business address is 590 Kelly Ave., Half Moon Bay, California 94019. 3. Proposed respondent Weststar Communications, Inc. (hereafter `'Weststar''), is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California, with its principal office and place of business at 2200 Sunrise Blvd., Suite 250, Rancho Cordova, California 95670. 4. Proposed respondent Rodney A. Hansen is a shareholder of Weststar and was a partner in Three Palms, Ltd., a dissolved California partnership. His business address is 8217 Hegseth Court, Fair Oaks, California 95628. 5. Proposed respondents Boulder Ridge and Dean Hazen are collectively and individually referred to herein as proposed respondents ``Boulder Ridge Entities.'' 6. Proposed respondent Weststar and Rodney A. Hansen are collectively and individually referred to herein as respondents ``Three Palms Entities.'' 7. Boulder Ridge Entities and Three Palms Entities admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint, here attached. 8. Boulder Ridge Entities and Three Palms Entities each waive: a. Any further procedural steps; b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; c. All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and d. Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 9. This agreement shall not become a part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify Boulder Ridge Entities and Three Palms Entities, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding.
