FR940803-2-00068 FR940803-2-00056 III. Discussion The Commission has determined that the CSE's proposal is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it promotes just and equitable principles of trade and protects investors and the public interest. Further, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with Section 11A(a)(1)(C)(ii) 7 in that it aids in assuring fair competition among brokers and dealers. 7 15 U.S.C. ยง78k&hyph;1(a)(1)(C)(ii)(1988). The Commission recognizes that significant conflicts of interest can arise between a specialist operation and any associated or affiliated persons, which, if not addressed by appropriate Chinese Wall procedures and the adequate surveillance of such procedures, could result in potential manipulative market making activity and informational advantages benefitting the specialist, specialist unit, or customers of either, all in contravention of Section 6(b) of the Act. 8 The Commission further believes that the procedures the Exchange intends to implement with respect to approving and monitoring the Chinese Wall address these concerns, and therefore are consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange. 8 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b) (1988). The Commission initially addressed the necessity and viability of Chinese Walls in approving the amendments to New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE'') and American Stock Exchange (``Amex'') Rules 98 and 193 respectively, which created the present Chinese Wall scheme in effect on those exchanges. 9 At that time, the Commission expressed its belief that it is also desirable for the regional exchanges to consider requiring specialists affiliated with integrated firms to establish adequate Chinese Walls and generally to review the efficacy of their surveillance and compliance regarding those specialists. The Commission previously had recognized the use of Chinese Walls in a number of instances regarding the establishment of an organizational separation between different departments of a broker-dealer as one of the several means of preventing the interdepartment communication of material, non-public information. 10 9 See NYSE/Amex Order. 10 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 23768, 51 FR 41183 (Nov. 13, 1986), citing SEC Institutional Investor Study, H.R. Doc. No. 9264, 92nd Cong., 1st Sess. 2539 (1971). The Study urged financial institutions to ``consider the necessity of segregating information flows arising from a business relationship with a company as distinct from information received in an investor or shareholder capacity.'' The NYSE/Amex Order noted that, for example, in view of the diverse functions performed by a multi-service firm and the material, non-public information that may be obtained by any one department of the firm, the firm often may be required to restrict access to information to the department receiving it, in order to avoid potential liability under Sections 10(b) and 14(c) of the Act 11 and Rules 10b&hyph;5 and 14e&hyph;3 thereunder. Moreover, two years after approval of the Amex's and NYSE's Chinese Wall procedures, Congress enacted the Insider Training and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 (``ITSFEA''), designed primarily to prevent, deter, and prosecute insider trading. 12 Among other provisions, ITSFEA created a specific requirement for broker-dealers to maintain procedures designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information. 13 In response to the promulgation thereof, many firms redrafted their internal Chinese Wall procedures to ensure compliance. 14 11 15 U.S.C. ยง78j(b), 78n(e) (1982). 12 Pub. L. No. 100&hyph;704. 13 15 U.S.C. ยง78o(f). 14 Several SRO's (Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Chicago Board Options Exchange, Pacific Stock Exchange and Boston Stock Exchange) have adopted the substance of ITSFEA procedures under their rules applicable to members and member firms ( See Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 30122, 57 FR 729 (Jan. 8, 1992); 30557, 57 FR 13393 (April 16, 1992); 33171, 58 FR 60892 (Nov. 18, 1993); and 34284 (June 30, 1994). The Commission restates its understanding that a number of firms with regional specialist operations have established Chinese Wall procedures between the specialist and its affiliated firm. Nevertheless, such procedures have not necessarily been adopted by all specialist affiliates, have not been adopted pursuant to any specific regional exchange requirements, and have not been subject to specific exchange surveillance and oversight. Consistent with the NYSE/Amex Order, the Commission has continued to encourage the regional exchanges to adopt Chinese Wall procedures. 15 15 The Commission, in the past, has requested the regional stock exchanges to detail the procedures each exchange has implemented for surveillance of compliance with the Chinese Wall procedures adopted by firms affiliated with exchange specialists. The NYSE/Amex Order, in addressing the need for regional exchange to participate in the regulation of affiliations between specialist operations and diversified broker-dealer firms, took into account the fact that regional exchanges differ from the primary exchanges in terms of order flow and market information. While noting that overall regional exchange volume is small compared to primary market volume, and that regional exchange pricing of orders is generally derived from primary market quotations, the Commission expressed its concern that the diversion by a large broker-dealer of all or a significant portion of order flow in specialty stocks to an affiliated regional specialist could raise certain regulatory concerns similar to those raised by such affiliations on the primary exchanges. Moreover, the Commission noted that even if regional exchange specialists continue to set their prices based on primary market quotations, a regional specialist affiliated with an integrated retail firm could obtain significant access to material, non-public information. The Commission continues to believe that Chinese Walls, with effective controls, may be useful in restricting information flow between the various departments of broker-dealers. The Commission had monitored the NYSE and Amex Chinese Wall rules since their inception, and generally believes they have proven effective in the context of specialists and affiliated approved persons. The Commission believes the CSE proposal effectively addresses the potential for market abuses resulting from the ongoing relationship between specialists and associated or affiliated persons. These factors, along with the specialist's existing statutory duty to maintain a fair and orderly market, should combine to enhance the effectiveness of the proposed Chinese Wall. Finally, the Commission notes that the structural adequacy of the Chinese Wall is only one part of evaluating whether the procedures established by the Exchange will detect and deter potential improper activity by either the approved person or the specialist. Appropriate surveillance procedures are critical to ensure the Chinese Wall is maintained. To this end, the Exchange has submitted to the Commission proposed procedures for monitoring the Chinese Wall. 16 The Commission also notes that the Exchange has represented that it believes that it has adequate staffing capacity to monitor compliance and conduct independent reviews of member firms. 16 The Exchange has requested that these procedures be accorded confidential treatment by the Commission. IV. Conclusion In view of the above, the Commission has concluded that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, and that it is appropriate to approve the Chinese Wall Procedures for Designated Dealers. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change be, and is hereby approved. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to the delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(A)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18821 Filed 8&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
