FR941110-0-00153 FR941110-0-00016 Response: While we agree with the above commenters advocating more guidance on the selection of remedies, and have developed an enforcement scheme capable of doing just that, we are bound by the statutory provisions giving HCFA and the States some discretion in designing their own schemes within a Federal framework. Therefore, we are providing the method by which facility deficiencies, including physical environment deficiencies, will be measured, and we are linking specific categories of remedies with certain levels of noncompliance. We are revising ยง488.408 accordingly. Comment: Many commenters believe that level 1&hyph;1 deficiencies, now referred to as isolated deficiencies which HCFA or the State determines constitute no actual harm with a potential for minimal harm, must be cited and a plan of correction required. Additionally, these commenters urge that every deficiency should be cited before leaving the facility. They believe that unless each deficiency is cited, important patterns of repeat noncompliance can be missed. Response: We disagree. As we stated in the preamble to the proposed rule, providers must be aware that they are responsible for complying with all participation requirements. Notifying the facility of this level of deficiency acknowledges that a problem could potentially occur if the deficiency is permitted to go uncorrected. While no formal plan of correction is required for this low level deficiency and no remedy is applied, correction is necessary nevertheless. The exit conference focuses primarily on the most serious preliminary findings by the surveyors. While the survey team documents its observations relative to the survey, the surveyors' findings are not official until the provider receives the official deficiency statement. Comment: Many commenters commended HCFA for prohibiting facilities from challenging the choice of remedy or remedies. These commenters assert that giving the facility the right to challenge the existence of deficiencies adequately protects their rights. A few commenters agreed that the choice of the remedy should not be appealable but that the scope and severity of a deficiency should be. Other commenters believed providers should be permitted to formally appeal both the existence of a deficiency as well as challenge determinations of scope and severity and the remedy imposed. Response: The most important issue on which to grant an appeal is the existence of deficiencies which lead to a remedy. We are requiring that such an appeal before an administrative law judge be offered, and that dispute resolution procedures be applied first, at the request of the provider. Providers have the opportunity to appeal certifications of noncompliance leading to an enforcement remedy but, with the one exception noted below, do not have the opportunity to appeal either the level of noncompliance or the enforcement choice made by HCFA or the State. We have reached this conclusion for several reasons. First, as a general matter, whether HCFA or a State chooses one remedy or another to address facility noncompliance is a matter that we believe is a prosecutorial prerogative of the government, not with the provider of services. It is an inherent function of government in this context to make choices as to which kind of enforcement action will best achieve prompt compliance so that residents face noncompliant conditions for as short a time as possible. Second, in the case of provider agreement terminations, even if a facility were able to successfully contest a conclusion that immediate jeopardy exists, the agency could still proceed with the termination action since the agency's authority to bring such an action is not limited to immediate jeopardy cases, but may span all noncompliant facility behavior. As has been agency policy for many years, the determination of what remedy to seek is beyond challenge in light of the government's fundamental necessity to protect the welfare of facility residents as expeditiously as possible. This is especially the case with respect to provider agreement terminations since residents may be at considerable risk even where there is no immediate jeopardy. Third, in the case of most alternative sanctions, the regulations are structured so that whether a facility's noncompliance falls in category 1 or category 2, HCFA and the States have complete discretion to choose from either category. Thus, even if a facility were able to successfully demonstrate that the agency had erred in its conclusion that the noncompliance belonged in category 1, that fact would be irrelevant since noncompliance in category 1 could still trigger the same remedy. Only a showing that the facility was in substantial compliance would enable the facility to avoid sanctions, and it is this issue that we agree must be subject to challenge. Fourth, with respect to the imposition of temporary management, a facility facing this remedy would have the opportunity to argue during informal dispute resolution that the agency had erred in concluding that immediate jeopardy existed. Should it succeed in making this showing, the remedy would not be imposed. On the other hand, should the facility fail to convince agency officials that the noncompliance was of a lesser nature, the facility would face temporary management well before it could more formally challenge the agency finding of immediate jeopardy. Thus, even if the facility ultimately prevailed in a hearing in proving that its noncompliance posed less than immediate jeopardy, the facility's appeal would not be effective since the remedy would have already been imposed and the facility would either have achieved substantial compliance or been terminated by the time of the hearing. For this reason, we considered whether, in light of this sequence of events, facilities should be given a prior hearing in temporary management cases, but concluded that would completely undermine the purpose of this remedy which is to resolve the most serious noncompliance in the shortest possible time frame. This is particularly the case when facilities facing such remedies have available to them an informal means to contest agency action prior to the imposition of the remedy and when, ultimately, it is the facility's choice to accept temporary management rather than face termination. Accordingly, we concluded that in the balancing of interest of facilities and residents in such cases, the interests of residents must take precedence.
