FR940920-2-00012 FR940920-2-00006 For Caicedo Group, we included the expenses associated with a freeze which occurred during the POI, and removed the effect of erroneous crop adjustment amounts ( i.e., capitalizing more costs than the total accumulated amount) reported in the COP calculation. 4. Grupo Papagayo For Grupo Papagayo, we removed the effect of erroneous crop adjustment amounts ( i.e., capitalizing more costs than the total accumulated amount) reported in the COP calculation. In order to calculate FMV, we made company-specific adjustments as described below: 1. Flores La Fragancia S.A. For Flores La Fragancia S.A., we calculated FMV based on delivered prices to unrelated customers in the home market. For home market price to purchase price comparisons, pursuant to section 773(a)(4)(B) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2), we made circumstance of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for credit expenses. We deducted home market packing costs and added U.S. packing costs. For home market price to ESP comparisons, we deducted the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses, including, where appropriate, inventory carrying costs, up to the amount of the greater of related party commissions or indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(1) ( See the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum). We deducted home market packing costs and added U.S. packing costs. For CV to purchase price comparisons, we made circumstance of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for credit expenses. For CV to ESP comparisons, we made deductions, where appropriate, for credit expenses. We also deducted from CV the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses, including inventory carrying costs, up to the amount of the greater of related party commissions or indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). 2. Grupo Bojaca For Grupo Bojaca, more than 90 percent of Grupo Bojaca's home market sales were found to be at prices below their COP. Therefore, in accordance with section 773(c) of the Act we disregarded all home market sales and calculated FMV based on CV. For CV to purchase price comparisons, we made circumstance of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for credit expenses. For CV to ESP comparisons, we deducted the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses, including, where appropriate, inventory carrying costs, up to the amount of the indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). 3. Caicedo Group For Caicedo Group, we calculated FMV based on delivered prices to unrelated customers in the home market. We excluded from our analysis home market sales that were ultimately exported. For home market price to purchase price comparisons, pursuant to section 773(a)(4)(B) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2), we made circumstance of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for credit expenses and CFC fee. We deducted home market packing costs and added U.S. packing costs. For home market price to ESP comparisons, we made deductions, where appropriate, for credit expenses. We also deducted the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses, including, where appropriate, inventory carrying costs, up to the amount of the greater of related party commissions or indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(1). We deducted home market packing costs and added U.S. packing costs. For CV to purchase price comparisons, we made circumstance of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for credit expenses and CFC fee. For CV to ESP comparisons, we made deductions, where appropriate, for credit expenses. We also deducted from CV the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses, including inventory carrying costs, up to the amount of the greater of related party commissions or indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). For comparisons involving ESP sales, we revised U.S.-incurred indirect selling expense to: (a) Include sales to local vendors in the calculation of the indirect selling expense ratio and (b) deduct U.S. inland freight expenses that were reported as indirect selling expenses. 4. Grupo Floramerica For Grupo Floramerica, more than 90 percent of Grupo Floramerica's home market sales were found to be at prices below their COP. Therefore, in accordance with section 773(c) of the Act we disregarded all home market sales and calculated FMV based on CV. For CV to ESP comparisons, we made deductions, where appropriate, for credit expenses. We also deducted from CV the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses, up to the amount of indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). 5. Grupo Papagayo For Grupo Papagayo, more than 90 percent of its home market sales were found to be at prices below their COP. Therefore, we disregarded all home market sales and calculated FMV based on CV. Due to the deficiencies found in respondent's reported home market sales data, we disallowed home market inland freight, packing costs, indirect selling expenses, and imputed credit from the dumping margin calculation for purposes of the preliminary determination. On September 9, 1994, Agrorosas submitted a letter containing some pre-verification corrections pertaining to its sales and cost data. Given the limited time available to the Department to examine the newly submitted information, this information is not used in the preliminary determination dumping margin. However, the newly submitted information will be subject to verification and will be considered in the final determination of this investigation. For CV to purchase price comparisons, we made circumstances of sales adjustment for direct selling. We also added U.S. commissions. No deductions were made for CV to ESP comparisons due to disallowing home market indirect selling expenses from the margin calculation. 6. Grupo Sagaro For Grupo Sagaro, more than 90 percent of its home market sales were found to be at prices below their COP. Therefore, in accordance with section 773(c) of the Act we disregarded all home market sales and calculated FMV based on CV. For CV to purchase price comparisons, we made circumstance of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for credit expenses. For CV to ESP comparisons, we made deductions, where appropriate, for credit expenses and commissions. We also deducted from CV the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses up to the amount of indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). Third Country Versus Constructed Value On March 30, 1994, counsel for 14 of the 16 respondents requested that the Department reject third-country sales and rely instead on constructed value as the basis for FMV.
