FR940713-2-00061 FR940713-2-00040 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC_480] Announcement of Cooperative Agreement to the Association of State and Territorial Chronic Disease Program Directors Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a sole source cooperative agreement with the Association of State and Territorial Chronic Disease Program Directors (ASTCDPD) to provide State and national leadership to develop programs for the control and prevention of chronic disease and to prevent the development of behaviors that contribute to the development of chronic disease. Approximately $200,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund this award. It is expected that the award will begin on or about September 30, 1994, and will be for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 5 years. This funding estimate may vary and is subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and availability of funds. The purpose of this cooperative agreement is to assist ASTCDPD to periodically determine the status of State and local chronic disease programs and provide appropriate professional expertise to implement informational and programmatic activities to enhance the delivery of comprehensive chronic disease prevention and control services. The CDC will collaborate in designing survey techniques, analyzing data, and developing informational, educational, and programmatic approaches to enhance national, State, and local comprehensive chronic disease programming; designing profiles of ASTCDPD membership and organizational resources available to assist health care agencies and organizations; developing communications systems; and providing scientific and operational updates in the areas of categorical and comprehensive chronic disease prevention and control. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority areas of Physical Activity and Fitness, Heart Disease and Stroke, Nutrition, Diabetes, Cancer, and Tobacco. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the Section Where To Obtain Additional Information. ) Authority: This program is authorized under section 317 (k)(2), [42 U.S.C. 247b(k)(2)] of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicant Assistance will be provided only to ASTCDPD. No other applications are solicited. The Program Announcement and the application kit have been sent to ASTCDPD. Eligibility is limited to ASTCDPD because of its unique relationship with both the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO) and State chronic disease prevention and health promotion programs. ASTCDPD is an affiliate of the ASTHO and is the officially designated organization to advise and represent the interest of State health officials in comprehensive chronic disease prevention and control activities. ASTCDPD is the only national nonprofit chronic disease organization of which program directors and staff representing all States and territories are members. ASTCDPD is organized specifically, to serve as a convener of activities relative to State chronic disease programs.
