FR940728-1-00022 FR940728-1-00009 LIBRARY OF CONGRESS Copyright Office 37 CFR Part 201 [Docket No. RM 94&hyph;5A] Copyright Office Fees; Deposit Accounts AGENCY: Copyright Office, Library of Congress. ACTION: Notice of intention to amend regulations and request for comments. SUMMARY: This document is issued to inform the public that the Copyright Office intends to amend 37 CFR 201.6 to institute fees for Deposit Account services, as authorized by the Copyright Code. The new fees would reflect the actual cost of providing Deposit Account benefits and services. This document sets out our proposal for instituting fees and also requests comments on this proposal or other alternatives. DATES: Written comments should be received by September 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Fifteen copies of written comments should be addressed, if sent by mail, to: Eric Schwartz, Acting General Counsel, Copyright GC/I&R, P.O. Box 70400, Southwest Station, Washington, DC 20024. If delivered by hand, copies should be brought to: Office of the General Counsel, Copyright Office, James Madison Memorial Building, Room 407, First and Independence Avenue, SE., Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Eric Schwartz, Acting General Counsel, U.S. Copyright Office Library of Congress, Washington, DC 20540. Telephone: (202) 707&hyph;8380. Telefax (202) 707&hyph;8366. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Background The Copyright Office today issues two separate, but associated documents about fees for providing certain discretionary services to the public. This Notice addresses proposals for instituting a schedule of fees for establishing, providing, and maintaining Deposit Accounts. Published elsewhere in today's Federal Register is an associated document covering increases or institution of fees for special services authorized under the Copyright Code. These documents are issued following a comprehensive analysis of the costs the Office incurs for providing special user services, including Deposit Accounts, and a determination that current fees charged for various special services do not offset the costs of providing them. In an effort to reflect more accurately the costs associated with providing certain services to the public, and because of limited Congressional appropriations and uncertain revenue flow, we have concluded that we must take action under title 17 of the United States Code, which authorizes the Register of Copyrights to require payment ``for any other special services requiring a substantial amount of time or expense␣.␣.␣.'' based on ``the cost of providing the service.'' 17 U.S.C. 708(a)(10). In this document, we invite public comment on our proposal to improve the operation of the Deposit Account system and recover our expenses with respect to providing and maintaining Deposit Accounts. 2. The Deposit Account System The Copyright Office maintains a system of Deposit Accounts for the convenience of those who frequently use its services. The system allows an individual or firm to establish a Deposit Account in the Copyright Office and to make advance deposits into that account. Deposit Account holders can charge copyright fees against the balance in their accounts instead of sending separate remittances with applications and other requests for services. Deposit Accounts do not operate in the same way as commercial charge accounts, and cannot be overdrawn or used as a form of advance credit. The Copyright Office cannot perform any services before payment is made. Funds must, therefore, be available in a Deposit Account for the payment of copyright fees before an application for registration can be accepted or other services performed. As it currently operates, the Copyright Office Deposit Account system involves substantial benefits to the depositors and substantial costs to the Copyright Office. At present, however, the obligations imposed on depositors with respect to opening and maintaining Deposit Accounts are minimal. At the same time, the Office provides its Deposit Account services free of charge and makes no effort to recoup the costs incurred as a result of insufficient funds and uncollectible replenishment checks.
