FR940826-2-00093 FR940826-2-00055 The BOCs also request generic modification of cellular exchange areas, purportedly along MTA lines but grandfathering all prior cellular geography relief. The United States urges the Court to defer considering this issue. Wholesale redrawing of the cellular exchange map seems unwise at this time, since the FCC has recently announced that it will be considering this exact issue in its current rulemaking to decide whether to require that all cellular carriers grant equal access to interexchange carriers. 6 Had the BOCs made a compelling showing for the relief they seek, the Court might nonetheless act on that showing. However, the BOCs have not demonstrated that MTAs generally or individually reflect communities for cellular telephony. 6 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and Notice of Inquiry. In re Equal Access and Interconnection Obligations Pertaining to Commercial Mobile Radio Services. ¶¶56&hyph;70 (F.C.C. June 9, 1994) (CC Docket 94&hyph;54) (`` FCC Equal Access NPRM ''). If the Commission mandates equal access, and devises a cellular exchange area map, that map may_but probably will not_correspond with the LATA map, as adjusted by the Court in the past. The Court will then be faced with the question whether to modify the Decree map to conform to the FCC map. It would make little sense for the Court to determine whether yet a third map should be adopted, when the Commission is likely to consider the same issue and where inconsistent results would be especially problematic. See pp. 46&hyph;49 below. Because the Department's analysis of the BOCs' Motion turns in large measure on the vitality of equal access, Part I of this Memorandum argues that BellSouth and Southwestern have failed to demonstrate that the equal access requirement should be removed. Part II then explains the Department's view that, subject to appropriate equal access safeguards, BOC entry into cellular interexchange service should not reduce competition, and then describes those safeguards. Part III discusses the BOC's requests for geographic relief. Argument I. The Bellsouth and Southwestern Bell Motions, Seeking to Remove the Decree's Equal Access Obligations as Applied to Cellular Exchange Services, Should be Denied. The Court has twice determined that Bell Company provision of interexchange service from cellular exchanges without equal access would be unacceptable. Before diverstiture, the Court concluded that ``such a development would have been entirely inconsistent with the terms and purposes of the decree, and the Court would not have authorized it.'' United States v. Western Elec. Co., 578 F. Supp. 643, 647 (D.D.C. 1983) (`` Mobile Services Decision ''). And in the Triennial Review, the Court again rejected the BOCs' application for authority to provide, without equal access, interexchange services from their cellular exchanges. United States v. Western Elec. Co., 673 F. Supp. 525, 551 (D.D.C. 1987), aff'd in part and remanded in part on other grounds, 900 F.2d 283 (D.C. Cir.), cert. denied sub nom. MCI Communications Corp v. United States, 498 U.S. 911 (1990). BellSouth and Southwestern again seek that relief. The Court's Order of July 8 asks BellSouth whether, in light of the filing of its motion to vacate the Decree in its entirety, its motion to exempt wireless services from Section II should be deferred. BellSouth has answered in the negative. 7 The United States does not agree that the Court should indulge BellSouth in its filing of multiple overlapping motions, taxing the resources and patience of the Court. 7 Response of BellSouth Corp. to the Court's Memorandum Order of July 8, 1994 (July 14. 1994). However, the United States believes that its ressponse to BellSouth's motion, and to the similar motion of Southwestern, will provide a useful framework for analyzing the BOCs' joint motion. In order to understand how equal access should work in preventing competitive harm, it is first necessary to understand why equal access is essential to prevent that harm. A. To Remove Equal Access, Movants Must Show at a Minimum that the Removal of Equal Access from their Cellular Exchanges Would Not Reduce Competition in Long Distance Services from those Exchanges. The sought-for removal of the Decree's restrictions on cellular exchanges requires to separate modifications, subject to two different standards of review. The removal of the interexchange restriction implicates the familiar standard for contested waivers under Section VIII(C): Will ``the entering BOC will have the ability to raise prices or reduce output in the market it seeks to enter''? Triennial Review, 900 F.2d at 296. The removal of the equal access restriction is not governed by Section VIII(C), which by its terms applies only to modifications of the line-of-business restrictions of Section II(D)(1). Instead, the motion to remove equal access is governed by Section VII and the common law standard it incorporates. This Court recently discussed that standard: [A] party seeking an opposed modification of a consent decree ``bears the burden of establishing that a significant change in circumstances warrants revision of the decree.'' Such a change may be either a ``significant change in factual conditions or in law.'' Modification may also be appropriate when ``enforcement of the decree without modification would be detrimental to the public interest.'' 8 8 United States v. Western Elec. Co., 154 F.R.D. 1, 7&hyph;8 (D.D.C. 1994; internal citations omitted) (`` AT&T/McCaw Decsion ''), quoting Rufo v. Inmates of Suffolk County Jail, 112 S. Ct. 748, 760 (1992). The Court determined that Rufo, rather than United States v. Swift & Co., 286 U.S. 106 (1932), provided the correct standard for evaluating contested modifications of consent decrees ``not without considerable hestitation.'' 154 F.R.D. at 8. As the Court noted, Swift, long the standard for modifying antitrust consent decrees, presented ``a context strikingly similar to that in this case,'' unlike Rufo, which dealt not with antitrust decrees but with prison reform litigation. ld. Although these are alternative grounds for modificaton, this Court correctly recognized that a contested modification should not be granted if the modification is contrary to the public interest. AT&T/McCaw Decision, 154 F.R.D. at 9. Therefore, at a minimum, a modification should not be granted, under either Section VII or Section VIII(C)_where it appears that the result of the modification would be to reduce competition in an affected market. On this application, it is the movants' burden to demonstrate at a minimum that the relief they seek is unlikely to reduce competition in interxchange markets. They plainly have failed to make any such showing. See pp. 13&hyph;23 below.
