FR940523-2-00138 FR940523-2-00080 2. Program Planning: Detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate appropriate content and logistical capacity. Agenda and plan should adhere to the program overview and guidelines described above. 3. Ability to achieve program objectives: Objectives should be reasonable, feasible, and flexible. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program's objectives and plan. 4. Multiplier effect/impact: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, including maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual linkages. 5. Institutional Capacity: Proposed personnel and institutional resources should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the program or project's goals. 6. Institution's Record/Ability: Proposals should demonstrate an institutional record of successful exchange programs, including responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts (M/KG). The Agency will consider past performance of prior grantees and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. 7. Follow-on Activities: Proposals should provide a plan for continued cost-effective follow-on activity which insures that USIA-supported programs are not isolated venues. 8. Evaluation Plan: Proposals should provide a plan for evaluation by the recipient institution. 9. Cost-Effectiveness: The overhead and administrative components of grants, as well as salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. 10. Cost-sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as institutional direct funding contributions. 11. Support of Diversity: Proposals should demonstrate the recipient's commitment to promoting the awareness and understanding of diversity throughout the program. This can be accomplished through documentation (such as a written statement or account) summarizing past and/or on-going activities and efforts that further the principle of diversity within both the organization and the program activities. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. Final award cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about August 15, 1994. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: May 16, 1994. Barry Fulton, Deputy Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12470 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
