FR940503-0-00036 FR940503-0-00009 Comment. Two trade associations and one Government agency stated that NVLAP procedures need to be more explicit regarding coordination with the private and public sectors in defining the contents of a LAP, especially when the LAP will be addressing regulatory responsibilities of other agencies. Response. NVLAP invites the participation of all interested parties in the determination of need and in the design of a new accreditation program (§§285.15 and 285.16). The Federal Register , public workshops, news releases, direct mailings to organizations and associations, and participation in industry and professional meetings are all mechanisms used in order to encourage such participation. Comment. A trade association, a Government agency and an accreditation organization commented that §285.12(b)(3) LAP development decision does not adequately prevent a conflict of interest for NIST in making LAP development decisions that could be in competition with private sector accreditation programs. Response. The conditions under which NVLAP establishes and operates accreditation programs is explicit and addresses the conflict of interest question. NVLAP believes that the requirements followed in making a development decision are adequate and that NVLAP has guarded against establishment of programs already existing or that could be offered by private sector accreditors. Comment. A trade association, a Government agency and an accreditation organization commented that §285.18 Adding to or modifying an established LAP should be strengthened to require NVLAP to follow the same requirements for modifying a LAP as for establishing a new LAP. NVLAP should not add test methods without going through a full ``need'' analysis. Response. Every LAP is established after an exhaustive process that includes the determination of need. Changes needed by a LAP sponsor, caused by standards updated by standards bodies, or due to revisions in regulatory requirements, must be made expeditiously so that the accreditation program continues to meet the needs of its sponsor. Comment. One manufacturer and one government agency suggested that §285.13 Request from a government agency be revised to contain all of the information required from a private sector organization requesting a LAP (§285.14). Response. The procedures to be followed by private sector organizations and government agencies are, of necessity, different. Regulatory and public service program authorities are specified in laws and administrative procedures. Accreditation requirements established by government agencies may contain the conditions noted in §285.14 and are automatically referenced in the specific authority establishing a laboratory accreditation program. NVLAP, however, agrees that the procedures do need to explicitly address establishing or modifying NVLAP LAPs to meet the requirements mandated by the Federal Government including legislative action and/or intergovernmental understandings or agreements. Accordingly, section 285.1 is revised to state that NVLAP will operate to accredit both calibration laboratories and testing laboratories ``in response to (a) Mandates by the Federal government through legislative or administrative action; (b) Requests from a government agency (§285.13); and (c) Requests from a private section organization (§285.14)''. In addition, §285.11, Requesting a LAP, is revised to provide that following receipt of the identification of a mandate for a LAP based on legislative or administrative action, the Director must publish a Federal Register notice (1) stating the purpose of the LAP including the national or international need; (2) describing the general scope of the LAP; (3) identifying government agencies having oversight; and (4) providing information to any interested party wishing to be on the NVLAP mailing list to receive routine information on the development of the LAP. In addition, §285.12 is revised to provide that the Director of NIST shall establish all LAPs on the basis of need; and that a mandate to develop a LAP by NVLAP will be interpreted as a defacto decision to develop the specified LAP, and a LAP will be developed (or existing LAPs modified, if practical) following these procedures. Comment. In the context of the establishment of LAPs at the request of Government agencies, one manufacturer stated that the proposed change to the NVLAP procedures does not cover: (1) Requirements for factory inspections as a part of certification; (2) certification organizations; and (3) the need for a public review of the findings. Further, the changes would allow the use of subcontractors who are not independent of manufacturers, employers, and distributors. Response. No changes are made. The comments reflect some of the conditions of accreditation required by a government agency. These kinds of conditions are normally addressed in gathering information leading to a decision whether or not to develop a new LAP. The NVLAP procedures can not be complete in anticipation of any and all possible conditions required by a sponsor.
