FR940414-2-00010 FR940414-2-00005 Intent to Conduct a Public Meeting on the Preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the Proposed Mullica River-Great Bay National Estuarine Research Reserve, New Jersey AGENCY: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Ocean Service, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, Commerce. ACTION: Notice of public meetings and intent to prepare a draft environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: In accordance with section 315 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended, the State of New Jersey and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) intends to conduct public scoping meetings to present a preliminary draft management plan outline for the proposed Mullica River-Great Bay National Estuarine Research Reserve and to solicit comments on significant issues related to the preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) and Draft Management Plan (DMP). THe DEIS and DMP will address research, monitoring, education and resource protection needs for the Reserve. In October 1993, NOAA approved the nomination of Mullica River-Great Bay in New Jersey as a proposed research reserve. Research reserves provide natural coastal habitats as field laboratories for baseline ecological studies and education programs. Research and monitoring programs are designed to enhance basis scientific understanding of the coastal environment and aid in resource management decision making. The Mullica River-Great Bay Reserve is proposed to be managed by the Rutgers University, Institute of Marine and Coastal Science (IMCS) in cooperation with the Department of Environmental Protection and Energy's (DEPE) Office of Land and Water Planning. Since the 1970's, the Institute's marine field station at Tuckerton has been the site of some of the earliest east coast research on estuarine systems and continues to provide research and education opportunities for investigators from universities throughout the country to study coastal system dynamics. These research activities have generated biological and geological data that will be of immense value to furthering the long-term research and education goals of the Reserve. The Institute has developed a preliminary draft management plan outline for the Reserve which identifies specific needs and priorities related to research, monitoring, education, and resource protection at the approved site. It also outlines an administration plan, volunteer program and facilities development needs; public access, and visitor use policies. At the public meetings, DEPE, IMCS, and NOAA will provide a synopsis of the process for developing a DMP and will solicit comments on significant environmental issues that will be incorporated into a DEIS. The public meetings will be held from 2 p.m.&hyph;4 p.m. and from 6 p.m.&hyph;8 p.m. on Monday, May 2, 1994, at the Little Egg Harbor Township Hall, 7 Gifford Road, Little Egg Harbor, New Jersey 08087. Interested parties who wish to submit suggestions, comments or substantive information regarding the scope or content of the proposed DEIS/DMP are invited to attend either of the above meetings. Parties who wish to respond in writing should do so by May 16, 1994, to Ms. Dolores Washington, Program Specialist, Sanctuaries and Reserves Division, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, NOAA, SSMC4, suite 12155, Silver Spring, MD 20910. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Dolores Washington, Program Specialist, Sanctuaries and Reserves Division, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, NOAA, SSMC4, 12155, Silver Spring, MD 20910, (Telephone 301/713&hyph;3132). Federal Domestic Assistance Catalog Number 11.420 (Coastal Zone Management) Research Reserves. Dated: April 11, 1994. Frank Maloney, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9034 Filed 4&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;08&hyph;M
