FR940228-1-00063 FR940228-1-00010 Consequently, in the Higher Education Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;325, (the Amendments of 1992), Congress provided for a new part H of Title IV entitled ``Program Integrity Triad.'' Under that part, States and accrediting agencies are required to assume major new oversight responsibilities, and States, accrediting associations, and the Secretary are linked to create a stronger and more coordinated evaluation of institutions that participate or wish to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary believes that the most appropriate approach to this coordinated evaluation of institutions by the three components of the triad is a complementary one with each component focusing its evaluation on its obligations within the context of the HEA. Thus, the focus for accrediting agencies is the quality of education or training provided by the institutions or programs they accredit. For States, which already had responsibility for determining that institutions have the legal authority to operate within the State, the HEA added a new focus: reviewing institutions that trigger certain statutory review criteria. The focus of the Secretary's evaluation of institutions is the administrative and financial capacity of those institutions to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs. The statute allocates legal responsibility among the entities that compose the program integrity triad. While the specific statutory responsibilities for the three triad entities may overlap, when viewed as a whole the triad brings together in a coordinated fashion three different but very important aspects of institutional review. Within this statutory scheme, the Secretary has sought to assure that the gatekeeping system operates as efficiently as possible, with maximum integration among the three triad entities and without unnecessary burden on postsecondary institutions. In order to assist the Secretary in designing a final regulation that achieves these goals, the Secretary specifically requests comment on the following questions: (1) In several areas, the statute specifically requires each triad entity to evaluate an institution under the same or similar standards. For example, a SPRE and an accrediting agency may establish different standards for evaluating the financial responsibility of an institution or for evaluating the success of an institution's educational program. Thus, a reviewed institution would need to satisfy the SPRE's and the accrediting agency's standards even though those standards address the same areas. How should final regulations be structured to both reduce the burden on institutions and enable the triad entities to carry out effectively their statutory functions? (2) Should final regulations be more explicit in identifying levels, characteristics, or definitions for any of the assessment or review criteria that a triad entity is expected to consider in its evaluation of an institution? Subpart 1 of part H creates a new program, the State Postsecondary Review Program, or SPRP, under which State oversight of institutions participating in the Title IV, HEA programs is strengthened. Subpart 2 of part H establishes procedures and criteria under which the Secretary recognizes an accrediting agency as a reliable authority as to the quality of the education or training offered by institutions that the agency accredits. Lastly, subpart 3 specifies the procedures the Secretary uses to determine whether an institution meets the eligibility requirements and has the administrative capacity and financial responsibility to administer the Title IV, HEA programs. On January 24, 1994, the Secretary published in the Federal Register the NPRMs to implement the SPRP provisions in subpart 1 of part H of the HEA (59 FR 3604) and the accrediting agency provisions in subpart 2 of part H of the HEA (59 FR 3578). The Secretary's publication of this NPRM prior to the publication of final regulations implementing the SPRP and accreditation provisions provides the Department of Education an opportunity to coordinate all comments received on the triad. The provisions of subpart 3 that pertain to the institutional eligibility requirements found in 34 CFR part 600 have been addressed in a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) published in the Federal Register on February 10, 1994, that proposes changes to 34 CFR part 600. This NPRM addresses those provisions of subpart 3 that pertain to subparts A and B of 34 CFR part 668. Subpart A contains definitions applicable to the Title IV, HEA programs. Subpart B contains requirements for initial and continued participation in the programs. In particular, the following provisions in this NPRM address provisions of subpart 3: Proposed §§668.15 and 668.16 delineate the standards for the evaluation of an institution's financial responsibility and administrative capability, respectively, as required by section 498(a), (c), and (d) of the HEA. Proposed §668.15 also codifies the definition of persons who exercise substantial control of an institution found in section 498(e) of the HEA. Proposed §668.12 addresses the requirements of section 498(b) of the HEA that requires the Secretary to develop a single application form to be used by institutions that wish to apply to participate or to continue to participate in a Title IV, HEA program. Proposed §668.13 includes the provisions governing the requirement of financial guarantees from owners found in section 498(e) of the HEA, addresses the provision that requires the Secretary to establish a schedule for the expiration of the approval of institutions to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs found in section 498(g) of the HEA, and codifies the provisions governing provisional certification of institutions found in section 498(h) of the HEA. Pursuant to sections 498(g) and (h) of the HEA, proposed §668.26 delineates the date that an institution's period of participation would end, when the institution's period of participation expires, or the institution's provisional certification is revoked.
