FR940920-1-00028 FR940920-1-00007 II. Summary of the Proposed Subpart Eb Standards This section presents a summary of the proposed NSPS, including identification of the source category and pollutants that would be regulated under the proposal, discussion of the format of the proposed standards, and presentation of the proposed standards and their associated performance testing, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. This section also provides a comparison of the emission standards in this proposed subpart Eb NSPS versus the 1991 subpart Ea NSPS. A. Source Category to be Regulated Today's proposed standards would apply to each MWC unit located at an MWC facility that has an aggregate plant capacity to combust over 35 Mg/day of MSW, for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced after September 20, 1994. Additionally, under the proposed NSPS, plants with an aggregate capacity to combust between 25 and 35 Mg/day would be required to submit an initial report of their facility capacities and location, but would not be subject to any other provisions of the NSPS. Municipal waste combustors that commenced construction, modification, reconstruction on or before September 20, 1994 are not covered under today's proposed standards, but are being addressed in a separate notice in today's Federal Register . An MWC is defined as any setting or equipment that combusts MSW. Municipal solid waste combustion includes the burning (or pyrolysis) of MSW in any type of setting or equipment, including combustion equipment with or without heat recovery. This definition has been slightly modified from the February 11, 1991 NSPS and is discussed below. Municipal solid waste is defined as either a mixture or a single-item stream of household, commercial, and/or institutional discards. This would include materials such as paper, wood, yard wastes, tree trimmings, plastics, leather, rubber, glass, metals, and other combustible and noncombustible materials. The MSW definition includes household discards as well as discards from institutional and commercial sources, but does not include industrial process or manufacturing discards. The definition of MSW also includes refuse-derived fuel (RDF), which is solid waste that is shredded (or pelletized) and classified by size before combustion. Municipal solid waste does not, however, include wastes that are solely segregated medical wastes. However, if segregated medical wastes are mixed with MSW, the resulting mixture remains MSW, and the proposed standards would apply if the aggregate MWC plant capacity exceeded 35 Mg/day capacity. Minor editing changes are proposed in the definition of MSW to clarify this point. Air curtain incinerators that combust MSW are MWC's. However, air curtain incinerators that burn only yard wastes, tree trimmings, and clean untreated lumber would be covered under a separate set of proposed opacity emission limits, and no other part of the proposal would apply. Air curtain incinerator opacity requirements are discussed in section VII of this preamble. B. Pollutants to be Regulated Section 129 of the Act requires the EPA to establish numerical emission limits specifically for SO 2 , HCl, PM, opacity, Cd, Pb, Hg, dioxins/furans, CO, and NO X . Section 129 specifies that the EPA may also *␣*␣* promulgate numerical emission limitations or provide for the monitoring of post-combustion concentrations of surrogate substances, parameters, or periods of residence times in excess of stated temperatures with respect to pollutants other than those listed [above]. *␣*␣* Therefore, the EPA is proposing standards for load and flue gas temperature at the PM control device inlet as additional indicators of MWC operating practices. The EPA is also proposing a standard for fly ash/bottom ash fugitive emissions because these emissions include Cd, Pb, Hg, and dioxins/furans (see section VI of this preamble for further discussion of the EPA's decision to regulate fugitive emissions from MWC's). The February 11, 1991 NSPS includes standards for all of the pollutants listed above except Cd, Pb, Hg, and fly ash/bottom ash fugitive emissions. The proposed NSPS would establish standards for all of the pollutants listed above. The proposed standards for the same pollutants regulated by the February 11, 1991 NSPS (i.e., SO 2 , HCl, PM, opacity, dioxins/furans, NO X , CO, load, and flue gas temperature at the PM control device inlet) would be revised under the proposal to reflect the requirements of section 129. C. Format for the Proposed Standards The format of the proposed standards is similar to the format of the February 11, 1991 NSPS. In most cases, the format is in the form of emission limits (concentrations). The February 11, 1991 NSPS specifies emission limits for PM and opacity. Particulate matter is measured as a concentration (milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (mg/dscm)) and is corrected to 7 percent oxygen (O 2 ), and opacity is measured on a percentage basis. The format for the PM and opacity standards would not change in today's proposal, but Cd, Pb, and Hg emission limits would be added. Emissions of Cd, Pb, and Hg would be calculated as a concentration (mg/dscm) corrected to 7 percent O 2 , dry basis. For Hg, today's proposed standards would also establish an alternative percentage reduction requirement. A new method (Method 29) that would measure these pollutants is being proposed in a separate part of today's Federal Register .
