FR940505-1-00496 FR940505-1-00012 (i) Vehicles used to transport passengers or freight, but not including any article, machine, equipment or other contrivance mounted on such a vehicle that would otherwise require a permit under the provisions of this section and §§52.3001 and 52.3002. (ii) Locomotives, airplanes and watercraft used to transport passengers or freight. This exemption shall not apply to equipment used for dredging of waterways or equipment used in pile driving adjacent to or in waterways, nor to the emissions from watercraft while docked at a stationary source. (3) Combustion and heat transfer equipment. (i) Internal combustion engines with a manufacturer's maximum continuous rating of 50 brake horsepower or less or gas turbine engines with a maximum heat input rate of 3,000,000 British Thermal Units (Btu) per hour or less at ISO standard day conditions (288 degrees Kelvin, 60% relative humidity, and 101.3 kilopascals pressure). The ratings of all engines or turbines used in the same process will be accumulated to determine whether this exemption applies. (ii) Any combustion equipment that has a maximum heat input of less than 1,000,000 Btu per hour (gross) and is equipped to be fired exclusively with purchased quality natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas or any combination thereof. The ratings of all combustion equipment used in the same process will be accumulated to determine whether this exemption applies. (4) Residential structures. Equipment utilized exclusively in connection with any structure, when the structure is designed for and used exclusively as a dwelling for not more than four families. (5) Plastics and ceramics processing. Ovens, kilns, or furnaces fired by electricity used exclusively for the heating, curing, softening, or annealing of plastics or ceramics, and not emitting more than 5 pounds of volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions in any one day. These exemptions shall not apply to ovens used for heating or curing of fiberglass reinforced plastics. (6) Storage and transfer. Tanks, reservoirs, vessels or other containers and their associated dispensing, pumping and compression systems used exclusively for the storage of: (i) Liquefied or compressed gases. (ii) Unheated organic materials with an initial boiling point of 150 ○C (302 ○F) or greater, as determined by the testing procedure specified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, or with an organic vapor pressure of 5 mm Hg (0.1 psia) or less at 20 ○C, as determined by the testing procedure specified in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section. (iii) Organic liquids with a vapor pressure of 77.5 mm Hg (1.5 psia) or less at 20 ○C, as determined by the testing procedure specified in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section, having a capacity of 23,000 liters (6,076 gallons or less). Equipment used exclusively for the transfer of organic liquids with a vapor pressure of 77.5 mm Hg (1.5 psia) at 20 ○C to or from storage. (iv) Unheated solvent dispensing containers of 380 liters (100 gallons) capacity or less. (7) Surface coating and preparation. (i) Water solution for surface preparation, cleaning, stripping, etching (other than chemical milling) or the electrolytic plating with electrolytic polishing of, or the electrolytic stripping of brass, bronze, cadmium, copper, iron, lead, nickel, tin, zinc, and precious metals. (ii) Surface coating operations using a combined total of 1 gallon per day or less of coating material and solvent. (iii) Unheated non-conveyorized solvent-rinsing containers or unheated non-conveyorized coating dip tanks of 380 liters (100 gallons) capacity or less. (8) Food processing. The following processing equipment for food or other human consumables and exhaust systems or collectors serving exclusively such equipment used in: (i) Eating establishments for the purpose of preparing food for human consumption. (ii) Smokehouses in which the maximum horizontal inside cross-sectional area does not exceed 2 square meters (21.5 square feet). (iii) Mixers and blenders used in bakeries. (iv) Confection cookers. (v) Grinding, blending or packaging tea, cocoa, spices, or roasted coffee. (9) Laboratory equipment. Laboratory equipment used exclusively for chemical or physical analysis and bench-scale tests, including associated vacuum-producing equipment.
