FR940603-1-00152 FR940603-1-00009 UR&hyph;4a Pavement Assembly Unit, Asphalt_Consists of the labor and material necessary to remove and restore one (1) lineal foot of asphalt pavement, measured along the route of the cable, including any trenching necessary to place the cable at the required depth. All work shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of state or local authorities. UR&hyph;4c Pavement Assembly Unit, Concrete_Consists of the labor and material necessary to remove and restore one (1) lineal foot of concrete pavement, measured along the route of the cable, including any trenching necessary to place the cable at the required depth. All work shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of state or local authorities. UR&hyph;5 (␣) Underground Pipe Crossing Assembly Unit_Consists of one (1) lineal foot of steel pipe, of the inside diameter, in inches, specified in the last digit of the assembly unit designation, installed in place. This unit includes the pushing of pipe and any excavation, backfilling and tamping necessary for the installation of the pipe. The pipe will be installed at the depth specified by the Owner. Underground cable installed in the pipe is not included in this unit. UR&hyph;6 Underground Nonpipe Crossing Assembly Unit_Consists of the labor in providing a hole in soil one (1) foot in length of a diameter sufficient to accommodate the cable to be installed therein. The depth of the hole below the surface of the ground shall be specified by the Owner. This unit includes any excavation, backfilling and tamping necessary for the installation. This unit may be used where the permanent installation of a steel pipe under the UR&hyph;5 unit is not required. Underground cable installed in the hole is not included in this unit. ␣ 1Unit No. 1 Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials UR Construction Units_Line Changes The general heading of Line Changes applies to the changing of existing lines or portions thereof from their existing phasing, wire size, and type to new phasing, wire size, and type and the removal of existing lines or portions thereof and replacing with new lines in close proximity thereto. In general line changes involve three types of assembly units as follows: Section H_Conversion assembly units; Section I_Removal assembly units; Section N_New construction assembly units on existing lines or in replacing lines. The assembly units that are included in Sections H, I, and N are defined by symbols and descriptions which follow together with the applicable descriptions included under New Construction. Where the descriptions are not correct or sufficiently explicit, or when special units are not covered by Construction Drawings, descriptions have been provided by the Owner in the respective sections.
