FR941227-0-00112 FR941227-0-00020 (B) Held at least one public hearing to obtain the views of citizens on community development and housing needs; and (C) Prepared its application in accordance with §570.704(a)(1)(iv) and made the application available to the public. (iv) It is following a detailed citizen participation plan which meets the requirements described in §570.704(a)(2). (v) The public entity will affirmatively further fair housing, and the guaranteed loan funds will be administered in compliance with: (A) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq. ); and (B) The Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601&hyph;3619). (vi) (A) (For entitlement public entities only.) In the aggregate, at least 70 percent of all CDBG funds, as defined at §570.3, to be expended during the one, two, or three consecutive years specified by the public entity for its CDBG program will be for activities which benefit low and moderate income persons, as described in criteria at §570.208(a). (B) (For nonentitlement public entities eligible under subpart F of this part only.) It will comply with primary and national objectives requirements, as applicable under subpart F of this part. (vii) It will comply with the requirements governing displacement, relocation, real property acquisition, and the replacement of low and moderate income housing described in §570.488 or §570.606. (viii) It will comply with the requirements of §570.200(c)(2) with regard to the use of special assessments to recover the capital costs of activities assisted with guaranteed loan funds. (ix) (Where applicable, the public entity may also include the following additional certification.) It lacks sufficient resources from funds provided under this subpart or program income to allow it to comply with the provisions of §570.200(c)(2), and it must therefore assess properties owned and occupied by moderate income persons, to recover the guaranteed loan funded portion of the capital cost without paying such assessments in their behalf from guaranteed loan funds. (x) It will comply with the other provisions of the Act and with other applicable laws. (9) In the case of an application submitted by a State-assisted public entity, certifications by the State that: (i) It agrees to make the pledge of grants required under §570.705(b)(2). (ii) It possesses the legal authority to make such pledge. (iii) At least 70 percent of the aggregate use of CDBG grant funds received by the State, guaranteed loan funds, and program income during the one, two, or three consecutive years specified by the State for its CDBG program will be for activities that benefit low and moderate income persons. (iv) It agrees to assume the responsibilities described in §570.710. (c) HUD review and approval of applications. (1) HUD will normally accept the certifications submitted with the application. HUD may, however, consider relevant information which challenges the certifications and require additional information or assurances from the public entity or State as warranted by such information. (2) The HUD Office shall review the application for compliance with requirements specified in this subpart and forward the application together with its recommendation for approval or disapproval of the requested loan guarantee to HUD Headquarters. (3) HUD may disapprove an application, or may approve loan guarantee assistance for an amount less than requested, for any of the following reasons: (i) HUD determines that the guarantee constitutes an unacceptable financial risk. Factors that will be considered in assessing financial risk shall include, but not be limited to, the following: (A) The length of the proposed repayment period; (B) The ratio of expected annual debt service requirements to expected annual grant amount;
