FR940928-0-00052 FR940928-0-00019 G. Laboratory Accreditation The Act at section 323(b)(6), directs DOE to prescribe test procedures which must be carried out by accredited test laboratories. The Department herein defines an accredited laboratory as one which meets the standards and requirements of the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program, a division of the National Institute of Standards and Technology of the United States Department of Commerce. Test laboratory accreditation by the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program is based on conformance with criteria published in 15 CFR part 285 and in the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program Handbook 150&hyph;01, ``Energy Efficient Lighting Products, Lamps and Luminaires,'' August 1993. The National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program Handbook 150&hyph;01 is available for inspection in the DOE reading room from 9 to 4, Monday through Friday or may be ordered from the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program, Building 411, Room A162, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. The National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program has mutual recognition agreements with the following countries: Canada, New Zealand, Australia and Great Britain. These agreements, with the aforesaid countries, allow foreign test laboratories to be recognized by the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program. The National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program will also directly accredit foreign test laboratories. Costs for laboratory accreditation are borne by the test laboratory. H. Certification Data The Department is adding a new paragraph for lamp certification data at §430.62(a)(2). The lamp manufacturers' certification report must include the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program identification number, production date codes, lamp efficacy, Color Rendering Index, where applicable, lamp wattage, brand names and model designation. Since lamps manufactured prior to the effective date of the standards may be in the distribution system for some time, lamp manufacturers should advise DOE on how to interpret their production date coding system in the certification report. All other requirements of §430.62 and Appendix A, Compliance Statement, also apply to general service fluorescent lamps and incandescent reflector lamps. I. Energy Conservation Standards The Act prescribes, and today's notice includes in §430.32, energy conservation standards for general service fluorescent and incandescent reflector lamps. There are no standards for general service incandescent lamps or medium base compact fluorescent lamps. J. Definitions By this notice, the Department of Energy is amending the definition of ``Act'' as it appears in §430.2. The amended definition will include the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;486). The legislated definitions for incandescent lamp, general service incandescent lamp, fluorescent lamp, general service fluorescent lamp, and medium base compact fluorescent lamp are included in §430.2. Note that there is an inconsistency in the Act between the definition for ``fluorescent lamp'' and the definition for ``medium base compact fluorescent lamp.'' The definition for ``fluorescent lamp'' only includes four lamp types and does not include a medium base compact fluorescent lamp. Faced with this conflict, the Department has included the definition of ``medium base compact fluorescent lamp'' and has included test procedures as noted above. The Department has also defined cold temperature lamp in §430.2 from an industry standard. The Act provides for an exemption from the standards for lamps specifically designed for cold temperature installations. See §321(30)(B)(ii). The Department is defining ``cold temperature'' lamps as those lamps specifically designated and marketed for outdoor or cold temperature use and that are designed to start at ^20 ○F when used with a ballast conforming to the requirements of American National Standards Institute standard C78.1. Lamps that meet these requirements would not be subject to standards. In order to qualify for the exemption, the lamps must be ``specifically'' designed for cold temperature installations and must be specifically designated and marketed as such in catalogs, sales literature and other promotional material. K. Prohibited Acts and Penalties Since the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct) amends the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA), the enforcement provisions may not be apparent. Therefore, the following statements reiterate the provisions from the Energy Policy and Conservation Act in section 332 and the regulations at 10 CFR Section 430.61. The statute prohibits the following actions: (1) For any manufacturer or private labeler to distribute in commerce any new covered product to which a rule under section 324 applies, unless such covered product is labeled in accordance with such rule; (2) For any manufacturer, distributor, retailer, or private labeler to remove from any new covered product or render illegible any label required to be provided with such product under a rule under section 324; (3) For any manufacturer to fail to permit access to, or copying of, records required to be supplied under this part, or fail to make reports or provide other information required to be supplied under this part; (4) For any person to fail to comply with an applicable requirement of section 326(a), (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(5); or
