FR940412-1-00059 FR940412-1-00010 Van trailers have more surface available for conspicuity treatment than other trailers, but NHTSA did not adopt requirements that appeared unsuitable for other types of trailers. Part of the value of the uniform conspicuity treatment is that it is expected to maximize the conspicuity of the least conspicuous trailers, such as platform trailers, by giving them a familiar night image. While the agency does not discourage the use of auxiliary material on trailers with large amounts of surface area, it believes that maximizing the number of common elements between trailer treatments aids in their recognition. NHTSA, therefore, is disinclined to allow alternative conspicuity treatments in general because the final rule was designed to make them unnecessary. Standard No. 108 specifies a minimum amount of reflective material to achieve the safety purpose, and at minimum cost. Attributes of the Metalcore Alternative Metalcore has suggested the alternative of substituting 1/2-inch wide white reflective tape stripes outlining the doors of a van trailer for the required 2-inch wide white upper corner stripes and 2-inch wide red/white stripe across the full width of the trailer near the bottom of the doors. It claims that the alternative projects approximately the same reflective area as the requirement of Standard No. 108 and that the total light return of the alternative is greater because only white material would be used. It further claims that its alternative of outlining in white has been shown to be superior to the requirements of Standard No. 108 by Carlton University's report (Tansley and Petrusic) to Transport Canada. Tansley and Petrusic discounted the value of the U.S. red/white pattern in connoting a hazard and suggested that detection distance should be the principal measure of safety in evaluating conspicuity schemes. According to the petitioner, Tansley and Petrusic predicted a detection distance of 819 m for the white outline treatment recommended by Carlton University as compared with a predicted detection distance of 450 m for Standard No. 108. In the notice responding to petitions for reconsideration on October 6, 1993 (58 FR 52021, at 52023), the agency discussed its disagreement with the decision sight distance criterion recommended by Carlton University and the reasons for NHTSA's use of the stopping sight distance criterion recommended by UMTRI. The agency believes that Standard No. 108 is more cost effective than the Carlton University recommendations while providing a detection distance adequate for safety and superior recognition and hazard awareness cues. Standard No. 108 also addresses the practicability problems of trailers other than vans that were not considered in the Carlton University recommendations. NHTSA also notes that in a demonstration test reported by Transport Canada in its Technical Memorandum TME 9301, the detection distances found for the Carlton and U.S. rear van treatments were 993 m and 902 m, respectively, with even less difference in recognition distance. It is true that compliance with Standard No. 108 and the Metalcore alternative can be achieved with equivalent amounts of reflective material and that an all white treatment returns more light than a red/white treatment of equal area (although the petitioner has underestimated the relative brightness of the red material). However, the petitioner's claims of greater sight distance based on Tansley and Petrusic are in error. The white outlining scheme of Tansley and Petrusic uses 2-inch wide reflective material as does Standard No. 108. The stripes are perceived at a distance as a line of point sources of light, and the sight distance of a point source depends on its total light return rather than its luminance per unit area. The sight distance of a 1/2-inch wide stripe will be less than that of a 2-inch stripe of the same material because it will be perceived as a line of point sources each having only one fourth the light return. Therefore, the sight distance of the Metalcore alternative will be inferior to the Tansley and Petrusic scheme cited by the petitioner and to at least the white components of Standard No. 108. The UMTRI report discusses the data of previous researchers concerning the width of conspicuity stripes, and remarked that ``the luminance of a one-inch treatment must be about double that of a two-inch treatment to achieve equal conspicuity.'' The point source model for visibility distance discussed in the previous paragraph is consistent with data for conspicuity stripes narrower than 4 inches. Decision The agency has conducted a technical review of the petition and determined that there is not a reasonable possibility that the amendment requested in the petition will be issued at the end of a rulemaking proceeding. Therefore, the petition is denied. Authority: 15 U.S.C. 1392, 1401, 1403, 1407; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.50 and 501.8. Issued on: April 6, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8626 Filed 4&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
