FR941021-0-00123 FR941021-0-00020 (i) Except in accordance with the deviation procedures in 600.4 or as may be provided for in program regulations, no other prior approval requirements for specific items will be imposed by DOE. (j) When DOE makes an award that provides support for both construction and nonconstruction work, DOE may require the recipient to request prior approval from DOE before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported. (k) For both construction and nonconstruction awards, recipients shall notify DOE in writing promptly whenever the amount of Federal authorized funds is expected to exceed the needs of the recipient for the project period by more than $5000 or five percent of the Federal award, whichever is greater. This notification shall not be required if an application for additional funding is submitted for a continuation award. (l) Requests for budget revisions may be made by letter. (m) Within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, DOE shall review the request and notify the recipient whether the budget revisions have been approved. If the revision is still under consideration at the end of 30 calendar days, DOE shall inform the recipient in writing of the date when the recipient may expect the decision. (n) DOE approval or disapproval of a request for a budget or project revision shall be in writing and signed by a DOE Contracting Officer. (o) A request by a subrecipient for prior approval shall be addressed in writing to the recipient. The recipient shall promptly review such request and shall approve or disapprove the request in writing within 30 days from the date of the recipient's request for the revision. A recipient shall not approve any budget or project revision which is inconsistent with the purpose or terms and conditions of the DOE award. If the revision requested by the subrecipient would result in a change to the recipient's approved budget or approved project which requires DOE prior approval, the recipient shall obtain DOE approval before approving such revision. ยง600.126 Non-Federal audits. (a) Recipients and subrecipients that are institutions of higher education or other non-profit organizations shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in OMB Circular A&hyph;133, ``Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Non-Profit Institutions.'' (b) State and local governments shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act (31 U.S.C. 7501&hyph;7) and Federal awarding agency regulations implementing OMB Circular A&hyph;128, ``Audits of State and Local Governments.'' (c) The Contracting Officer may audit, or cause to be audited, awards to hospitals not covered by the audit provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;133 whenever and in the degree of detail he/she deems necessary. The Contracting Officer shall rely on available audit reports in determining the need for and scope of such audits. The hospital has similar authority in auditing subrecipients. (d) The Contracting Officer may audit, or cause to be audited, awards to commercial organizations whenever and in the degree of detail he/she deems necessary. The Contracting Officer shall rely on available audit reports in determining the need for and scope of such audits. The commercial organization has similar authority in auditing subrecipients. (e) The Contracting Officer may audit, or cause to be audited, awards to individuals whenever and in the degree of detail he/she deems necessary. The Contracting Officer shall rely on available audit reports in determining the need for and scope of such audits. ยง600.127 Allowable costs. (a) General. For each kind of recipient, there is a set of Federal principles for determining allowable costs. Allowability of costs shall be determined in accordance with the cost principles applicable to the entity incurring the costs. Thus, allowability of costs incurred by State, local or federally-recognized Indian tribal governments is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;87, ``Cost Principles for State and Local Governments.'' The allowability of costs incurred by non-profit organizations is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;122, ``Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations.'' The allowability of costs incurred by institutions of higher education is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;21, ``Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.'' The allowability of costs incurred by hospitals is determined in accordance with the provisions of Appendix E of 45 CFR Part 74, ``Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals.'' The allowability of costs incurred by commercial organizations and those non-profit organizations listed in Attachment C to Circular A&hyph;122 is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR Part 31. (b) Indirect costs. Unless restricted by Federal statute or program rule, DOE shall provide for the reimbursement of appropriate indirect costs. (1) DOE shall include an amount for indirect costs in an award only if the applicant requests reimbursement of such costs and_ (i) Submits evidence that a cognizant Federal agency has been assigned to establish indirect cost rates for the applicant and indicates or provides evidence that_ (A) A current agreement containing an applicable approved indirect cost rate(s) covering all or part of the budget period for which DOE may provide funding has been established; or (B) An indirect cost proposal has been submitted to the cognizant agency in order to establish an applicable approved indirect cost rate(s) covering all or part of the budget period for which DOE may provide funding; or
