FR940705-2-00203 FR940705-2-00091 Appendix G&hyph;III&hyph;L. Biological safety cabinets referred to in this section are classified as Class I, Class II, or Class III cabinets. A Class I is a ventilated cabinet for personnel protection having an inward flow of air away from the operator. The exhaust air from this cabinet is filtered through a high efficiency particulate air/HEPA filter. This cabinet is used in three operational modes: (i) with a full-width open front, (ii) with an installed front closure panel (having four 6-inch diameter openings) without gloves, and (iii) with an installed front closure panel equipped with arm-length rubber gloves. The face velocity of the inward flow of air through the full-width open front is 75 feet per minute or greater. A Class II cabinet is a ventilated cabinet for personnel and product protection having an open front with inward air flow for personnel protection, and HEPA filtered mass recirculated air flow for product protection. The cabinet exhaust air is filtered through a HEPA filter. The face velocity of the inward flow of air through the full-width open front is 75 feet per minute or greater. Design and performance specifications for Class II cabinets have been adopted by the National Sanitation Foundation, Ann Arbor, Michigan. A Class III cabinet is a closed-front ventilated cabinet of gas tight construction which provides the highest level of personnel protection of all biosafety safety cabinets. The interior of the cabinet is protected from contaminants exterior to the cabinet. The cabinet is fitted with arm-length rubber gloves and is operated under a negative pressure of at least 0.5 inches water gauge. All supply air is filtered through HEPA filters. Exhaust air is filtered through two HEPA filters or one HEPA filter and incinerator before being discharged to the outside environment. National Sanitation Foundation Standard 49. 1976. Class II (Laminar Flow) Biohazard Cabinetry, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Appendix G&hyph;III&hyph;M. Biosafety Level 1 is suitable for work involving agents of unknown or minimal potential hazard to laboratory personnel and the environment. The laboratory is not separated from the general traffic patterns in the building. Work is generally conducted on open bench tops. Special containment equipment is not required or generally used. Laboratory personnel have specific training in the procedures conducted in the laboratory and are supervised by a scientist with general training in microbiology or a related science (see Appendix G&hyph;III&hyph;B). Appendix G&hyph;III&hyph;N. Biosafety Level 2 is similar to Level 1 and is suitable for work involving agents of moderate potential hazard to personnel and the environment. It differs in that: (1) laboratory personnel have specific training in handling pathogenic agents and are directed by competent scientists; (2) access to the laboratory is limited when work is being conducted; and (3) certain procedures in which infectious aerosols are created are conducted in biological safety cabinets or other physical containment equipment (see Appendix G&hyph;III&hyph;B). Appendix G&hyph;III&hyph;O. Office of Research Safety, National Cancer Institute, and the Special Committee of Safety and Health Experts, Laboratory Safety Monograph: A Supplement to the NIH Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 1978. Appendix G&hyph;III&hyph;P. Biosafety Level 3 is applicable to clinical, diagnostic, teaching, research, or production facilities in which work is conducted with indigenous or exotic agents which may cause serious or potentially lethal disease as a result of exposure by the inhalation route. Laboratory personnel have specific training in handling pathogenic and potentially lethal agents and are supervised by competent scientists who are experienced in working with these agents. All procedures involving the manipulation of infectious material are conducted within biological safety cabinets or other physical containment devices or by personnel wearing appropriate personal protective clothing and devices. The laboratory has special engineering and design features. It is recognized, however, that many existing facilities may not have all the facility safeguards recommended for BL3 (e.g., access zone, sealed penetrations, and directional airflow, etc.). In these circumstances, acceptable safety may be achieved for routine or repetitive operations (e.g., diagnostic procedures involving the propagation of an agent for identification, typing, and susceptibility testing) in laboratories where facility features satisfy BL2 recommendations provided the recommended ``Standard Microbiological Practices,'' ``Special Practices,'' and ``Containment Equipment'' for BL3 are rigorously followed. The decision to implement this modification of BL3 recommendations should be made only by the Principal Investigator.
