FR940919-0-00104 FR940919-0-00016 Table 6._ Quantities of DOE Newly Identified TC Organic Mixed Radioactive Debris 1Mixed waste category 1Current inventory (m 3 ) 1Annual generation (m 3 /yr) High-level waste (HLW) 0 0 Mixed transuranic waste (MTRU) 18,000 380 Mixed low-level waste (MLLW) 14,000 650 2. Available Capacity and Capacity Implications a. Non-soil and Non-debris Mixed Radioactive Wastes EPA's review of IMWIR data indicates that 4,000 m 3 of treatment capacity are available annually for HLW at three DOE treatment systems. The available capacity appears sufficient to treat the estimated average annual generation. However, the IMWIR indicates that the current national inventory of HLW is greater than 280,000 m 3 . This quantity dwarfs DOE's annual available treatment capacity for HLW. Consequently, DOE faces a treatment capacity shortfall for high-level radioactive wastes. DOE is developing the Waste Isolation Pilot Project (WIPP) in New Mexico as a permanent repository for DOE TRU wastes, including MTRU wastes. However, DOE is not yet authorized to begin the placement of TRU wastes in the WIPP. In addition, wastes received at the WIPP must meet DOE's WIPP Waste Acceptance Criteria (WIPP&hyph;WAC). DOE is still in the planning stages for facilities designed to prepare MTRU wastes for shipment to the WIPP. As a result, DOE faces a capacity shortfall for treatment of MTRU wastes. EPA's review of the IMWIR data indicates that 340 m 3 /yr of currently available capacity exists at four DOE treatment systems for the treatment of alpha MLLW (i.e., MLLW with an alpha particle content between 10 and 100 nCi/g). However, the available capacity is greatly exceeded by the estimated quantity of alpha MLLW requiring treatment annually over the next five years, 3,700 m 3 . Consequently, DOE faces a treatment capacity shortfall for non-soil, non-debris alpha MLLW. According to IMWIR, 1,000,000 m 3 /yr of treatment capacity among 26 systems are currently available to treat non-alpha MLLW. However, IMWIR states that most of DOE's currently available treatment capacity for MLLW is represented by facilities limited to the treatment of wastewaters (defined by DOE as less than 1 percent total suspended solids (TSS)). While these treatment facilities provide excess capacity for MLLW wastewaters, they cannot process wastes with high TSS and are not readily adaptable for other waste forms. Thus, although the quantity of MLLW treatment capacity is greater than the total quantity of mixed wastes, DOE faces a treatment capacity shortfall for nonwastewater MLLW, and thus non-alpha MLLW. While DOE has provided its best available data on mixed waste generation, uncertainty remains about mixed waste generation at DOE (and non-DOE) facilities. For example, not all DOE Field Organizations responded to DOE's request for information following publication of the ANPRM. In addition, the data submitted to EPA generally did not include DOE environmental restoration wastes which, when generated, will increase the quantity of newly identified mixed wastes that require treatment. The IMWIR estimates that DOE will generate a total of 600,000 m 3 of mixed environmental restoration wastes over the period from 1993 to 1997. Although the IMWIR notes that the estimates of DOE environmental restoration wastes are preliminary, the quantities noted above will place additional strains on DOE's limited available mixed waste treatment capacity. Although DOE is in the process of increasing its capacity to manage mixed RCRA/radioactive wastes, information supplied by DOE indicates that a significant capacity shortfall currently exists for the treatment of mixed RCRA/radioactive wastes, much of which are in storage facilities awaiting treatment. DOE has indicated that it will generally give treatment priority to mixed wastes that are already restricted under previous LDR rules (e.g., radioactive wastes mixed with solvents, dioxins, California list wastes, First Third, Second Third, or Third Third wastes, and Phase I wastes). DOE is also concerned about the availability of treatment capacity for mixed wastes that will be generated as a result of site remediation activities. EPA's review of non-DOE data sources also showed a significant lack of commercial treatment capacity. In response to the Phase II proposed rule, EPA received six comments concerning the proposal to grant a two-year national capacity variance for non-soil, non-debris TC organic mixed radioactive wastes. All six commenters, including DOE, were in favor of the two-year national capacity variance. Furthermore, none of the commenters identified any additional treatment capacity for the wastes. Thus, despite the uncertainty about the exact quantities of mixed radioactive wastes containing newly listed and identified wastes that will require treatment as a result of today's rule, the quantities appear to exceed available capacity. In addition, any new commercial capacity that does become available will be needed for mixed radioactive wastes that were regulated in previous LDR rulemakings and whose variances have already expired. Therefore, EPA has determined that sufficient alternative treatment capacity is not available for mixed radioactive wastes contaminated with newly listed and identified wastes whose standards are being promulgated today, and thus is granting a two-year national capacity variance for these wastes. b. Mixed Radioactive Soil EPA's review of IMWIR data indicates that no available treatment capacity exists at DOE facilities for mixed radioactive soils. As indicated earlier, a preliminary estimate of mixed radioactive soil is approximately 10 m 3 /yr. Therefore, EPA is granting a two-year national capacity variance for mixed radioactive soils. c. Mixed Radioactive Debris
