FR941206-2-00103 FR941206-2-00073 8. No change. 9. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (8) above, (i) a market maker that obtains an excused withdrawal pursuant to Part V of Schedule D to the NASD By-Laws prior to withdrawing from NPROVE may reenter NPROVE according to the conditions of its withdrawal; and (ii) a market maker that fails to maintain a clearing arrangement with a registered clearing agency or with a member of such an agency, and is thereby withdrawn from participation in ACT and NPROVE for Nasdaq [National Market] securities, may reenter NPROVE after a clearing arrangement has been reestablished and the market maker has complied with ACT participant requirements. Provided however, that if the Association finds that the ACT market maker's failure to maintain a clearing arrangement is voluntary, the withdrawal of quotations will be considered voluntary and unexcused pursuant to Schedule D and these rules. 10. No change. b. NPROVE Order Entry Firms 1.&hyph;5. No change. [6. No short sales may be entered into NPROVE.] (5) Execution of NPROVE Orders a. Orders in Nasdaq equity securities entered into NPROVE may be preferenced or unpreferenced. Preferenced market orders will be automatically executed against the preferenced market maker pursuant to subsection (4)a.2. above. Preferenced limit orders to buy (sell) will not be treated as preferenced orders unless the limit order price is at or above (below) the inside offer (bid), in which case the orders will be automatically executed against the preferenced market maker pursuant to subsection (4)a.2. above. Preferenced odd-lot orders (orders of less than 100 shares) that are market orders or marketable limit orders also will be automatically executed against the preferenced market maker. [Preferenced orders will be delivered to the designated market maker. Except as provided in subparagraph (c) below, unpreferenced orders will be delivered to market makers at the current inside bid or offer in rotation.] Unpreferenced market orders and limit orders will be processed according to the procedures established in subsections (5)b. and c. below. Unpreferenced o [O]dd-lot orders [(orders of less than 100 shares)] that are market orders or marketable limit orders will be automatically executed in NPROVE against the market maker next in rotation at the inside market and execution reports will be delivered to the order entry firm and the market maker. b. Limit orders may be entered into NPROVE. A limit order priced at the Nasdaq inside market (e.g., the bid side for a sell order) when the order is delivered to an NPROVE market maker will be handled as a market order. Limit orders priced away from [outside] the Nasdaq inside bid or offer (as the case may be) [market] will be stored in the NPROVE limit order file, and when the inside market equals or betters the limit price, the order will be handled as a market order. Limit orders priced within [better than] the inside market upon entry or thereafter will establish the minimum price at which subsequent incoming market orders on the other side of market will [may] be priced and executed (e.g., a sell order priced between the best bid and offer would improve the price of an incoming buy order). All Nasdaq Level 2 and 3 subscribers [Market makers] will receive notification on their quote retrieval screens of the existence of a limit order priced better than the inside market along with an indication of which side of the market it is on. [on their quote retrieval screens,] regardless of whether the limit order is preferenced or unpreferenced [; provided, however, that notification of the existence of a preferenced limit order will only be delivered to the designated market maker]. A separate dissemination of N PROVE limit orders priced between than the inside market consisting of the price of the highest priced limit order to buy and the price of the lowest priced limit order to sell and the aggregate size of all orders at such prices also will be made available to securities information processors. A limit order priced better than the inside market on Nasdaq shall be automatically executed against a subsequent limit order on the opposite side of the market at a price equal or superior to the limit price of the initial limit order (a sell (buy) limit order priced at or below (above) a limit order to buy (sell)), up to the size of the initial limit order or the subsequent limit order, whichever is smaller, and without the participation of a market maker. c. Market orders may be entered into NPROVE. For preferenced market orders, if there is no limit order residing in N PROVE priced between the inside market on the opposite side of the market from the market order, the order will be automatically executed against the preferenced market maker at the inside bid or offer (buy orders will be executed at the best offer and sell orders at the best bid) displayed in Nasdaq when the order becomes subject to N PROVE's order execution methodology. For unpreferenced market orders, except as provided in subsection (4)a.3. above, if there is no limit order residing in N PROVE priced between the inside market on the opposite side of the market from the market order, the order will be broadcast to all N PROVE market makers at the applicable inside market (i.e., market makers at the inside bid will receive market orders to sell and market makers at the inside offer will receive market orders to buy) displayed in Nasdaq when the order becomes subject to N PROVE's order execution methodology for acceptance within 15 seconds, with the market maker next in rotation for an N PROVE execution receiving an indicator that the system will execute the order against him should be fail to reject the order or if no other market maker accepts the order (for purposes of these rules, market orders with such notifications appended to them are referred to as ``designated, unpreferenced orders'' and orders without such a notification are referred to as ``undesignated, unpreferenced orders''). If a market maker rejects a designated, unpreferenced N PROVE order and no other market maker accepts the order within the 15-second period, upon expiration of the 15-second period, the system will automatically execute the order against the market maker next in rotation who received the order on an undesignated basis that has not rejected the order. If all market makers decline the order consistent with Rule 11Ac1&hyph;1 promulgated under the Act, the order will be automatically executed against the market maker next in rotation at the new inside quotation. [A market order will be delivered to a market maker for execution at the current inside market (buy orders will be executed at the best offer and sell orders at the best bid)]. If a limit order has previously been entered into NPROVE at a price superior to the best bid or offer, the incoming market order will be repriced to a price equal to the limit order price plus 1/16th of a point in the case of a limit order to buy or the limit order price minus a 1/16th of a point in the case of a limit order to sell [match the price of the limit order] and will be displayed for 15 seconds to all market makers whose current quotation equals the applicable inside quote[, in the case of an unpreferenced market maker in the case of a preferenced order]. If no market maker accepts the incoming market order within the 15-second period, the market order will be automatically executed against the limit order at the limit order price. In addition, if adding (subtracting) 1/16th of a point to the price of a limit order to buy (sell) would cause the acceptance price of the market order to sell (buy) to be at or above (below) the current inside offer (bid), then the market order and the limit order will be automatically executed against each other at the limit order price without the participation of a market maker. [All market orders entered into NPROVE will be executed in compliance with market maker obligations as established in subsection (4).]
