FR940317-0-00020 FR940317-0-00007 9 CFR Part 94 [Docket No. 93&hyph;127&hyph;2] Change in Disease Status of the Republic of Korea Because of Rinderpest and Foot-and-Mouth Disease AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are declaring the Republic of Korea free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease. There have been no outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease in the Republic of Korea since 1934, and we have determined that rinderpest has never existed there. We are also adding the Republic of Korea to a list of countries that, although declared free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease, are subject to special restrictions on the importation of their meat and other animal products into the United States. This revision will remove the prohibition on the importation into the United States, from the Republic of Korea, of live ruminants and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat from ruminants, and will relieve restrictions on the importation, from the Republic of Korea, of milk and milk products from ruminants. The Republic of Korea is not declared to be free of hog cholera and swine vesicular disease. Therefore, the importation from the Republic of Korea of swine and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat from swine will continue to be restricted because of these diseases. We are also adding the Republic of Korea to the list of countries whose importation into the United States of llamas and alpacas is restricted. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. John Cougill, Staff Veterinarian, Import-Export Products Staff, National Center for Import-Export, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 759, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7834. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 94 (referred to below as the regulations) govern the importation into the United States of specified animals and animal products in order to prevent the introduction into the United States of various diseases, including rinderpest, foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), bovine spongiform encephalopathy, African swine fever, hog cholera, and swine vesicular disease. These are dangerous and destructive communicable diseases of ruminants and swine. Section 94.1(a)(1) of the regulations provides that rinderpest or FMD exists in all countries of the world except those listed in ยง94.1(a)(2), which are declared to be free of these diseases. On November 30, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 63122&hyph;63123, Docket No. 93&hyph;127&hyph;1) a proposal to add the Republic of Korea 1 to the list in ยง94.1(a)(2) of countries declared to be free of rinderpest and FMD. 1 The Republic of Korea was incorrectly referred to in the proposed rule as South Korea. We also proposed to add the Republic of Korea to the list in ยง94.11(a) of countries declared free of rinderpest and FMD that are subject to special restrictions on the importation of their meat and other animal products into the United States. Additionally, we proposed to add the Republic of Korea to the list in ยง94.1(d)(1) of countries in which rinderpest or FMD has been known to exist and that were declared free of rinderpest and FMD on or after September 28, 1990. All countries declared free of rinderpest and FMD on or after September 28, 1990, must be added to this list. The importation or entry of llamas and alpacas into the United States from countries on this list is prohibited, unless the llamas or alpacas are imported through the Harry S Truman Animal Import Center in accordance with 9 CFR 92.435. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 60-day comment period ending January 31, 1994. We did not receive any comments. The facts presented in the proposed rule still provide the basis for this final rule. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule. Effective Date: This is a substantive rule that relieves restrictions and, pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, may be made effective less than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . This rule removes the prohibition on the importation into the United States, from the Republic of Korea, of ruminants and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat from ruminants and relieves restrictions on the importation, from the Republic of Korea, of milk and milk products from ruminants. We have determined that approximately 2 weeks are needed to ensure that Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service personnel at ports of entry receive official notice of this change in the regulations. Therefore, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this rule should be made effective 15 days after publication in the Federal Register . Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. For this action, the Office of Management and Budget has waived its review process required by Executive Order 12866. This rule adds the Republic of Korea to the list in part 94 of countries declared to be free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease. This action relieves restrictions imposed on the importation of live ruminants and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat of ruminants from the Republic of Korea into the United States. This action does not relieve restrictions on the importation of live swine and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat of swine because the Republic of Korea is still considered to be affected with hog cholera and swine vesicular disease.
