FR940616-0-00126 FR940616-0-00013 Section 682.215(i) Comment: A commenter recommended that the term ``secondary school'' should not include education beyond the twelfth grade. The commenter stated that this definition conflicts with the commonly recognized definition of postsecondary education in many states and thus may confuse those involved in postsecondary education. Discussion: This definition was taken from already existing FFEL program regulations. Change: None. Comment: One commenter objected to the Secretary limiting the teaching forgiveness provision to borrowers who teach in public elementary and secondary schools. The commenter pointed out that section 428J provides forgiveness for those borrowers who teach full time in a school that qualifies under section 462(a)(2)(A) of the HEA for loan cancellation for Perkins loan recipients. The commenter noted that under the Perkins Loan Program, cancellation is provided for full-time teachers in nonprofit private elementary schools as well. The commenter requested that the Secretary make the definitions of elementary school and secondary school consistent with the Perkins definitions. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenter. Change: The final regulations have been revised to include nonprofit private schools in the elementary school and secondary school definitions. This change allows those serving in these types of schools to be eligible under the teaching forgiveness category of ยง682.215(e). Comment: A commenter suggested that the Secretary expand the definitions that pertain to the nursing category of loan forgiveness. The commenter asked that the Secretary broaden the eligibility of sites to encourage more nursing graduates to participate in the forgiveness program. Discussion: The Secretary consulted with the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) in determining the definitions that would apply to the facilities described in section 428J in which a borrower would be employed full-time as a nurse. These definitions were taken from HHS and other existing regulations. The statute indicates that the Secretary is to rely on the expertise of HHS in these areas. Accordingly, there will be no change. Change: None. Executive Order 12866 These final regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the final regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering the program effectively and efficiently. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. Assessment of Educational Impact In the notice of proposed rulemaking, the Secretary requested comments on whether the proposed regulations would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. Based on the response to the proposed rules and on its own review, the Department has determined that the regulations in this document do not require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 682 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and universities, Education, Loan programs_education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid, Vocational education. Dated: May 10, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.032, Federal Family Education Loan Program)
