FR940503-2-00163 FR940503-2-00101 Discussion: The Secretary observes that the priority would not preclude such a focus. The Secretary wishes to allow potential applicants flexibility to design projects that respond to local and State needs, and thus does not desire to restrict applicants' choice of emphases. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter pointed out that technology provides the teacher with an opportunity to assess each student's learning on a near-continuous basis, thus enabling the teacher to adjust instruction to fit the needs of both individual learners and groups of students throughout the course of a learning sequence. Technology can thus maximize the usefulness of assessment by making it an integral part of learning, the commenter argued. The commenter urged that the priority be expanded to include attention to the use of technology for student assessment aimed at continuous monitoring and improvement of learning. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes that technology can provide improved methods of assessing student progress and thus can contribute to student learning. The Secretary does not exclude teacher professional development in the use of technology for student assessment. Changes: None. Notice of Proposed Priorities Published on February 28, 1994 Comment: One commenter strongly supported the emphasis on women and minorities, as well as the emphasis on environmental education. The commenter also suggested adding a priority, or mentioning the possibility of, the development and incorporation of service learning in projects. Discussion: The Secretary observes that the priorities would not necessarily preclude such a focus. The Secretary wishes to allow potential applicants flexibility to design projects that respond to local and State needs, and thus does not desire to restrict applicants' choice of emphases. Changes: None. Comment: Two commenters strongly argued against limiting one priority to environmental education. They felt that it is unnecessary and unwise to focus limited funding for professional development on a particular field of science. One commenter stated that most teachers teach more than one science and therefore need reinforcement in more than one field. Discussion: The Secretary believes that environmental education is one way to stimulate students' interest in scientific fields. The Secretary also believes that environmental education involves several different scientific fields and will therefore enhance teachers' ability to teach science generally. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter supported the encouragement of women and minorities in mathematics and science. However, the commenter urged that the priority provide opportunities and funds for selected projects to do controlled studies, with longer term follow up of their impact. Discussion: The Secretary requires these projects to evaluate lessons learned about promoting the interest and attainment of women and minorities in mathematics and science and expects the findings to be widely disseminated. This requirement does not preclude the use of controlled evaluation studies for these purposes. However, projects funded under this priority must be ``model'' projects designed themselves to stimulate and sustain the interest and attainments of females and minority children in mathematics and science. The Secretary will not support projects under this priority which are solely for the purpose of conducting research and evaluation in this area. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter strongly supported programs attracting females and minorities to careers in mathematics and science. However, referencing the Senate report language cited in the February 28, 1994, Notice of Proposed Priority issued by the Eisenhower National Program, the commenter questioned the Secretary's intent to fund the priority on environmental education because it would dilute Congressional intent to respond to the needs of women and minorities in mathematics and science, and in any event mathematics and science high schools would be teaching environmental education. Discussion: The Secretary believes the commenter overlooked a provision of the Senate report directing the Department of Education to support work in environmental education. Changes: None.
