FR941202-0-00127 FR941202-0-00012 Readers may wish to review the preamble to the alcohol testing rules to supplement their understanding of our actions in this final rule. The Triggering Group The final rule provides that the positive and random testing rates will be determined for each industry, and not by employers or industry segment. After careful consideration, we believe that this is the fairest and most effective approach. It addresses broad safety issues in each industry rather than by company or segment of the workforce. It provides a strong incentive for employers with successful programs to pressure problem subgroups to improve their performance. As an administrative matter, it is much easier for the industry to implement and DOT to oversee and enforce an industry-wide program. Some commenters, such as airline pilots, said that such an approach is unfair. Similarly, there are certain employers that are so large that their sheer numbers may skew an entire industry's positive rate. We acknowledge that breaking up industries into subgroups may be desirable from the point of view of subgroups with lower positive rates. Nevertheless, after careful consideration, we have chosen not to take this approach for several reasons. It allows us to focus on broad safety issues and keep the focus away from potentially endless splitting and balkanization within the industries. If the Department, for example, divided an industry into large and small operators, a particular large operator with very low positives may ask to be separated or certain categories of employees within one of the groups may ask then to be distinguished. Breaking industries into different subgroups would have many undesirable consequences. As a practical matter, it would be extremely difficult and costly for DOT to administer and enforce. There would be less pressure on very poorly performing subgroups to improve, especially when the existing industry-wide rate was close to 1.0 percent. There might be greater incentive to cheat, especially if the rates were determined by company or small subgroups. Significantly more employees would fall into more than one category, which would cause unnecessary confusion in ensuring random selection and recordkeeping. It would be much harder for consortia to keep track of and ensure the integrity of the data. Finally, it might lead to grouping by demographics. The Testing Rates The final rule maintains the initial 50 percent random drug testing rate. We believe that this is the appropriate testing rate for industries that are beginning their testing programs. In order to provide incentive for lowering drug usage in a given industry, the Department will allow the random testing rate to be lowered to 25 percent based on demonstrably low annual positive testing rates. The decision will primarily be based on data submitted to the Department. Under existing MIS rules, certain employers must submit data for a given calendar year by the following March 15th. The Office of Drug Enforcement and Program Compliance in the Office of the Secretary (OST) and each operating administration will review each industry's data for accuracy and completeness and issue a determination regarding the random test rate within a few months. Because covered entities need some lead time to adjust their procedures, make changes in any contracts, and take other necessary action to adjust to an increase or decrease, the notice will be published in advance of the next calendar year. We recognize that because the reported positive rate is obtained from data the precision of which is eroded by sampling variance and measurement error, and whose accuracy is diminished by non-response bias, there is a risk that it diverges from the actual positive rate in the population. Each operating administration will be using MIS data collection and sampling methods that address these issues to the extent possible and make sense in the context of its particular industry. Where not all employers are included in the reported data, the operating administration will decide how many covered employers must be required to report or be sampled; this decision will be based on the number of employers (not otherwise required to report) that must be sampled to ensure that the reported data from the sampled employers reliably reflect the data that would have been received if all were required to report. However, the decision on whether the reported data reliably support the conclusion ( e.g., an audit of company records shows significant falsification of reports) remains subject to DOT's discretion. If the reported data are not sufficiently reliable, the operating administration will not permit the random rate adjustment to occur. Each operating administration will publish a notice in the Federal Register stating what the random testing rate will be in the following year. Any random rate adjustment will occur at the beginning of the calendar year in order to maintain the integrity of the MIS data. The Department may also use a variety of other tools such as press releases, special mailings, or briefings for key industry and press representatives to disseminate information regarding any rate adjustments.
