FR940811-2-00102 FR940811-2-00066 Example 1 10 10 The examples in these Guidelines are hypothetical and do not represent judgments about the actual market circumstances of the named industries. Situation: Delta, Inc. develops a new software program for inventory management. The program has wide application in the health field. Delta licenses the program in an arrangement that imposes both field of use and territorial limitations. Some of Delta's licenses permit use only in hospitals; others permit use only in group medical practices. Delta charges different royalties for the different uses. All of Delta's licenses permit use only in specified geographic areas. The license contains no provisions that would prevent or discourage licensees from developing, using, or selling any other program. None of the licensees are actual competitors of Delta in the sale of inventory management programs. Discussion: The key competitive issue raised by the licensing arrangement is whether it harms competition that would likely have taken place in its absence. (See section 3.) Such harm could occur if the licenses foreclose access to competing technologies (in this case, most likely competing computer programs), prevent licensees from developing their own competing technologies (again, in this case most likely computer programs), structure royalties to impose an effective requirements contract upon licensees, or facilitate market allocation or price-fixing for any product or service supplied by the licensees. If the license agreements contained such provisions, the Department would analyze their competitive effects as described in sections 3&hyph;5 of these Guidelines. In this hypothetical, there are no such provisions, and there is no apparent harm to competition. The arrangement appears to do no more than increase the value of the licensed technology by subdividing it among different fields of use and territories and charging royalties that differ among licensees. The Department therefore would be unlikely to object to this arrangement. The result would be the same whether the technology was protected by copyright, patent, or trade secret. The Department's conclusion as to competitive effects could differ if, for example, the license barred licensees from using any other inventory management program. 3. Antitrust Concerns and Modes of Analysis 3.1␣Nature of the Concerns While intellectual property licensing arrangements are typically welfare-enhancing and procompetitive, antitrust concerns may arise when licensing arrangements impede competition that likely would have taken place in the absence of the license. Licensing arrangements that may raise antitrust concerns include restrictions on goods or technologies other than the licensed technology, contractual provisions that penalize licensees for dealing with suppliers of substitute technologies, and acquisitions of intellectual property that lessen competition in a relevant antitrust market. For example, a licensing agreement that transfers little or no useful intellectual property, but imposes restraints upon entities that otherwise would compete using alternative technologies, might have significant adverse effects in downstream goods markets or in other markets. (See, e.g., Example 5.) An arrangement that effectively merges the research and development activities of two of only a few entities that could plausibly engage in research and development in the relevant field might harm competition for development of new intellectual property. (See section 3.2.3, ``Innovation Markets.'') Intellectual property licensing between actual or likely potential competitors 11 may raise antitrust concerns by reducing or eliminating competition in the market(s) in which they compete or are likely to compete. In addition, license restrictions with respect to one market may reduce competition in another market by, for example, foreclosing access to or raising the price of an important input (other than as a natural consequence of the licensee acquiring a licensed technology for its own use). 11 A firm will be treated as a likely potential competitor if its entry is likely under the standards of section 3.3 of the U.S. Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission, Horizontal Merger Guidelines (April 2, 1992), or if there is evidence of likely actual entry by that firm. Competitive concerns are more likely to arise when the number of actual and likely potential competitors is not large. 3.2␣Markets Affected by Licensing Arrangements A licensing arrangement may affect competition in a variety of markets. In general, for goods markets and technology markets affected by a licensing arrangement, the Department will approach the delineation of relevant market and the measurement of market share in the intellectual property area in the same way that it treats such questions under section 1 of the 1992 Horizontal Merger Guidelines. In addition, the Department may define an innovation market to aid in assessing whether a licensing arrangement would be likely substantially to reduce investment in research and development. 3.2.1␣Technology Markets Technology markets consist of the intellectual property that is licensed, transferred, or acquired and the technologies that are close substitutes for it. The owner of a process for producing a particular good may be constrained in its conduct with respect to that process not only by other processes for making that good, but also by other goods that compete with the downstream good and by the processes used to produce those other goods.
