FR940804-0-00113 FR940804-0-00024 One organization commented that prosecutors will hold back on filing formal charges in order to maximize their ability to communicate with represented ``persons.'' The Department does not agree that prosecutors are likely to engage in this kind of systematic manipulation. The capacity to do so exists under the Sixth Amendment (given that the Sixth Amendment right to counsel attaches only once formal charges are filed, see Brewer v. Williams , 430 U.S. 387, 398 (1979)), but there is no evidence of systematic prosecutorial abuse of the charging process under the Sixth Amendment. Furthermore, the Department intends to add a new provision to the United States Attorneys' Manual that will prohibit a Department attorney from communicating overtly with a ``target'' of an investigation before he or she is formally charged or named as a civil defendant, except in specifically enumerated circumstances. Section 77.4: Constitutional and Other Limitations. This section makes clear that this regulation does not purport to authorize any communication prohibited by the Constitution or any federal statute or Federal Rule of Criminal or Civil Procedure. Although these rules do not supersede the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, this limitation does not extend to other rules regarding procedure in federal courts. Thus, rules of procedure adopted by individual courts as local rules, many of which incorporate state bar rules, are not included in this limitation; and, in fact, this regulation is explicitly intended to supersede local federal court rules regarding ex parte contacts by attorneys for the government. See ยง77.12 and accompanying commentary. No specific comments were received regarding this section, and it has not been changed. Section 77.5: General Rule for Civil and Criminal Enforcement; Represented Parties This section closely tracks the language of DR 7&hyph;104(A)(1) and Model Rule 4.2 and applies similar prohibitions to attorneys for the government. The section prohibits an attorney for the government from communicating with a represented party, as defined in section 77.3, about the subject matter of the representation without the consent of that individual's attorney. As with DR 7&hyph;104(A)(1) and Model Rule 4.2, the prohibition applies only if the attorney for the government knows that the represented party is, in fact, represented by counsel. Therefore, communications by an attorney for the government with a represented party will not violate this rule if the attorney for the government is unaware of the fact of representation. This section also prohibits an attorney for the government from causing another individual to communicate with a represented party. Accordingly, this rule proscribes an attorney from directing a government investigator to do what the attorney himself or herself is prohibited from doing. Conversely, a government attorney will not be personally responsible for the actions of agents in communicating with represented persons unless, in doing so, the agents were acting as the attorney's ``alter ego.'' See United States v. Heinz , 983 F.2d 609, 612&hyph;14 (5th Cir. 1993). It also should be noted that this provision is violated (and thus, a basis for departmental discipline exists) when an inappropriate communication takes place, regardless of whether or not the communication results in eliciting an inculpatory statement or is otherwise prejudicial to the represented party. No specific comments were received regarding this section, and it has not been changed. Section 77.6: Exceptions; Represented Parties This section describes the circumstances under which Department attorneys may communicate, or cause others to communicate, with a represented party whom the Department attorney knows is represented concerning the subject matter of the representation, without first obtaining the consent of the represented party's counsel. Paragraph (a): Determination if representation exists. This exception recognizes the fact that there is no reason to prohibit a limited inquiry about whether an individual is, in fact, represented by counsel regarding the relevant subject matter. Such an inquiry does not involve the kind of communication about which courts have expressed concern and has little potential for undermining the attorney-client relationship. It is also consistent with DR 7&hyph;104(A)(1) and Model Rule 4.2. There may be uncertainty about the existence of representation with respect to whether it has been established, whether it may have been terminated, and whether a particular subject falls within the scope of the representation. The first issue typically arises before a judicial or other appearance, when the government attorney has some information suggesting that the person may be represented. It also may arise when an attorney purports to represent a group of persons, such as all the employees of a corporation. Uncertainty about the termination of the representation may arise when substantial time has passed since it was made known that the person was represented by counsel or when the attorney for the government has reason to believe that the representation has ceased. It is unlikely, however, that such uncertainty will arise when there are pending judicial proceedings, because in such circumstances the court in most jurisdictions must approve termination of representation.
