FR941021-0-00160 FR941021-0-00022 63. We need not resolve this matter now. Rather, while we recognize that secondary services cannot, as a general matter, claim interference protection from harmful interference from stations of a primary service, 72 we will leave the parties free to negotiate a guardband agreement once the technical parameters of their amended system proposals are finalized. If the parties negotiate an agreement that protects secondary operations, we will accept that solution. If the parties cannot agree, however, we will become involved and will look to the Table of Frequency Allocations to determine where any operational constraints are appropriately placed. 72 See note 21, supra . 3. Plan If Mutual Exclusivity Is Not Resolved 64. We do not intend to continue our already-prolonged attempt to resolve this proceeding by compromise in the event that mutual exclusivity among the Big LEO applicants is not eliminated by amendments submitted by the November 16, 1994 filing deadline, as there is little reason to suppose that further pursuit of that elusive goal would be useful. In the Notice, we discussed three alternative procedures_comparative hearing, lottery, and auction_for resolving this proceeding in the event that the proposed sharing plan did not resolve mutual exclusivity and called for comment concerning the feasibility and/or legal availability of each of them. If an auction or lottery 73 was employed, we proposed to divide the spectrum into paired 2.0625 MHz uplink and downlink segments, with eight paired segments available for licensing. We proposed to limit each successful bidder or lottery winner to an award of up to four 2.0625 MHz paired segments, noting that this should provide ample spectrum to support a Big LEO system while allowing for at least two licensees. 74 We conclude that we can lawfully resolve this proceeding by means of an auction and that, of the three, an auction would better serve the public interest. 73 Because the LEO applications were filed prior to July 26, 1993, the Commission is not statutorily prohibited from considering random selection as a licensing option. See Section 6002(e) of Pub.L. 103&hyph;66. 74 Notice, note 2, supra, at para. 45. a. Comparative hearing . 65. We continue to believe that the prospect of delay in the initiation of service weighs heavily against use of a comparative hearing, particularly in light of the need for prompt participation by U.S. licensees in international coordination. 75 Whether conflict between Big LEO applications could be resolved through a comparative hearing in less time than is typically consumed in comparative hearings involving applications for broadcast licenses_as TRW, the only commenter advocating use of comparative hearings as a fall-back procedure, contends_is largely beside the point. Even under the most optimistic assumptions, selection of Big LEO licensees through a comparative hearing is likely to take considerably longer than the use of a lottery or competitive bidding. 75 Id. at para. 40. 66. We also believe that a comparative hearing would be inadvisable for other reasons. The Commission has previously stated that comparative hearings would be inconsistent with our aim of affording flexibility to satellite licensees. 76 As a general matter, moreover, we are reluctant to substitute our judgment for the wisdom of the marketplace by dictating outcomes based on assessment of the relative merits of applicants' service proposals. We doubt whether we would be able to resolve all conflicts among LEO applications based on findings that certain of the applications are demonstrably technically superior to others. As previously noted, satellite design decisions involve complex trade-offs between engineering, marketing, and financial considerations, which are difficult to evaluate without reference to the functioning of the marketplace. 77 These design decisions are also modified to accommodate regulations, marketplace and financial constraints and uncertainties as these uncertainties become more clearly defined in time. 76 See Rules to Allocate Spectrum for Mobile Satellite Services, 6 FCC Rcd 4900, 4904 (1991), at paras. 19&hyph;20; and Rules to Allocate Spectrum for a Land Mobile Satellite Service, 2 FCC Rcd 485, 487 (1987), at para. 15. 77 2 FCC Rcd at 487, para. 15. b. Lottery . 67. Constellation is the only applicant that recommends use of a lottery in the event that we cannot accommodate all qualified applicants. It states that it favors this procedure only because it believes that auctions would create unacceptable international ramifications. LQP and TRW, in contrast, maintain that none of the factors listed in the Conference Report on Section 309(i) that would support the use of a lottery procedure is present here. 78 LQP, Motorola, and TRW also contend that a lottery would be inappropriate because the pending applications involve technically diverse, non-fungible proposals. LQP and TRW argue that it would be unfair to the existing applicants, who have invested large sums of money in research and development for their proposals, to choose winners by the luck of the draw. TRW warns that a random selection process here would discourage planning and innovation by future applicants. Motorola objects that the results of a lottery would bear no relation to the best use of the available spectrum and would bestow insufficient spectrum or unusable combinations of spectrum-segments upon the winning applicants. 78 See 47 U.S.C. 309(i). See also H.R. Conf. Rep. No. 765, 97th Cong., 2d Sess, at 37 (1982). 68. We will not use a lottery in this case because we have concluded that awarding Big LEO licenses through the use of competitive bidding procedures would better serve the public interest. Most importantly, an auction would be an economically efficient means of allocation. A well-designed auction produces an outcome approximating allocation to highest-valued use, which we believe promotes spectrum efficiency and other public interest considerations. 79 Use of competitive bidding procedures would provide participants with the incentive to conceive innovative, cost-effective and spectrum efficient uses for the spectrum-blocks to be assigned and to estimate accurately their potential commercial value. Further, a lottery may produce a haphazard outcome. Although such an outcome might be partially redressed through resale, that would entail further transaction costs. We do not believe that an auction would have significant adverse international ramifications, as discussed below. 79 Second Report and Order in the Implementation of Section 309(j)_Competitive Bidding, 9 FCC Rcd 2348, 2361 (1944) ( Implementation of Section 309(j) , at para. 73. Moreover, an efficient auction would award licenses more quickly to those that value them most highly and would facilitate the efficient aggregation of interdependent licenses. We also note that the applicants here did not submit their proposals in reliance on an expectation that the Commission would use lotteries.
