FR940719-2-00012 FR940719-2-00003 MVP Crop Endorsements Corn Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the market Value Protection Policy. How this endorsement effects your coverage: The Losses Insured Against under the ``Cause of Loss'' Section of Article III of the Policy shall include: Unavoidable financial loss resulting directly from an increase in the Chicago Board of Trade futures settlement prices for Corn, as specifically set forth in this endorsement and the Policy, and provided that You sustain a Corn production loss, during the Insurance Period, caused by an insured peril(s) under the MPCI Policy and an MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment is made to You. Under paragraph ``A'' of the ``Indemnity Payment'' Section of Article V of the Policy, the indemnity payable to You for loss to Your corn Crop shall be calculated as follows: A. As to any loss under the MPCI Policy, during the Insurance Period, to any Corn Crop: 1. Ninety-five percent (95%) of the November Average Daily Settlement Price for corn to be delivered during the month of December, of the then current crop year, shall be established (hereinafter the ``Corn Futures Price''); 2. The ``Corn Base Price'' shall be established as the highest MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for corn available under the MPCI Policy for the then current crop year. 3. The Corn Base Price shall be subtracted from the Corn Futures Price to determine the ``Corn Price Change''. 4. The ``Maximum Price Change'' per bushel shall be that amount selected by You ($0.75, $1.00, or $1.50 per bushel) on Your application for coverage and shown on the Summary of Coverage provided by Us to You. 5. The ``Indemnity Per Bushel'' shall be the lesser of: a. The Corn Price Change; and b. The Maximum Price Change. 6. The MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment shall be divided by Your MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for corn to determine the ``Corn Production Loss'' in bushels; 7. The Indemnity Per Bushel shall be multiplied by the Corn Production Loss to determine the total indemnity to be paid to You. B. ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' means the average derived by totaling the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for corn for each full active trading day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trading days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month as to corn, no indemnity shall be payable as to Your Corn Crop. A full active trading day is any trading day on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market during which more than 50 corn futures contracts are traded. C. In the event that trading on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market for corn is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price for corn there are fourteen (14) or less active trading days during the applicable month, no indemnity shall be payable under this Policy as to Your Corn Crop, and that portion of the Premium paid by You which is applicable to Your Corn Crop shall be refunded by Us. Pursuant to the ``Insurance Period'' Section of Article III of the Policy: THE COVERAGE PROVIDED BY THE POLICY AND THIS ENDORSEMENT FOR YOUR CORN CROP IS NOT CONTINUOUS. YOU MUST RENEW THE COVERAGE PROVIDED BY THE POLICY AND THIS ENDORSEMENT ON YOUR CORN CROP NO LATER THAN APRIL 15 OF EACH YEAR FOR COVERAGE TO BE EFFECTIVE FOR THE SUCCEEDING YEAR. COTTON ENDORSEMENT Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the market Value Protection Policy. How this endorsement effects your coverage: The Losses Insured Against under the ``Cause of Loss'' Section of Article III of the Policy shall include: Unavoidable financial loss resulting directly from an increase in the New York Cotton Exchange commodity futures settlement prices for Cotton as specifically set forth in this endorsement and the Policy, and provided that You sustain a Cotton production loss, during the Insurance Period, caused by an insured peril(s) under the MPCI Policy and an MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment is made to You. Under paragraph ``A'' of the ``Indemnity Payment'' Section of Article V of the Policy, the indemnity payable to You for loss to Your Cotton Crop shall be calculated as follows:
