FR940603-1-00067 FR940603-1-00009 In Witness Whereof,2 the Purchaser has caused this contract to be signed in its corporate name by its President and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and attested by its Secretary, and the Seller has (have) set his (their) hand(s), all as of the day and year first above written. XXXX Purchaser By XXXX President Attest: XXXX Secretary XXXX Seller XXXX Name XXXX Title XXXX 2When Seller is an individual or partnership this section of agreement to be used. If a partnership_all partners shall sign. [End of clause] §§1726.316_1726.319 [Reserved] §1726.320 Construction contract, generating, REA Form 200. The contract form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Construction Contract_Generating Notice and Instructions to Bidders 1. Sealed proposals for the furnishing, delivery and installation of equipment and materials for the electric generating plant of XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Owner'') which is to be part of the system known as XXXX will be received by the Owner on or before XXXX o'clock XX M., XXXX , 19 XX , at XXXX , at which time and place the proposals will be publicly opened and read. Any proposal received subsequent to the time specified will be promptly returned to the Bidder unopened. 2. Obtaining and Transferring Documents. The Plans and Specifications together with all necessary forms and other documents for bidders may be obtained from the Owner or from the Engineer, XXXX , at the latter's office at XXXX upon the payment of $ XXXX , all of which will be refunded to each bona fide bidder within ten days after the bid opening. The Plans and Specifications may be examined at the office of the Owner or at the office of the Engineer. A copy of the Loan Contract (if the Project is to be financed, in whole or in part, pursuant to a loan contract) between the Owner and the United States of America acting through The Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration (hereinafter called the ``Administrator''), and of the Loan Contract between the Owner and any other lender may be examined at the office of the Owner. Each set of documents will have a serial number, given by the Engineer, and the number of each set with the name of the purchaser will be recorded by the Engineer. Bids will be accepted only from the original purchasers. 3. Manner of Submitting Proposals. Proposals and all supporting instruments must be submitted on the forms furnished by the Owner and must be delivered in a sealed envelope addressed to the Owner. The name and address of the Bidder, its license number, if a license is required by the State, and the date and hour of the opening of bids must appear on the envelope in which the Proposal is submitted. Proposals must be filled in in ink or typewritten. No alterations or interlineations will be permitted, unless made before submission and initialed and dated. 4. Familiarity with Conditions. Prior to the submission of the Proposal, the Bidder shall make and shall be deemed to have made a careful examination of the site of the Project and of the Plans and Specifications, Construction Drawings and forms of Contractor's Proposal and Acceptance, and Contractor's Bond on file with the Owner and with the Engineer, and shall become informed as to the location and nature of the proposed construction, the ecological and environmental criteria to be followed, the transportation facilities, the kind and character of soil and terrain to be encountered, the kind of facilities required before and during the construction of the Project, general local conditions and all other matters that may affect the cost and the time of completion of the Project. Bidders will be required to comply with all applicable statutes, regulations, etc., including those pertaining to the licensing of contractors, and the so-called ``Kick-Back'' Statute (48 Stat. 948) and regulations issued pursuant thereto. 5. Proposals will be accepted only from those prequalified bidders invited by the Owner to submit a proposal. 6. The Time for Completion of the Project shall be as specified by the Engineer in the Proposal.
