FR940505-1-00322 FR940505-1-00012 Storage facility means any extraction facility, processing facility, bulk gasoline plant, bulk gasoline terminal, or any petroleum storage facility which distributes petroleum, natural gas, or gasoline to retail outlet and wholesale purchaser-consumer facilities. This definition does not apply to retail gasoline service stations. (ii) Applicability. The requirements of paragraphs (b)(5) (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of any petroleum or natural gas extraction, processing, or storage facility located in the control area as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (iii) Specific Provisions. (A) Each owner or operator of a source subject to the FIP VOC emissions cap program as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall submit a VOC emissions reduction compliance plan to the Administrator by January 1, 1999. The plan shall be prepared for the years 2001 through 2005 and shall include all of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) (1) through (5) of this section. Each owner or operator shall submit a revised plan to the Administrator within 30 calendar days of receipt of comments from the Administrator. Each owner or operator shall comply at all times with the provisions of the most recent plan approved by the Administrator. (1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the owner or operator of the facility, and of each person responsible for preparing the information required under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) (2) of this section. (2) Baseline VOC emissions shall be calculated for each facility. Baseline emissions for each facility shall equal the sum of VOC emissions from all emissions sources at the facility including emissions associated with the use of architectural coatings and clean-up solvents. Baseline emissions shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (a)(4) (xii) and (xiii) of this section. (3) Methods to be employed by the owner or operator to limit VOC emissions from emissions sources to within the emissions level required in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. Methods may include but are not limited to: (i) Installation of capture systems and control devices; (ii) Modifications to increase the efficiency of existing capture systems and/or control devices; (iii) Process modifications and/or substitutions; and
