FR940503-2-00006 FR940503-2-00005 Forest Service Rocky Mountain Region: Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, South Dakota, Eastern Wyoming; Legal Notice of the Opportunity To Comment on Certain Proposed Actions and of Decisions Subject to Notice and Comment AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This is a list of those newspapers that will be used to publish notice of all decisions which are subject to appeal under 36 CFR part 217, notice of the opportunity to comment on certain proposed actions pursuant to 36 CFR 215.5, and notice of decisions subject to appeal under the general provisions of 36 CFR part 215. As required at 36 CFR 215.5 and 215.9, such notice shall constitute legal evidence that the agency has given timely and constructive notice of decisions that are subject to public notice and comment and administrative appeal. Newspaper publication of notices of decisions is in addition to direct notice to those who have requested notice in writing and to those known to be interested in or affected by a specific decision. DATES: Use of these newspapers for purposes of publishing the notices required under the provisions of 36 CFR part 215 shall begin January 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John P. Halligan, Regional Appeals and Litigation Coordinator, Rocky Mountain Region, Box 25127, Lakewood, Colorado 80225, Area Code 303&hyph;275&hyph;5148. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Responsible Officials in the Rocky Mountain Region shall give notice of the opportunity to comment on certain proposed actions and of decisions subject to appeal pursuant to 36 CFR part 215 in the following newspapers which are listed by Forest Service unit. Where more than one newspaper is listed for any unit, the first newspaper listed is the primary newspaper which shall be used to constitute legal evidence that the agency has given timely and constructive notice of decisions that are subject to administrative appeal. The day after the publication of the public notice in the primary newspaper shall be the first day of the appeal filing period. Decisions by the Regional Forester The Denver Post, published daily in Denver, Denver County, Colorado, for decisions affecting National Forest System lands in the States of Colorado, Nebraska, Kansas, and eastern Wyoming and for any decision of Region-wide impact. In addition, notice of decisions made by the Regional Forester will also be published in the Rocky Mountain News, published daily in Denver, Denver County, Colorado. Notice of decisions affecting National Forest System lands in the State of South Dakota will also be published in The Rapid City Journal, published daily in Rapid City, Pennington County, South Dakota. For those decisions affecting a particular unit, the newspaper specific to that unit will be used. Arapaho and Roosevelt National Forests, Colorado Forest Supervisor Decisions The Denver Post, published daily in Denver, Denver County, Colorado. District Ranger Decisions Redfeather and Estes-Poudre Districts: Coloradoan, published daily in Fort Collins, Larimer County, Colorado. Pawnee District: Greeley Tribune, published daily in Greeley, Weld County, Colorado. Boulder District: Boulder Daily Camera, published daily in Boulder, Boulder County, Colorado. Clear Creek District: Clear Creek Courant, published weekly in Idaho Springs, Clear Creek County, Colorado. Sulphur District: Granby Sky High News, published weekly in Granby, Grand County, Colorado. Grand Mesa, Uncompahgre and Gunnison National Forests, Colorado Forest Supervisor Decisions Grand Junction Daily Sentinel, published daily in Grand Junction, Mesa County, Colorado. District Ranger Decisions Collbran and Grand Junction Districts: Grand Junction Daily Sentinel, published daily in Grand Junction, Mesa County, Colorado. Paonia District: Delta County Independent, published weekly in Delta, Delta County, Colorado. Cebolla and Taylor River Districts: Gunnison Country Times, published weekly in Gunnison, Gunnison County, Colorado. Norwood District: Telluride Times-Journal, published weekly in Telluride, San Miguel County, Colorado. Ouray District: Montrose Daily Press, published daily in Montrose, Montrose County, Colorado. Pike and San Isabel National Forests Forest Supervisor Decisions Pueblo Chieftain, published daily in Pueblo, Pueblo County, Colorado. District Ranger Decisions San Carlos District: Pueblo Chieftain, published daily in Pueblo, Pueblo County, Colorado. Comanche District: Plainsman Herald, published weekly in Springfield, Baca County, Colorado. In addition, notice of decisions made by the District Ranger will also be published in the La Junta Tribune Democrat, published daily in La Junta, Otero County, Colorado, and in the Ark Valley Journal, published weekly in La Junta, Otero County, Colorado. Cimarron District: Tri-State News, published weekly in Elkhart, Morton County, Kansas. South Platte District: Daily News Press, published daily in Castle Rock, Douglas County, Colorado. In addition, notice of decisions made by the District Ranger will also be published in the High Timber Times, published weekly in Conifer, Jefferson County, Colorado, and in the Fairplay Flume, published weekly in Fairplay, Park County, Colorado. Leadville District: Herald Democrat, published weekly in Leadville, Lake County, Colorado. Salida District: The Mountain Mail, published daily in Salida, Chaffee County, Colorado. South Park District: Fairplay Flume, published week in Fairplay, Park County, Colorado. Pikes Peak District: Gazette Telegraph, published daily in Colorado Springs, El Paso County, Colorado. Rio Grande National Forest, Colorado Forest Supervisor Decisions Valley Courier, published daily in Alamosa, Alamosa County, Colorado. District Ranger Decisions Valley Courier, published daily in Alamosa, Alamosa County, Colorado. Routt National Forest, Colorado Forest Supervisor Decisions Steamboat Pilot, published weekly in Steamboat Springs, Routt County, Colorado. In addition, for decisions affecting an individual district(s), the local district(s) newspaper will also be used.
