FR941130-0-00094 FR941130-0-00015 Changes: The language in ยง675.18(h) has been revised to emphasize that to receive a waiver, an institution must demonstrate that the 5 percent requirement would cause a hardship for students at the institution. Administrative Cost Allowance Comments: Two commenters requested that the additional Administrative Cost Allowance (ACA) available for the expired Community Service Learning program be continued for the community service component under the FWS program. These commenters believed that the regular campus-based ACA provided institutions was already fully utilized and the additional expenses incurred for the new community service mandate will have to be absorbed by the institutions. One commenter believed that the statute should be interpreted to allow use of up to 10 percent of the entire campus-based ACA for the purpose of paying the costs for community service, but no more than the portion of the ACA attributable to the FWS program. The commenter wanted the flexibility to be given to the institutions in using the ACA at no additional cost to the Federal government. Discussion: The Amendments changed sections 447 and 489(a) of the HEA to eliminate the special ACA for work-study for community service learning. In accordance with the requirements of the HEA, the Secretary removed the special ACA from ยง675.18(b)(5). However, the Amendments did amend section 447 of the HEA to permit an institution to use up to 10 percent of the funds available for the institution's regular campus-based ACA and attributable to the institution's FWS program expenditures to cover expenses incurred for its program of community service. The Secretary, in accordance with the requirements of the HEA, further amended ยง675.18(b)(5) to provide an institution with this authority. Changes: None. Subpart C_Work-Colleges Program Authorization of Appropriations Comments: One commenter suggested that under the Work-Colleges subpart of the regulations the Department should provide for the allocation and reallocation of funds as it does under ยง675.4 of the FWS program regulations even though no funds are appropriated. Discussion: The Secretary will implement the allocation and reallocation process for the Work-Colleges program based on the institutions' requests. The funds will be allocated and reallocated based on each institution's approved request for Federal funds for the Work-Colleges program as a percent of the total of such approved requests for all applicant institutions. Changes: This section is amended to add an allocation and reallocation process. Executive Order 12866 These final regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the final regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements were identified and explained in the NPRM. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Section 674.34(e) contains information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the U.S. Department of Education will submit a copy of this section to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review. Waiver of Proposed Rulemaking In addition to the changes made to these regulations based on public comment on the notice of proposed rulemaking, the Secretary has revised the regulations to include changes made by the Improving America's Schools Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;382), and the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;394), enacted subsequent to publication of the notice of proposed rulemaking. It is the practice of the Secretary to offer interested parties the opportunity to comment on proposed regulations in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553. However, since these changes merely incorporate statutory changes into the regulations, public comment could have no effect. Therefore, the Secretary has determined pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5532(b)(B) that public comment on the regulations is unnecessary and contrary to the public interest. Assessment of Educational Impact In the NPRM, the Secretary requested comments on whether the proposed regulations would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. Based on the response to the proposed rules and on its own review, the Department has determined that the regulations in this document do not require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects 34 CFR Part 674 Loan programs_education, Student aid, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 34 CFR Part 675 Loan programs_education, Student aid, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 34 CFR Part 676 Loan programs_education, Student aid, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers: 84.007 Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program; 84.033 Federal Work-Study Program; and 84.038 Federal Perkins Loan Program) Dated: November 21, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education.
