FR940407-2-00053 FR940407-2-00030 Similarly, the Commission held in another preliminary finding that the formation did not qualify as a tight formation because current-day qualifying values were the result of water influx due to sustained production, not the result of the way the rock was cemented together. 7 7 Mississippi Oil and Gas Board, 57 FERC ¶61,129 (1991). The Commission did not issue a final order because the applicant withdrew the application. Discussion Based on a review of the current record, the records in another proceeding involving the Spraberry Formation, 8 and a study by the Texas Bureau of Economic Geology addressing the Spraberry Formation underlying the recommended area, 9 the Commission believes that the determination is not supported by substantial evidence, as explained below. 8 See 64 FERC ¶61,004 (1993) where the Commission preliminarily found that the Spraberry Formation in the Midkiff Unit did not meet the tight formation guidelines because the record did not: (1) Reflect natural fracture permeability; (2) Contain gas flow rate data that was representative of initial conditions in the reservoir; and (3) Contain substantial evidence that the formation met the oil flow rate guideline. The Commission did not issue a final order because the applicant withdrew its application. The acreage covered by the current recommendation is contiguous to the Midkiff Unit. 9 ``Heterogeneous Deep-Sea Fan Reservoirs, Shackelford and Preston Waterflood Units, Spraberry Trend, West Texas,'' 1988, Texas Bureau of Economic Geology. Commission review shows that the record does not reflect initial conditions (i.e., before sustained production, pressure decline, and filling of rock pore spaces with water) because virtually all of the data wells were completed in the Spraberry Formation from 1980 to 1993, long after production from the formation commenced. 10 In addition, the record does not contain substantial evidence supporting the use of oil production type curve analysis as a method to calculate effective gas permeability. First, all 22 type curve wells were analyzed with equations where current gas-oil rations were used, as well as a single current reservoir pressure of 1,000 psia and the corresponding fluid properties at that pressure. 11 Second, the oil permeabilities used in the calculations were derived by the analysis of the 22 wells' historical oil production. It is unclear how the oil permeabilities thus calculated can apply to the calculation of gas permeability prior to sustained production. 10 The one exception is a 1966 core permeability data well. 11 The Commission also notes that the record does not show how current pressures in wells first produced from 1980 to 1988 would be the same. Moreover, the Commission believes that the record does not show initial conditions since waterflooding projects initiated in 1964 have affected most of the recommended area. Specifically, Commission records show that the Upper Spraberry formation in the Preston and Shackelford Units, the most productive interval of the three productive intervals, has undergone unitized waterflooding since 1964. 12 These records also show that by 1980, the waterflood front had expanded over most of the Preston and Shackelford Units and as a result, most wells were producing more than 75% water. 13 12 The records show that unitized waterflooding also began in the Lower Spraberry in 1964, but was discontinued in 1968 when it was determined that 80% of producing capacity was attributable to the Upper Spraberry and that water injection did not cause additional oil to be produced from the Lower Spraberry. None of the records reviewed shows any waterflooding operations in the Dean formation. 13 The Commission's records do not show whether the Lower Spraberry interval also produces 75% water. However, the record contains no evidence showing that hydraulically fractured Lower Spraberry wells would not be in communication with the Upper Spraberry interval as a result of the extensive system of interconnected natural fractures throughout the Spraberry Formation, thereby allowing water encroachment. Our review also shows that at original conditions, the Spraberry Formation was a crude oil reservoir with a solution gas drive. Such reservoirs initially have zero effective gas permeability by virtue of the fact that all the gas is dissolved in oil until reservoir pressure declines sufficiently, through sustained production, to allow free gas to form (known as the ``bubble point''). Thus, it appears that gas could not flow at initial conditions because the pores of the rock were filled only with oil and water, not because of the way the rock was cemented together. Finally, we conclude that one oil and gas flow rate data well ( # 3414&hyph;A), regardless of its completion date, does not constitute substantial evidence showing that the Spraberry Formation meets the flow rate guidelines in the recommended area because of the geological characteristics of the Spraberry Formation in the recommended area. Commission records show that Spraberry sediments in this area were deposited along two depositional axes running roughly north-south. The records further show that, at initial conditions, wells located along the eastern axis produced two to six times as much oil as wells located between the two axes, and that wells located along the western axis are characterized by high water production. The records also show that Spraberry reservoirs in the recommended area are highly compartmentalized due to extensive natural fracturing and complex depositional boundaries. Accordingly, we conclude that data from the # 3414&hyph;A well does not provide sufficient evidence to support Texas' determination that the formation meets the oil and gas flow rate guidelines. Our review also shows that the record does not reflect the natural fracture permeability in the formation. 14 The Commission's records clearly show that the original permeability of the formation (before sustained production and water injection) substantially exceeded 0.1 md due to the existence of interconnected, well-developed natural fractures that extend throughout the Spraberry Formation within the recommended area. The Commission's records also show that wells located parallel to the northeast trend of the fractures have substantially better reservoir permeability and flow rates than those located perpendicular to the trend. Therefore, wells draining sands that do not intersect the fracture system would be expected to reflect matrix permeability only, the pressure regime of a closed system, and low flow rates. 14 The Interim Rule issued February 20, 1980, in Docket No. RM79&hyph;76, states that matrix permeability alone ``will not be sufficient to qualify a formation, because formations with very low matrix permeabilities may be economic to develop if fractures have developed naturally. Therefore, to fulfill the guideline containing the specific permeability limit, the formation's average effective or in situ permeability throughout the pay section must be expected to be 0.1 millidarcy, or less.'' FERC Statutes & Regulations, Regulations Preambles (1977&hyph;1981) ¶30,130 at 30,906&hyph;07.
