FR941028-2-00196 FR941028-2-00109 A potential problem with using pressure-sensing devices is that the pressure differentials used to achieve the low negative pressure necessitate the use of very sensitive mechanical devices, electronic devices, or pressure gauges to ensure accurate measurements. Use of devices that cannot measure these low pressures (i.e., pressures as low as 0.001 inch of water) will require setting higher negative pressures that may be difficult and, in some instances, impractical to achieve (Suppl. 3, Section II.B.4). Periodic checks are required to ensure that the desired negative pressure is present and that the continuous monitoring devices, if used, are operating properly. If smoke tubes or other visual checks are used, TB isolation rooms and treatment rooms should be checked frequently for negative pressure. Rooms undergoing changes to the ventilation system should be checked daily. TB isolation rooms should be checked daily for negative pressure while being used for TB isolation. If these rooms are not being used for patients who have suspected or confirmed TB but potentially could be used for such patients, the negative pressure in the rooms should be checked monthly. If pressure-sensing devices are used, negative pressure should be verified at least once a month by using smoke tubes or taking pressure measurements. C. HEPA Filtration Purpose: To remove contaminants from the air. HEPA filtration can be used as a method of air cleaning that supplements other recommended ventilation measures. For the purposes of these guidelines, HEPA filters are defined as air-cleaning devices that have a demonstrated and documented minimum removal efficiency of 99.97% of particles greater than or equal to 0.3 m m in diameter. HEPA filters have been shown to be effective in reducing the concentration of Aspergillus spores (which range in size from 1.5 m m to 6 m m) to below measurable levels (100&hyph;102). The ability of HEPA filters to remove tubercle bacilli from the air has not been studied, but M. tuberculosis droplet nuclei probably range from 1 m m to 5 m m in diameter (i.e., approximately the same size as Aspergillus spores). Therefore, HEPA filters can be expected to remove infectious droplet nuclei from contaminated air. HEPA filters can be used to clean air before it is exhausted to the outside, recirculated to other areas of a facility, or recirculated within a room. If the device is not completely passive (e.g., it utilizes techniques such as electrostatics) and the failure of the electrostatic components permits loss of filtration efficiency to less than 99.97%, the device should not be used in systems that recirculate air back into the general facility ventilation system from TB isolation rooms and treatment rooms in which procedures are performed on patients who may have infectious TB (Suppl. 3, Section II.C.2). HEPA filters can be used in a number of ways to reduce or eliminate infectious droplet nuclei from room air or exhaust. These methods include placement of HEPA filters (a) in exhaust ducts to remove droplet nuclei from air being discharged to the outside, either directly or through ventilation equipment; (b) in ducts discharging room air into the general ventilation system; and (c) in fixed or portable room-air cleaners. The effectiveness of portable HEPA room-air cleaning units has not been evaluated adequately, and there is probably considerable variation in their effectiveness. HEPA filters can also be used in exhaust ducts or vents that discharge air from booths or enclosures into the surrounding room (Suppl. 3, Section II.A.3). In any application, HEPA filters should be installed carefully and maintained meticulously to ensure adequate function. Manufacturers of room-air cleaning equipment should provide documentation of the HEPA filter efficiency and the efficiency of the installed device in lowering room-air contaminant levels.
