FR941103-2-00072 FR941103-2-00031 Salt Lake City Area Integrated Projects; Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, Wyoming; Schedule of Rates for Firm Power Service Effective Beginning December 1, 1994, through November 30, 1999, or until superseded by another rate schedule, whichever occurs earlier. Available In the area served by the Salt Lake City Area Integrated Projects. Applicable To the wholesale power customers for firm power service supplied through one meter at one point of delivery, or as otherwise established by contract. Character Alternating current, 60 hertz, three-phase, delivered and metered at the voltages and points established by contract. Monthly Rate Demand Charge: $3.83 per kilowatt of billing demand. Energy Charge: 8.90 mills per kilowatthour of use. Billing Demand The billing demand will be the greater of: 1. The highest 30-minute integrated demand measured during the month up to, but not more than, the delivery obligation under the power sales contract, or 2. The contract rate of delivery. Adjustment for Transformer Losses If delivery is made at transmission voltage but metered on the low-voltage side of the substation, the meter readings will be increased to compensate for transformer losses as provided for in the contract. Adjustment for Power Factor The customer will be required to maintain a power factor at all points of measurement between 95-percent lagging and 95-percent leading. Adjustment for Purchased Resources Purpose of Adjustment To ensure that Western Area Power Administration (Western) has sufficient revenues to support resource purchases made necessary because of restricted generation from Glen Canyon Dam as the result of restrictions on water releases from the dam. Applicability To those contractors who are not receiving service under an Interim Purchase Amendment to the firm power sales contract. Adjustment If Western finds it necessary to purchase resources to replace generation lost at Glen Canyon Dam because of the above-listed restrictions, Western will, beginning on the first month that such purchases are made, include in the contractor's monthly power bill an estimate of that contractor's proportionate share of net capacity purchase costs. The cost of purchasing these resources will be offset by the revenue that Western receives for the sale of energy, if any, associated with the purchased resources. In its October bill each year, Western will reconcile the previous fiscal year's actual purchased power expenses and the monthly estimated costs paid by the contractor. If the contractor has paid more than its proportionate share of actual purchased power expenses, the excess amount will be shown as a credit to the contractor's October power bill. If the contractor has paid less than its proportionate share of actual power purchase expenses, Western will add such amount to the contractor's October power bill. Notification If Western finds it necessary to implement this adjustment, it will give a one-time notification to the contractor and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission at least 10 days before initially adding purchased power cost to the contractor's monthly bill. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27306 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
