FR940622-0-00080 FR940622-0-00011 Appendix I_An Important Message From Medicare; Your Rights While You Are a Medicare Hospital Patient •You have the right to receive all the hospital care that is necessary for the proper diagnosis and treatment of your illness or injury. According to Federal law, your discharge date must be determined solely by your medical needs, not by ``Diagnosis Related Groups'' (DRGs) or Medicare payments. •You have the right to be fully informed about decisions affecting your Medicare coverage and payment for your hospital stay and for any post-hospital services. •You have the right to request a review by a Peer Review Organization (PRO) of any written Notice of Noncoverage that you receive from the hospital stating that Medicare will no longer pay for your hospital care. PROs are groups of doctors who are paid by the Federal Government to review medical necessity, appropriateness and quality of hospital treatment furnished to Medicare patients. The phone number and address of the PRO for your area are: Talk to Your Doctor About Your Stay in the Hospital You and your doctor know more about your condition and your health needs than anyone else. Decisions about your medical treatment should be made between you and your doctor. If you have any questions about your medical treatment, your need for continued hospital care, your discharge, or your need for possible post-hospital care, don't hesitate to ask your doctor. The hospital's patient representative or social worker will also help you with your questions and concerns about hospital services. If You Think You Are Being Asked To Leave the Hospital Too Soon •Ask a hospital representative for a written notice of explanation immediately, if you have not already received one. This notice is called a Notice of Noncoverage. You must have this Notice of Noncoverage if you wish to exercise your right to request a review by the PRO. •The Notice of Noncoverage will state either that your doctor or the PRO agrees with the hospital's decision that Medicare will no longer pay for your hospital care. _If the hospital and your doctor agree, the PRO does not review your case before a Notice of Noncoverage is issued. But the PRO will respond to your request for a review of your Notice of Noncoverage and seek your opinion. You cannot be made to pay for your hospital care until the PRO makes its decision, if you request the review by noon of the first work day after you receive the Notice of Noncoverage. _If the hospital and your doctor disagree, the hospital may request the PRO to review your case. If it does make such a request, the hospital is required to send you a notice to that effect. In this situation the PRO must agree with the hospital or the hospital cannot issue a Notice of Noncoverage. You may request that the PRO reconsider your case after you receive a Notice of Noncoverage, but since the PRO has already reviewed your case once, you may have to pay for at least one day of hospital care before the PRO completes this reconsideration. If you do not request a review, the hospital may bill you for all the costs of your stay beginning with the third day after you receive the Notice of Noncoverage. The hospital, however, cannot charge you for care unless it provides you with a Notice of Noncoverage.
