FR940711-2-00084 FR940711-2-00038 Site-Specific Preventive Health Education_An activity designed to address health risks in a community where presenting specific information or recommendations can assist the community in understanding, preventing, or mitigating the health effects of hazardous substances exposure. Target audiences are community members and health professionals. Preventive health education related to sites should be integral to the entire public health activities process and not simply performed when all other activities are completed. Sites for health education should be selected based on public health need. The following describes the two types of site-specific preventive health education activities. Community Health Education_ Any activity or activities directed toward the community near a site, designed to assist the community in understanding their potential for exposure or assessing adverse health occurrence in their community and to prevent or mitigate exposure to hazardous substances. Activities may include disseminating written materials, presenting coordinated programs involving on-site actions and site-specific materials development (prevention oriented), or supporting an on site health educator. It is assumed that in community health education, community members are involved in the assessment, policy development, and assurance phases of site-specific preventive health education. Health Professional Education_ Any activity or activities directed toward educating public health professionals and the local medical community. The purpose of these activities is to improve the knowledge, skill, and behavior of health professionals concerning medical surveillance, screening, and methods of diagnosing, treating, and preventing injury or disease related to exposure to hazardous substances. See Recipient Activities for a description of types of activities. General Environmental Health Education_Programs and materials for health professionals that may not be directly related to a site, but contribute to the base of knowledge in environmental health and help equip health professionals to more effectively address environmental health issues. A partial list of appropriate and inappropriate topics to be addressed by these efforts follows: Sample of Appropriate Topics: Superfund site hazardous substances on the priority pollutant list (the ranked list of substances prioritized by ATSDR and the EPA appears in Federal Register issue 56 FR 52166, October 17, 1991); environmental exposure histories; resources for environmental health information; environmental toxicology; environmental epidemiology; and health risk communication. Sample of Inappropriate Topics: Occupational health/workplace exposures; radon; indoor air; sick building syndrome; secondhand smoke; ozone; air pollution; carbon monoxide poisoning; childhood lead poisoning (unless site-related); greenhouse effect; insect repellents; and household chemicals. Health Activities Recommendation Panel (HARP)_This is a multidisciplinary intra-Agency panel established to evaluate the data and information contained in public health assessments, health consultations, public health advisories and other documents developed by ATSDR to determine public health follow-up actions_including environmental health education_needed for communities affected by exposures to hazardous substances present at hazardous waste sites nationwide. States funded under the health education cooperative agreement may be asked to participate in HARP review of selected sites, when appropriate. Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient shall be responsible for the activities under A., below, and ATSDR shall be responsible for conducting activities under B., below: A. Recipient Activities 1. Site-Specific Preventive Health Education Site-specific preventive health education includes activities for health professionals, communities, and that apply to both audiences. a. Health professionals. (1) Develop for health professionals site-related educational activities. Sites to be addressed include: sites listed or proposed for the National Priorities List (NPL); HARP-recommended sites; sites that have had consultations or petitions, and other sites where the State and ATSDR determine health education is needed. Activities relevant to hazardous substances found at these sites are also appropriate. Activities include grand rounds, short courses, and workshops. (2) Develop educational materials to improve the skills and knowledge of health professionals concerning potential exposure to hazardous substances at Superfund (or HARP) sites. If non-printed materials are to be developed, the applicant must thoroughly describe the materials, and justify their superiority over traditional educational materials. b. Communities. Develop and conduct community health education activities and materials related to potential exposure to hazardous substances at sites as described above in 1.a. The recipient should give priority to HARP-recommended sites and those sites where community members can take specific actions to reduce or eliminate exposure to hazardous substances.
