FR940617-2-00232 FR940617-2-00118 Item 6. ``Employer Identification Number (EIN)''_Enter the employer identification number of the applicant organization, as assigned by the Internal Revenue Service, including, if known, the Central Registry System suffix. Item 7. ``Type of Applicant''_Self-explanatory. Item 8. ``Type of Application''_Preprinted on the form. Item 9. ``Name of Federal Agency''_Preprinted on the form. Item 10. ``Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number and Title''_Enter the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number, 93.671, assigned to the program under which assistance is requested and its title, as indicated in the relevant priority area description. Item 11. ``Descriptive Title of Applicant's Project''_Enter the project title. The title is generally short and is descriptive of the project, not the priority area title. Item 12. ``Areas Affected by Project''_Enter the governmental unit where significant and meaningful impact could be observed. List only the largest unit or units affected, such as State, county, or city. If an entire unit is affected, list it rather than subunits. Item 13. ``Proposed Project''_Enter the desired start date for the project and projected completion date. Item 14. ``Congressional District of Applicant/Project''_Enter the number of the Congressional district where the applicant's principal office is located and the number of the Congressional district(s) where the project will be located. If statewide, a multi-State effort, or nationwide, enter ``00.'' Items 15 ``Estimated Funding Levels''_In completing 15a through 15f, the dollar amounts entered should reflect, for a 17 month or less project period, the total amount requested. Item 15a. Enter the amount of Federal funds requested in accordance with the preceding paragraph. This amount should be no greater than the maximum amount specified in the priority area description. Items 15b-e. Enter the amount(s) of funds from non-Federal sources that will be contributed to the proposed project. Items b-e are considered cost-sharing or ``matching funds.'' The value of third party in-kind contributions should be included on appropriate lines as applicable. For more information regarding funding as well as exceptions to these rules, see Part III, Sections E and F, and the specific priority area description. Item 15f. Enter the estimated amount of income, if any, expected to be generated from the proposed project. Do not add or subtract this amount from the total project amount entered under item 15g. Describe the nature, source and anticipated use of this income in the Project Narrative Statement. Item 15g. Enter the sum of items 15a-15e. Item 16a. ``Is Application Subject to Review By State Executive Order 12372 Process? Yes.''_Enter the date the applicant contacted the SPOC regarding this application. Select the appropriate SPOC from the listing provided at the end of Part IV. The review of the application is at the discretion of the SPOC. The SPOC will verify the date noted on the application. If there is a discrepancy in dates, the SPOC may request that the Federal agency delay any proposed funding until September 30, 1994. Item 16b. ``Is Application Subject to Review By State Executive Order 12372 Process? No.''_Check the appropriate box if the application is not covered by E.O. 12372 or if the program has not been selected by the State for review. Item 17. ``Is the Applicant Delinquent on any Federal Debt?''_Check the appropriate box. This question applies to the applicant organization, not the person who signs as the authorized representative. Categories of debt include audit disallowances, loans and taxes. Item 18. ``To the best of my knowledge and belief, all data in this application/preapplication are true and correct. The document has been duly authorized by the governing body of the applicant and the applicant will comply with the attached assurances if the assistance is awarded.''_To be signed by the authorized representative of the applicant. A copy of the governing body's authorization for signature of this application by this individual as the official representative must be on file in the applicant's office, and may be requested from the applicant. Item 18a-c. ``Typed Name of Authorized Representative, Title, Telephone Number''_Enter the name, title and telephone number of the authorized representative of the applicant organization. Item 18d. ``Signature of Authorized Representative''_Signature of the authorized representative named in Item 18a. At least one copy of the application must have an original signature. Use colored ink (not black) so that the original signature is easily identified. Item 18e. ``Date Signed''_Enter the date the application was signed by the authorized representative. 2. SF 424A_Budget Information_Non-Construction Programs This is a form used by many Federal agencies. For this application, Sections A, B, C, E and F are to be completed. Section D does not need to be completed. Sections A and B should include the Federal as well as the non-Federal funding for the proposed project covering the total project period of 17 months or less. Section A_Budget Summary. This section includes a summary of the budget. On line 5, enter total Federal costs in column (e) and total non-Federal costs, including third party in-kind contributions, but not program income, in column (f). Enter the total of (e) and (f) in column (g). Section B_Budget Categories. This budget, which includes the Federal as well as non-Federal funding for the proposed project, covers the total project period of 17 months or less. It should relate to item 15g, total funding, on the SF 424. Under column (5), enter the total requirements for funds (Federal and non-Federal) by object class category. A separate budget justification should be included to explain fully and justify major items, as indicated below. The types of information to be included in the justification are indicated under each category. The budget justification should immediately follow the second page of the SF 424A.
