FR940503-1-00038 FR940503-1-00010 In order to provide the parties with incentives to cooperate during the discovery phase, there are both mandatory and discretionary sanctions for failure to comply with the information exchange requirements. For example, if a party fails to timely provide the name and all supporting information regarding any witness it intends to present at a hearing, such witness may not be presented. Similarly, if a party fails to timely produce a document it intends to introduce at such a hearing, that document may not be introduced to prove the truth of what it asserts. Part 28 would be revised to provide that if the Respondent fails to timely provide information regarding its good faith efforts to comply with the Act, then that information may not be used by the Respondent at the hearing. The Presiding Officer may also impose additional appropriate sanctions on a party that fails to fully comply with these requirements. In conducting the hearing, the Presiding Officer may limit the number of witnesses and the scope and extent of both the direct examination and cross-examination. Cross-examination is limited to the scope of the direct examination. The Presiding Officer may take testimony in the form that is the most efficient under the circumstances. No matter what form of testimony is permitted, however, the Presiding Officer will make adequate provision to ensure that each party retains its right of cross-examination if the witness is available to testify or is subject to a subpoena. The hearing is generally limited to resolving disputed allegations as to liability. Remedy issues are generally addressed in the parties' closing arguments, unless there is a compelling need for remedy testimony. Such need could arise where the underlying facts which are material to the statutory penalty assessment factors are disputed. As is typical in administrative proceedings, strict adherence to the Federal Rules of Evidence is not required under part 28. Testimony or documentation that is ``relevant, material or of significant probative value'', including hearsay, is admissible, as long as the witness presenting the information is subject to cross-examination by any opposing party. The Presiding Officer has the discretion to take official notice of certain facts, exclusive either of facts relating to settlement or relating to a person's challenge to a final State or Agency action. The proposed part 28 rules contemplate that each party will have an opportunity to make an opening statement (with the Agency making its opening statement first); that the Agency will put on its prima facie case; and that the Respondent thereafter will have an opportunity to present its defense. Participants may present oral closing arguments at the discretion of the Presiding Officer, and such arguments may address both liability and remedy issues. The participants may submit supporting documentation regarding remedy. If the Presiding Officer does not allow oral closing arguments, the Agency anticipates that he would solicit the submission of written proposed recommended findings of fact and conclusions of law as to liability and remedy. Under part 28, the Presiding Officer would be required to: (1) Certify the administrative record as complete and as being in compliance with the requirements of part 28; (2) make the administrative record available to the Regional Administrator; and (3) prepare and transmit a recommended decision to the Regional Administrator. The Presiding Officer's authority to prescribe a remedy would be limited to recommending the withdrawal of the field citation or recommending the issuance of an order.
