FR940912-0-00061 FR940912-0-00010 (g) Premium pay differentials. *␣*␣* The order of precedence for the payment of premium pay differentials is holiday, Sunday, and night work. (1) Holiday differential. A Customs Officer who performs any regularly-scheduled work on a holiday shall receive pay for that work at the officer's hourly rate of base pay, which includes authorized locality pay, plus premium pay amounting to 100 percent of that base rate. Holiday differential premium pay will be paid only for time worked. Intermittent employees are not entitled to holiday differentials. * * * * * (iv) If a Customs Officer is assigned to a regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, tour of duty which contains hours within and outside the 24-hour calendar day of a holiday_for example, a tour of duty starting at 8 p.m. on a Monday holiday following a scheduled day off on Sunday and ending at 4 a.m. on Tuesday_the Customs Officer shall receive the holiday differential (up to 8 hours) for work performed during that shift. If the Customs Officer is assigned more than one regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, tour of duty which contains hours within and outside the 24-hour calendar day of a holiday_for example, a tour of duty starting at 8 p.m. on the Wednesday before a Thursday holiday and ending at 4 a.m. on Thursday with another regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, tour of duty starting at 8 p.m. on the Thursday holiday and ending at 4 a.m. on Friday_the management official in charge of assigning work shall designate one of the tours of duty as the officer's holiday shift and the officer shall receive holiday differential (up to 8 hours) for work performed during the entire period of the designated holiday shift. The Customs Officer shall not receive holiday differential for any of the work performed on the tour of duty which has not been designated as the holiday shift but will be eligible for Sunday or night differential as appropriate. * * * * * (vi) A Customs Officer who works only a portion of a regularly-scheduled, non-overtime, holiday shift will be paid the holiday differential for the actual hours worked and the appropriate differential (Sunday or night) for the remaining portion of the shift such officer was not required to work. The night differential premium pay shall be calculated based on the rate applicable to the entire shift. (2) Sunday differential. A Customs Officer who performs any regularly-scheduled work on a Sunday that is not a Federal holiday shall receive pay for that work at the officer's hourly rate of base pay, which includes authorized locality pay, plus premium pay amounting to 50 percent of that base rate. Sunday differential premium pay will be paid only for time worked and is not applicable to overtime work performed on a Sunday. A Customs Officer whose regularly-scheduled work occurs in part on a Sunday, that is not a Federal holiday, and in part on the preceding or following day, will receive the Sunday differential premium pay for the hours worked between 12:01 a.m. and 12 Midnight on Sunday. Intermittent employees are not entitled to Sunday differentials. (3) Night work differentials. A Customs Officer who performs any regularly-scheduled night work shall receive pay for that work at the officer's hourly rate of base pay, including locality pay as authorized, plus the applicable premium pay differential, as specified below, but shall not receive such night differential for work performed during overtime assignments. When all or the majority of the hours of a Customs Officer's regularly-scheduled work occur between 3 p.m. and 8 a.m., the officer shall receive a night differential premium for all the hours worked during that assignment. Intermittent employees are not entitled to night differentials. * * * * * PART 134_COUNTRY OF ORIGIN MARKING 1. The authority citation for part 134 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 66, 1202 (General Note 17, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS)), 1304, 1624. 2. In §134.55, paragraph (b) is revised to read as follows: §134.55 Compensation of Customs Officers and employees. * * * * * (b) Applicability _(1) Official hours. The compensation of Customs Officers or employees assigned to supervise the exportation, destruction, or marking of articles so as to exempt them from the application of marking duties shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of §§24.16 or 24.17(a)(3), respectively, of this chapter when such supervision is performed during a regularly-scheduled tour of duty. (2) Overtime. When such supervision is performed by a Customs Officer or employee in an overtime status, the compensation with respect to the overtime shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of §24.16 or §24.17, respectively, of this chapter. * * * * * George J. Weise, Commissioner of Customs. Approved: August 12, 1994. John P. Simpson, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22415 Filed 9&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4820&hyph;02&hyph;P
