FR941117-0-00008 FR941117-0-00001 Note: The following appendix will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations Appendix to the Preamble of the Final Rule The document entitled ``Corporate Federal Credit Union Bylaws'' is amended by revising Article IV, Section 2, and Article V, Sections 1 and 2, and adding Article V, Section 4, to read as follows: Article IV. Meetings of Members * * * * * Section 2. At least 75 days before the date of any annual meeting or 10 days before the date of any special meeting of the members, the recording officer shall cause written notice to be mailed to each member at the address that appears on the records of this credit union. Such notice shall state the date, time, and location of the meeting and such other information as the board of directors shall determine consistent with these bylaws. The written notice for the annual meeting shall advise the members of the deadlines for elections. Any meeting of the members, whether annual or special, may be held without prior notice, at any time or place, if all members entitled to vote and who are not present at such meeting shall, in writing, waive notice thereof, before, during, or after such meeting. * * * * * Article V. Elections Section 1. At least 120 days prior to each annual meeting the board of directors shall appoint a nominating committee of not fewer than three from among the members. It shall be the duty of the nominating committee to nominate at least one eligible candidate for each vacancy, including any unexpired-term vacancy, for which elections are being held, and to determine that the candidates nominated are agreeable to the placing of their names in nomination and will accept office if elected. The nominating committee shall file its nominations with the recording officer at least 90 days prior to the annual meeting, and the recording officer shall notify in writing all members eligible to vote at least 75 days prior to the annual meeting that nominations for vacancies may also be made by petition signed by 5 percent of the members with a minimum of 5 members and a maximum of 100 members. The written notice shall indicate that the election will not be conducted by ballot and there will be no nominations from the floor when there is only one nominee for each position to be filled. A brief statement of qualifications and biographical data in such form as shall be approved by the board of directors will be included for each nominee submitted by the nominating committee with the written notice to all eligible members. Each nominee by petition shall submit a similar statement of qualifications and biographical data with the petition. The written notice shall state the closing date for receiving nominations by petition. The period for receiving nominations by petition shall, in all cases, extend at least 30 days from the date the petition requirement and the list of nominating committee nominees are mailed to all members. To be effective, such nominations shall be accompanied by a signed certificate from the nominee or nominees stating that they are agreeable to nomination and will serve if elected to office. Such nominations shall be filed with the recording officer at least 40 days prior to the annual meeting. In carrying out their responsibilities, the nominating committee and board of directors must ensure that the requirements of 12 CFR ยง704.12(a) are satisfied. Section 2. All elections shall be determined by plurality vote and shall be by mail ballot except where there is only one nominee for each position to be filled. Nominations shall not be made from the floor unless sufficient nominations have not been made by the nominating committee or by petition to provide for one nominee for each position to be filled or circumstances prevent the candidacy of the one nominee for a position to be filled. Only those positions without a nominee shall be subject to nominations from the floor. In the event nominations from the floor, when permitted herein, result in more than one nominee for a position to be filled, and when nominations have been closed, tellers shall be appointed by the board of directors, ballots shall be distributed, the vote shall be taken and tallied by the tellers, and the results announced. When only one member is nominated for each position to be filled, the chair may take a voice vote or declare each nominee elected by general consent or acclamation at the annual meeting. * * * * * Section 4. Except as provided in Section 2 of this article, all elections shall be by mail ballot, subject to the following conditions. (a) The tellers of election shall be appointed by the board of directors; (b) Sufficient nominations having been made by the nominating committee or by petition to provide more than one nominee for any position to be filled, the recording officer shall, at least 30 days prior to the annual meeting, cause printed ballots to be mailed to all members eligible to vote;
