FR940317-1-00141 FR940317-1-00013 (2) If the incident giving rise to a claim in favor of the United States also gives rise to a potential claim against the United States, the claim in favor of the Government will be asserted and processed only by a claims approval or settlement authority who has jurisdiction to take final action on the claim against the Government. ยง536.218 Claims against certain prospective defendants. (a) U.S. Government agencies. RJAs will not assert a claim against any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States. A self-insured NAFI, whether revenue producing, welfare or sundry, is considered an ``agency or instrumentality of the United States''; a private association is not. (b) Property damage assertions against soldiers and employees. The report of survey system (chapter 13, AR 735&hyph;5) is the primary mechanism for collecting from a civilian employee or a soldier (including an AR or NG soldier) for damage to government property. Report of survey procedures should normally be used whenever applicable. AR 735&hyph;5 requires claims offices to assert property damage claims against soldiers and employees in two instances: (1) Damage caused by POV's. Pursuant to paragraph 14&hyph;30, AR 735&hyph;5, if a report of survey approving authority assesses liability against a soldier or civilian employee for negligently damaging Government property using a POV, and the soldier or employee does not make restitution, the approving authority will forward the approved report of survey to the claims office. The RJA will assert a demand against the soldier or employee's liability insurance for the full value of the damage. If the soldier or employee does not have insurance, the RJA will return the action for the approving authority to withhold a month's pay from the soldier or employee. (2) Exhaustion of collection remedies. Pursuant to paragraph 14&hyph;4b(7), AR 735&hyph;5, if an F&AO has exhausted all administrative mechanisms, including IRS offset, for collecting amounts assessed under a report of survey from a soldier, ROTC cadet or employee, the F&AO may refer the action to the servicing claims office for recovery action under the Federal Claims Collection Act. The RJA will assert such claims and initiate litigation if appropriate. (c) Medical care assertions against soldiers, employees, family members, and retirees _(1) Acting within scope of employment. The RJA will not assert a medical care claim against a tortfeasor who is a civilian employee or service member (including a reserve component member) acting within scope of employment, whether or not the employee or member has private insurance (cf. U.S. v. Gilman , 347 U.S. 507 (1954)). ``Scope of employment'' is determined by the laws of the state where the injury occurred. (2) Persons not in scope who injure themselves. An RJA will not assert a claim based on a tort liability theory against a tortfeasor who is a soldier, family member or retiree for the tortfeasor's own medical care; a person cannot create tort liability by injuring himself or herself. In such instances, however, the RJA may assert a claim under 10 U.S.C. 1095 against the injured tortfeasor's personal injury protection (PIP) or medical payments insurance coverage. (3) Persons not in scope with liability insurance. An RJA may assert a medical care claim against the liability insurer of a service member, civilian employee, family member or retiree who injures some other person entitled to medical care. Interfamilial tort immunity would not preclude the RJA from asserting a medical care claim based on a tort liability theory for care furnished to a tortfeasor's family members (see, e.g., U.S. v. Haynes , 445 F.2d 907 (5th Cir. 1971); U.S. v. Moore , 469 F.2d 788 (3rd Cir. 1972). (4) Persons not in scope with no insurance. An RJA may assert a medical care claim against a soldier, civilian employee, family member or retiree without insurance coverage with the approval of the Chief, Personnel Claims and Recovery Division, USARCS, or designee. Approval will be granted if there are aggravating circumstances, such as willful misconduct, and the tortfeasor has sufficient assets to satisfy both the injured victim and the Government's claim. (d) Government contractors. Some contracts have ``cost-plus'' or reimbursement provisions which require the government to reimburse the contractor for many types of expenses. If it appears that the contract would require the government to reimburse a contractor for money recovered on an otherwise meritorious affirmative claim, the RJA will investigate the claim and forward a recommendation to USARCS, referencing the specific contract clauses involved. The RJA will assert other claims against government contractors after verifying that the contract does not contain a reimbursement provision. (e) NG organizations and members. The RJA will investigate claims arising from the tortious conduct of NG members. The RJA will assert claims against NG members and their insurers in accordance with ยง536.218 (b) and (c). If the NG members were acting within the scope of employment as State employees and an assertion against the NG organization's insurer appears appropriate, the RJA will forward a recommendation to USARCS.
