FR940111-2-00097 FR940111-2-00060 [Release No. 34&hyph;33415; File No. SR&hyph;GSCC&hyph;93&hyph;06] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Government Securities Clearing Corporation; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Disciplining of Members January 4, 1994. I. Introduction On June 25, 1993, pursuant to section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 the Government Securities Clearing Corporation (``GSCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change relating to the disciplining of members. Notice of the proposed rule change was published in the Federal Register on July 26, 1993. 2 No comments were received. This order approves the proposed rule change. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b) (1990). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32644 (July 15, 1993), 58 FR 39842. II. Description Currently, GSCC's general disciplinary rule 3 authorizes GSCC to discipline members for violations of GSCC's rules and other actions that constitute an abuse or misuse of GSCC's processes and services or otherwise reflect ``conduct detrimental to GSCC's operations.'' The proposed rule change amends the general disciplinary rule to provide language specific to GSCC's current operations and to allow it to fulfill better its responsibilities as a self-regulatory organization. 3 GSCC Rule 48, Section 1. Under GSCC's proposal, the Membership and Standards Committee (of GSCC's Board of Directors (``Board'')) (``Committee'') 4 classifies rules violations or incidents of detrimental conduct as either major or minor offenses. Major offenses generally involve either misconduct involving the funds or securities obligations of a member or deliberate acts of fraud or misconduct by a member. Repeated offenses of a minor nature by a member, however, may cause the member to be deemed to have committed a major offense. A member committing a major offense is subject to disciplinary action, including termination of its membership in either or both the comparison and netting systems, having GSCC cease to act for it, the imposition of a higher minimum Clearing Fund requirement, and/or a fine of up to $5,000. 5 Disciplinary actions involving ceasing to act for or termination of membership in the comparison or netting system require Board approval. 4 The Committee, which meets monthly (as necessary), acts as a disciplinary committee to address violations of the disciplinary rule. Management is responsible for presenting to the Committee rules violations and actions that, in Management's opinion, constitute detrimental conduct for the Committee's determination as to what, if any, disciplinary action is appropriate. 5 The maximum fine amount of $5,000 is defined so as to exclude any amounts sought by GSCC to directly recompense it for costs and expenses incurred as the result of a member's misconduct. All fines must be paid within 90 days from notice of imposition of the fine. After the Committee has determined that a member committed a major offense, a letter automatically is sent to senior management of the offending member requiring that the member explain to GSCC in writing why the offense occurred and the actions taken and/or to be taken to ensure that it will not reoccur. If appropriate under the circumstances, representatives of senior management of the member may be required to appear in person before the Committee to provide such explanation. A member committing a minor offense is subject to a fine or other disciplinary action, not to include GSCC ceasing to act for it or termination of membership. While a minor offense may not result in the imposition of a fine or other disciplinary action, for each such offense, GSCC automatically will send a letter to the management of the member that commits the offense informing it of its commission of the offense. If the Committee (with the Board's approval in certain cases) determines that any type of disciplinary action should be taken against a member, GSCC is obligated to notify the member of such determination. In this notification, GSCC will state the reasons for the disciplinary action and will inform the member of its right to a hearing to contest the action. After receiving this notice, a member has ten business days to file a written request for a hearing. Hearings on disciplinary actions that, under GSCC's rules, require approval by the Board, 6 are before a panel of five directors selected by the Board. Hearings on all other disciplinary actions are before a panel of three Committee members selected by the Committee. Both panels must be composed of a majority of directors who are not also GSCC officers. 6 The imposition of any disciplinary action involving ceasing to act or termination of membership in either or both the comparison system or the netting system requires Board approval. A member is able to appear before the panel in person (with its counsel, if it so chooses) to contest the planned disciplinary action. Alternatively, in lieu of a personal appearance, the member can submit to the panel documentary evidence in support of its claim that the planned disciplinary action is inappropriate. GSCC will inform the member of the panel's determination, as well as the member's right to appeal further to the full Board. If the panel's decision is adverse to the member, the sanction is effective immediately. The Board will be presented with the record of any panel hearing at its next regularly scheduled meeting. Its determination ordinarily will be made based upon a review of that record. A member does not have the right to appear in person before the Board to contest the determination of the panel; however, the Board may permit such a personal appearance in its discretion. Any appeal of the Board decision will have to be made to the Commission.
