FR940805-1-00107 FR940805-1-00013 (iv) unusual resident behavior; (v) staff witnesses; (vi) disposition of any physical evidence; (vii) any immediate action taken, including the use of force; and (viii) reporting staff member's signature; and (ix) date and time the report is made. (7) Disciplinary process. Residents shall receive notification of the rules violated, a formal statement of the charge, a description of the incident and notice of the date and time of hearing. The administrator or designee shall advise residents of their rights to be present at the hearing, to call witnesses on their behalf, to make a statement, to present documentary evidence, and to ask for assistance from staff in representing them at the hearing. An impartial person or panel of persons shall conduct the hearing. (8) Immediate removal from program for disciplinary reasons. The administrator shall provide for the immediate return of a resident for an alleged disciplinary violation to a secure facility if the safety of the resident, other residents, staff or the security of the facility is at stake. (9) Record of disciplinary hearing. The persons conducting the disciplinary hearing shall make a written copy of the decision and its disposition and shall provide copies to the resident and the administrators of the secure and community residential facilities for review. Residents shall have the right to appeal the decision to the administrator of the community residential facility or the next level of authority. The disciplinary report shall be removed from all files of residents found not guilty of an alleged rule violation. (d) Room restriction and removal from program_ (1) Explanation for restriction. Prior to room and/or privilege restriction, community residential staff shall explain the reasons for the restriction to residents, and residents shall have the opportunity to explain the behavior leading to the restriction. (2) Room restriction (minor). Room restriction for minor misbehavior shall serve only a ``cooling off'' purpose and is short in duration, with the time period (fifteen&hyph;sixty minutes) specified at the time of assignment. (3) Room restriction (major). Room restriction shall not exceed eight hours without review and administrative authorization and shall be used only when the resident is dangerous to self or others, and/or there is substantial evidence of plans to abscond. (4) Supervision during room restriction. During room restriction, staff shall contact residents at least every fifteen minutes to ensure the well-being of the resident. The resident shall assist in determining the end of the restriction period. (5) Disciplinary removal from program. The administrator shall remove residents from program for a disciplinary violation only after a hearing. (6) Emergency removal. Pursuant to a placement order, the administrator of the facility or designee can order immediate removal from program and return to a secure facility when it is necessary to protect the resident or others. The immediate supervisor of the person ordering removal from program or the contracting officer shall review this action within three working days. (7) Authority for removal. The administrator shall have the authority to define the criteria for removal of residents from the program. The procedure for removal from the program and transfer shall follow due process requirements and shall allow for resident appeal. (e) Resident rights_ (1) Access to courts, counsel and legal materials. Residents shall have the right to have access to attorneys, legal representatives, the courts and legal materials and to address uncensored communications to governmental authorities. (2) Freedom from discrimination. Residents shall have the right to be free from discrimination based on race, religion, national origin, tribal affiliation, sex, disability, political beliefs, favoritism or nepotism. Residents shall have the right to equal access to programs and work assignments as provided in the classification program. (3) Equal access for women. Male and female residents shall have the right to equal access to programs and services. (4) Right to communicate. Residents shall have the right to receive visits and to communicate or correspond with persons or organizations, subject only to the limitations necessary to maintain order and security. (5) Protection from harm. Residents shall have the right to protection from personal abuse, corporal punishment, personal injury, disease, property damage and harassment, by either staff or residents. (6) Freedom of personal grooming. Residents shall have the right to determine the length and style of scalp or facial hair, unless health and safety reasons exist. (7) Treatment. Residents shall have the right to medical, dental, mental health and sub stance abuse treatment and rehabilitative services as directed by the health authority. (f) Admission_ (1) Admission policies. The facility shall have clearly defined written procedures governing admission. (2) Documentation of commitment. Court order, statute or compact shall be document legal commitment authority. (3) Notification of non-acceptance. The administrator or designee shall advise the referring agency when a prospective resident is not accepted into the program, citing specific reasons. (4) Admission criteria. The administrator shall distribute a copy of admission policies and criteria to referring agencies and interested parties. (5) Admission process. Written procedures for admitting new residents shall include, at a minimum: (i) determination that the juvenile is legally committed to the facility; (ii) inventory of clothing and personal property taken into the facility; (iii) receipt of health record, if required because of transfer; (iv) completion of admission form as required by these standards; (v) orientation; and (vi) assignment to a room.
