FR940404-2-00146 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Eighteenth Assembly of Parties of the International Telecommunication Satellite Organization (INTELSAT), Sydney, Australia, November 3&hyph;6, 1992 Representative The Honorable Bradley P. Holmes, United States Coordinator and Director, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Alternate Representatives Michael T.N. Fitch, Deputy United States Coordinator and Director, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Steven W. Lett, Director for Satellite and Cable Policy, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Congressional Staff Advisers Suzan M. Andross, Staff Consultant, Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, United States Congress R. Michael Finley, Deputy Chief of Staff, Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, United States Congress Richard W. McBride, Staff Consultant, Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, United States Congress Kennon H. Nakamura, Staff Consultant, Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, United States Congress Advisers James L. Ball, Deputy Director, Office of International Communications, Federal Communications Commission Doreen T. Bogdan, Senior Policy Analyst, Office of International Affairs, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Mindel De La Torre, Senior Attorney-Advisor, Office of the Chief Counsel, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce C. Steven McGann, Political Officer, United States Consulate, Sydney Jean Prewitt, Associate Administrator for International Affairs, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Betty C. Alewine, President, Comsat World Systems, Communications Satellite Corporation Maury J. Mechanick, Vice President, International and Regulatory Affairs, Comsat World Systems, Communications Satellite Corporation Timothy S. Shea, Director, Intelsat Affairs, Comsat World Systems, Communications Satellite Corporation United States Delegation to the Limited North Atlantic Regional Air Navigation Conference, International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Cascais, Portugal, November 3&hyph;18, 1992 Representative Daniel C. Beaudette, Deputy Associate Administrator for Regulation and Certification, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative William F. Price, Manager, International Procedures Branch, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Advisers Melvin R. Culli, Manager, International Telecommunications Networks, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Robert R. Grimes, Manager, Reduced Vertical Separation Implementation Program, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Peter A. Kacerquis, Advisor on International Research and Development, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Daniel Lemon, Director, International Search and Rescue Programs, Commandant, United States Coast Guard, Department of Defense Michael Pumphrey, Advisor on International Air Traffic Services, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Gerald L. Richard, Section Supervisor, Atlantic/European Section, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Jerald Uecker, Program Leader, International Aviation, National Weather Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Adviser Richard K. Covell, Director of Oceanic Planning and International Coordination, Aeronautical Radio, Inc., Annapolis, Maryland
