FR940406-1-00031 FR940406-1-00010 Carrier Sharing of the Commission's Custodial Responsibility for Official Tariff Data No commenter has described a shared system which assures protection of official tariff data. Under these circumstances, we believe we must maintain custody of the data. The Commission will consider future shared custody arrangements that do adequately ensure data integrity. Railroads' proposal to have carriers act as custodian of official tariff data is the most complete of those described, but it does not contain enough information to permit an evaluation of the adequacy of data security. We have learned from the undercharge crisis that strict security measures will be required to ensure that carriers cannot make unauthorized changes to rates. Additionally, it's difficult to tell whether the data in Railroads' system is organized in ways that would facilitate its use by shippers. It appears that Railroads, in response to an inquiry, can supply their determination of ``the applicable rate''; however, prior tariff disputes have shown us that the carrier's determination is not always accurate. Shippers need access to the array of published rates so they can make their own determination of the correct rate. It is not clear whether or how Railroads' system would respond to such requests. Whether ETF Should Be Voluntary or Mandatory We reach no conclusion on this issue at this time. We will request that the Reg-Neg Committee consider it and make a recommendation. Other ETF System Design Issues We anticipate that the recommendations from the Reg-Neg Committee will encompass ETF system design issues. Particularly in light of the lack of detail in the comments, we agree with commenters that further consultations are required before such decisions can be made. Whether General Standards or Detailed Publishing Regulations Are More Appropriate for Printed Tariffs We will retain the status quo (general standards for rail tariffs and detailed regulations for other tariffs) while ETF issues are being considered. The primary focus of this proceeding is on ETF; very few commenters address the printed tariff issue; and we see no need to deal extensively with printed tariff issues at this time. Characteristics of a Comprehensive ETF System While we expect the Reg-Neg Committee to thoroughly consider design issues and recommend appropriate regulations to the Commission, we offer the following comments on what might be appropriate for a comprehensive ETF system ( i.e. , one that will support EDI and automated analyses): 1. Rates would be filed in a data base-oriented format with defined, computer readable codes designating origins, destinations, commodities, and other conditions of rate application (such as minimum weight, special packaging requirements, etc.). 2. Although data coding standards should be required in a comprehensive system, additional analysis is necessary to determine whether a common standard data coding structure should be required for all filers or whether different standard structures should be adopted for rail, motor and/or water carriers. 3. Although the publication of rules and accessorial charges in computer ratable formats is desirable, we do not believe we should require that they be published in this manner. 4. Only raw ETF data should be made available from the Commission. Whether the Commission would develop software to automatically analyze rates would depend on whether the Commission needs such software for agency operations. 5. The system should utilize ANSI EDI standards. We note FMC's contention that ANSI standards do not include all of the fields required for tariff filing purposes, and hope that the ANSI standards can be expanded to meet such requirements and enable us to avoid proprietary formats. 6. We do not believe we should include a requirement that our ETF system be capable of determining the rates applicable to particular movements. This determination does not, however, eliminate the need for data standards and standardized EDI formats, since they will be required to enable shippers and carriers to automatically process ETF data. Establishing the Reg-Neg Committee We request the public to address in particular the interests that should be represented on the Committee (First notice). As described more fully below, we are also soliciting volunteers 5 to serve on the Committee. When OMB approves the Committee, we will publish another notice (Second notice) listing the interests that are likely to be significantly affected by a rule; the persons proposed to represent such interests and the persons or person proposed to represent the agency; and a proposed agenda and schedule for completing the work of the committee, including a target date for publication by the agency of a proposed rule for notice and comment. See Reg-Neg Act, section 584(a). 6 The public will be asked to comment, particularly on the composition of the Committee and whether all interests are represented, and will have another opportunity to volunteer to participate. We anticipate that the first meeting of the Committee will occur some time during the summer. 5 Members of a committee are generally required to pay their own expenses of participating. Section 588 of the Reg-Neg Act provides that the agency may pay for a member's reasonable travel and per diem expense, expenses to obtain technical assistance, and a reasonable rate of compensation if the member certifies a lack of adequate resources to participate in the committee and if the agency determines that such member's participation on the committee is necessary to assure an adequate representation of the member's interest. The Commission does not anticipate paying any expenses under this provision. The Commission will, however, provide administrative support and appoint an employee to represent the agency on the Committee, and is investigating the hiring of a contractor to provide technical support. 6 The Reg-Neg Act, section 584(a), requires the notice to contain, in addition to the information listed above, an announcement that the agency intends to establish a negotiated rulemaking committee; a description of the subject and scope of the rule to be considered, and the issues to be considered; a description of the administrative support for the committee to be provided by the agency, including technical assistance; a solicitation for comments on the proposal to establish the committee; and an explanation of how a person may apply or nominate another person for membership on the committee. As indicated above and in the Reg-Neg Act, a negotiated rulemaking committee must contain members representing all interests that will be affected by the rule. Membership is generally limited to 25, unless the agency determines that a greater number is necessary for the functioning of the committee or to achieve balanced membership. Reg-Neg Act, section 585(b). A committee must include at least one person representing the agency. Id.
