FR940317-1-00069 FR940317-1-00013 (g) Blast damage claims. All claims cognizable under subparts C, D and F which are based on damage to or loss of property due to explosions (for example, artillery firing, aerial bombing, or demolition of explosives) will be sent through USARCS to U.S. Army Ballistic Research Laboratories (USABRL), Aberdeen Proving Grounds, MD 21005&hyph;5055, for a technical opinion prior to settlement. See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, chap 5, sec IX. ยง536.22 Claims memorandum of opinion. (a) Tort Claims Memorandum. Unless otherwise agreed between the USARCS AAO and the area claims office (see section 536.21(b)(1)), the contents and arrangement of the Tort Claims memorandum will be as follows: (1) Part I. Identifying Data. (i) Name, address, and social security number of all claimants/plaintiffs. (ii) Name, address, and telephone number of attorney. (iii) Date and place of incident. (iv) Date and amount of claim/ad damnum of complaint. (v) Brief (one sentence) description of claim/case. (vi) Actual or potential companion claims (nature and status). (2) Part II. Jurisdiction. Discuss applicable statute(s), whether the claim was timely and properly filed, and other jurisdictional matters. (3) Part III. Facts. Provide a complete statement of the facts upon which the claim and any defense thereto are predicated. In each instance in which a fact is supported by documents or witness statements in the file, appropriate parenthetical references will be inserted into the statement of facts. Subparagraphs with descriptive headings will be used if appropriate, for example, background facts or facts about the incident. (4) Part IV. Legal Analysis. List issues related to liability and the controlling law with applicable citations. Subparagraphs with descriptive headings will be used as appropriate and necessary, for example, law controlling factual issues, factual bases for claim as related to issues (duty, proximate cause), defenses, existence of joint tortfeasors. If the claim is barred by a jurisdictional defense, for example, Feres, Federal Employees Compensation Act, statute of limitations, this matter will be discussed separately. The position on liability will be stated at the end of the section. (5) Part V. Damages. Discuss the following in the order listed under appropriate subheadings as necessary: Who can claim under applicable law, for example, wrongful death; description of injuries and treatment; description of property loss and proof thereof; types of special damages (such as, loss of earnings, loss of services, past and future care); type and nature of non-economic or general damages (use a summary in tabular form, as necessary, for special and general damages); effect of diminished liability on the value of the claim; effect of subrogation. (6) Part VI. Proposed Settlement or Action. Discuss any proposed structured settlement. Discuss any prior offers, or negotiations and status. If a denial or final offer is indicated, so state. (7) Part VII. Recommendation. (8) Part VIII. Document and Witness List. (i) The witness list will include the name, SSAN, telephone number, and present and permanent address for each witness or medical reviewer. (ii) Identify each document in the file. (iii) For all medical malpractice claims, attach DD Form 2526 (Case Abstract for Malpractice Claims) as an enclosure. (See paragraph (c) of this section for additional instructions.)
