FR940603-0-00150 FR940603-0-00029 •Comply with the requirements of the Federal Credit Union Act, e.g., common bond and reserve requirements; and •be granted a charter by NCUA. Conversions are treated the same as any initial application for a federal charter, including mandatory on-site examination by NCUA. NCUA will also consult with the appropriate state authority regarding the credit union's current condition, management expertise, and past performance. Since the applicant in a conversion is an ongoing credit union, the economic advisability of granting a charter is more readily determinable than in the case of an initial charter application. Generally, a converting state credit union's field of membership must conform to NCUA chartering policy. However, if a converting credit union can demonstrate that it has been effectively serving groups outside what would have been its operational area if it had been a federal credit union, the regional director, in his or her discretion, may permit continued service to these groups after conversion. Every reasonable effort will be made to phrase the field of membership similar to the presentations in Chapters 1 and 2 with individually listed groups and their locations. In any case, subsequent changes must conform to NCUA amendment policy in effect at that time. II.B._Submission of Conversion Proposal to NCUA The following actions are to be taken before submitting a conversion proposal: •The credit union board must approve a proposal for conversion. •The Application to Convert (NCUA 4401) must be completed. Its purpose is to provide the regional director with information on the present operating policies and financial condition of the credit union and the reasons why the conversion is desired. A continuation sheet may be used if space on the form is inadequate. Particular attention should be given to answering the question on the reasons for conversion. These reasons should be stated in specific terms, not as generalities. •The application must be accompanied by all required attachments including the following: •Written evidence that the state regulator is either in agreement with the conversion proposal or, if not in agreement, the reasons therefor. •The Application for Insurance of Accounts (NCUA 9600) in the case of a state credit union that is not federally insured. •The Application and Agreements for Insurance of Accounts (NCUA 9500). •The Federal Credit Union Investigation Report, Conversion of State Charter to Federal Charter (NCUA 4000). •The most current financial report and delinquent loan schedule. •The Organization Certificate (NCUA 4008). Only Part (3) and the signature/notary section of page 4 should be completed and, where applicable, signed by the credit union officials. The NCUA regional office will complete the other sections of this document. II.C_NCUA Consideration of Application to Convert II.C.1_Review by the Regional Director The application will be reviewed to determine that it is complete and that the proposal is in compliance with Section 125 of the Federal Credit Union Act. This review will include a determination that the state credit union's field of membership is in compliance with NCUA's chartering policies. The regional director may make further investigation into the proposal and may require the submission of additional information to support the request to convert. At this point, NCUA will conduct an on-site review of the credit union. II.C.2_On-Site Review NCUA will examine the books and records of the credit union on-site. Non-federally insured credit unions will be assessed an insurance application fee. II.C.3_Approval by the Regional Director and Conditions to the Approval The conversion will be approved by the regional director if it is in compliance with Section 125 of the Federal Credit Union Act and meets the criteria for federal insurance. Where applicable, the regional director will specify any special conditions that the credit union must meet in order to convert a federal charter, including changes to the credit union's field of membership in order to conform to NCUA's chartering policies. Some of these conditions may be set forth in a Letter of Understanding and Agreement (``LUA''), which requires the signature of the officials and the regional director. II.C.4_Notification The regional director will notify both the credit union and the state regulator of the decision on the conversion. II.D_Action by Board of Directors II.D.1_General Upon being informed of the regional director's approval, the board must: •Comply with all requirements of the state regulator that will enable the credit union to convert to a federal charter and cease being a state credit union; •Obtain a letter or official statement from the state regulator certifying that the credit union has met all of the state requirements and will cease to be a state credit union upon its receiving a federal charter. A copy of this document must be submitted to the regional director; •Obtain a letter from the share insurer, if applicable, certifying that the credit union has met all withdrawal requirements. A copy of this document must be submitted to the regional director. •Submit a statement of the action taken to comply with any conditions imposed by the regional director in the approval of the conversion proposal and, if applicable, submit the signed LUA. II.D.2_Application for a Federal Charter When the regional director has received evidence that the board has completed the actions described above, the federal charter and new Certificate of Insurance will be issued. The credit union may then complete the conversion as discussed in the following section. Denials are appealable. (See Chapter 1, section VIII.D.)
