FR940603-1-00116 FR940603-1-00009 11. Contractor's Bond. The successful Bidder will be required to execute two additional counterparts of the Proposal and, for a Contract in excess of $100,000, to furnish a Contractor's Bond in triplicate in the form attached hereto with sureties listed by the United States Treasury Department as Acceptable Sureties, in a penal sum not less than the contract price. 12. Failure to Furnish Contractor's Bond. Should the successful Bidder fail or refuse to execute such counterparts or to furnish a Contractor's Bond (where required) within ten (10) days after written notification of the acceptance of the Proposal by the Owner, the Bidder will be considered to have abandoned the Proposal. In such event, the Owner shall be entitled (a) to enforce the bid bond in accordance with its terms, or (b) if a certified check has been delivered with the Proposal, to retain from the proceeds of the certified check the difference (not exceeding the amount of the certified check) between the amount of the Proposal and such larger amount for which the Owner may in good faith contract with another party to construct the Project. The term ``successful Bidder'' shall be deemed to include any Bidder whose Proposal is accepted after another Bidder has previously refused or has been unable to execute the counterparts or to furnish a satisfactory Contractor's Bond (where required.) 13. Contract is Entire Agreement. The Contract to be effected by the acceptance of the Proposal shall be deemed to include the entire agreement between the parties thereto, and the Bidder shall not claim any modification thereof resulting from any representation or promise made at any time by any officer, agent or employee of the Owner or by any other person. 14. Minor Irregularities. The Owner reserves the right to waive minor irregularities or minor errors in any Propose, if it appears to the Owner that such irregularities or errors were made through inadvertence. Any such irregularities or errors so waived must be corrected on the Proposal in which they occur prior to the acceptance thereof by the Owner. 15. Rejection of Bids. The Owner reserves the right to reject any or all Proposals. The attention of Bidders is specially called to the desirability of a proper balance between prices for labor and materials and between the total prices for the respective Construction Units. Lack of such balance may be considered as a reason for rejecting a Proposal. 16. Discrepancy in Unit Prices. Where the unit prices in the Contractor's Proposal are separated into three columns designated as ``Labor,'' ``Materials'' and ``Labor and Materials,'' and where a discrepancy appears between the sum shown in the ``Labor and Materials'' column and the correct addition of the sums appearing in the ``Labor'' column and the ``Materials'' column, the correct addition of the sums appearing in the ``Labor'' column and the ``Materials'' column shall control. 17. Bidding and Acceptance. If the Project includes more than one substation, bidders may bid on one or more substations. The Owner may award (1) a contract for all of the substations on the basis of the low total bid or, (2) separate contracts for one or more substations based on the low bids for the respective substations. 18. Definition of Terms. The terms ``Administrator,'' ``Engineer,'' ``Supervisor,'' ``Project,'' ``Completion of Construction'' and ``Completion of the Project'' as used throughout this Contract shall be as defined in Article VI, Section 1, of the Contractor's Proposal. 19. The Owner represents: a. If by provisions of the Contractor's Proposal the Owner shall have undertaken to furnish any materials for the construction of the Project, such materials are on hand at locations specified or if such materials are not on hand they will be made available by the Owner to the successful Bidder at the locations specified before the time such materials are required for construction. b. Title to the property on which the Project is to be constructed has been obtained. c. All funds necessary for prompt payment for the construction of the Project will be available. If the Owner shall fail to comply with any of the undertakings contained in the foregoing representations or if any of such representations shall be incorrect, the Bidder will be entitled to an extension of time of completion for a period equal to the delay, if any, caused by the failure of the Owner to comply with such undertakings or by any such incorrect representation; provided the Bidder shall have promptly notified the Owner in writing of its desire to extend the time of completion in accordance with the foregoing, and provided further that such extension, if any, of the time of completion shall be the sole remedy of the Bidder for the Owner's failure, because of conditions beyond the control and without the fault of the Owner, to furnish materials in accordance with subparagraph a. hereof. XXXX Owner By XXXX XXXX , 19 XX Contractor's Proposal (Proposal shall be submitted in ink or typewritten) To: XXXX (Hereinafter called the ``Owner'') ARTICLE I_GENERAL Section 1. Offer to Construct. The undersigned (hereinafter called the ``Bidder'') hereby proposes to receive and install such materials and equipment as may hereinafter be specified to be furnished by the Owner, and to furnish all other materials and equipment, all machinery, tools, labor transportation and other means required to construct the rural electric project XXXX in strict accordance with the Plans, Specifications for Construction and Construction Drawings for the prices hereinafter stated. Section 2. Materials and Equipment. The Bidder agrees to furnish and use in the construction of the Project under this Proposal, in the event the Proposal is accepted, only such materials and equipment as are included in the current ``List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Systems of REA Electrification Borrowers,'' including revisions adopted prior to the Bid Opening.
