FR940111-0-00041 FR940111-0-00012 DEPARTMENT OF STATE Bureau of Consular Affairs 22 CFR Part 41 [Public Notice 1931] Visas: Documentation of Nonimmigrants Under the Immigration and Nationality Act; Waiver by Secretary of State and Attorney General of Passport and/or Visa Requirements for Certain Categories of Nonimmigrants AGENCY: Bureau of Consular Affairs, DOS. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule authorizes the District Director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service to exercise the Department of State's function with respect to the waiver of the passport and/or visa requirement under the provisions of section 212(d)(4)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). The rule eliminates time consuming procedures for obtaining the concurrence of passport and/or visa waivers, and benefits certain nonimmigrant aliens who, because of unforeseen circumstances, are subjected to delays when seeking admission to the United States without the required documents. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 11, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Stephen K. Fischel, Chief, Legislation and Regulations Division, Visa Services, Washington, DC, (202) 663&hyph;1204. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On July 30, 1991, the Department of State published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) at 56 FR 36029. The rule proposed to amend part 41, ยง41.2(j), which provided for the waiver of the passport and/or visa requirement by the District Director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) at the port of entry, with the concurrence of the designated State Department official, if such officials were satisfied that the nonimmigrant alien was unable to obtain the required documentation because of an unforeseen emergency. This final rule authorizes the District Director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service at the port of entry to exercise the Department of State's function with respect to the waiver of the passport and/or visa requirement under the provisions of INA 212(d)(4)(A). Comment During the comment period the Department received only one comment. The commenting organization noted that under the proposed regulations nonimmigrants who are ``unable to obtain'' the required documents may benefit from such a waiver. The commenter suggested that the proposed language be amended to read ``unable to present'' the required documents. A review of the historical files reveals that the language in question has been in use since at least 1958. The focus at that time was on fact patterns in which the alien indeed could not for geographical, political, and other reasons obtain the required documents. Circumstances have changed radically since that time. The Department believes that the recommendation to change the word ``obtain'' to read ``present'' has merit as it more accurately reflects current world circumstances and the intent of the statute. In order to gain admission to the United States an alien must present the required pertinent documentation, whether one has the ability or not to obtain such. Absent such documentation, the immigration officer in charge at the port of entry must decide whether the applicant for admission is indeed qualified for the desired nonimmigrant visa classification and whether the inability to present the required documentation was due to an unforeseen emergency. Furthermore, the Department wishes to clarify the limited extent of the authority delegated to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Although the proposed rule permits the District Director to waive the documentary requirements of INA 212(a)(7)(B), the Department of State will continue to exercise the authority vested in the Secretary of State and the Attorney General under the provisions of INA 212(d)(4)(A) relating to the joint concurrence in documentary waivers, except in the circumstances described in ยง41.2(j) of this final rule. Consequently, this final rule makes minor modifications to the text of the regulation as discussed in the preamble. This final rule is not considered to be a major rule for purposes of E.O. 12291 nor is it expected to have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. In addition, this rule does not impose information collection requirements under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. This rule has been revised as required by E.O. 12778 and certified to be in compliance therewith. List of Subjects in 22 CFR Part 41 Aliens, Documentation, Nonimmigrants, Passport and visas, Waivers. Accordingly, 22 CFR part 41 is amended as follows: PART 41_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 41 continues to read as follows: Authority: Sec. 104, 66 Stat. 174, 8 U.S.C. 1104; Sec. 109(b)(1), 91 Stat. 847. 2. In ยง41.2, paragraph (j) is revised to read as follows: ยง41.2 Waiver by Secretary of State and Attorney General of passport and/or visa requirements for certain categories of nonimmigrants. * * * * * (j) Individual cases of unforeseen emergencies. A visa and passport are not required of an alien if, either prior to the alien's embarkation abroad or upon arrival at a port of entry, the responsible district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in charge of the port of entry concludes that the alien is unable to present the required documents because of an unforeseen emergency. Any waiver of the visa or passport requirement may be granted by the INS district director pursuant to INA 212(d)(4)(A) without the prior concurrence of the Department of State in each case in which the district director concludes that the alien's claim of emergency circumstances is legitimate and bona fide and that approval of the waiver would be appropriate under all of the attendant facts and circumstances. * * * * * Dated: January 5, 1994. Mary A. Ryan, Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;645 Filed 1&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;06&hyph;P
