FR941004-2-00127 FR941004-2-00073 An FDA official testified at the hearing in this matter that Respondent's history was one of ``just being unable to bring themselves into compliance with GMPs. *␣*␣*'' Respondent testified that he disagreed with this assessment and had hired a consultant who performed a GMP audit and found only minor problems. DEA commenced another periodic inspection of Respondent in July 1990, and discovered that Respondent's DEA registration had expired on June 30, 1989. Accordingly, Respondent was illegally selling and in possession of approximately 178,000 dosage units of the Schedule IV controlled substance clorazepate dipotassium. On July 26, 1990, DEA placed Respondent's stock of controlled substances under seal. Additionally, investigators found that Respondent had not filed timely renewal applications from 1984 through 1988. Dr. Bhutani claimed that this was due to clerical oversight. DEA returned to Respondent on July 31, 1990, and executed a search warrant. This search determined that Respondent was using his secure storage area and safe for the storage of items other than controlled substances in violation of the regulations, and had no documentation of the registration of his controlled substance customers. On July 26, 1990, Respondent filed an application for a new DEA registration as a manufacturer of Schedule III through V controlled substances. That application is the subject of these proceedings. The administrative law judge found that in June of 1991, DEA investigators returned to Respondent's facility as part of the evaluation of the pending application. Investigators noted that the facility had been enlarged, that ``it was a pretty *␣*␣* good looking [plant]'', and that there was no controlled substance activity underway. Dr. Bhutani testified that he had designed and completed an addition to his facility in order to meet DEA requirements. On June 1, 1992, Respondent was registered as a researcher in Schedule III through V by the DEA. Respondent hired a consultant in May 1992 to make recommendations and do follow-up consulting if the application for a manufacturer's registration is approved. This consultant testified at the proceeding that he had made many recommendations and that Respondent appeared ready to adopt procedures which would bring it into compliance with DEA requirements. Dr. Bhutani testified that some of the consultant's recommendations had in fact been implemented as of the date of the hearing. The administrative law judge found that the Government maintained that over a ten year period, Respondent's failure to comply with GMPs and past experience in handling controlled substances gave no assurance that Respondent could conduct itself consistent with the requirements of the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) in the future. The Government further maintained that Dr. Bhutani tended to minimize the severity of Respondent's violations and blame others for its regulatory difficulties. Respondent asserted that its past violations were de minimis or due to inadvertence, and that it had demonstrated itself capable of understanding and meeting DEA requirements. The Deputy Administrator may deny an application to manufacture controlled substances in Schedules III through V if he determines that the registration would be inconsistent with the public interest. Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 823(d), ``[i]n determining the public interest, the following factors shall be considered: (1) Maintenance of effective controls against diversion of particular controlled substances and any controlled substance in Schedule III, IV, or V compounded therefrom into other than legitimate medical, scientific or industrial channels; (2) Compliance with applicable State and local law; (3) Promotion of technical advances in the art of manufacturing these substances and the development of new substances; (4) Prior conviction record of applicant under Federal or State laws relating to the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of such substances; (5) Past experience in the manufacture, distribution, and dispensing of controlled substances, and the existence in the establishment of effective controls against diversion; and (6) Such other factors as may be relevant to and consistent with the public health and safety.''
