FR940617-0-00082 FR940617-0-00018 Section 182(b)(2) of the amended Act requires States to adopt RACT rules for all areas designated nonattainment for ozone and classified as moderate or above. There are three parts to the section 182(b)(2) RACT requirement: (1) RACT for sources covered by an existing CTG_i.e., a CTG issued prior to the enactment of the CAAA of 1990; (2) RACT for sources covered by a post-enactment CTG; and (3) all major sources not covered by a CTG, i.e., non-CTG sources. This RACT requirement which applies to nonattainment areas that previously were exempt from certain RACT requirements requires areas to ``catch up'' to those nonattainment areas that became subject to those requirements during an earlier period. In addition, it requires newly designated ozone nonattainment areas to adopt RACT rules consistent with those for previously designated nonattainment areas. As previously mentioned, the State of Maine contains three moderate ozone nonattainment areas. These areas are thus subject to the section 182(b)(2) RACT catch-up requirement. Also, the State of Maine is located in the Northeast Ozone Transport Region (OTR). The entire State is, therefore, subject to section 184(b) of the amended CAA. Section 184(b) requires that RACT be implemented for all VOC sources covered by a CTG issued before or after the enactment of the CAAA of 1990 and for all major VOC sources (defined as 50 tons per year or greater for sources in the OTR). Since Maine had previously submitted regulations for bulk gasoline terminals, fixed roof petroleum tanks, and paper coating sources pursuant to the RACT fix-up requirement, in order to meet the RACT catch-up requirement, the State must, therefore, adopt regulations (or affirm that no sources exist) for the remaining 26 CTG categories as well as adopt rules for all major non-CTG sources. (Rules for non-CTG sources are not part of this SIP revision and will not be further discussed in this document). EPA's Evaluation of Maine's Submittal In response to the RACT catch-up requirement, on May 14, 1992 and June 12, 1992, Maine submitted negative declarations for the CTG categories listed below. 1. Surface coating of coils. 2. Surface coating of magnet wire. 3. Surface coating of large appliances. 4. Surface coating of automobiles and light duty trucks. 5. Manufacturing of synthesized pharmaceuticals. 6. Manufacturing of pneumatic rubber tires. 7. Manufacturing of vegetable oil. 8. Air oxidation processes in synthetic organic chemical manufacturing industry. 9. Manufacturing of high density polyethylene, polypropylene and polystyrene resins. 10. Leaks from synthetic organic chemical and polymer manufacturing. 11. Petroleum liquid storage in external floating roof tanks.
