FR940816-1-00104 FR940816-1-00012 §668.152 Administration of tests. (a) In order for test results of an approved test to be considered in determining a student's eligibility under the Title IV, HEA programs, the test must have been properly administered. (b) The Secretary considers an approved test to be properly administered with regard to a student if it is _(1) Given by a certified test administrator who_ (i) Has an agreement with the test publisher and the institution the student is attending or planning to attend who satisfies the requirements of this subpart; and (ii) Is independent of the institution that student is attending or planning to attend; (2) Administered in accordance with the test publisher's requirements and the requirements of this subpart; and (3) Scored by the test publisher except that a test administrator at an assessment center may score a test. (c) Students must receive passing scores on both verbal and quantitative tests or sub-tests as approved by the Secretary. (d) A student who fails to pass an independently administered test approved by the Secretary may not retake that same form of the test for the period prescribed by the test publisher of that test. (e) The institution will maintain a record for each affected student, indicating the test taken by the student, the date of the test, and the student's scores as reported by the test publisher. (Authority: U.S.C. 1091(d)) §668.153 Administration of tests for students whose native language is not English or for persons with disabilities. (a) Students whose native language is not English. For a student whose native language is not English and who is not fluent in English, the institution shall use the following tests, as applicable: (1) If the student is enrolled program conducted entirely in his or her native language, the student must take a test approved under §§668.145 and 668.147(a)(2), or 668.148(b). (2) If the student is enrolled in a program that is taught in English with an ESL component, and the student is enrolled in that program and the ESL component, the student must take either an ESL test approved under §668.147(b), or a test in the student's native language approved under §668.145, 668.147 or 668.148. (3) If the student is enrolled in a program that is taught in English without an ESL component, or the student does not enroll in the ESL component if the institution offers such a component, the student must take a test in English approved under §668.145. (4) If the student enrolls in an ESL program, the student must take an ESL test approved under §668.147(b). (b) Persons with disabilities. (1) An institution shall use a test described in §§668.147(a)(3) or 668.148(a) for a student with a documented impairment who has neither a high school diploma nor its equivalent and who is applying for Title IV, HEA program funds. (2) The test must reflect the student's skills, knowledge, and general learned abilities rather than reflect the student's impairment. (3) The institution shall document that a student is disabled and unable to be evaluated by the use of a conventional test from the list of tests approved by the Secretary. (4) Documentation of a student's impairment may be satisfied by_ (i) A written determination including a diagnosis and recommended testing accommodations by a licensed psychologist or medical physician; or (ii) A record of such a determination by an elementary or secondary school or a vocational rehabilitation agency including a diagnosis and recommended testing accommodations. (Authority: U.S.C. 1091(d)) §668.154 Institutional accountability. An institution shall be liable for the Title IV, HEA program funds disbursed to a student whose eligibility is determined under this subpart if the institution_ (a) Used a test administrator who is not independent of the institution;
