FR940314-1-00035 FR940314-1-00009 The Bee Creek Cave harvestman was believed to occur in five caves in Travis and Williamson counties at the time of listing. It is currently confirmed at four caves and tentatively identified from two caves. The distribution of the Bee Creek Cave harvestman consists of two disjunct areas, one about 5 km (3 mi) long and the other about 8 km (5 mi) in length, with a distance of about 28 km (17 mi) between the northernmost and southernmost localities, all of which lie in Travis County. Little Bee Creek Cave, Jester Estates Cave, and Kretschmarr Double Pit (a TSNL cave) are located in small preserve areas. Bandit Cave is maintained as a small preserve, although attempts to relocate the Bee Creek Cave harvestman in the cave in 1966, 1988, and 1989 were unsuccessful (Reddell, in litt., 1993). Cave Y is located in a proposed development area; the species' status in Bee Creek Cave is unknown since it has not been possible to obtain permission to inspect the cave since 1975 (Reddell, in litt., 1993). None of these invertebrates are known to occur in large numbers (William Elliott, Texas Memorial Museum, in litt., 1993; Reddell, in litt. and pers. comm., 1993). The fact that several of the species are known to occur at several dozen locations should not be interpreted to mean that those species are abundant. (See Factor A, ``The present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range,'' below). Summary of Factors Affecting the Species Section 4(a)(1) of the Act and its implementing regulations (50 CFR part 424) set forth the procedures for adding species to or removing species from the Federal Lists. A species may be determined to be an endangered or threatened species due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to the seven karst invertebrates are re-evaluated in light of new information available to the Service and information presented in the petition and are as follows: A. The Present or Threatened Destruction, Modification, or Curtailment of Its Habitat or Range The Service determined that the primary threat to these species comes from loss of habitat due to ongoing and proposed development activities (final rule). The proximity of the caves inhabited by these species to the City of Austin makes them vulnerable to continuing expansion of the Austin metropolitan area. Threats to specific caves occupied by these species were addressed in the final rule (53 FR 36029). The known ranges of the Tooth Cave pseudoscorpion, the Tooth Cave spider, the Kretschmarr Cave mold beetle, the Coffin Cave mold beetle, and the Bee Creek Cave harvestman have not appreciably increased since the original listing. Although the range and number of known locations for the Tooth Cave ground beetle and the Bone Cave harvestman have increased since the original listing, the degree of threat of habitat destruction or modification remains significant, and may have increased, throughout the range of each species. Searches for karst features and karst fauna surveys have become more frequent since the listing, as developers and landowners have sought to comply with the Act. Many of the new locations of these karst invertebrates have been discovered as a result of biological surveys conducted prior to development or sale of land; consequently, newly discovered locations are frequently threatened by habitat destruction and other threats associated with development. The recent revitalization of the real estate market in the Austin metropolitan area has maintained and intensified the threat of karst invertebrate habitat destruction and other associated threats. The petitioners present a list of caves with endangered species that have been subject to some degree of disturbance. They cite these cases as demonstrating that activities such as dumping, vandalism, and sealing of cave entrances do not actually threaten the karst invertebrates. Reddell (in litt., 1993) counters that, in most of these cases, the disturbance to the cave environment is recent in origin, minor in scale, and/or generally restricted to the immediate entrance zone. The Service concurs with Reddell and believes that these examples do not present convincing evidence that dumping, vandalism, and sealing entrances are harmless to the karst invertebrates. In most cases, not enough time has elapsed since the disturbance to detect an effect on the karst invertebrates. The Service agrees with the petitioners that there is little quantitative data available on the direct effects of trash dumping, vandalism, sealing, and other disturbances on the karst invertebrates. However, there is substantial qualitative evidence indicating that the threats to the karst invertebrates discussed in the final rule and in this finding are real, significant, and ongoing. Reddell ( in litt., 1993) and Elliott ( in litt., 1993) both cite examples in which trash dumping, vandalism, and over-visitation have resulted in decreased occurrence of karst invertebrates in affected areas.
