FR940617-0-00089 FR940617-0-00019 B. A/C Shingle Removal (Category II ACM Removal) 1.B.1. A/C shingles, which are Category II nonfriable ACM, become regulated ACM if the material has a high probability of becoming or has become crumbled, pulverized or reduced to powder by the forces expected to act on the material in the course of demolition or renovation operations. 40 CFR 61.141. However, merely breaking an A/C shingle (or any other category II ACM) that is not friable may not necessarily cause the material to become RACM. A/C shingles are typically nailed to buildings on which they are attached. EPA believes that the extent of breakage that will normally result from carefully removing A/C shingles and lowering the shingles to the ground will not result in crumbling, pulverizing or reducing the shingles to powder. Conversely, the extent of breakage that will normally occur if the A/C shingles are dropped from a building or scraped off of a building with heavy machinery would cause the shingles to become RACM. EPA therefore construes the NESHAP to mean that the removal of A/C shingles that are not friable, using methods that do not crumble, pulverize, or reduce the A/C shingles to powder (such as pry bars, spud bars and shovels to carefully pry the material), is not subject to the NESHAP provided that the A/C shingles are properly handled during and after removal, as discussed in this paragraph and the asbestos NESHAP. This interpretation also applies to other Category II nonfriable asbestos-containing roofing materials. C. Cutting vs. Slicing and Manual Methods for Removal of Category I ACM 1.C.1. Because of damage to the roofing material, and the potential for fiber release, roof removal operations using rotating blade (RB) roof cutters or other equipment that sand, grind, cut or abrade the roof material are subject to the NESHAP. As EPA interprets the NESHAP, the use of certain manual methods (using equipment such as axes, hatchets, or knives, spud bars, pry bars, and shovels, but not saws) or methods that slice, shear, or punch (using equipment such as a power slicer or power plow) does not constitute ``cutting, sanding, grinding or abrading.'' This is because these methods do not destroy the structural matrix or integrity of the material such that the material is crumbled, pulverized or reduced to powder. Hence, it is EPA's interpretation that when such methods are used, assuming the roof material is not friable, the removal operation is not subject to the regulation. 1.C.2. Power removers or power tear-off machines are typically used to pry the roofing material up from the deck after the roof membrane has been cut. It is EPA's interpretation that when these machines are used to pry roofing material up, their use is not regulated by the NESHAP. 1.C.3. As noted previously, the NESHAP only applies to the removal of asbestos-containing roofing materials. Thus, the NESHAP does not apply to the use of RB cutters to remove non-asbestos built up roofing (BUR). On roofs containing some asbestos-containing and some non-asbestos containing materials, coverage under the NESHAP depends on the methods used to remove each type of material in addition to other coverage thresholds specified above. For example, it is not uncommon for existing roofs to be made of non-asbestos BUR and base flashings that do contain asbestos. In that situation, EPA construes the NESHAP to be inapplicable to the removal of the non-asbestos BUR using an RB cutter so long as the RB cutter is not used to cut 5580 ft2 or more of the asbestos-containing base flashing or other asbestos-containing material into sections. In addition, the use of methods that slice, shear, punch or pry could then be used to remove the asbestos flashings and not trigger coverage under the NESHAP. II. Notification 2.1. Notification for a demolition is always required under the NESHAP. However, EPA believes that few roof removal jobs constitute ``demolitions'' as defined in the NESHAP (§61.141). In particular, it is EPA's view that the removal of roofing systems (i.e., the roof membrane, insulation, surfacing, coatings, flashings, mastic, shingles, and felt underlayment), when such removal is not a part of a demolition project, constitutes a ``renovation'' under the NESHAP. If the operation is a renovation, and Category I roofing material is being removed using either manual methods or slicing, notification is not required by the NESHAP. If Category II material is not friable and will be removed without crumbling, pulverizing, or reducing it to powder, no notification is required. Also, if the renovation involves less than the threshold area for applicability as discussed above, then no notification is required. However, if a roof removal meets the applicability and threshold requirements under the NESHAP, then EPA (or the delegated agency) must be notified in advance of the removal in accordance with the requirements of §61.145(b), as follows: •Notification must be given in writing at least 10 working days in advance and must include the information in §61.145(b)(4), except for emergency renovations as discussed below. •The notice must be updated as necessary, including, for example, when the amount of asbestos-containing roofing material reported changes by 20 percent or more. •EPA must be notified if the start date of the roof removal changes. If the start date of a roof removal project is changed to an earlier date, EPA must be provided with a written notice of the new start date at least 10 working days in advance. If the start date changes to a later date, EPA must be notified by telephone as soon as possible before the original start date and a written notice must be sent as soon as possible.
