FR940705-1-00026 FR940705-1-00012 B. Regulatory Flexibility Act NHTSA has considered the impacts of this rulemaking action under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. I hereby certify that the proposed amendments would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Accordingly, the agency has not prepared a preliminary regulatory flexibility analysis. The agency believes that few, if any, tire manufacturers qualify as small businesses. Small businesses, small organizations and small governmental units could be affected by the proposed amendments to the extent that they may purchase new tires affected by these proposed amendments. However, NHTSA does not believe the costs of tires would be affected by this rule. Thus, these entities would not be significantly affected. C. National Environmental Policy Act NHTSA has analyzed this rulemaking action for purposes of the National Environmental Policy Act and has determined that implementation of this action would have no significant impact on the quality of the human environment. D. E.O. 12612 (Federalism) NHTSA has analyzed this proposal in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in E.O. 12612 and has determined that this proposal does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment. E. Civil Justice Reform This proposed rule would not have any retroactive effect. Under ยง103(d) of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (Safety Act), 15 U.S.C. ยง1392(d), whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard is in effect, a state may not adopt or maintain a safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance that is not identical to the Federal standard, except to the extent that the state requirement imposes a higher level of performance applicable only to vehicles procured for the state's own use. Section 105 of the Safety Act (15 U.S.C. ยง1394) sets forth a procedure for judicial review of final rules establishing, amending or revoking Federal motor vehicle safety standards. That section does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments on these proposals. It is requested but not required that any comments be submitted in 10 copies each. Comments must not exceed 15 pages in length (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments, however, may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in concise fashion. If a commenter wishes to submit certain information under a claim of confidentiality, 3 copies of the complete submission, including the purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the street address shown above, and 7 copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in 49 CFR Part 512, the agency's confidential business information regulation. All comments received on or before the close of business on the comment closing date indicated above for the proposal will be considered, and will be available to the public for examination in the docket at the above address both before and after the closing date. To the extent possible, comments received after the closing date will be considered. Comments received too late for consideration in regard to the final rule will be considered as suggestions for further rulemaking action. Comments on the proposal will be available for public inspection in the docket. NHTSA will continue to file relevant information in the docket after the closing date, and it is recommended that interested persons continue to monitor the docket for new material. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the rules docket should enclose a self-addressed stamped postcard in the envelope with their comments. Upon receiving the comments the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 571
