FR940705-0-00027 FR940705-0-00002 Munsell Notation 1Symbol 1Aqua color Centroid 10BG 7/6 H++ 5B 7/6 H^^ 5BG 7/6 V++ 10BG 8/4 V^^ 10BG 6/6 C++ None C^^ 10BG 7/4 (ii) Other coloring schemes used for providing identification of buffer tubes and optical fibers which deviate from the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section will not be accepted by REA. (e) Strength members. (1) Strength members must be an integral part of the cable construction, but are not considered part of the support messenger for self-supporting optical cable. (2) The combined strength of all the strength members must be sufficient to support the stress of installation and to protect the cable in service. (3) Strength members may be incorporated into the core as a central support member or filler, as fillers between the fiber packages, as an annular serving over the core, as an annular serving over the intermediate jacket, embedded in the outer jacket or as a combination of any of these methods. (4) The central support member or filler must contain no more than one splice per kilometer of cable. Individual fillers placed between the fiber packages and placed as annular servings over the core must contain no more than one splice per kilometer of cable. Cable sections having central member or filler splices must meet the same physical requirements as unspliced cable sections. (5) Strength member materials and splicing techniques must be accepted by REA prior to their use. (6) In each length of completed cable having a metallic central member, the dielectric strength between the armor and the metallic center member must withstand at least 15 kilovolts direct current for 3 seconds. (f) Forming the cable core. (1) Protected fibers must be assembled with the optional central support member, fillers and strength members in such a way as to form a cylindrical group. (2) The standard cylindrical group or core designs shall consist of 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, 18, 20, or 24 fibers. Cylindrical groups or core designs larger than the sizes shown above must meet all the requirements of this section. (3) When threads or tapes are used as core binders, they must be colored either white or natural and must be a nonhygroscopic and nonwicking dielectric material. (4) When threads or tapes are used as unit binders to define optical fiber units in loose tube, tight tube, slotted, or bundled cored designs, they must be colored in accordance with the table listed below and must be a nonhygroscopic and nonwicking dielectric material or be rendered such by the filling compound. The colors of the binders must be in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) introductory text and (d)(2)(i) of this section.
