FR940304-0-00063 FR940304-0-00019 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Clermontia lindseyana , Clermontia peleana , Clermontia pyrularia , Colubrina oppositifolia Cyanea copelandii ssp. copelandii , Cyanea hamatiflora ssp. carlsonii , Cyanea shipmanii , Cyanea stictophylla , Cyrtandra giffardii , Cyrtandra tintinnabula , Hesperocnide sandwicensis , Ischaemum byrone , Isodendrion pyrifolium , Mariscus fauriei , Nothocestrum breviflorum , Ochrosia kilaueaensis , Plantago hawaiensis , Portulaca sclerocarpa , Pritchardia affinis , Silene hawaiiensis , Tetramolopium arenarium , and Zanthoxylum hawaiiense are endemic to or have the majority of their populations on the island of Hawaii, Hawaiian islands. Thirteen of these taxa are endemic to the Island of Hawaii; four additional taxa are now found only on Hawaii. One of these taxa is now or was previously also known from Niihau, one from Kauai, two from Oahu, four from Molokai, four from Lanai, and six from Maui. The island of Hawaii is the southernmost, farthest east, and the youngest of the eight major Hawaiian Islands. This largest island of the Hawaiian archipelago comprises 4,038 square miles (mi) (10,458 square kilometers (km)), or two-thirds of the land area of the State of Hawaii, giving rise to its common name, the ``Big Island.'' The Hawaiian Islands are volcanic islands formed over a ``hot spot,'' a fixed area of pressurized molten rock deep within the Earth. As the Pacific Plate, a section of the Earth's surface many miles thick, has moved to the northwest, the islands of the chain have separated. Currently, this hot spot is centered under the southeast part of the island of Hawaii, which is one of the most active volcanic areas on Earth. Five large shield volcanoes make up the island of Hawaii: Mauna Kea at 13,796 feet (ft) (4,205 meters (m)) and Kohala at 5,480 ft (1,670 m), both extinct; Hualalai, at 8,271 ft (2,521 m), which is dormant and will probably erupt again; and Mauna Loa, at 13,677 ft (4,169 m) and Kilauea, at 4,093 ft (1,248 m), both of which are currently active and adding land area to the island. Compared to Kauai, which is the oldest of the main islands and was formed about 5.6 million years ago, Hawaii is very young, with fresh lava and land up to 0.5 million years old (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Culliney 1988, Department of Geography 1983, Macdonald et al . 1983). Because of the large size and range of elevation of the island, Hawaii has a great diversity of climates. Windward (northeastern) slopes of Mauna Loa have rainfall up to 300 inches (in) (118 centimeters (cm)) per year in some areas. The leeward coast, shielded by the mountains from rain brought by trade winds, has areas classified as desert and receiving as little as 7.9 in (20 cm) of rain annually. The summits of Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea experience snowfall each year, and Mauna Kea was glaciated during the last Ice Age (Culliney 1988, Department of Geography 1983, Macdonald et al. 1983, Wagner et al . 1990). Plant communities on Hawaii include those in various stages of primary succession on the slopes of active and dormant volcanoes, some in stages of secondary succession following disturbance, and relatively stable climax communities. On Hawaii, vegetation is found in all classifications: Coastal, dryland, montane, subalpine, and alpine; dry, mesic, and wet; and herblands, grasslands, shrublands, forests, and mixed communities. The vegetation and land of the island of Hawaii have undergone much change through the island's history. Since it is an area of frequent volcanic activity, vegetated areas are periodically replaced with bare lava. Polynesian immigrants, first settling on Hawaii by 750 A.D., made extensive alterations in lowland areas for agriculture and habitation. European contact with Hawaii brought intentional and inadvertent introductions of alien plant and animal species. By 1960, 65 percent of the total land area of the island of Hawaii was used for grazing, and much land has also been converted to modern cropland (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Gagne and Cuddihy 1990). The 21 taxa included in this rule occur between sea level and 8,600 ft (0 and 2,260 m) in elevation in various portions of the island of Hawaii. A number of the taxa are also found in central Kauai (one taxon), in the Waianae Mountains of Oahu (one taxon), on eastern Molokai (three taxa), in central and southern Lanai (two taxa), and on east Maui (three taxa). Most of the species in this rule exist as remnant plants persisting in grazed areas or in higher elevations which have only recently been heavily invaded by alien plant and animal species. The taxa in this rule grow in a variety of vegetation communities (herbland, shrublands, and forests), elevational zones (coastal, lowland, montane, and subalpine), and moisture regimes (dry, mesic, and wet). One taxon is found in each of two coastal habitats: Dry shrubland and mesic forest. In lowland habitats, five taxa are found in dry forest, four in mesic forest, and two in wet forest. In montane habitats, one taxon is found in wet herbland, three taxa in dry shrubland, three in dry forest, four in mesic forest, and five in wet forest. In the subalpine area, one taxon is found in dry shrubland and two taxa in dry forest.
