FR940720-0-00112 FR940720-0-00007 EPA believes the primary use test is in keeping with Congress' implicit goal of striking a balance between the competing interests of national uniformity of regulatory requirements and state control over sources of in-state pollution. Under this test, equipment used for a majority of the time in farming and construction is preempted from California regulation. Conversely, equipment used primarily by consumers and in consumer settings would more than likely be subject to California regulation since their use in farming or construction would most likely not meet the primary use test. This test, therefore, preempts California from regulating new engines that are installed in any equipment which is primarily used in the commercial production and/or harvesting of food, fiber, wood, or commercial organic products or for the processing of such products for further use on the farm. This test also preempts California from regulating new engines that are installed in equipment which is primarily used in construction and located on commercial construction sites. EPA's application of the primary use test in this rule is similar to the proposed application of the 51 percent primary use test found in the notice of proposed rulemaking. That is, EPA believes that it is appropriate for CARB to make a preliminary determination of primary use for multiple-use equipment that is in question in a CARB regulation such as the Utility Engine Rule. (EPA's discussion of CARB's role in such determinations is found below in Section K). CARB will be required to come forward with evidence, data, agreements with industry, and analysis to support a finding that a category or subcategory of equipment is primarily not used in farm or construction applications and is thus subject to state regulation. CARB and the major industry commenters had a series of meetings during which they discussed whether various types of equipment should fall into a preempted category or a non-preempted category should EPA adopt its proposed primary use test based on 51 percent usage. As a result, on July 20, 1993, EPA received a letter from CARB explaining the process by which it and major industry commenters 28 reached agreement on lists of equipment which would or would not be considered as farm or construction equipment based on the primary use test as set out in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for this section 209(e) rule. 29 CARB noted that EMI had not reached agreement with the primary use test but apparently was in agreement with the categorized lists of equipment and this seems to be supported by EMI's letter to CARB during this time period. 30 28 The major industry groups that met with CARB included the Engine Manufacturers Association, the Portable Power Equipment Manufacturers Association, the Industrial Truck Association, the Outdoor Power Equipment Institute, the Construction Industry Manufacturers Association, and the Equipment Manufacturers Institute (EMI). 29 See Letter from Tom Cackette, CARB to Richard Wilson, EPA, Docket entry IV&hyph;I&hyph;52. 30 See Letter from Gary Baise, Counsel to EMI to Mike Kenny, CARB, Docket entry IV&hyph;I&hyph;53. EPA recognizes the significance of these lists for several reasons. The lists are intended to be exhaustive of all equipment currently in existence, according to CARB, and eliminates uncertainty regarding the categorization, as farm or construction or other, of any equipment currently in production. For any currently existing equipment under 25 horsepower that is not considered on the list, EPA believes manufacturers will have the ability to petition CARB for the appropriate categorization. Further, the lists of equipment are generic such that any modifications to existing equipment types would fall into existing categories, with appropriate review by CARB, and thereby reduce any burden on manufacturers to produce large amounts of new information to support their position that such modified equipment is farm or construction. For newly developed equipment, which is not a modification of existing equipment or included on the lists, CARB and manufacturers will classify it as preempted or non-preempted based upon, among other things, a description of the equipment, its intended application, and projected sales market. EPA believes the classification process will be clear and predictable and will not require substantial new information. It is anticipated that CARB and the manufacturers will continue to work together to minimize the information gathering burden for the small number of newly developed types of equipment.
