FR940906-2-00055 FR940906-2-00048 [FDA 225&hyph;94&hyph;8001] Memorandum of Understanding Concerning Cooperation and Information Exchange on Drugs and Biological Products Facilitating Importation Between the Food and Drug Administration and the Russian Federation AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is providing notice of a memorandum of understanding (MOU) between FDA and the Russian Federation. The purpose of the MOU is to exchange information on drugs and biological products and to facilitate the development of the Russian health care sector by establishing in Russia a streamlined registration procedure for U.S. drugs and biological products. DATES: The MOU became effective February 15, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Phil Budashewitz, Office of Health Affairs (HFY&hyph;50), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;4480. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with 21 CFR 20.108(c), which states that all written agreements and memoranda of understanding between FDA and others shall be published in the Federal Register , the agency is publishing notice of this memorandum of understanding. Dated: August 26, 1994. Gary Dykstra, Acting Associate Commissioner for Regulatory Affairs. Memorandum of Understanding Between the Food and Drug Administration, Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services of the United States of America and the Ministry of Health and Medical Industry and the State Committee For Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance of the Russian Federation Concerning Cooperation and Information Exchange on Drugs and Biological Products Facilitating Importation The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States (U.S.), on the one hand, and the Ministry of Health and Medical Industry and the State Committee for Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance of the Russian Federation, on the other hand, hereinafter referred to as the participants, Building upon the foundation laid by the Memorandum of Understanding signed at Moscow September 23, 1993 under the auspices of the U.S.-Russia Business Development Committee's Subgroup on Medical Equipment, Pharmaceuticals, and Health Services, and in accordance with the Agreement on Cooperation in the Fields of Public Health and Biomedical Research signed on January 14, 1994 by the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Russian Federation, Strengthening the bonds of friendship among the participants, Have reached the following understanding to guide their cooperation: I. The goals of the participants in entering into this Memorandum of Understanding are to: 1. Exchange information on drugs and biological products and on requirements applicable to them (including standardization, registration, quality control, and product side effects), including prompt exchange of information on removal of drugs and biological products from the market or restrictions on their use. 2. Facilitate the development of the Russian health care sector by establishing in Russia a streamlined registration procedure for U.S. drugs and biological products that are produced in the United States and that FDA permits to be freely marketed in the United States (see Annex). The Russian Federation participants will use this streamlined procedure for such United States products. This Memorandum of Understanding provides the procedures needed to implement the agreement in the earlier Memorandum of Understanding, signed on September 23, 1993, that it would be mutually beneficial for the participants to work together to streamline the process for registering and certifying U.S. drugs and biological products for importation into the Russian Federation when these products are permitted by FDA to be freely marketed in the United States. The effect of the participants' joint endeavors under this Memorandum of Understanding will be to extend to Russian users access to U.S. drugs and biological products of the same safety, effectiveness, and quality available to U.S. users of such products. II. This Memorandum of Understanding covers drugs and biological products that are produced in the United States and that are permitted by FDA to be freely marketed in the United States including: 1. Drugs: articles that meet the definition of a drug under the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. This Memorandum of Understanding does not apply to homeopathic drugs. 2. Biological products: products that are regulated as biological products under the U.S. Public Health Service Act. III. 1. The Russian Federation participants will streamline their registration requirements of those U.S. drugs and biological products that are produced in the United States and that are permitted by FDA to be freely marketed in the United States. 2. For drugs and biological products that are produced in the United States and that FDA permits to be freely marketed in the United States, the Russian Federation participants will accept FDA's decisions and regulations on premarket approval, licensing, monographs, and related matters, as well as FDA's product quality standards and enforcement of manufacturing controls and other requirements. 3. All products that can be defined as a controlled substance or highly addictive can be registered in the Russian Federation only after receiving the approval of the Russian Federation's State Committee on Controlled Substances. Products for which this approval will be necessary will be further explained in an exchange of letters between the participants. 4. This Memorandum of Understanding sets forth, in an Annex, the information that United States firms will have to submit to the appropriate Russian Federation participant concerning drugs and biological products subject to this Memorandum of Understanding, produced in the United States, and permitted by FDA to be freely marketed in the United States, to obtain permission for these products to be freely marketed in the Russian Federation. Where the necessary information listed in the Annex is submitted, the Russian Federation participants will not require, as a condition of importation, the conduct of any additional clinical or analytical review or testing. Registration shall take no more than 90 days after the submission to the appropriate Russian Federation participant of the information required in the Annex and any fee required by the Russian Federation. At the time of the request for registration of vaccines and sera, the Russian Federation has the right to require additional documents which will satisfy the Russian Federation's requirements. Cases in which additional documentation will be necessary will be further explained in an exchange of letters between the participants. 5. Upon request of the Russian Federation participants, FDA will provide access to information on the compliance status of drugs and biological products and manufacturers that are eligible for Russian Federation registration under this Memorandum of Understanding to the extent that the information disclosure is in accordance with U.S. law. FDA also will respond to inquiries from the Russian Federation participants about information submitted under the Annex with respect to such matters as the marketing status of any drug or biological products. The participants will share information about any drug or biological product that presents a significant risk to users. 6. Under this Memorandum of Understanding, the participants will share expertise and provide assistance and information to one another when necessary, subject to the availability of funds. Upon request of FDA, the Russian Federation participants will treat as confidential any information provided to it by FDA that is not public information. Upon request of a Russian Federation participant, FDA will likewise respect the confidentiality of information that the Russian Federation participant provides to FDA, to the extent permitted by law. 7. FDA will provide the Russian Federation participants with up-to-date copies of the laws, regulations, guidelines, and procedures used to help ensure that drugs and biological products are of a level of quality sufficient for the protection of the public health. The Russian Federation participants will provide FDA with up-to-date copies of laws, regulations, guidelines, and procedures concerning the registration of these products imported into the Russian Federation from foreign countries in general and from the United States in particular. 8. The participants will meet periodically to consult with each other in order to promote cooperation and to facilitate the implementation of this Memorandum of Understanding. As the need arises, the participants will develop and agree on specific plans of cooperation. 9. The participants may establish a coordinating committee and one or more technical committees composed of representatives of each participant with expertise in regulation of drugs and biological products, to assist in the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding. 10. The participants will enter into, within six months of the effective date of this Memorandum of Understanding, additional Memoranda of Understanding concerning certain foods and medical devices imported into the Russian Federation from the United States. IV. The following offices are designated as liaison offices for the participants: A. For FDA: Special Programs Officer, International Affairs Staff, Office of Health Affairs (HFY&hyph;50), (currently Philip M. Budashewitz), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, U.S.A. B. For the Russian Ministry of Health and Medical Industry: Dr. Alexander I. Machula, Director, Department of the State Committee on Quality Control of Drugs and Medical Devices, Rakhmanovsky per., 3, Moscow, 101431, Russia C. For the Russian State Committee for Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance: Dr. Anatoly A. Monisov, Deputy Chairman, Vadkovskiy per. 18/20, Moscow, 101474, Russia This Memorandum of Understanding will enter into force for three years effective upon signature of all participants. It may be extended or amended by mutual written consent. It may be terminated by any participant by a 60-day advance written notice to the other participants. This Memorandum of Understanding is done in the English and Russian languages, each text being equally authentic. For the Food and Drug Administration of the United States of America: By: David A. Kessler, M.D. Commissioner of Foods and Drugs Date: January 28, 1994. By: Mary K. Pendergast Deputy Commissioner/Senior Advisor to the Commissioner Date: January 28, 1994. For the Russian Participants: By: Dr. Eduard A. Nechayev Minister of Health and Medical Industry of the Russian Federation Date: February 15, 1994. By: Dr. Eugeni N. Beliaev Chairman, State Committee for Sanitary and Epidemiological Surveillance of the Russian Federation Date: February 15, 1994. By: Dr. V. M. Cherepov Co-Chairman of the Subgroup on Medical Equipment, Pharmaceuticals and Health Services of the Russian-United States Business Development Committee Date: January 28, 1994. Annex The Necessary Information to be Submitted by a U.S. Company to the Russian Federation Authorities for Registration in the Russian Federation of Drugs and Biological Products Which are Produced in the United States and Permitted by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be Freely Marketed in the United States 1. ␣The firm will submit a letter stating: a. Name of firm b. Address c. Telephone and facsimile number d. Name, title and signature of firm's authorized responsible representative e. That the drug or biological product has been produced in the U.S. 2.␣ The firm will provide a copy of the letter that FDA has sent to the firm indicating that the product may be legally marketed in the United States. 3.␣ The firm will provide a copy and Russian translation of the FDA approved product package insert (information and instruction sheet) containing but not limited to the following information: a. Name: trade, generic, and chemical b. Description: chemical and pharmacological class c. Clinical pharmacology/mechanism of action d. Indications and usage information e. Contraindications f. Warnings g. Precautions h. Adverse reactions and information on toxicities i. Information on overdose j. Dosage and routes of administration k. How the medical product is supplied, including dosage form and strength l. Product usage/preparation and storage information m. Other information as listed in product package insert. 4.␣ The firm will provide a copy of U.S. Pharmacopeia Official Monograph (article), if appropriate. 5.␣ The firm's authorized responsible representative will sign and submit a statement that the firm is in compliance with FDA's Current Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations. 6.␣ The firm will provide a copy of the most recent FD&hyph;483, FDA Notice of Inspectional Observations that is relevant to the drug or biological product for which registration is sought. 7.␣ The firm's authorized responsible representative will sign and submit a statement that all information submitted is truthful, accurate and complete. 8.␣ The firm will submit information on any changes in the above information within 30 days of any change in any of the information referred to in paragraphs 1&hyph;5, including any FDA-approved changes in the package insert referred to in paragraph 3. 9.␣ The firm will provide samples of the product in the packaged form in which it is offered for registration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21788 Filed 9&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
