FR940216-0-00245 FR940216-0-00010 (b) Baseline exhaust benzene emissions_simple model. (1) Simple model exhaust benzene emissions of conventional gasoline shall be determined using the following equation: EXHBEN=(1.884+0.949× BX +0.113×( AR^BZ )) where EXHBEN=exhaust benzene emissions, BZ=fuel benzene value in terms of volume percent (per §80.91), and AR=fuel aromatics value in terms of volume percent (per §80.91). (2) The simple model annual average baseline exhaust benzene emissions for any facility of a refiner or importer of conventional gasoline shall be determined as follows: (i) The simple model baseline exhaust benzene emissions shall be determined separately for summer and winter using the facility's oxygenated individual baseline fuel parameter values for summer and winter (per §80.91), respectively, in the equation specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (ii) The simple model annual average baseline exhaust benzene emissions of the facility shall be determined using the emissions values determined in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section in the equation specified in paragraph (a) of this section. (c) Baseline exhaust benzene emissions_complex model. The complex model annual average baseline exhaust benzene emissions for any facility of a refiner or importer of conventional gasoline shall be determined as follows: (1) The summer and winter complex model baseline exhaust benzene emissions shall be determined separately using the facility's oxygenated individual baseline fuel parameter values for summer and winter (per §80.91), respectively, in the appropriate complex model for exhaust benzene emissions described in §80.45. (2) The complex model annual average baseline exhaust benzene emissions of the facility shall be determined using the emissions values determined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in the equation specified in paragraph (a) of this section. (d) Baseline exhaust toxics emissions. The annual average baseline exhaust toxics emissions for any facility of a refiner or importer of conventional gasoline shall be determined as follows: (1) The summer and winter baseline exhaust emissions of benzene, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, 1,3-butadiene, and polycyclic organic matter shall be determined using the oxygenated individual baseline fuel parameter values for summer and winter (per §80.91), respectively, in the appropriate complex model for each exhaust toxic (per §80.45). (2) The summer and winter baseline total exhaust toxics emissions shall be determined separately by summing the summer and winter baseline exhaust emissions of each toxic (per paragraph (d)(1) of this section), respectively. (3) The annual average baseline exhaust toxics emissions of the facility shall be determined using the emissions values determined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section in the equation specified in paragraph (a) of this section. (e) Baseline NO X emissions. The annual average baseline NO X emissions for any facility of a refiner or importer of conventional gasoline shall be determined as follows: (1) The summer and winter baseline NO X emissions shall be determined using the baseline individual baseline fuel parameter values for summer and winter (per §80.91), respectively, in the appropriate complex model for NO X (per §80.45). (2) The annual average baseline NO X emissions of the facility shall be determined using the emissions values determined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section in the equation specified in paragraph (a) of this section. (3) The requirements specified in paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section shall be determined separately using the oxygenated and nonoxygenated individual baseline fuel parameters, per §80.91. (f) Applicability of Phase I and Phase II models. The requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be determined separately for the applicable Phase I and Phase II complex models specified in §80.45. (g) Calculation accuracy. Emissions values calculated per the requirements of this section shall be determined to four (4) significant figures. Sulfur, olefin and T90 values calculated per the requirements of this section shall be determined to the same number of decimal places as the corresponding value listed in §80.91(c)(5). §80.91 Individual baseline determination. (a) Baseline definition. (1) The ``baseline'' or ``individual baseline'' of a refinery, refiner or importer, as applicable, shall consist of:
