FR940127-2-00172 FR940127-2-00097 3. Interpreters: Interpreters for the U.S. program are provided by the U.S. State Department Language Services Division. Typically, a pair of simultaneous interpreters is provided for every four visitors who need interpretation. USIA grants do not pay for foreign interpreters to accompany delegations from their home country. Grant proposal budgets should contain a flat $140/day per diem for each DOS interpreter, as well as home-program-home air transportation of $400 per interpreter plus any U.S. travel expenses during the program. Salary expenses are covered centrally and should not be part of an applicant's proposed budget. 4. Book and cultural allowance: Participants are entitled to a one-time cultural allowance of $150 per person, plus a book allowance of $50. Escorts are reimbursed for actual cultural expenses up to $150. U.S. staff do not get these benefits. 5. Consultants. May be used to provide specialized expertise or to make presentations. Daily honoraria generally do not exceed $250 per day. Subcontracting organizations may also be used, in which case the written agreement between the prospective grantee and subcontractor should be included in the proposal. 6. Room rental, which generally should not exceed $250 per day. 7. Materials development. Proposals may contain costs to purchase, develop, and translate materials for participants. 8. One working meal per project. Per capita costs may not exceed $5&hyph;8 for a lunch and $14&hyph;20 for a dinner; this includes room rental if applicable. The number of invited guests may not exceed participants by more than a factor of two to one. 9. A return travel allowance of $70 for each participant which is to be used for incidental expenditures incurred during international travel. 10. Audit Requirements: The proposal shall include the cost of an audit that: a. Complies with the requirements of OMB circular No. 1&hyph;133, Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions; b. Complies with the requirements of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 92&hyph;9; and c. Includes review by the recipient's independent auditor of a recipient-prepared supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation, if such a rate is being proposed. The audit costs shall be identified separately for: a. Preparation of basic financial statements, and other accounting services; and b. Preparation of the supplemental reports and schedules required by OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, AICPA SOP 92&hyph;9, and the review of the supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation. 11. Cost-sharing is encouraged. Cost-sharing may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. The Recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as costs to be paid by the Federal government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;110, Attachment E, ``Cost-sharing and Matching'' and should be described in the proposal. In the event the Recipient does not provide the minimum amount of cost sharing as stipulated in the Recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the Recipient's contribution. Application Requirements Proposals must be structured in accordance with the instructions contained in the application package. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. Proposals are reviewed by USIS posts and by USIA's Office of East Asian and Pacific Affairs. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of General Counsel or other Agency offices. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's contracting officer. The award of any grant is subject to availability of funds. The U.S. Government reserves the right to reject any or all applications received. USIA will not pay for design and development costs associated with submitting a proposal. Applications are submitted at the risk of the applicant; should circumstances prevent award of a grant all preparation and submission costs are at the applicant's expense. USIA will not award funds for activities conducted prior to the actual grant award. Review Criteria USIA will consider proposals based on their conformance with the objectives and considerations already stated in this RFP, as well as the following criteria: 1. Quality of program idea: Proposals should exhibit relevance, originality, rigor and substance to USIA's mission. They should demonstrate the match of U.S. resources to a clearly defined need.
