FR940719-0-00045 FR940719-0-00017 40 CFR Part 80 [FRL&hyph;4885&hyph;9] Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; Petition for Exemption from the Diesel Fuel Sulfur Requirement AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice of direct final decision. SUMMARY: On August 31, 1993, the Governor of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) submitted a petition requesting that the Northern Mariana Islands, a commonwealth of the United States, be considered for an exemption from the sulfur content requirement for motor vehicle diesel fuel, as specified in section 211(i) of the Clean Air Act, as amended (Act). This action is a direct final decision that grants an exemption to CNMI from the diesel fuel sulfur content requirement of section 211(i) and related provisions in section 211(g). The exemption is based on EPA's finding that it is unreasonable to require persons in CNMI to comply with the sulfur content requirement due to the islands' unique geographical, meteorological and economic factors, as well as other significant local factors. CNMI did not request an exemption from the minimum cetane index of 40. This action is being taken without prior proposal because EPA believes that this final decision is noncontroversial and because the effect of this rulemaking is limited to CNMI. DATES: This action will be effective on July 18, 1994 unless notice is received by June 20, 1994 that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments. If notice of intent to submit adverse comments is received, EPA will publish in the Federal Register timely notice withdrawing this action and a subsequent action requesting comment on CNMI's petition. Please direct all correspondence to the addresses shown below. ADDRESSES: Comments or notice of intent to submit adverse or critical comments should be submitted (in duplicate if possible) to both dockets with a copy forwarded to: Ms. Mary T. Smith, Director, Field Operations and Support Division (6406J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460. As provided in 40 CFR part 2, a reasonable fee may be charged for copying services. Copies of information relevant to this petition are available for inspection in public docket A&hyph;93&hyph;41 at the Air Docket (LE&hyph;131) of the EPA, room M&hyph;1500, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 260&hyph;7548, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. to noon and 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. on Monday through Friday. A duplicate public docket, R9-NM&hyph;93&hyph;1, has been established at USEPA Region IX, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105, (415) 744&hyph;1224, and is available between the hours of 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Whitney Trulove-Cranor, Environmental Protection Specialist, Field Operations and Support Division (6406J), 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 233&hyph;9036. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction This document describes EPA's action to approve as a direct final decision CNMI's request for exemption from the diesel sulfur content requirement of section 211 of the Act and those related sections of EPA's motor vehicle diesel fuel regulations (40 CFR part 80). The remainder of this document is divided into eight parts. Section II provides the background for this action. Section III summarizes the contents of the petition by the Governor of CNMI. Section IV discusses other relevant issues regarding this decision. Section V presents EPA's proposed final action and underlying rationale. Finally, sections VI through IX address EPA's statutory authority, regulatory designation and the economic impacts of this decision. II. Background Section 211(i)(1) of the Act makes it unlawful, effective October 1, 1993, for any person to manufacture, sell, supply, offer for sale or supply, dispense, transport, or introduce into commerce motor vehicle diesel fuel which contains a concentration of sulfur in excess of 0.05 percent (by weight), or which fails to meet a cetane index minimum of 40 (or, alternatively, contains more than 35 percent aromatics). Section 211(g)(2) makes it unlawful, effective October 1, 1993, for any person to introduce or cause or allow the introduction into any motor vehicle of diesel fuel which such person knows or should know contains a concentration of sulfur in excess of the standard or fails to meet the cetane index minimum. Although CNMI's petition did not specifically request an exemption from section 211(g)(2) it is reasonable to read the petition as including such a request. Section 211(i)(3) establishes the sulfur content for fuel used in the certification of heavy-duty diesel vehicles and engines. Section 211(i)(4) requires the Administrator to take final action on any petition filed under section 325 1 , which seeks exemption from the requirements of section 211(i), within 12 months of the date of such petition. 1 Section 211(i)(4) mistakenly refers to exemptions under section 324 of the Act (``Vapor Recovery for Small Business Marketers of Petroleum Products''), while the proper reference is to section 325. Congress clearly intended to refer to section 325, as shown by the language used in section 211(i)(4), and the United States Code citation used in section 806 of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, Public Law No. 101&hyph;549. Section 806 of the Amendments, which added paragraph i to section 211 of the Act, used 42 U.S.C. 7625&hyph;1 as the United States Code designation for section 324. This is the proper designation for section 325 of the Act. Also see 136 Cong. Rec. S17236 (daily ed. October 26, 1990) (statement of Sen. Murkowski). Section 325 of the Act provides that upon application by the Governor of Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Administrator may exempt any person or source in such territory from various requirements of the Act, including sections 211(i) and (g). An exemption may be granted if the Administrator finds that compliance with such requirements is not feasible or is unreasonable due to unique geographical, meteorological, or economic factors of such territory, or other local factors as the Administrator deems significant. III. Petition for Exemption On August 31, 1993, the Honorable Lorenzo I. DeLeon Guerrero, Governor of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), submitted a petition to exempt motor vehicle diesel fuel in CNMI from the sulfur content requirement of section 211(i)(1) of the Act, and the EPA regulations promulgated at 40 CFR part 80. The petition is based on geographical, meteorological, air quality, and economic factors unique to CNMI. The exemptions granted today will apply to all persons in CNMI subject to the prohibitions of section 211(i)(1) and related provisions of section 211(g)(2) of the Act and the diesel fuel requirements in 40 CFR part 80. The exemptions will apply to all persons who manufacture, sell, supply, offer for sale or supply, dispense, transport, or introduce into commerce motor vehicle diesel fuel, or who introduce diesel fuel into motor vehicles, in CNMI. CNMI is not requesting an exemption from the minimum cetane requirement for motor vehicle diesel fuel as set forth in sections 211(i)(1) and 211(g)(2). The following discussion summarizes the contents of the petition. A. Geography and Location of the Northern Mariana Islands The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands consists of 14 islands of volcanic origin that extend in a general north-south direction for 388 nautical miles, with a dry land area of 176.5 square miles. CNMI lies in the western part of the Pacific Ocean and is located 1150 miles south of Tokyo; 1440 miles east of Manila; 108 miles north of Guam; and 5280 miles from the U.S. mainland. The population centers of CNMI exist on Saipan (38,896 pop.), Tinian (2,118 pop.), and Rota (2,295 pop.). The Northern Islands of the Commonwealth have populations estimated at 36 people. CNMI has approximately 200 miles of roads, of which approximately 50 percent are paved. It is estimated that CNMI has less than 500 diesel vehicles, of which approximately 60 are the property of the CNMI government. B. Climate, Meteorology and Air Quality CNMI has a tropical climate with consistently warm and humid weather. Prevailing trade winds are westward. Development and the population of Saipan, the most populated island, are predominately on the western side. This meteorology combined with the geographic development of the islands and the lack of heavy industry, have a beneficial impact on CNMI's air quality. At the present time, CNMI is in attainment with all primary national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS). Given the small number of diesel fueled vehicles on CNMI and the westward nature of the trade winds, granting an exemption from the low-sulfur diesel standard is not expected to have any significant impact on the ambient air quality of CNMI. C. Economic Factors CNMI must rely totally on the costly importation of fuels exclusively from refineries in Singapore. Oil companies in Singapore are presently not capable of refining diesel fuel that meets the 0.05% sulfur requirement. Consequently, in order to comply with the diesel regulations, low-sulfur fuel would have to be imported from the U.S. mainland at an estimated cost increase of 10 to 20 cents per gallon. 2 Because of the added costs of shipping materials to CNMI for construction projects, construction costs on CNMI are generally 20 to 40 percent higher than the U.S. mainland. Consequently, a fuel supplier on CNMI estimated that in order to comply with the low-sulfur diesel fuel standard, four new storage tanks would need to be built for the three islands, resulting in $2,000,000 in tank construction costs. 2 Cost estimate provided by CNMI's fuel suppliers. Currently, the cost of diesel fuel on Saipan is approximately 20 cents per gallon higher than the U.S. mainland, and even higher on the islands of Rota and Tinian. The increased costs of using low-sulfur fuel would be passed on to diesel fuel consumers on CNMI, which has an average annual per capita income of under $7,200. Unlike the U.S. mainland, CNMI relies on diesel fuel exclusively to provide electrical power. Saipan has two bulk storage facilities for diesel fuel, and Rota and Tinian each have one. The main use of this diesel fuel is for electrical power generation with an insignificant amount used for motor vehicles. D. Environmental Factors Any sulfur dioxide emitted from the diesel-powered vehicles on CNMI is dispersed by the islands' trade winds and presents no health risk, nor would it cause any air quality standards to be exceeded. IV. Other Issues EPA addressed several other issues in the American Samoa and Guam decisions 3 and is addressing them here in a manner consistent with these earlier decisions. 3 The Agency granted American Samoa's petition for an exemption from the diesel sulfur requirements on July 20, 1992, (57 FR 32010), and exempted Guam from these same requirements on September 21, 1993, (58 FR 48968). Issue: Sale of Certified Engines EPA believes that the prohibition against the sale of uncertified engines in the Northern Mariana Islands (as in American Samoa and Guam) should continue to apply. Beginning with model year 1994, some heavy-duty diesel engines may be equipped with devices which will be adversely impacted by the level of sulfur in diesel fuel allowed by the exemption being granted today, but it is possible that some emissions benefits can still be accrued. If the use of high-sulfur diesel fuel causes vehicles equipped with aftertreatment devices to emit certain pollutants at higher levels than would be emitted from such engines without the aftertreatment devices, the Agency may consider, among other things, allowing the sale of certified engines without the affected devices. As expressed in the American Samoa and Guam exemptions, the Agency believes such decisions should be made on a case-by-case basis upon receipt of evidence to support those decisions. Issue: Exemption from Tampering EPA believes that a blanket waiver from the tampering prohibition for model year 1994 and later heavy-duty engines would allow tampering in situations where such tampering may result in an increase in emissions. For example, removal of an emissions related device that is not affected by the high-sulfur fuel or is rendered less effective but not inoperative by the high-sulfur fuel would increase emissions over what would have occurred in the absence of tampering. Nevertheless, some model year 1994 and later heavy-duty engines may be equipped with aftertreatment devices that may be rendered inoperative by the use of diesel fuel with a sulfur content exceeding 0.05% (by weight). The exercise of enforcement discretion may be appropriate to allow the removal of such aftertreatment devices. However, EPA shall not allow tampering with an emissions control device that has been or is likely to be rendered less effective, but not rendered inoperative, as a result of the use of higher sulfur fuel unless there is evidence that it may actually cause an increase in certain pollutants as discussed above. Issue: Warranty Exemption The Agency acknowledges that vehicles which were certified with low sulfur diesel fuel may be unable to meet Federal emissions standards if they are fueled on high-sulfur diesel fuel. However, EPA believes an exemption from the general warranty provisions of section 207 is not necessary to protect manufacturers from unreasonable warranty recoveries by purchasers. The emission defect warranty requirements under section 207(a) of the Act require an engine manufacturer to warrant that the engine shall conform at the time of sale to applicable emission regulations and that the engine is free from defects which cause the engine to fail to conform with applicable regulations for its useful life. In practice, this warranty is applicable to a specific list of emissions and emissions related engine components. It has been consistent EPA policy that misuse and/or improper maintenance of a vehicle or engine by the purchaser, including misfueling, may create a reasonable basis for denying warranty coverage for the specific emissions and emissions related engine components affected by this misuse. In this case, while use of fuel exempted from the sulfur content limitation cannot be considered ``misfueling,'' it will have the same adverse effect on emissions control components. Thus, EPA believes that where the use of high-sulfur diesel fuel will have an adverse impact on the emissions durability of specific engine parts or systems, such as a trap oxidizer or other aftertreatment devices, the manufacturer will have a reasonable basis for denying warranty coverage on that part or other related parts. However, as has consistently been EPA's policy, those components not adversely affected by the use of high-sulfur diesel should continue to receive full emissions warranty coverage. In any event, the number of engines likely to be covered on CNMI, and the potential for excessive costs or disputes, are extremely small. EPA will expeditiously consider manufacturers' suggestions for remedies to these situations on a case-by-case basis as they occur. Issue: Recall Liability Heavy-duty engine manufacturers are responsible for recalling and repairing engines that do not comply with emission requirements for their useful lives. The EPA tests engine classes to determine whether engines comply with applicable emission standards when properly used and maintained. Under section 207(c), if a substantial number of engines in a specific engine class do not comply when tested, that entire class can be recalled. If a situation arose in which an engine fueled with exempted diesel fuel were included in an EPA in-use compliance test program, EPA would determine, on a case-by-case basis, if the noncompliance were the result of the use of exempted diesel fuel. If it were determined that the exempted diesel fuel was the cause of the engine's failure to meet the applicable emission standards, that fact would be considered before seeking a recall of the class. Given the fact that only high-sulfur diesel fuel (over 0.05% by weight) will be used in vehicles on CNMI, just as in American Samoa and Guam, the Agency does not intend to use test results (emissions levels) from those vehicles to show noncompliance by those engines for the purpose of recalling an engine class. In cases in which it was determined that the overall class was subject to recall, however, individual engines would not be excluded from repair on the basis of the fuel used. Manufacturers are responsible for repairing any engine in the recalled class regardless of its history of tampering or malmaintenance. The situation that would occur on CNMI is no different and, thus, the manufacturers should remain liable for performing recall repairs on these engines when required. V. Final Action Because of its remote location and lack of internal petroleum supplies, CNMI must rely totally on the importation of diesel fuel and other petroleum products. The Asian refineries currently supplying CNMI's diesel fuel needs do not have the capability to produce diesel fuel that meets the sulfur requirement of section 211(i) of the Act. Given that CNMI has such a small market for motor vehicle diesel fuel, those refineries are not likely to invest in the substantial modifications necessary to produce low- sulfur diesel fuel. Consequently, CNMI would have to import low-sulfur fuel from the U.S. mainland at an increased cost of 10&hyph;20 cents per gallon, not including the additional estimated capital expenditure of $2,000,000 to construct separate storage facilities. Since the vast majority of diesel fuel used on CNMI is for power generation, it would be economically unreasonable for CNMI to use low-sulfur diesel for all of its diesel fuel needs. By requiring CNMI to comply with the sulfur requirement of section 211(i), a major economic burden would be placed on the citizens of CNMI with little or no environmental benefit. Despite the possibility that the use of high- sulfur diesel fuel may cause increased particulate sulfate emissions in diesel vehicles equipped with trap systems or oxidation catalysts, any increase in sulfate particulates emitted by such vehicles would be dispersed by the islands' trade winds and would present a minimal threat to public health or the environment. Because of the small number of diesel vehicles on CNMI, granting this exemption will not likely lead to future problems in maintaining compliance with any National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The Environmental Protection Agency has decided to exempt the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands from compliance with the sulfur content requirements for diesel fuel under sections 211(i)(1) and (g)(2) of the Act, and EPA's motor vehicle diesel fuel regulations at 40 CFR part 80. The Agency believes that compliance with the sulfur requirement is unreasonable given the substantial increased costs to persons on CNMI and the minimal benefits to the islands' air quality. These cost increases are the direct result of geographical, meteorological and economic factors unique to CNMI. Although CNMI did not explicitly request an exemption from section 211(g)(2), it is reasonable to read the petition as including such a request. Sections 211(g) and 211(i) both restrict the use of high sulfur motor vehicle diesel fuel, and exempting CNMI from section 211(i)'s sulfur requirement but not from section 211(g)'s related prohibition would provide no relief from the problems CNMI presented in their petition. However, this action does not exempt CNMI from the minimum cetane index requirement or the alternative aromatic level requirement in these sections of the Act or EPA regulations. 4 Thus, diesel fuel on CNMI that does not contain visible evidence of the dye 1,4 dialkylamino-anthraquinone shall be presumed to be in compliance with the cetane or alternative aromatic standard for motor vehicle diesel fuel. 4 Information provided to the EPA subsequent to the petition indicates that the current cetane index of diesel fuel used on CNMI is generally near 50. Hence, CNMI will not have any difficulty meeting the minimum cetane requirement of section 211(i)(1) of the Act. This action is being taken without prior proposal because EPA believes that the decision to exempt CNMI from the diesel fuel sulfur requirements is noncontroversial and anticipates no significant adverse comments on this action. In petitions involving very similar factors, EPA exempted American Samoa and Guam from these same diesel fuel requirements. Consistent with this decision, EPA has decided to approve the exemptions requested by the Governor of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands as a direct final decision. The public should be advised that this action will be effective July 18, 1994, unless EPA receives notice by June 20, 1994 that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments. If such notice is received, this action will be withdrawn. If it is withdrawn, EPA will publish a document announcing its withdrawal before the effective date provided in today's document. A second document will then request comments on a proposed decision regarding CNMI's petition. This procedure allows the opportunity for public comment and for oral presentation of data as required under section 307(d) of the Act. This procedure also provides an expedited procedure for final action where a decision is not expected to be controversial and no adverse comment is expected. Since the October 1, 1993 effective date for the low-sulfur fuel requirements has passed, EPA will regard CNMI as a low priority for enforcement of the diesel sulfur requirement, pending the final decision on CNMI's petition. VI. Statutory Authority Authority for the action described in this document is in section 325(a)(1) (42 U.S.C. 7625&hyph;1(a)(1)) of the Clean Air Act, as amended. VII. Administrative Designation and Regulatory Analysis Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51,735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements,grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. The decision announced today alleviates any potential adverse economic impacts on CNMI and is not a significant regulatory action as defined in E.O. 12866. OMB has exempted this regulatory action from E.O. 12866 review. VIII. Impact on Small Entities Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 through 612, whenever an agency is required to publish a general notice of rulemaking for any proposed or final rule, it is required to certify that a regulation will not have a significant adverse economic impact on a substantial number of small business entities. Today's final decision will not have an adverse economic impact on small business entities, as the action eases requirements otherwise applicable to affected entities. Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Administrator certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. IX. Paperwork Reduction Act The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. , and implementing regulations, 5 CFR part 1320, do not apply to this action as it does not involve the collection of information as defined therein. Dated: May 11, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12144 Filed 5&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
