FR941222-0-00032 FR941222-0-00003 Response. The NRC granted VECTRA's request for an exemption to fabricate the transfer cask before issuance of the Certificate of Compliance under its NRC-approved quality assurance program. NRC's exemption decision made a special effort to clarify that fabrication was entirely at VECTRA's financial risk and did not ensure favorable consideration of VECTRA's application. The NRC's finding, based on the SAR for the Standardized NUHOMS and the NRC's SER, concluded that beginning fabrication before the issuance of the Certificate of Compliance would pose no undue risk to public health and safety. Use of the transfer cask is dependent on satisfactory completion of NRC's certification process. The NRC staff carefully considers the public comments received in rulemakings to determine whether changes are needed to the proposed rule. As noted elsewhere in this notice, several public comments received in this and other cask-approval rulemakings have resulted in changes to the SER and the Certificate of Compliance. For this reason, the public comments provide useful inputs to the NRC's safety approval process. J.3. Comment. One commenter wanted a Regulatory Guide outlining the requirements of an SAR for cask certification (CSAR). Requirements for a CSAR have not been clarified. Specific criteria for a TR (TSAR) by a vendor for a generic Certificate of Compliance need to be set. Response. Regulatory Guide 3.61, ``Standard Format and Content for a Topical Safety Analysis Report for a Spent Fuel Dry Storage Cask,'' dated February 1989, provides guidance for the preparation of a TSAR. Regulatory Guide 3.62, ``Standard Format and Content for the Safety Analysis Report for Onsite Storage of Spent Fuel Storage Casks,'' dated February 1989, provides guidance in preparing an SAR locating an ISFSI at a reactor site. Both Regulatory Guides identify similar information that can be potentially useful to prospective applicants for cask certification. J.4. Comment. One commenter wanted to know why Pacific Nuclear divested itself of any ownership or relationship to the VSC design in January 1992. How does this affect proprietary material shared in these two closely related designs? How does it affect their relationship to the DOE MPC system? Response. The key individual involved in the design and development of the VSC&hyph;24, who was also involved in the design and development of the NUHOMS design, left Pacific Nuclear and formed a new company, Pacific Sierra Nuclear, for the commercial manufacture and marketing of the VSC&hyph;24 storage system. The NRC has experienced no difficulty obtaining the required safety information, including proprietary information or answers to its questions from either firm, either before or after divestiture. The NRC is not aware of any relationship between the vendors. In addition, the NRC fully reviewed the health and safety aspects of each vendor's cask design independently. The NRC did not rely on any assumed relationship between the two vendors. Concerning their relationship to the DOE MPC system, each vendor has to establish its own relationship with DOE. J.5. Comment. One commenter wanted to know how long any model of NUHOMS has been used and if fuel has been taken out and evaluated. Has the 24P or 52B ever been used anywhere and for how long? If not, this is a test of a new cask at a reactor site. Response. The NUHOMS&hyph;24P is being used at Duke Power Company, Oconee Nuclear Station, under a site-specific license issued January 29, 1990, and at Baltimore Gas and Electric Company, Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Station, under a site-specific license issued November 25, 1992. Monitoring and surveillance of the system is being performed under the conditions of the site-specific license. However, there has been no need for fuel to be removed for evaluation.
