FR940816-2-00058 FR940816-2-00044 4. Program Budget_(Not Scored) The extent to which the budget is reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with intended use of cooperative agreement/grant funds. B. Review of Continuation Applications Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of the following criteria: 1. Satisfactory progress has been made in meeting project objectives; 2. Objectives for the new budget period are realistic, specific, and measurable; 3. Proposed changes in described objectives, methods of operation, need for grant support, and/or evaluation procedures will lead to achievement of project objectives; and 4. The budget request is clearly justified and consistent with the intended use of grant/cooperative agreement funds. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are subject to the Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribal governments) should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC for each affected State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should send them to Henry S. Cassell, III, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, Room 300, Mailstop E13, NE., Atlanta, Georgia 30305, no later than 60 days after the application deadline date. The Program Announcement Number and Program Title should be referenced on the document. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' State process recommendations it receives after that date. Indian tribes are strongly encouraged to request tribal government review of the proposed application. If tribal governments have any tribal process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should forward them to Henry S. Cassell, III, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, Room 300, Mailstop E13, NE., Atlanta, Georgia 30305, no later than 60 days after the application deadline date. The Program Announcement Number and Program Title should be referenced on the document. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' State process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number is 93.203, Health Programs for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Other Requirements A. Human Subjects: If the proposed project involves research on human subjects, the applicant must comply with the Department of Health and Human Services Regulations, 45 CFR Part 46, regarding the protection of human subjects. Assurance must be provided to demonstrate that the project will be subject to initial and continuing review by an appropriate institutional review committee. In addition to other applicable committees, Indian Health Service (IHS) institutional review committees also must review the project if any component of IHS will be involved or will support the research. If any Native American community is involved, its tribal government must also approve that portion of the project applicable to it. The applicant will be responsible for providing assurance in accordance with the appropriate guidelines and form provided in the application kit. B. Cost Recovery: CERCLA as amended by the SARA provides for the recovery of costs incurred for health assessments and health effects studies at each Superfund site from potentially responsible parties. The recipient will agree to maintain an accounting system that will keep an accurate, complete, and current accounting of all financial transactions on a site-specific basis, i.e., individual time, travel, and associated cost including indirect cost, as appropriate for the site. The recipient will retain the documents and records to support these financial transactions, for possible use in a cost recovery case, for a minimum of ten years after submission of a final Financial Status Report, unless there is a litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the specific site, then the records will be maintained until resolution of all issues on the specific site. C. Paperwork Reduction Act: Projects that involve the collection of information from 10 or more individuals and funded by the cooperative agreement will be subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act.
