FR940428-2-00164 FR940428-2-00072 (i) The name and address of any permit applicant or permittee; (ii) Permit applications, permits, and effluent data as defined in 40 CFR ยง2.302(a)(2). c. Information required by NPDES application forms provided by the Regional Administrator under ยง122.21 may not be claimed confidential. This includes information submitted on the forms themselves and any attachments used to supply information required by the forms. 8. Duty To Reapply If the permittee wishes to continue an activity regulated by this permit after its expiration date, the permittee must apply for and obtain a new permit. The permittee shall submit a new application at least 180 days before the expiration date of the existing permit, unless permission for a later date has been granted by the Regional Administrator. (The Regional Administrator shall not grant permission for applications to be submitted later than the expiration date of the existing permit.) 9. State Authorities Nothing in Part 122, 123, or 124 precludes more stringent State regulation of any activity covered by these regulations, whether or not under an approved State program. 10. Other Laws The issuance of a permit does not authorize any injury to persons or property or invasion of other private rights, nor does it relieve the permittee of its obligation to comply with any other applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations. Section B. Operation and Maintenance of Pollution Controls 1. Proper Operation and Maintenance The permittee shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) which are installed or used by the permittee to achieve compliance with the conditions of this permit and with the requirements of storm water pollution prevention plans. Proper operation and maintenance also includes adequate laboratory controls and appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision requires the operation of back-up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems only when the operation is necessary to achieve compliance with the conditions of the permit. 2. Need To Halt or Reduce Not a Defense It shall not be a defense for a permittee in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with the conditions of this permit. 3. Duty To Mitigate The permittee shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or prevent any discharge or sludge use or disposal in violation of this permit which has a reasonable likelihood of adversely affecting human health or the environment.
