FR941116-2-00104 FR941116-2-00079 [Public Notice 2114] Laredo Northwest International Bridge (Bridge IV), Laredo, TX: Finding of No Significant Impact AGENCY: Department of State. ACTION: Notice of a finding of no significant impact with regard to issuance of a permit to build a cross-border bridge. SUMMARY: The Department of State is announcing a finding of no significant impact on the environment for the Laredo Northwest International Bridge (Bridge IV) project sponsored by the City of Laredo, Texas. An environmental assessment of the proposed Laredo Northwest International Bridge project was prepared by Parsons Brinkerhoff, Quade & Douglas, Inc. of Austin, Texas, for the sponsor, the City of Laredo, Texas. The draft environmental assessment was reviewed by over two dozen federal, state, and local agencies. After revisions based on comments received from interested agencies and other parties, the final assessment was reviewed and approved or accepted by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, General Services Administration, Department of Interior, Department of Agriculture, Department of Commerce, U.S. Customs Service, U.S. Coast Guard, Federal Highway Administration, Food and Drug Administration, International Boundary and Water Commission_U.S. Section, Department of Defense, Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of State, and the appropriate Texas State agencies_the Parks and Wildlife Department, the Department of Transportation, and the Natural Resource Conservation Commission. Based on the environmental assessment, information developed during the review of the City's application and environmental assessment, and comments received, the Department has concluded that issuance of the permit will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment within the United States. An environmental impact statement will not be prepared. ADDRESSES: Copies of the environmental assessment and the finding of no significant impact may be obtained from Stephen R. Gibson, Office of Mexican Affairs, Room 4258, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520 (Telephone 202&hyph;647&hyph;8529). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Proposed Action The City of Laredo, Texas, has requested a permit to build a new bridge, with access road, to be constructed across the Rio Grande between Laredo, Texas, USA, and Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, Mexico. The bridge is to be located 9.35 river miles north along the Rio Grande from the existing Laredo International Bridge I. Initially, it will carry pedestrian and freight traffic only, and is intended to relieve the traffic burden on existing bridges in downtown areas. As a condition of issuance of the Presidential Permit, the City of Laredo has agreed to ban all commercial traffic from the two existing bridges in downtown Laredo. The work will include the following items: The bridge structure, the U.S. Customs Border Import lot facilities, a City Toll Plaza and Export lot facilities, water and sewer facilities and a State Highway facility (Extension of FM 3464) connecting to FM 1472. The new bridge is needed to provide an alternate route for existing commercial truck traffic, which currently passes from the two downtown bridges through the city streets of Laredo and Nuevo Laredo. Increases in truck traffic at Laredo have averaged 19 percent over the past five years, and can reasonably be expected to continue increasing with the entry into force of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
