FR940825-1-00087 FR940825-1-00008 (iii) State that assistance will be prorated, denied or terminated, as appropriate, upon a final determination of ineligibility after all appeals have been exhausted (see paragraph (n) of this section concerning INS appeal, and paragraph (o) of this section concerning IHA informal hearing process) or, if appeals are not pursued, at a time to be specified in accordance with HUD requirements. Families already receiving assistance also shall be informed of how to obtain assistance under the preservation of families provisions of paragraph (r) of this section. (h) When evidence of eligible status is required to be submitted. The IHA shall require evidence of eligible status to be submitted at the times specified in paragraph (h) of this section subject to any extension granted in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section. (1) Applicants. For applicants, the IHA must ensure that evidence of eligible status is submitted not later than the date the IHA anticipates or has knowledge that verification of other aspects of eligibility for assistance will occur (see paragraph (l) of this section). (2) Families already receiving assistance. For a family already receiving the benefit of assistance in a covered program on [insert the effective date of the final rule], the required evidence shall be submitted at the first regular reexamination after [insert the effective date of the final rule], in accordance with program requirements. (3) New occupants of assisted units. For any new family members, the required evidence shall be submitted at the first interim or regular reexamination following the person's occupancy. (4) Changing participation in a HUD program. Whenever a family applies for admission to a Section 214 covered program, evidence of eligible status is required to be submitted in accordance with the requirements of this part unless the family already has submitted the evidence to the IHA for a covered program. (5) One-time evidence requirement for continuous occupancy. For each family member, the family is required to submit evidence of eligible status one time during continuously assisted occupancy under any covered program. (i) Extensions of time to submit evidence of eligible status_ (1) When extension must be granted. The IHA shall extend the time, provided in paragraph (h) of this section, to submit evidence of eligible immigration status if the family member: (i) Submits the declaration required under paragraph (e)(3) of this section certifying that any person for whom required evidence has not been submitted is a noncitizen with eligible immigration status; and (ii) Certifies that the evidence needed to support a claim of eligible immigration status is temporarily unavailable, additional time is needed to obtain and submit the evidence, and prompt and diligent efforts will be undertaken to obtain the evidence. (2) Prohibition on indefinite extension period. Any extension of time, if granted, shall be for a specific period of time. The additional time provided should be sufficient to allow the family the time to obtain the evidence needed. The IHA's determination of the length of the extension needed, shall be based on the circumstances of the individual case. (3) Grant or denial of extension to be in writing. The IHA's decision to grant or deny an extension as provided in paragraph (i)(1) of this section shall be issued to the family by written notice. If the extension is granted, the notice shall specify the extension period granted. If the extension is denied, the notice shall explain the reasons for denial of the extension. (j) Failure to submit evidence or establish eligible immigration status. If the family fails to submit required evidence of eligible immigration status within the time period specified in the notice, or any extension granted in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section, or if the evidence is timely submitted but fails to establish eligible immigration status, the IHA shall proceed to deny, prorate or terminate assistance, or provide continued assistance or temporary deferral of termination of assistance, as appropriate, in accordance, respectively with the provisions of paragraph (m) of this section or paragraph (r) of this section. (k) Documents of eligible immigration status_ (1) General. An IHA shall request and review original documents of eligible immigration status. The IHA shall retain photocopies of the documents for its own records and return the original documents to the family. (2) Acceptable evidence of eligible immigration status. The original of one of the following documents is acceptable evidence of eligible immigration status, subject to verification in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section. (i) Form I&hyph;551, Alien Registration Receipt Card (for permanent resident aliens); (ii) Form I&hyph;94, Arrival-Departure Record, with one of the following annotations: (A) ``Admitted as Refugee Pursuant to Section 207''; (B) ``Section 208'' or ``Asylum''; (C) ``Section 243(h)'' or ``Deportation stayed by Attorney General''; (D) ``Paroled Pursuant to Sec. 212(d)(5) of the INA''; (iii) If Form I&hyph;94, Arrival-Departure Record, is not annotated, then accompanied by one of the following documents: (A) A final court decision granting asylum (but only if no appeal is taken); (B) A letter from an INS asylum officer granting asylum (if application is filed on or after October 1, 1990) or from an INS district director granting asylum (if application filed before October 1, 1990); (C) A court decision granting withholding or deportation; or (D) A letter from an INS asylum officer granting withholding of deportation (if application filed on or after October 1, 1990).
