FR941006-1-00040 FR941006-1-00008 (b) Noncompliance . The penalty imposed on any subscriber which fails to make settlement on a subscription once submitted shall be to render the subscriber ineligible thereafter to subscribe for securities under this offering for a period of six months, beginning on the date the subscription is withdrawn or the proposed issue date, whichever occurs first. The Division of Special Investments may determine to waive the six month penalty, pursuant to the provisions governing waiver of regulations set forth under 31 CFR 306.126. Where settlement occurs after the proposed issue date and the Division of Special Investments determines, pursuant to 31 CFR 306.126, that settlement is acceptable on an exception basis, the six month penalty will be waived, and the subscriber shall be subject to a late payment assessment. The assessment will include payment of an amount equal to the amount of interest that would have accrued on the securities from the proposed issue date to the date of settlement, as well as an administrative fee of $100 per subscription. Assessments under this subsection are due on demand. Failure to pay an assessment shall render the subscriber ineligible thereafter to subscribe for securities under this offering until the assessment is paid. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535&hyph;0091) ยง344.5 Redemption. (a) General . A security may not be called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity. Upon the maturity of a security, the Department will make payment of the principal amount and interest due to the owner thereof. A security scheduled for redemption on a non-business day will be redeemed on the next business day. (b) Before maturity. (1) In general . A security may be redeemed at the owner's option no earlier than 25 calendar days after the issue date in the case of a certificate, and one year after the issue date in the case of a note or bond. Partial redemptions may be requested in multiples of $100; however, an account balance of less than $1,000 will be redeemed in total. (2) Notice . Notice of redemption prior to maturity must be submitted, either on a designated Treasury form or by letter, by the official(s) authorized to redeem the securities, as shown on the final subscription form, to the Division of Special Investments, Bureau of the Public Debt, 200 Third Street, PO Box 396, Parkersburg, WV 26102&hyph;0396. The notice may be submitted by facsimile equipment to the Bureau of the Public Debt at (304) 480&hyph;6818, by mail, or by other carrier. The notice must show the account number, the maturities of the securities to be redeemed, and the tax identification number of the subscriber. The notice of redemption must be telecopied, postmarked, or where delivered by other carrier, must be date-stamped no less than 15 calendar days before the requested redemption date, but no more than 60 calendar days before the requested redemption date. A notice of redemption prior to maturity may not be cancelled. (3) Redemption proceeds _ Subscriptions on or after September 1, 1989 . For securities subscribed for on or after September 1, 1989, the amount of the redemption proceeds is calculated as follows: (i) Interest . If a security is redeemed before maturity on a date other than a scheduled interest payment date, interest will be paid for the fractional interest period since the last interest payment date.
