FR940114-0-00047 FR940114-0-00020 Other losses were precipitated by prior deterioration around windows and doors that had allowed moisture to enter, thereby weakening the resistance of surrounding wood framing and floor decking. Apparently this deterioration was a result of inadequate design or enforcement practices, or a combination of both. In some manufactured homes the loss of opening protection resulted in increased internal pressures within the buildings, which contributed to the failure of interior components including ceilings. In other cases, entire sections of sliding glass doors on leeward walls were literally sucked out of their frames because of inadequate resistance of the combined assembly to the wind forces imposed during Hurricane Andrew. Edges and corners of roofs and endwalls of manufactured homes appeared to have been particularly vulnerable to the high wind forces, according to the damage typically reported in these areas. Structural failures of endwalls also occurred, but the presence of nearby interior shearwalls prevented further losses (though not all designs are provided with interior shearwalls in the vicinity of the endwall). However, in many other cases, the entire superstructure was completely removed from the floor system. Numerous anchor system failures were reported in the areas subjected to the highest wind speeds. Many of the systems failed due to improper installation or the type of anchor used. In addition, anchor capacity appeared to have been reduced further because of the saturated condition of the soil. Summary of NIST Report As part of its review of the adequacy of the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards (FMHCSS), the Department contracted for a study by Dr. Richard D. Marshall of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) [Report NISTIR 5189, May 1993]. According to Dr. Marshall and several other investigative reports, damage to manufactured homes in Hurricane Andrew ranged from loss of roofing to total destruction. In general, HUD-labeled units suffered less damage than did pre-HUD units. However, conventional residential construction adjacent to manufactured home parks performed better, in some instances significantly better, than did manufactured homes. Based on wind speed assessments and damage surveys, it appears that HUD-labeled manufactured homes began to experience damage to roof and wall coverings at fastest-mile wind speeds of up to 95 mph (43 m/s), and significant structural damage at wind speeds of from 100 to 120 mph (45 to 54 m/s). Commonly observed failures included loss of roof membranes and blow-off of roof sheathing, failure of uplift straps at truss-to-wall connections where staple crowns pulled through the strap, loss of cladding on endwalls and near corners where large negative (suction) pressures developed, loss of appurtenances with resultant missile damage and damage to the primary house unit at connection points, complete separation of the superstructure from the floor and chassis frame, and loss of the complete unit because of the failure of tiedown straps or the withdrawal of soil anchors. The NIST report also pointed out that the capacity of the anchors appeared to have exceeded the marginal resistance of the superstructure, and that if the superstructure separation failures had not occurred, the number of anchor systems failures could have been much more widespread. In almost every case in Florida, some form of anchoring had been installed. Outside the area of strongest winds, there were relatively few anchor failures. Within the radius of strongest winds, anchor failures that were observed involved 2 ft. (610 mm) helical ground anchors (some embedded in about 3 cu.ft. (0.8 cu.m) of concrete) or rock anchors into coral. No failures of 4 ft. (1.2 m) helical anchors were noted. However, it is not clear that any anchors of that length were actually installed in the area subjected to the highest winds. Dr. Marshall of NIST compared wind load provisions of the current FMHCSS with the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Standard ANSI/ASCE 7&hyph;88, the South Florida Building Code, the Standard Building Code, and wind design provisions proposed by the Manufactured Housing Institute. Based on these comparisons of design loads for manufactured housing units of typical dimension and geometry, considering the rationale for using importance factors and unreduced pressure coefficients, and in view of the fact that it is a true consensus standard, Dr. Marshall concluded that ANSI/ASCE 7&hyph;88 should be the basis for updating the wind load requirements for manufactured housing. In addition, since the NIST study only addressed design loads, in the interest of safety and economy, it was also recommended that prescriptive requirements of the proposed standard be consistent with the specified design loads and that testing and analysis to assure this consistency be conducted. ASCE 7&hyph;88: Consensus Procedures for Development and Adoption The ASCE, founded in 1852, is the oldest civil engineering organization in the United States and has a membership of more than 110,000. The ANSI/ASCE Standard 7&hyph;88, Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures (November 1990) (ASCE 7&hyph;88, in this preamble), was developed by ASCE based on studies conducted at academic and research institutions in the United States and other parts of the world. ASCE 7&hyph;88 is the only truly consensus minimum design load standard currently available in the United States. The ASCE rules, approved by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), require all standards committees to have a membership balanced between producers, consumers, building officials, and general interest groups. Each of these groups represents between 20% to 40% of the committee membership. At the time ASCE 7&hyph;88 was adopted, 89 members were on the standards committee. The approval or revision of an ASCE standard is an elaborate process, which involves extensive balloting and resolution of all negative votes. When a standard is to be adopted, the standards committee is broken down by expertise into task committees. Those task committees draft the standard and present it to the full standards committee for balloting. All objections within the standards committee are satisfied by one of three ways: (1) the objector agrees to withdraw the objection; (2) by a vote of 75%, the full committee accepts the objection and changes the standard; or (3) by a vote of 75%, the full committee rejects the objection. The full committee then votes on the standard. In order for the standard to pass the full standards committee, at least 65% of the committee membership must vote and 75% of those votes must be in the affirmative. Moreover, the affirmative votes cannot be less than 55% of the approved voting membership. After the standard passes the standards committee, it is issued to the public for further comment. As in the standards committee, all objections are individually considered and processed in the same manner (i.e., withdrawn or accepted or rejected by a vote of 75% of the standards committee). After a certain cutoff date and after all objections are addressed, the standard is published as an ASCE consensus standard.
