FR940506-1-00064 FR940506-1-00014 (iv) A listing of the amounts previously paid to each such subcontractor under the contract. (v) Additional supporting data in a form and detail required by the Contracting Officer. (2) In the preparation of estimates, the Contracting Officer may authorize material delivered on the site and preparatory work done to be taken into consideration. Material delivered to the Contractor at locations other than the site may also be taken into consideration if_ (i) Consideration is specifically authorized by this contract; and (ii) The Contractor furnishes satisfactory evidence that it has acquired title to such material and that the material will be used to perform this contract. (c) Contractor certification. Along with each request for progress payments, the Contractor shall furnish the following certification, or payment shall not be made: I hereby certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, that_ (1) The amounts requested are only for performance in accordance with the specifications, terms, and conditions of the contract; (2) Payments to subcontractors and suppliers have been made from previous payments received under the contract, and timely payments will be made from the proceeds of the payment covered by this certification, in accordance with subcontract agreements and the requirements of chapter 39 of title 31, United States Code; (3) This request for progress payments does not include any amounts which the prime contractor intends to withhold or retain from a subcontractor or supplier in accordance with the terms and conditions of the subcontract; and (4) This certification is not to be construed as final acceptance of a subcontractor's performance. Name Title Date (d) Refund of unearned amounts. *␣*␣* * * * * * (2) Be obligated to pay the Government an amount (computed by the Contracting Officer in the manner provided in paragraph (j) of this clause) equal to interest on the unearned amount from the 8th day after the date of receipt of the unearned amount until_ * * * * * (e) Retainage. *␣*␣* (f) Title, liability, and reservation of rights. *␣*␣* (g) Reimbursement for bond premiums. *␣*␣* (h) Final payment. *␣*␣* (i) Limitation because of undefinitized work. *␣*␣* (j) Interest computation on unearned amounts. In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3903(c)(1), the amount payable under paragraph (d)(2) of this clause shall be_ (1) Computed at the rate of average bond equivalent rates of 91-day Treasury bills auctioned at the most recent auction of such bills prior to the date the Contractor receives the unearned amount; and (2) Deducted from the next available payment to the Contractor. (End of clause) 11. Section 52.232&hyph;8 is amended by revising paragraph (b) of the clause to read as follows: 52.232&hyph;8 Discounts for Prompt Payment. * * * * * Discounts for Prompt Payment (Date) * * * * * (b) In connection with any discount offered for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of the invoice. If the Contractor has not placed a date on the invoice, the due date shall be calculated from the date the designated billing office receives a proper invoice, provided the agency annotates such invoice with the date of receipt at the time of receipt. For the purpose of computing the discount earned, payment shall be considered to have been made on the date which appears on the payment check or the date on which an electronic funds transfer is specified for settlement at a Federal Reserve Bank. When the discount date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday when Federal Government offices are closed and Government business is not expected to be conducted, payment may be made on the following business day. (End of clause) 12. Section 52.232&hyph;25 is revised to read as follows: 52.232&hyph;25 Prompt Payment. As prescribed in 32.908(c), insert the following clause: (a) As authorized in 32.905(a)(1)(ii), the Contracting Officer may modify the date in subdivision (a)(5)(i) of this clause to specify a period longer than 7 days for constructive acceptance, if required to afford the Government a reasonable opportunity to inspect and test the supplies furnished or evaluate the services performed, except in the case of a contract for the purchase of a commercial item or service as defined in FAR 15.804&hyph;3(c)(3), including a brand-name commercial item for authorized resale ( e.g., commissary items). (b) As prescribed in 32.906(a), and only as allowed under agency policies and procedures, the Contracting Officer may insert in paragraph (b) of the clause a period shorter than 30 days (but not less than 7 days) for making contract financing payments. Prompt Payment (Date) Notwithstanding any other payment clause in this contract, the Government will make invoice payments and contract financing payments under the terms and conditions specified in this clause. Payment shall be considered as being made on the day a check is dated or the date of an electronic funds transfer. Definitions of pertinent terms are set forth in Federal Acquisition Regulation 32.902. All days referred to in this clause are calendar days, unless otherwise specified. (However, see paragraph (a)(4) of this clause concerning payments due on Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.)
