FR940217-2-00106 FR940217-2-00059 (b) The bank, or broker-dealer, maintains at all times written policies and procedures regarding the handling of foreign exchange transactions with plans with respect to which the bank or broker-dealer is a trustee, custodian, fiduciary or other party in interest or disqualified person which assure that the person acting for the bank or broker-dealer knows that he or she is dealing with a plan. (c) A written confirmation statement is issued with respect to each covered transaction to the independent plan fiduciary who directs the transaction for the plan. The confirmation shall disclose the following information: (1) Account name; (2) Transaction date; (3) Exchange rates; (4) Settlement date; (5) Currencies exchanged: (i) Identity of the currency sold; (ii) The amount sold; (iii) Identity of the currency purchased; (iv) The amount purchased. The confirmation shall be issued in no event more than 5 business days after execution of the transaction. (d) The bank or broker-dealer, or affiliate thereof, maintains within territories under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, for a period of six years from the date of the transaction, the records necessary to enable the persons described in paragraph (e) of this section to determine whether the applicable conditions of this exemption have been met. Notwithstanding these recordkeeping requirements, a prohibited transaction will not be considered to have occurred if, due to circumstances beyond the bank's or broker-dealer's control, the records are lost or destroyed prior to the end of the six-year period, and no fiduciary of a plan who is independent of the bank or broker-dealer or any affiliate thereof, which engages in a transaction covered by the exemption, shall be subject to the civil penalty that may be assessed under 502(i) of the Act, or to the taxes imposed by section 4975 (a) and (b) of the Code, solely because the records are not maintained by the bank, the broker-dealer, or its affiliate, or are not made available for examination by the bank or broker-dealer or affiliate as required by paragraph (e) below. (e)(i) Except as provided in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph and notwithstanding any provisions of subsection (a)(2) and (b) of section 504 of the Act, the records referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section are available at their customary location for examination, upon reasonable notice, during normal business hours by: (A) Any duly authorized employee or representative of the Department of Labor or the Internal Revenue Service. (B) Any fiduciary of a plan who has authority to acquire or dispose of the assets of the plan involved in the foreign exchange transaction or any duly authorized employee and representative of such fiduciary. (C) Any contributing employer to the plan involved in the foreign exchange transaction or any duly authorized employee or representative of such employer. (ii) None of the persons described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall be authorized to examine a bank's or broker-dealer's trade secrets or commercial or financial information of a bank or broker-dealer or an affiliate thereof which is privileged or confidential. Section IV. Definitions and General Rules For purposes of this exemption. (a) A ``foreign exchange transaction'' means the exchange of the currency of one nation for the currency of another nation, or a contract for such an exchange. The term foreign exchange transaction includes options contracts on foreign exchange transactions. (b) A ``bank'' means a bank which is supervised by the United States or a State thereof, or any affiliate thereof. (c) A ``broker-dealer'' means a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any affiliate thereof. (d) An ``affiliate'' of a bank or broker-dealer means any entity directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such bank or broker-dealer. (e) The term ``control'' means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a person other than an individual. (f) A foreign exchange transaction involving assets of an employee benefit plan shall be considered ``directed'' only where the independent plan fiduciary who has not been appointed by the bank or broker-dealer or affiliate thereof, directs such bank or broker-dealer or affiliate thereof to effect the purchase or sale of a specific amount of currency at a specific exchange rate. (g) For purposes of this exemption, the term ``employee benefit plan'' refers to a pension plan described in 29 CFR 2510.3&hyph;2 and/or a welfare benefit plan described in 29 CFR 2510.3&hyph;1. Signed at Washington, DC, this 10th day of February, 1994. Alan D. Lebowitz, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Program Operations, Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3607 Filed 2&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;29&hyph;P
