FR941216-2-00184 FR941216-2-00108 FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION Notice of Agency Meeting Pursuant to the provisions of the ``Government in the Sunshine Act'' (5 U.S.C. 552b), notice is hereby given that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's Board of Directors will meet in open session at 10:00 a.m. on Tuesday, December 20, 1994, to consider the following matters: Summary Agenda No substantive discussion of the following items is anticipated. These matters will be resolved with a single vote unless a member of the Board of Directors requests that an item be moved to the discussion agenda. Disposition of minutes of previous meetings. Reports of actions approved by the standing committees of the Corporation and by officers of the Corporation pursuant to authority delegated by the Board of Directors. Memorandum re: Lease of office space for the Northeast Service Center of the Division of Depositor and Asset Services and supporting divisions and offices, and approval of the Service Center tenant improvements budget. Memorandum re: Contracts relating to the Corporation's information resources management activities. Memorandum re: Request for approval to exercise option for hotel management service contract at Virginia Square. Memorandum and resolution re: Final amendments to Part 335 of the Corporation's rules and regulations, entitled ``Securities of Nonmember Insured Banks,'' which relate to registration and reporting requirements for nonmember insured banks with securities registered under section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Memorandum and resolution re: Final amendments to Part 303 of the Corporation's rules and regulations, entitled ``Applications, Requests, Submittals, Delegations of Authority, and Notices Required to be filed by Statute or Regulation,'' which amend the Corporation's requirements for publishing notice of the filing of applications for proposed merger transactions under the Bank Merger Act. Memorandum and resolution re: Notice of withdrawal of proposed amendments to the Corporation's rules and regulations in the form of a new Part 356, entitled ``Insider Transactions_Conflicts of Interest,'' which would (1) provide that business dealings (other than extensions of credit) between an insured nonmember bank and its directors, executive officers, principal shareholders and related interests of such persons must meet an arms-length standard, (2) require that covered business dealings be approved by the bank's board of directors in advance if the dollar value of the business dealings exceeds a certain aggregate figure, (3) require bank insiders to disclose their conflicts of interest, (4) provide for certain recordkeeping requirements, (5) require the bank's board of directors to adopt written guidelines governing covered business dealings, and (6) prohibit insured nonmember banks from investing in real estate in which any of the bank's directors, executive officers, principal shareholders or related interests of such persons has an equity interest. Discussion Agenda Memorandum re: The Corporation's 1995 Business Plan. Memorandum with respect to the development of a process to ensure that any appeal of a material supervisory determination is considered and decided expeditiously. Memorandum and resolution re: Report on Use of Alternative Dispute Resolution at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as contemplated by the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act of 1990 and recommendations with respect thereto. Memorandum and resolution re: Final amendments to Parts 327 and 304 of the Corporation's rules and regulations, entitled ``Assessments'' and ``Forms, Instructions, and Reports,'' respectively, which (1) collect assessments on a quarterly basis via direct debits initiated by the Corporation; (2) update an institution's risk-based assessment classification on a quarterly, rather than semiannual basis; (3) clarify the requirements for insurance assessment payments due with regard to deposits assumed from institutions terminating their insured status; and (4) make certain other technical amendments. Memorandum and resolution re: Final amendments to Part 337 of the Corporation's rules and regulations, entitled ``Unsafe and Unsound Banking Practices,'' which except loans which are fully secured by certain types of collateral from the general limit on ``other purpose'' loans to executive officers of insured nonmember banks. Memorandum and resolution re: Final amendments to Part 325 of the Corporation's rules and regulations, entitled ``Capital Maintenance,'' which, for regulatory capital purposes, require net unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable fair values to be deducted in determining the amount of Tier 1 capital and exclude from the definition of Tier 1 capital all other net unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities. Memorandum and resolution re: Final amendments to Part 325 of the Corporation's rules and regulations, entitled ``Capital Maintenance,'' which revises the existing risk-based capital guidelines (Appendix A to Part 325) to recognize the effects of bilateral netting agreements in the calculation of risk-based capital. The meeting will be held in the Board Room on the sixth floor of the FDIC Building located at 550 17th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. The FDIC will provide attendees with auxiliary aids (e.g., sign language interpretation) required for this meeting. Those attendees needing such assistance should call (202) 942&hyph;3132 (Voice); (202) 942&hyph;3111 (TTY), to make necessary arrangements. Requests for further information concerning the meeting may be directed to Mr. Robert E. Feldman, Acting Executive Secretary of the Corporation, at (202) 898&hyph;6757. Dated: December 13, 1994. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Robert E. Feldman, Acting Executive Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31121 Filed 12&hyph;14&hyph;94; 1:33 pm] BILLING CODE 6714&hyph;0&hyph;M
