FR940413-0-00021 FR940413-0-00005 COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION 17 CFR Part 190 Distribution of Property of Bankrupt Futures Commission Merchant That Had Participated in a Cross-Margining Program AGENCY: Commodity Futures Trading Commission. ACTION: Final rules. SUMMARY: The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Commission) has adopted an additional appendix to its bankruptcy rules to govern the distribution of property where the debtor is a futures commission merchant (FCM) that holds cross-margin (XM) accounts as well as non-XM accounts. This new distributional framework is intended to assure that non-XM customers of such an FCM will not be adversely affected by a shortfall in the pool of XM funds. The new distributional framework will become applicable to each non-proprietary XM program at such time as the relevant clearing organizations submit an amended participant agreement that makes reference to the new distributional framework and such agreement is approved by the Commission. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 13, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lawrence B. Patent, Associate Chief Counsel, or John C. Lawton, Associate Director, Division of Trading and Markets, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K St. NW., Washington, DC 20581. Telephone: (202) 254&hyph;8955. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction On December 28, 1993, the Commission published a proposed additional appendix to its bankruptcy rules that would govern the distribution of property where the debtor is an FCM that holds XM accounts as well as non-XM accounts and allowed thirty days for comment thereon. 1 The Commission received one written comment in response to the proposal, from the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), which expressed support for the proposal. The Commission has carefully considered this comment and, based upon that review and its own reconsideration of the issue, has determined to adopt the additional appendix to its bankruptcy rules essentially as proposed. 1 58 FR 68580. II. Background of XM Programs In XM programs, intermarket positions with offsetting risk characteristics are margined together as a single portfolio. These intermarket positions include stock index futures, options on stock index futures and stock index options, as well as foreign currency futures, options on foreign currency futures and foreign currency options. Because the related intermarket positions are essentially offsetting and therefore may effectively serve as margin collateral for one another, the margin requirement for the combined position may be lower than if each were margined separately.
