FR940124-2-00056 FR940124-2-00041 11. The conditions pursuant to which the exemptive order is granted and the duties and responsibilities of the Trustees of the Funds with respect to the Multi-Class Distribution System will be set forth in guidelines which will be furnished to the Trustees. 12. Each Fund will disclose the respective expenses, performance data, distribution arrangements, service, fees, sales loads, deferred sales loads, and exchange privileges applicable to each class of shares in every prospectus, regardless of whether all classes of shares are offered through each prospectus. Each Fund will disclose the expenses and performance data applicable to all classes of shares in every shareholder report. The shareholder reports will contain, in the statement of assets and liabilities and statement of operations, information related to the Fund as a whole generally and not on a per class basis. Each Fund's per share data, however, will be prepared on a per class basis with respect to the classes of shares of such Fund. To the extent any advertisement or sales literature describes the expenses or performance data applicable to any class of shares, it will disclose the expenses and/or performance data applicable to all classes of shares. The information provided by applicants for publication in any newspaper or similar listing of the Funds' net asset values and public offering prices will present each class of shares separately. 13. Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the exemptive order requested by the application will not imply SEC approval, authorization or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that the Funds may make pursuant to rule 12b&hyph;1 plans in reliance on the exemptive order. 14. The conversion of one class of shares to another class of shares will be done on the basis of the relative net asset value of the two classes, without the imposition of any sales load, fee, or other charge. After conversion, the converted shares will be subject to an asset-based sales charge and/or service fee (as those terms are defined in Article III, Section 26 of the NASD's Rules of Fair Practice), if any, that in the aggregate are lower than the asset-based sales charge and service fee to which they were subject prior to the conversion. 15. Applicants will comply with the provisions of proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act, Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (Nov. 2, 1988), as such rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted, or amended. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1530 Filed 1&hyph;21&hyph;94; 10:00 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
