FR941230-1-00065 FR941230-1-00004 (2) Loans-to-lenders programs. Whether an issue satisfies the requirements of section 1394(c) may be determined without regard to the amount of bonds allocable to lenders in a loans-to-lenders program. This paragraph (c)(2) applies only if the proceeds of those bonds are loaned to an enterprise zone business within 42 months of the issue date of the bonds or, to the extent not so used, are used to redeem bonds of the issue within that 42 month period. A loans-to-lenders program is a program in which the issuer of enterprise zone facility bonds, in order to provide loans to enterprise zone businesses, lends the proceeds of the bonds to a bank or similar intermediary which must then relend the proceeds to enterprise zone businesses. (d) Qualified zone property. For purposes of applying the term qualified zone property, the following rules apply: (1) Original use requirement. In general, for purposes of section 1397C(a)(1)(B), original use means the first use to which the property is put within the empowerment zone, whether or not that use corresponds to the use of that property by the taxpayer. However, for purposes of section 1394, property that has been abandoned for a period in excess of one year is treated as satisfying the requirement of section 1397C(a)(1)(B), notwithstanding that the date of abandonment occurred before the date on which the designation of the empowerment zone took effect. See, however, ยง1.103&hyph;8(a)(5). (2) Substantially all. For purposes of sections 1397B and 1397C(a), substantially all means 90 percent. (e) Land. The determination of whether land is functionally related and subordinate to qualified zone property is made in a manner consistent with ยง1.103&hyph;8(a)(3). (f) Application of sections 141 through 150_ (1) In general. Enterprise zone facility bonds are treated as exempt facility bonds that are described in section 142(a). Paragraphs (f)(2) through (f)(4) of this section provide special rules for applying sections 141 through 150 to enterprise zone facility bonds. See also paragraph (g)(3) of this section. (2) Maturity limitation_ (i) Requirements treated as satisfied. The requirements of section 147(b) are treated as satisfied for an issue of enterprise zone facility bonds the proceeds of which are to be used as part of a loan recycling program if_ (A) Each loan satisfies the requirements of section 147(b) (determined by treating each separate loan as a separate issue); and (B) The term of the issue does not exceed 30 years. (ii) Loan recycling program defined. A loan recycling program is a program in which_ (A) The issuer reasonably expects as of the issue date of the bonds that loan repayments from principal users will be used to make additional loans during the portion of the 10-year period following the issue date of the bonds during which the enterprise community or empowerment zone designation is in effect; and (B) Repayments of principal on loans (including prepayments) that are received during the period described in paragraph (f)(2)(i)(A) of this section that are not reasonably expected to be used to make new loans to enterprise zone businesses and repayments of principal on loans (including prepayments) that are received after that period are used within 6 months of receipt to redeem bonds that are part of the issue.
