FR940511-0-00063 FR940511-0-00015 The following sets forth the text of the Designation Document for the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary. Designation Document for the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary Under the authority of Title III of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended (the ``Act''), 16 U.S.C. 1431 et seq ., the waters off the Olympic Coast of Washington State including the U.S. portion of the Strait of Juan de Fuca west of Koitlah Point, and the submerged lands thereunder, as described in Article II, are hereby designated as the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary for the purposes of protecting and managing the conservation, ecological, recreational, research, educational, historical and aesthetic resources and qualities of the area. Article I. Effect of Designation The Act authorizes the issuance of such final regulations as are necessary and reasonable to implement the designation, including managing and protecting the conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, research, educational, and aesthetic resources and qualities of the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary. Section 1 of Article IV of this Designation Document lists activities that either will be regulated on the effective date of designation or may have to be regulated at some later date in order to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Listing does not necessarily mean that a type of activity will be regulated; however, if an activity is not listed, it may not be regulated, except on an emergency basis, unless section 1 of Article IV is amended to include the type of activity by the same procedures by which the original designation was made. Article II. Description of the Sanctuary Area The Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary boundary encompasses approximately 2500 square nautical miles (approximately 8577 sq. kilometers) of coastal and ocean waters, and the submerged lands thereunder, off the central and northern coast of the State of Washington. The Sanctuary boundary extends from Koitlah Point due north to the United States/Canada international boundary seaward to the 100 fathom isobath. The seaward boundary of the Sanctuary approximates the 100 fathom isobath in a southerly direction from the U.S./Canada international boundary to a point due west of the Copalis River, cutting across the heads of Nitnat, Juan de Fuca, and Quinault Canyons. The shoreward boundary of the Sanctuary is the mean lower low water line when adjacent to Indian reservations and State and county lands. When adjacent to Federally managed lands, the coastal boundary extends to the mean higher high water line. The coastal boundary cuts across the mouths of all rivers and streams. The precise boundary of the Sanctuary is set forth in Appendix A of this Designation Document. Article III. Characteristics of the Sanctuary Area That Give It Particular Value The Sanctuary is a highly productive, nearly pristine ocean and coastal environment that is important to the continued survival of several ecologically and commercially important species of fish, seabirds, and marine mammals. Its rugged and undeveloped coastline makes the region one of the more dramatic natural wonders of the coastal United States, paralleling the majestic splendor of such terrestrial counterparts as Yosemite National Park and the Grand Tetons. The region's high biological productivity is fueled by seasonal enhanced upwelling along the edge of the continental shelf, especially at submarine canyons, during periods of high solar radiation. The diversity of habitats that make up the Sanctuary support a great variety of biological communities. This unusually large range of habitat types include: Offshore islands and rocks; some of the most diverse kelp beds in the world; intertidal pools; erosional features such as rocky headlands, seastacks, and arches; interspersed exposed beaches and protected bays; submarine canyons and ridges; the continental shelf, including a broad shallow plateau extending from the mouth of the Juan de Fuca canyon; and continental slope environments. The numerous seastacks and rocky outcrops along the Sanctuary shoreline, coupled with a large tidal range and wave splash zone, support some of the most diverse and complex intertidal zones in the United States.
