FR941212-1-00041 FR941212-1-00012 §1.63 Oath or declaration. (a) An oath or declaration filed under §1.51(a) [(2)]>(1)(ii)< as a part of an application must: (1) Be executed in accordance with either §1.66 or §1.68; (2) Identify the specification to which it is directed; (3) Identify each inventor and the residence and country of citizenship of each inventor; and (4) State whether the inventor is a sole or joint inventor of the invention claimed. * * * * * 19. Section 1.67 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §1.67 Supplemental oath or declaration. * * * * * (b) A supplemental oath or declaration meeting the requirements of §1.63 must be filed: (1) When a claim is presented for matter originally shown or described not but substantially embraced in the statement of invention or claims originally presented; and (2) When an oath or declaration submitted in accordance with §1.53(d)>(1)< after the filing of the specification and any required drawings specifically and improperly refers to an amendment which includes new matter. No new matter may be introduced into an application after its filing date even if a supplemental oath or declaration is filed [(§1.53(b); §1.118)]. In proper cases the oath or declaration here required may be made on information and belief by an applicant other than inventor. * * * * * 20. Section 1.78 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) and by adding new paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) to read as follows: §1.78 Claiming benefit of earlier filing date and cross-references to other applications. (a)(1) An application >other than a provisional application< may claim an invention disclosed in a prior filed copending national application >filed under §1.53(b)(1) or §1.62 (not a provisional application (see paragraph (a)(3) of this section))< or international application designating the United States of America. In order for an application to claim the benefit of a prior filed copending national application, the prior application must name as an inventor at least one inventor named in the later filed application and disclose the named inventor's invention claimed in at least one claim of the later filed application in the manner provided by the first paragraph of 35 U.S.C. 112. In addition, the prior application must be (i) complete as set forth in §1.51(a)(1); or (ii) entitled to a filing date as set forth in §1.53(b)>(1) or §1.62< and include the basic filing fee set forth in §1.16[; or] [(iii) entitled to a filing date as set forth in §1.53(b) and have paid therein the processing and retention fee set forth in §1.21(l) within the time period set forth in §1.53(d)]. (2) Any application claiming the benefit of a prior filed copending national or international application >other than a provisional application< must contain or be amended to contain in the first sentence of the specification following the title a reference to such prior application, identifying it by application number (consisting of the series code and serial number) [, or serial number and filing date] or international application number and international filing date and indicating the relationship of the applications. Cross-references to other related applications may be made when appropriate. (See §1.14(b).) >(3) An application other than for a design patent may claim an invention disclosed in a prior filed copending provisional application filed under §1.53(b)(2). A provisional application can be pending for no more than twelve months. In order for an application to claim the benefit of a prior filed copending provisional application, the prior provisional application must name as an inventor at least one inventor named in the later filed application and disclose the named inventor's invention claimed in at least one claim of the later filed application in the manner provided by the first paragraph of 35 U.S.C. 112. In addition, the prior provisional application must be (i) Complete as set forth in §1.51(a)(2); or (ii) Entitled to a filing date as set forth in §1.53(b)(2) and include the basic filing fee set forth in §1.16(k). (4) Any application claiming the benefit of a prior filed copending provisional application must contain or be amended to contain in the first sentence of the specification following the title a reference to such prior provisional application, identifying it as a provisional application, and including the provisional application number (consisting of series code and serial number) and indicating the relationship of the applications.< * * * * * 21. Section 1.83 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (c) to read as follows:
