FR940620-2-00111 FR940620-2-00062 11. Describe the goals of the local partnership and the methods the local partnership will use, such as awareness and outreach, to ensure opportunities for young women to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs in a manner that leads to employment in high-performance, high-paying jobs, including non-traditional employment, and goals to ensure an environment free from racial and sexual harassment; 12. Describe how the local partnership will ensure opportunities for low achieving students, students with disabilities, school dropouts, and academically talented students to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs; 13. Describe the process of the local partnership for assessing the skills and knowledge required in career majors and the process for awarding skill certificates that is, to the extent feasible, consistent with the skill standards certification systems endorsed under the National Skill Standards Act of 1994; 14. Describe the manner in which the local partnership will ensure that students participating in the programs are provided, to the greatest extent possible, with flexibility to develop new career goals over time and to change career majors; and 15. Describe the procedures to facilitate the entry of students participating in a School-to-Work Opportunities program into additional training or postsecondary education programs, as well as to facilitate the transfer of the students between education and training programs. 16. Describe the experience of the local partnership and/or its key members in operating comprehensive vocational preparation programs with successful job placement rates achieved through cooperative activities among various local entities and organizations. e. A description of the short- and long-term goals and performance outcomes that the partnership has established and how the partnership will measure its progress in meeting these goals. In addition to goals related directly to School-to-Work Opportunities outcomes, such goals for high poverty areas might include decreased dropout rates, decreased truancy rates, and increased college entry rates. As noted above in Part I, ``Background,'' the expected outcomes for all local School-to-Work Opportunities programs are the same. In addition to describing its own goals and outcomes, each Urban/Rural Opportunities local partnership awarded a grant under this notice must commit to assisting the Federal Government in the conduct of a national evaluation that will track and assess the progress and effectiveness of statewide School-to-Work Opportunities systems and the progress and outcomes of local programs. f. A description of the current and planned coordination between the local partnership's initiative in the high poverty area and the State's plans for a comprehensive statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system. In order to ensure consistency with the State's developing School-to-Work Opportunities system, the local partnership serving the high poverty area should describe any current or planned coordination activities with expected statewide system-building efforts in such areas as: the development of skill standards and processes for awarding skill certificates; the establishment of a State evaluation system; the identification of emerging occupations appropriate for career majors; the development of new curricula; strategies for recruiting employers and providing paid work-based learning experiences; and plans for providing professional staff development. Should the State not have a plan for developing skill standards and awarding skill certificates, the application should describe the local partnership's investigation and adaptation of existing industry-recognized standards or existing processes for awarding industry-recognized certificates to incorporate the criteria established in the Goals 2000: Educate America Act. In addition, another local partnership (one not designated as a high poverty area) located near or encompassing the targeted high poverty area may serve as a source of information regarding skill standards and skill certificates recognized in the local labor market and in other parts of the State. g. A timeline outlining the specific tasks, with expected completion dates, that will be undertaken to implement the proposed plan, enroll significant numbers of students, and achieve the stated outcomes. h. A designation of a fiscal agent to receive and be accountable for funds awarded under this notice. Section D. Safeguards The Departments apply the following safeguards to School-to-Work Opportunities programs funded under this competition:
