FR940617-0-00112 FR940617-0-00026 However, the Agency did conduct photochemical modeling. Using the EKMA model, the Agency analyzed the effects of nonroad engine emission controls on ozone concentrations. The results of this analysis, presented in more detail in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) (ref. 58 FR 28809, May 17, 1993), showed that by eliminating nonroad engines in the studied areas, ozone levels would drop between four and 13 parts per billion (ppb) below current levels. This amounts to levels roughly three to eight percent lower than current levels in the 16 ozone nonattainment areas included in the analysis. The EKMA model has been used by the Agency for a number of years. Although the decision to use this model was driven to some extent by time and resource constraints, the Agency maintains its position that this model is valid and appropriate for the nonroad analysis. The Agency may utilize grid-based air quality modeling in future analyses. Furthermore, the Agency has traditionally based regulatory decisions on pollutant emission levels and the potential for their reduction. Because of the wide variability inherent in photochemical modeling (source emission levels, emission transport, and meteorological effects including ambient temperatures, cloud cover, sunlight intensity, wind patterns, and so forth), the Agency has typically relied on estimates of potential reductions in source emission inventories as the basis for regulatory analyses. These emission reduction estimates and the well established VOC/NO X link with tropospheric ozone formation, in conjunction with ozone monitors showing unacceptably high ambient ozone levels, have formed the basis of the Agency's regulatory approach toward ozone control for many years. In addition, as discussed in the NPRM, the Senate Committee Report, in discussing the significance of the contribution of nonroad emissions to ozone problems, specifically discussed the percentage of nationwide NO X and VOC emissions attributed to nonroad engines. Thus, the Senate clearly understood the relationship between emissions of NO X and VOCs to the creation of ozone. The NPRM discussed in detail the Nonroad Study's findings regarding the contribution from nonroad sources of summertime VOCs and NO X . These findings clearly show that emissions from nonroad engines are a major source of VOCs and NO X , as well as CO in most, if not all of the nonattainment areas studied. Given the clear link between VOCs and NO X and the formation of ozone, there can be no question that emissions from nonroad engines are significant contributors to ozone formation in at least two ozone nonattainment areas. Therefore, the Agency has met the CAA mandate to ``determine *␣*␣* whether emissions *␣*␣* from new and existing nonroad engines or nonroad vehicles *␣*␣* are significant contributors to ozone or carbon monoxide concentrations in more than one area which has failed to attain the national ambient air quality standards *␣*␣*'' 2. NO X Transport Some commenters asserted that EPA failed to properly consider both the transport of ozone precursor emissions and the natural decay of NO X concentrations, NO X having a lifetime of only six to ten hours according to one commenter. One commenter suggested EPA had erroneously assumed that ozone precursors emitted in rural areas are transported toward, and never away from, urban areas. Some commenters suggested that equipment operated primarily in rural areas should be exempted from regulation since these areas do not have air quality problems. Another commenter argued that reducing NO X can increase ozone, therefore EPA must first show that NO X reductions will result in reduced ozone nonattainment before promulgating regulations. Those commenters suggesting the Agency had erroneously assumed that NO X always will be transported toward, rather than away from, the urban core, may have misunderstood the Agency's assumption. The Agency assumed only that pollution transport can occur toward the urban core, thereby contributing to high source emission inventories. It is obvious that different days will produce different transport patterns, and that the potential for rural NO X and/or rural ozone to be transported toward the urban core exists.
