FR940620-2-00042 FR940620-2-00024 Methodology for Implementing the Statutory Special Consideration In accordance with the statute, in making awards under section 737(a), the Secretary shall give special consideration to eligible schools that have enrollments of underrepresented minorities above the national average for its particular discipline. For purposes of determining eligibility of a school, Asians will not be included in the definition of underrepresented minorities for the school. Although certain Asian subgroups (i.e., Filipinos, Koreans, Pacific Islanders, and Southeast Asians) are considered to be underrepresented in the health professions and are included as minorities for purposes of program requirements relating to faculty recruitment and retention (see above), national data on these subgroups are not available as a basis for establishing national average enrollment of underrepresented minorities. For purposes of the FY 1994 award cycle, the national average enrollments, of Blacks, Hispanics, and Native Americans (in combination) are: for medicine 13.3 percent; osteopathic medicine 7.7 percent; nursing (RN only) 12.2 percent; dentistry 13.4 percent; pharmacy 10.6 percent; optometry 9.4 percent; podiatric medicine 17.9 percent; veterinary medicine 5.9 percent; public health 15.7 percent; allied health 17.3 percent; and clinical psychology 13 percent. Nonstatutory Special Consideration for Baccalaureate Nursing Programs Among schools of nursing, additional special consideration will be given to baccalaureate programs. One of the distinguishing features of baccalaureate education is the substantial focus on preparation for community health practice. Training nurses for community health practice is an integral component of the Department's access strategy. It is not required that applicants request consideration for a funding factor. Applications which do not request consideration for funding factors will be reviewed and given full consideration for funding. Procedures for Calculating Awards Awards to eligible schools which have applied will be calculated by comparing the enrollment of disadvantaged students in each eligible school with the total enrollment of the disadvantaged students in all eligible schools. A school with an enrollment of underrepresented minority students which is above the national average (for each discipline) will be given double credit ( i.e., its enrollment of disadvantaged students would be doubled for awarding purposes). A baccalaureate nursing school will be given double credit. A baccalaureate nursing school with an underrepresented minority enrollment above the national average will be given quadruple credit ( i.e., its enrollment of disadvantaged students will be multiplied by four for awarding purposes). Other Consideration Other funding factors may be applied in determining the funding of approved applications. A funding preference is defined as the funding of a specific category or group of approved applications ahead of other categories or groups of approved applications. It is not required that applicants request consideration for a funding factor. Applications which do not request consideration for funding factors will be reviewed and given full consideration for funding. Proposed Funding Preferences For fiscal year 1994, it is proposed that among allied health schools or programs, preference be given to the following baccalaureate and graduate programs: dental hygiene, medical laboratory technology, occupational therapy, physical therapy and radiologic technology. This proposal is in accordance with House Report No. 101&hyph;804, accompanying the Disadvantaged Minority Health Improvement Act of 1990, which recommended that funding be restricted to these allied health professions programs. With over 3,000 accredited allied health programs, the SDS program focus would be directed to those allied health professions with the greatest current or personnel shortages. In addition, it is also proposed that preference be given to baccalaureate and graduate programs. Although programs of study leading to the award of an associate degree or certificate are of significant value in educating allied health personnel, the cost of education at the baccalaureate and graduate levels is substantially greater, and thus such cost is a major deterrent to the recruitment and retention of disadvantaged individuals. Additional Information Interested persons are invited to comment on the proposed funding preferences. The comment period is 30 days. All comments received on or before (insert 30 days from date of publication in the Federal Register will be considered before the final funding preferences are established. Written comments should be addressed to: Mr. Michael Heiningburg, Director, Division of Student Assistance, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 8&hyph;48, Parklawn Building, Rockville, Maryland 20782. All comments received will be available for public inspection and copying at the Division of Student Assistance, Bureau of Health Professions, at the above address, weekdays (Federal holidays excepted) between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m.
