FR940324-0-00019 FR940324-0-00005 V 1 =V D or 1.15 V C whichever is greater. V 2 =Flutter clearance speed required for normal (unfailed) conditions by ยง25.629. Q j =T j *P j where: T j =Average time spent in failure condition P j =Probability of occurrence of failure mode Note: If P j is greater than 10 ^3, then the flutter clearance speed must not be less than V 2 . (v) Freedom from flutter and divergence must also be shown up to V 1 in the above figure, for any probable system failure condition combined with any damage required or selected for investigation by ยง25.571(b). (vi) If the time likely to be spent in the failure condition is not small compared to the damage propagation period, or if the loads induced by the failure condition may have a significant influence on the damage propagation, then the effects of the particular failure condition must be addressed and the corresponding inspection intervals adjusted to adequately cover this situation. (vii) If the mission analysis method is used to account for continuous turbulence, all the systems failure conditions associated with their probability must be accounted for in a rational or conservative manner in order to ensure that the probability of exceeding the limit load is not higher than the prescribed value of the current requirement. (d) Warning considerations. For system failure detection and warning, the following apply: (1) Before flight, the system must be checked for failure conditions, not extremely improbable, that degrade the structural capability below the level as intended in paragraph (b) of this special condition. The crew must be made aware of these failures, if they exist, before flight. (2) An evaluation must be made of the necessity to signal, during the flight, the existence of any failure condition which could significantly affect the structural capability of the airplane and for which the associated reduction in airworthiness can be minimized by suitable flight limitations. The assessment of the need for such signals must be carried out in a manner consistent with the approved general warning philosophy for the airplane. (3) During flight, any failure condition, not shown to be extremely improbable, in which the safety factor existing between the airplane strength capability and loads induced by the deterministic limit conditions of Subpart C of part 25 is reduced to 1.3 or less must be signaled to the crew if appropriate procedures and limitations can be provided so that the crew can take action to minimize the associated reduction in airworthiness during the remainder of the flight. (e) Dispatch with failure conditions. If the airplane is to be knowingly dispatched in a system failure condition that reduces the structural performance, then operational limitations must be provided whose effects combined with those of the failure condition allow the airplane to meet the structural requirements as described in paragraph (b) of this special condition. Subsequent system failures must also be considered. Discussion: This special condition is intended to be applicable to certain fully hydraulically powered electronically controlled flight controls. The criteria provided by the special condition only address the direct structural consequences of the systems responses and performances and therefore cannot be considered in isolation but should be included into the overall safety evaluation of the airplane. The presentation of these criteria may in some instances duplicate standards already established for this evaluation. The criteria are applicable to structure, the failure of which could prevent continued safe flight and landing. The following definitions are applicable to this special condition: 1. Structural performance: Capability of the airplane to meet the requirements of part 25. 2. Flight limitations: Limitations which can be applied to the airplane flight conditions following an inflight occurrence and which are included in the flight manual (e.g., speed limitations, avoidance of severe weather conditions, etc.). 3. Operational limitations: Limitations, including flight limitations, which can be applied to the airplane operating conditions before dispatch (e.g., payload limitations). 4. Probabilistic terms: The probabilistic terms (probable, improbable, extremely improbable) used in this special condition should be understood as defined in AC 25.1309&hyph;1. 5. Failure condition: The term failure condition is defined in AC 25.1309&hyph;1, however this special condition applies only to system failure conditions which have a direct impact on the structural performance of the airplane (e.g., failure conditions which induce loads or change the response of the airplane to inputs such as gusts or pilot actions). Issued in Renton, Washington, on March 11, 1994. Darrell M. Pederson, Acting Manager, Transport Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service, ANM&hyph;100. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6960 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
