FR940616-0-00052 FR940616-0-00009 91. We also received comments from Orbital and a reply comment from Starsys concerning when a satellite space station becomes subject to the fee requirement. Section 9(g) requires that the payment of a regulatory fee by the operator of any ``operational'' space station in geosynchronous orbit. We agree with the commenters that a satellite does not become ``operational'' immediately upon its launch. Therefore, as proposed by the commenters, we will consider a space station in geosynchronous orbit to be subject to the fee when it has been certified by its operator to be operational in accordance with section 25.120(d) of the rules. This certification indicates that the satellite has been placed in its authorized orbit and is operating in the authorized frequency bands at the authorized power levels. Similarly, a space station or system will be considered to have terminated its operation when its licensee certifies to us that the satellite has ceased to operate. 92. Also, we will consider a space system in low earth orbit (LEO) subject to the fee payment when its first satellite becomes operational even though all its space stations are not yet operational. Similar to our treatment of geosynchronous satellites, the system will become subject to a fee payment upon the certification by the licensee that the operations of the first satellite in its system conform to the terms and conditions of its authorization pursuant to 47 CFR 25.120(d). 4. Earth Stations 93. AMSC Subsidiary Corporation contends that no payment of regulatory fees for earth stations and mobile terminals should be required until their related satellite system is operational. 35 However, we observe that the licensing of satellite earth stations is entirely separate from the licensing of space stations and that fixed-satellite earth stations are generally licensed to operate with any and all domestic satellite systems located in that portion of the geostationary orbit for which the earth station has been frequency coordinated. It is common practice for a satellite system to provide preliminary service via unrelated space stations before its own stations are launched and operational. 35 AMSC states that its satellite will be launched in December 1995, but that its earth and mobile stations will likely be licensed before September 1994. 94. We will require the licensee of an earth station to pay a fee once it has certified that the earth station's construction is completed. However, in those rare instances in which a license limits an earth station's operational authority to a particular satellite system and that system is not operational on the date for calculating the fee, the fee will not be due until the first satellite of the related system becomes ``operational'' within the meaning of our fee rules.
