FR940513-0-00028 FR940513-0-00004 (14) The name and address of the Corporation official to whom the debtor shall send all correspondence relating to the debt or the offset; (15) Any other rights and remedies available to the debtor under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made; (16) That unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, amounts paid on or deducted for the debt, which are later waived or found not owed to the United States, will be promptly refunded to the employee; and (17) Other information, as may be appropriate. (c) When the procedural requirements of this section have been provided to the debtor in connection with the same debt or under some other statutory or regulatory authority, the Corporation is not required to duplicate those requirements before effecting offset. ยง1408.23 Right to review of claim. (a) If the debtor disputes the claim, the debtor may request a review of the Corporation's determination of the existence of the debt, the amount of the debt, the propriety of collecting the debt by offset, and in the case of salary offset, the propriety of the proposed repayment schedule. If only part of the claim is disputed, the undisputed portion should be paid by the payment due date. (b) To obtain a review, the debtor shall submit a written request for review to the Corporation official named in the Notice of Intent to Collect by Administrative [or Salary] Offset within 15 calendar days after receipt of the notice. The debtor's written request for review shall state the basis on which the claim is disputed and shall specify whether the debtor requests an oral hearing or a review of the written record of the claim. If an oral hearing is requested, the debtor shall explain in the request why the matter cannot be resolved by a review of the documentary evidence alone. (c) The Corporation shall promptly notify the debtor, in writing, that the Corporation has received the request for review. The Corporation shall conduct its review of the claim in accordance with ยง1408.10. (d) The Corporation's review of the claim, under this section, shall include providing the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing if: (1) An applicable statute authorizes or requires the Corporation to consider waiver of the indebtedness, the debtor requests waiver of the indebtedness, and the waiver determination turns on an issue of credibility or veracity; or (2) The debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the Corporation determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by reviewing the documentary evidence; for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity. (e) A debtor waives the right to a hearing and will have his or her debt offset in accordance with the proposed offset schedule if the debtor: (1) Fails to file a written request for review within the timeframe set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless the Corporation determines that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond his or her control; or (2) Fails to appear at an oral hearing of which he or she was notified unless the hearing official determines that the failure to appear was due to circumstances beyond the employee's control. (f) Upon completion of its review of the claim, the Corporation shall notify the debtor whether the Corporation's determination of the existence or amount of the debt has been sustained, amended, or canceled. The notification shall include a copy of the written decision issued by the hearing official, pursuant to ยง1408.10(e). If the Corporation's determination is sustained, this notification shall contain a provision which states that the Corporation intends to collect the debt by offset or by requesting other Federal agencies for assistance in collecting the debt. (g) When the procedural requirements of this section have been provided to the debtor in connection with the same debt or under some other statutory or regulatory authority, the Corporation is not required to duplicate those requirements before effecting offset. ยง1408.24 Waiver of procedural requirements. (a) The Corporation may impose offset against a payment to be made to a debtor prior to the completion of the procedures required by this part, if: (1) Failure to impose the offset would substantially prejudice the Government's ability to collect the debt; and (2) The timing of the payment against which the offset will be imposed does not reasonably permit the completion of those procedures. (b) The procedures required by this part shall be complied with promptly after the offset is imposed. Amounts recovered by offset, which are later found not to be owed to the Government, shall be promptly refunded to the debtor.
