FR940127-1-00040 FR940127-1-00011 (3) The reasons why any marine areas should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act, including information on potential threats, current activities, the effect of current regulatory mechanisms, and benefits to the species; (4) Current and planned activities in proposed critical habitat areas and their possible impacts on proposed critical habitat; (5) Any threats to the conservation of the marbled murrelet or the maintenance of marbled murrelet nesting habitat on congressionally-protected lands within the range of the marbled murrelet; (6) Current and planned activities within congressionally-protected areas that might affect, positively or negatively, the conservation of the marbled murrelet, including any management plans or statutory mandates; (7) Other physical and biological features that are essential to the conservation of the species and in need of special management or protection; (8) Specific information on the amount, location, and distribution of suitable marbled murrelet nesting habitat and the numbers and distribution of sites occupied by marbled murrelets on all ownerships and land designations; (9) Information concerning health of the ecosystems on which the marbled murrelet depends; (10) Information on the economic benefits and costs that would result from the proposed designation of critical habitat for the marbled murrelet, including the segments of the economy that would be affected by the proposed designation; (11) Data and information relevant to determining whether the benefits of excluding a particular area from critical habitat outweigh the benefits of specifying the area as critical habitat; (12) Methods of analysis useful in evaluating economic and other relevant impacts; and (13) Additional information that should be included in the analysis of economic and other impacts of the proposed designation. National Environmental Policy Act The Service has determined that an Environmental Assessment, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in conjunction with regulations adopted pursuant to section 4(a) of the Act. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). Regulatory Flexibility Act and Executive Order 12866 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The Department of the Interior has determined that the proposed rule will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). Based on the information discussed in this rule concerning public projects and private activities within proposed critical habitat units, it is not clear at this time whether significant economic impacts will result from critical habitat designation. Also, no direct costs, enforcement costs, information collection, or recordkeeping requirements are imposed on small entities by this designation. Further, the rule contains no recordkeeping requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. Takings Implications Assessment The Service has analyzed the potential takings implications of designating critical habitat for the marbled murrelet in a Takings Implications Assessment prepared pursuant to requirements of Executive Order 12630, ``Governmental Actions and Interference with Constitutionally Protected Property Rights.'' The Takings Implications Assessment concludes that critical habitat designation, as proposed, would not pose significant takings implications. References Cited
