FR940831-2-00155 FR940831-2-00106 The resulting utility multipliers are: Utility Multipliers 1Income level 1Renter profile 2Sq. ft. 2Multiplier 1Owner profile 2Sq. ft. 2Multiplier Lower 600 .73 900 .85 Middle 900 .85 1,300 1.00 Upper 1,100 .92 1,700 1.15 4.2.4.2␣Real Estate Taxes For this study, Runzheimer contacted the city assessor in each allowance area to obtain real estate tax information on the selected living communities. Real estate tax formulas were obtained for most living communities. Actual or representative tax amount paid were obtained in other communities. 4.2.4.3␣Owners/Renters Insurance As it did for previous surveys, Runzheimer undertook to gather insurance-rate information for the allowance areas for both renter and owner profiles. These rates represent coverage for structure and contents for homeowners but contents only for renters. Previous research conducted by Runzheimer, at the request of OPM, found that insurance coverage for disasters, such as floods and earthquakes, is not prevalent in the allowance areas; consequently, Runzheimer, with the concurrence of OPM, does not consider these additional riders. (See Report to OPM on Living Costs in Selected NonForeign Areas and in the Washington-D.C., Area, June 1992 at 57 FR 58556). Runzheimer notes, however, that OPM is reviewing the results of the Federal Employee Housing and Living Patterns Survey as they apply to this issue. 4.2.4.4␣Maintenance Many factors were involved in measuring the cost of maintaining a home, including area climate, architecture and building materials, and the cost of maintenance materials and labor. As it did for the previous survey, Runzheimer priced such household maintenance commodities as fire extinguisher, bathroom caulking and kitchen faucet. Pest control service was priced in every allowance area except Nome, Alaska, where local sources indicated it wasn't necessary. Runzheimer developed maintenance costs based on the cost of maintenance materials and labor rates in each area. Runzheimer's approach to maintenance was the same as the approach to goods and services, as explained below. Runzheimer used expenditure data from the 1988 CES to identify the national average home-maintenance expense, the maintenance items to survey, and the appropriate item weighing. Because most, if not all, maintenance items were included in rent, maintenance costs were not added in the three renter profiles. To compute home-maintenance cost differences between each allowance area and the Washington, D.C., area for the homeowner profiles, Runzheimer obtained prices for selected building materials and labor rates for maintenance work. For each area, Runzheimer computed the relative cost (i.e., an index) for each maintenance item compared to the cost of that item in the D.C. area. As with Goods & Services, the results of the nationwide CES were used to weight these maintenance indexes into an overall index for each area. To combine maintenance indexes with the other homeowner costs, which were expressed in dollar amounts, Runzheimer converted the indexes to dollars. To do this, Runzheimer multiplied the maintenance cost index for each area by the CES nationwide average maintenance cost and assigned that cost to the middle-income homeowner profile. Logically, maintenance costs for larger homes would be greater than costs for middle-sized homes, while costs for smaller homes would be less. Therefore, in this study, Runzheimer applied the same homeowner multipliers used in the utilities model for the lower and upper income profiles (.85 and 1.15 respectively) to recognize differences in maintenance costs due to house size. 4.2.4.5␣Telephone Telephone expenses consisted of local service charges, possible additional charges for local calls, and charges for long distance calls. To measure estimated expenses for local service and local calls, where available, Runzheimer surveyed the cost of touch-tone service with unlimited calling. To estimate long distance charges in all areas, Runzheimer surveyed the cost of three ten-minute direct dial calls per month to large U.S. mainland cities (i.e., Los Angeles, Chicago, and New York City). Runzheimer measured the price of a call placed in the survey area at the time of day necessary to be received in the respective city at 8:00 p.m. local time. In many areas, this resulted in pricing a combination of daytime and evening-rate calls.
