FR940304-1-00110 FR940304-1-00014 The baseline model for the electric water heater analysis is a glass-lined steel tank, with two 4,500-watt resistance elements. It has a 52-gallon tank and 2-inch-thick foam insulation. Both the inlet and the outlet are on top of the tank. It has eight feed throughs and no heat traps. Measured Versus Rated Volume The California Energy Commission proposed that the measured volume rather than the rated volume of water heaters be used in all analyses. (California Energy Commission, No. 24 at 3). With regard to how the Department should set water heater conservation standards, the California Energy Commission proposed that any standard be expressed as EF = A + (B * V), and not as EF = A ^ (B * V), so that an exaggeration of volume, V, by manufacturers would result in a more stringent standard. (California Energy Commission, No. 24 at 3). The California Energy Commission also argued that tolerances between rated and measured volumes of 5 percent and 10 percent, respectively, for gas and electricity water heaters volumes, are too high. (California Energy Commission, No. 24 at 2). The energy conservation standards are in the form of equations that are a function of the volume of the water heater. A footnote refers to the volume as being rated volume. The DOE test procedure contains provisions to determine the measured or actual volume, but is silent on the rated volume which is established by the manufacturer. The tolerances to which the California Energy Commission are referring are those set by safety testing agency specifications and are not related to the energy efficiency program. In the vast majority of cases, the measured volume is lower than the rated volume. All of the 13 water heaters tested by the National Institute of Standards and Technology in support of the DOE test procedure had measured volumes below rated volumes. Furthermore, one out of six electric water heaters and one out of five gas water heaters tested by the National Institute of Standards and Technology exceeded the safety tolerances for rated volume. (55 FR 42166, October 17, 1990 and 54 FR 1893, January 17, 1989). To conduct the analysis which forms the basis for today's notice in an accurate manner, the actual volume had to be used. To be consistent with that analysis, the Department is proposing that the volume referred to in the efficiency equation be the actual or measured volume. The Department believes that the use of measured volume rather than rated volume in the calculation will eliminate this issue. Definitions in Test Procedure and Conservation Standards The California Energy Commission proposed that the coverage of the water heater test procedures and efficiency standards be consistent, i.e., the test procedure does not cover some classes and sizes of water heaters that otherwise would be covered by the efficiency standards. (California Energy Commission, No. 24 at 2&hyph;3). Modifications to the test procedures for water heaters, which address these issues, are contained in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking referenced above.
