FR940505-1-00203 FR940505-1-00012 (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of the Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that the proposed Federal Implementation Plans are ``significant regulatory actions''. As such, these actions were submitted to OMB along with regulatory impact assessments of the proposed actions and salient alternatives. The estimated annualized control cost to meet the Ozone NAAQS is $150 million in the Sacramento Metro Area as well as in Ventura County with 2005 as the attainment date for both areas. The estimated annualized control cost to meet the Ozone NAAQS in the South Coast Air Basin is $3 to $4 billion with 2010 as the attainment date. The incremental cost to achieve the Carbon Monoxide NAAQS in the South Coast Air Basin is zero. The enhanced inspection and maintenance provisions to achieve the Ozone NAAQS will together with other acceptable state measures also accomplish the Carbon Monoxide NAAQS objective. The estimated cost for the enhanced inspection and maintenance provision was reflected in the cost to achieve the Ozone NAAQS for the South Coast. The attainment date for the Carbon Monoxide NAAQS is 2000. However, the environmental and economic gains from the Federal Implementation Plans are real and potentially large in terms of the human population affected as well as the amount of crop and forest acreage affected. Furthermore, because of the jointness of certain control measures, benefits will not be limited to reductions in ozone and carbon monoxide concentrations. Benefits will also accrue in the form of reductions in nitrogen dioxide, particulate matter and air toxics concentrations. Scientific and data limitations preclude a quantitative and comprehensive assessment of benefits. Without such an assessment, the Agency cannot determine whether these FIPs are allocatively efficient. Due to the short deadlines in the court ordered schedule for this rulemaking, OMB did not have time to carry out its normal review under Executive Order 12866. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 and 1992 EPA guidelines require the identification of potentially adverse impacts of Federal regulations on small entities. Small entities include small businesses, organizations, and governmental jurisdictions. These proposed rules may adversely affect such entities. Consequently, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is required and has been prepared. The potential impact of the proposed rules will vary among affected entities both large and small. In some cases, cost savings may accrue to affected entities. In other instances, cost increases may be relatively modest. In other instances, control costs may exceed 10 percent of anticipated sales. However, due to uncertainties regarding source identification, the Agency cannot distinguish between small emission sources owned by small entities and those owned by larger firms. Furthermore, uncertainties in the cost and process economics data preclude specific findings on where averting and mitigating measures are warranted. C. Paperwork Reduction Act The Paperwork Reduction Act requires that a Federal agency prepare an Information Collection Request to obtain OMB clearance for any activity that will involve collecting information from ten or more non-Federal respondents. The proposed Federal Implementation Plans necessitate preparation of an Information Collection Request. The information requirements associated with the proposed rules include reporting, monitoring, and recordkeeping and will affect the private sector as well as local, state, and Federal authorities. The information collection requirements have been estimated and summarized in the Information Collection Request and forwarded to OMB for review and approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. Until OMB approves the Information Collection Request, the reporting, monitoring, and/or recordkeeping aspects of these rules are not effective. OMB is currently reviewing the Information Collection Request and supporting documentation. Given the potential for changes in elements of the package prior to promulgation, OMB will not approve the Information Collection Request until that time. D. Federalism Implications A federalism assessment has not been conducted under Executive Order 12612. However, federalism effects have been considered through the development of the proposed rules and will continue to be addressed in the period between proposal and promulgation. In particular, the Agency has worked closely with the local and state authorities to reflect their concerns in the fashioning of these rules.
