FR940902-0-00050 FR940902-0-00010 No comments were received on paragraphs 627.422 (i) and (k). These two paragraphs are redesignated as (h) and (j), respectively. The redesignated §627.422(j) (now §627.422(i)), which references back to section 204(d)(2)(B) of the Act, deals with the selection of subrecipients for the provision of services to older workers. One commenter thought that this section provides the justification for sole-sourcing older worker programs at the State level. This is not the Department's intent. These programs are to be competed just like any other program. Others thought that only the Governor has the responsibility for selecting service providers. With the addition of the pass-through provision (at §627.420(d)(2)), this does not have to be the case since the Governor can delegate his/her authority for selection through the pass-through process. Funding Restrictions for ``High-Risk'' Recipients and Subrecipients A number of comments were submitted on §627.423. Several of the commenters thought that this section was in conflict with §627.422(d), which requires a determination of demonstrated performance. The intent of this section is not to give preferential status to high-risk recipients and subrecipients, but to provide JTPA entities with the authority to impose funding restrictions should it be necessary to contract with such an entity. There may be instances when awarding agencies have to make subrecipient awards to high-risk organizations because they are the only entity providing the required service. By including this section, awarding entities may do so, but are authorized to include restrictions on the award in order to protect the Federal funds. Other commenters thought that the regulations, as written, would give high-risk grantees an argument that they have a right to be considered and selected. This is not the case. This section does not confer a right of selection to high-risk organizations. Given the choice of comparable proposals from an offeror who has demonstrated performance and a high-risk recipient/subrecipient, the award should be made to the former, unless other factors indicate otherwise. Additional language is added to §627.422(d) to clarify these points. Finally, editorial changes are made to clarify that this section applies to all awards, not just grants or subgrants. Prohibition of Subawards to Debarred and Suspended Parties Section 627.424 applies the Federal government-wide requirements on awards to debarred or suspended parties contained in Executive Orders 12549 and 12689 and implemented for all Department of Labor grant programs in regulations codified at 29 CFR part 98. These requirements were previously issued to JTPA Liaisons in a Grant Officer Notice dated April 30, 1992. As provided in 29 CFR part 98, certifications are not required for the State legislatively required ``pass-through'' of JTPA funds to SDA's/SSG's since these are considered ``mandatory awards'' and are, therefore, exempt from the 29 CFR part 98 requirements. However, any other subaward over $25,000, such as an SDA award with a service provider, must meet the ``lower-tier'' certification. These ``lower-tier'' certifications are to remain with the respective awarding agency. One commenter requested that language be added to this section that tells States and subtier grantees that they may elect to subscribe to the List of Parties Excluded from Procurement or Non-Procurement Programs. This has not been done, since nothing in these regulations prohibits JTPA entities from subscribing to this publication, and using it as a resource. Financial Management Systems and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) Section 627.425(b) of the interim final rule requires financial systems and procedures of recipients and subrecipients to be in accordance with GAAP and §627.435(a) requires costs charged to the JTPA program to also be in accordance with GAAP. Several commenters raised questions or issues about GAAP, including requesting that the Department be more specific about how GAAP must be applied by States and SDAs, requesting specification of which GAAP to use, and, if GAAP is to be determined by the Governor, if the Governor can waive GAAP provisions. A few commenters requested that the statutory language of section 164(a)(1) of the Act pertaining to GAAP applicable in each State be included in §627.425(b). Language is added to §627.425(b) to provide for the applicability of GAAP in each State. The Department recognizes that GAAP vary by type of organization or entity and that, while there is great similarity among them, multiple versions of GAAP exist for each type of entity. It is the Department's intent, by adding this language, in addition to the language in paragraph (a) of §627.435, to allow the Governor to determine which specific versions of GAAP are to be used in each State and by which types of entities, should this be at issue in any State. It is not intended to give the Governor authority to waive GAAP provisions since the Act requires the use of GAAP. The word ``liabilities'' is added to the list of financial information that financial systems must include at §627.425(b)(1)(i). The inclusion of this term is to make the listed items parallel.
