FR940721-0-00015 FR940721-0-00006 (3) AICPA believes that Pennsylvania's implementation guidelines requirement that Certified Public Accountants (CPA) meet the general standards prescribed in ``Government Auditing Standards, 1988 Revision, published by the Comptroller General of the United States' General Accounting Office'' (GAS) should be deleted. AICPA commented that the standards that govern the conduct of the attest engagement are the AICPA Statement of Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) and not the GAS; and (4) The third column of the EPA NPR, page 62564, contained an error by using the word ``account'' in connection with ``CPA'' and the word should be changed to ``accountant''. EPA has reviewed AICPA's comments and determined that the State requirements discussed in the first two comments are more stringent than EPA guidelines and can be required at the State's discretion, and therefore do not affect the approvability of this revision. The third comment deals with the Pennsylvania's implementation guidelines which were not submitted as part of the SIP revision and therefore the comment is not relevant to the approvability of this revision. However, EPA has contacted the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) concerning this comment. PADER informed EPA that the section of the Pennsylvania implementation guidelines entitled ``Auditor Qualifications'' requires each auditor, who performs an attest engagement, to fulfill specific qualifications. One of the qualifications is that the auditor meet the general standards prescribed in the ``Government Auditing Standards, 1988 Revision, published by the Comptroller General of the United States' General Accounting Office'' (GAS). The subsequent section of the Pennsylvania implementation guideline, entitled ``Agreed-upon Procedures'', does require that the auditor comply with the AICPA Statement of Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) when performing the attest engagement. This section of the Pennsylvania implementation guideline, entitled ``Agreed-upon Procedures'', addresses the third comment raised by the AICPA. With regard to the last comment, EPA acknowledges that it made a typographical error in the NPR, page 62564, and agrees that the word ``account'' should have read ``accountant.'' Other specific requirements of the oxygenated gasoline program and the rationale for EPA's proposed action are explained in the NPR and will not be restated here. Final Action EPA is approving the amendments to 25 PA Code Chapter 121, General Provisions, section 121.1 Definitions, the addition of section 126.1 Oxygenate Content of Gasoline to 25 PA Code Chapter 126, Standards for Motor Fuels, and the correction in 25 PA Code Chapter 121, General Provisions, section 121.1 in the definition of ``oxygenated gasoline.'' Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any state implementation plan. Each request for revision to the state implementation plan shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action for signature by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. The OMB has exempted this regulatory action from E.O. 12866 review.
