FR941110-1-00006 FR941110-1-00002 Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;123&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion The FAA received several reports of cracked fuse pins on the upper link of the inboard and outboard struts on Boeing Model 747 series airplanes. Several pins also showed evidence of corrosion. The fuse pins involved in these reports were ``bottle bore style'' fuse pins installed in the forward position of the struts. The cracking initiated in a machining groove in the inner recess of the pin bore, and it propagated due to fatigue. Cracking of the pins occurred on some airplanes as early as 9,366 total flight cycles (on the airplane) and 42,493 total flight hours. One of the reports involved the complete fracture of both shear planes on the fuse pin; consequently, that pin had no load carrying capability. Analysis of several of the cracked fuse pins indicated that fracturing occurred in the recess area of the pin bore. Corrosion may cause cracking of the fuse pins; this could lead to fracturing of the fuse pins. This condition, if not corrected, could result in failure of the strut and separation of an engine from the airplane. The FAA has reviewed and approved Boeing Alert Service Bulletin 747&hyph;54A2166, dated April 28, 1994, which describes procedures for replacement of ``bulkhead style'' and ``bottle bore style'' fuse pins, installed in the forward position of the upper link on the inboard and outboard struts, with either a 15&hyph;5 corrosion-resistant steel fuse pin (also known as a ``third generation'' pin) or a new bulkhead style pin. (This alert service bulletin specifies that installation of the third generation pin is preferred.) The alert service bulletin also describes procedures for repetitive detailed visual inspections to detect corrosion of the bulkhead style pins; magnetic particle inspections to detect cracks in these pins; and replacement of any cracked or corroded pin with a third generation pin or a new bulkhead style pin. The alert service bulletin references Boeing Service Bulletin 747&hyph;54&hyph;2155, dated September 23, 1993, as an additional source of service information for replacement of certain fuse pins, installed in the forward and aft positions of the upper link, with third generation pins. (Although there have been no reports of cracked pins in the aft position, replacement of the pin in the forward position with a third generation pin necessitates that the aft pin also be replaced with a third generation pin in order to preserve the function and location of the primary structural fuse.) Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other products of this same type design, the proposed AD would require replacement of bottle bore style fuse pins, installed in the forward position of the upper link on the inboard and outboard struts, with either third generation fuse pins or new bulkhead style pins. This proposed AD also would require repetitive detailed visual inspections to detect corrosion of bulkhead style fuse pins; magnetic particle inspections to detect cracks in those pins; and replacement of any corroded or cracked bulkhead style fuse pin with a third generation fuse pin or with a new bulkhead style pin. Installation of a third generation fuse pin, if accomplished, would constitute terminating action for the inspection requirements of the proposed AD. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the alert service bulletin described previously. The manufacturer has advised that it is currently developing a modification program for the engine strut that will positively address the unsafe condition addressed by this AD. Once this modification program is developed, approved, and available, the FAA may consider additional rulemaking.
