FR940217-1-00041 FR940217-1-00008 C. Agenda If the Commission decides to establish a negotiating committee and its charter is approved, it is anticipated that the Committee's first meeting will take place in March or April, 1994, at the Commission's offices, Washington, DC, at a building, room, date, and time that will be announced. At this initial meeting, the committee will complete action on all procedural matters and establish a target date for submission of its recommendations. We expect that the target date would be no later than July, 1994. We anticipate a publication of a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking not later than October, 1994. V. Negotiation Procedures The following procedures and guidelines will apply to the Committee, if formed. These procedures may be modified, however, after reviewing the comments received in response to this Notice or during the negotiation process. A. Facilitator The Commission will nominate a person to serve as a neutral facilitator for the negotiations of the Committee, subject to the approval of the Committee by consensus. The facilitator will not be involved in the substantive development of the regulations. The facilitator's roles are to: (1) Chair negotiating sessions, (2) help the negotiation process run smoothly, (3) help participants define and reach a consensus, and (4) manage record-keeping and minute-keeping. B. Good Faith Negotiations Since participants must be willing to negotiate in good faith, each organization_including the Commission_must designate a qualified individual to represent its interests. Thomas S. Tycz, Deputy Chief, Domestic Facilities Division, Common Carrier Bureau, will be the Commission's representative. C. Meetings and Compensation Meetings will be held in the Washington, DC area at the convenience of the Committee. The Commission, if requested, will provide the facilities needed to conduct the meetings, and will provide the facilities needed to conduct the meetings, and will provide any necessary technical support. Private sector members of the Committee will serve without government compensation or reimbursement of expenses. Private sector members will not be special government employees for any purposes whatsoever. D. Committee Procedures Under the general guidance and direction of the facilitator, and subject to any applicable legal requirements, the members will establish the procedures for committee meetings that they consider most appropriate.
