FR941003-0-00019 FR941003-0-00005 Written comments responding to the notice of proposed rulemaking were received. A public hearing was scheduled for April 26, 1994, pursuant to a notice of public hearing published simultaneously with the notice of proposed rulemaking. The IRS received one request to speak at the public hearing. This request was withdrawn before the hearing date. On April 14, 1994, the IRS published a notice (59 FR 17747) cancelling the public hearing on the proposed regulations. After consideration of the comments received, the proposed regulations are adopted as revised by this Treasury decision. Explanation of Provisions Section 42 provides for a low-income housing credit that may be claimed as part of the general business credit under section 38. In general, the credit is allowable only if the owner of a qualified low-income building receives a housing credit allocation from a State or local housing credit agency (Agency) of the jurisdiction where the building is located. The aggregate housing credit dollar amount that an Agency may allocate for any calendar year is limited to the State housing credit ceiling apportioned to the Agency for that year. Under section 42(h)(3)(C), the State housing credit ceiling of any State for any calendar year is an amount equal to the sum of: (a) $1.25 multiplied by the State population (the population component); (b) the unused State housing credit ceiling, if any, of the State for the preceding calendar year (the unused carryforward component); (c) the amount of State housing credit ceiling returned in the calendar year (the returned credit component); plus (d) the amount, if any, allocated to the State by the Secretary under section 42(h)(3)(D) from a national pool of unused credit (the national pool component). The final regulations set forth the rules governing the order in which credit is allocated from the various components of the State housing credit ceiling under section 42(h)(3)(C) (the stacking rules). In general, under the stacking rules, credit is allocated first from the sum of the population and returned credit components, then from the unused carryforward component, and finally from the national pool component. The final regulations also reflect the statutory rule that unallocated credit attributable to the national pool component cannot be carried forward, and, therefore, is not included in the carryforward component for the following year. In addition, the final regulations provide that no credit allocated prior to calendar year 1990, and no credit allowable under section 42(h)(4) (relating to the portion of credit attributable to eligible basis financed by certain tax-exempt obligations under section 103), may be returned for reallocation. Thus, this credit is not included in the returned credit component for any year. One commentator requested clarification of the rule in the proposed regulations that if the terms of the allocation violate any requirement of section 42, the allocation is not valid. Specifically, the commentator expressed concern that a misrepresentation by a taxpayer to an Agency would result in the allocation being treated as not valid and as if it had never been made and ineligible for treatment as a returned credit. The final regulations do not include this statement. First, the determination of whether an allocation is valid is not within the scope of these regulations. Second, given the general requirement that an allocation must be valid to qualify as a returned credit, it is unnecessary to include the additional statement that, if the terms of the allocation violate any requirement of section 42, the allocation is not valid and is treated as if it had not been made. However, for all purposes of section 42, including qualification as a returned credit, an allocation must be validly made. See, for example, §§1.42&hyph;1T and 1.42&hyph;6. The final regulations adopt the provision of the proposed regulations requiring that if a credit is returned within 180 days following the close of the first taxable year of a building's credit period and a Form 8609, Low-Income Housing Credit Allocation Certification, has been issued for the building, an Agency must notify the IRS that the credit has been returned. One commentator requested that the procedure for notifying the IRS be clarified. Accordingly, the final regulations clarify that if all of the credit is returned, the Agency must follow the procedures in §1.42&hyph;5(e)(3) for filing the Form 8823, Low-Income Housing Credit Agencies Report of Noncompliance. In situations where the credit is only partially returned, the Agency must follow the procedures prescribed for filing an amended Form 8610, Annual Low-Income Housing Credit Agencies Report. The proposed regulations permit an Agency to treat credit returned from a project to the Agency after October 31 of any calendar year and not reallocated by the Agency by the close of the year as returned at the beginning of the succeeding calendar year (the two-month rule). One commentator suggested that the two-month rule of the proposed regulations be changed to allow more time to reallocate credits before the close of the calendar year. Accordingly, the final regulations provide that credit returned to the Agency after September 30 of any calendar year and not reallocated by the close of the year may be treated as returned at the beginning of the succeeding calendar year. In response to another comment, the final regulations clarify that an Agency, in its discretion, may treat a portion of a credit that is so returned and that is not reallocated before the close of the calendar year as returned in the next calendar year. However, to the extent any portion of a credit returned after September 30 of any calendar year is allocated by the close of the calendar year in which it is returned, that portion of the credit is included as part of the returned credit component of the State housing credit ceiling for the year in which the credit is returned. The proposed regulations provide that, if an allocation is cancelled by mutual consent, a signed and dated written agreement between the Agency and the allocation recipient (or its successor in interest) must indicate the amount of the allocation returned and the date on which the credit is returned. Commentators suggested that, if the terms of an allocation state that any unused amounts are automatically returned to the Agency by mutual agreement, the regulations should not require a signed and dated written agreement. If this suggestion were adopted, neither the IRS nor the Agency would know with enough precision the amount of credit returned and the date on which the credit is returned. This information is necessary to determine with certainty the returned credit component of the State housing credit ceiling and to avoid discrepancies in the amount of credit allocated to a particular project. Thus, the final regulations do not adopt this suggestion.
