FR940719-0-00050 FR940719-0-00018 (12) Classify documents derivatively, based on the original classification by other Federal agencies or the Director. §2.8 Designation of subordinates to act. Each officer named in §2.7(b) shall: (a) Submit to the Director, for approval, a list of three or more subordinates to act for such officer during his or her absence; and (b) Ensure that each Division Director, Branch Chief, or head of any other organizational unit under that officer's authority designate one or more subordinate employees to serve as acting head of the unit during the absence of the head of a unit or during a vacancy in the position. FEMA Offices §2.11 Office of the Director. The Deputy Director is the first assistant to the Director under the Vacancies Act, 5 U.S.C. 3341 et seq. , and acts in place of the Director when the Director is not available because of illness or incapacity. The Deputy Director is the Chief Operating Officer of the Agency, with the duties and powers set forth in Presidential Memorandum of October 1, 1993, ``Implementing Reform in the Executive Branch.'' The Deputy Director is authorized to exercise the duties and powers of the Director as necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the Chief Operating Officer and to act in place of the Director in the Director's unavailability. §2.12 Office of the Inspector General. (a) Mission. The Office of the Inspector General serves FEMA as an independent unit to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness; to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse; and to keep the Congress and the Director fully informed on these subjects. (b) Functions. The principal functions of the Office of the Inspector General are: (1) Performance of all audit functions relating to programs and operations of FEMA; (2) Inspection of agency activities to identify actual or potential fraud, waste, abuse, or mismanagement and to develop recommendations for corrective action; (3) Investigation of allegations of illegal, unethical, or other activities that may lead to civil or criminal liability on the part of FEMA or its employees, contractors, or program participants; and (4) Referral of potential criminal prosecutions to the Department of Justice, under 28 U.S.C. 535. (c) Authority. The position of Inspector General of FEMA is created by statute (The Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 3 §§1&hyph;15). The Inspector General is authorized to exercise the duties and powers set forth in that statute. §2.13 Office of the General Counsel. (a) Mission. The Office of the General Counsel renders legal advice and assistance on all matters related to Agency programs and operation, and conducts the Agency's ethics program and Freedom of Information Act/Privacy Act program. (b) Functions. The principal functions of the Office of the General Counsel are: (1) Rendering legal opinions and advice with respect to the duties, powers, and responsibilities of the Director, FEMA, and other Agency officers and employees and the applications of statutes, rules and regulations, other administrative issuances, and judicial precedents to Agency operations; (2) Review for legal sufficiency of all Agency documents requiring legal interpretation or opinion. (3) Establishment of Agency policy for and conduct of all appearances on behalf of FEMA in litigation or administrative proceedings and hearings; (4) Liaison to the Department of Justice except when otherwise provided by the Office of the Inspector General. (5) Coordination of the FEMA regulatory program, including liaison to the Office of Management and Budget and the Office of the Federal Register; (6) Operation of the FEMA legislative reference program, including liaison to the Office of Management and Budget and allied legislative proposals; and
