FR941219-1-00046 FR941219-1-00016 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC96 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Proposed Endangered Status for Four Plants From Vernal Pools and Mesic Areas in Northern California AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) proposes endangered status pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act) for four plants: Lasthenia conjugens (Contra Costa goldfields), Navarretia leucocephala ssp. pauciflora (few-flowered navarretia), Navarretia leucocephala ssp. plieantha (many-flowered navarretia), and Parvisedum leiocarpum (Lake County stonecrop). These species grow in and around the margins of vernal pools and in seasonally wet areas in northern California. Habitat loss and degradation imperil the continued existence of these plants. This proposal, if made final, would implement the protection of the Act for these plants. DATES: Comments from all interested parties must be received by February 17, 1995. Public hearing requests must be received by February 2, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be sent to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2800 Cottage Way, Room E&hyph;1803, Sacramento, California 95825&hyph;1846. Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kenneth W. Fuller (see ADDRESSES ) at 916/978&hyph;4866. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Lasthenia conjugens was described from specimen collected near Antioch in Contra Costa County, California (Greene 1888). Hall (1914) included the taxon within Baeria fremontii, however, Ferris (1958) later recognized this material as B. fremontii var. conjugens. Ornduff (1966) submerged the genus Baeria under Lasthenia and recognized the specific rank of Lasthenia conjugens. Lasthenia conjugens is a showy spring annual in the aster family (Asteraceae) that grows 10 to 30 centimeters (cm) (4 to 12 inches (in)) tall and is usually branched. The leaves are opposite, light green, and usually have a feather-like arrangement with narrow clefts extending more than halfway toward the stem. The flowers are found in terminal yellow heads. The phyllaries are one-third to one-half fused; the achenes are less than 1.5 millimeters (mm) (0.06 in) long and always lack a pappus. L. conjugens flowers from March to June. The partially fused phyllaries and the lack of a pappus distinguish this species from L. fremontii and L. burkei, which it otherwise closely resembles. Habitat for Lasthenia conjugens consists of vernal pools in open grassy areas in woodland and valley grassland communities at elevations of 1 to 445 meters (m) (3 to 1,460 feet (ft)). Historically found in such habitats in Alameda, Contra Costa, Mendocino, Santa Barbara, Santa Clara, Napa, and Solano Counties, California, this species is now apparently restricted to five localized populations in Napa and Solano Counties (California Native Plant Society (CNPS) 1978). One population is located on Travis Air Force Base, Solano County, California. All other populations are on private lands. The type specimen for Navarretia pauciflora was collected from a playa 8 kilometers (km) (5 miles (mi)) north of Lower Lake, Lake County, California (Mason 1946). Day (1993) revised the treatment of Navarretia and reduced N. pauciflora to a subspecies of N. leucocephala. More than a dozen species of Navarretia occur in the region, including several restricted to vernal pools. Five subspecies of Navarretia leucocephala are currently recognized (Day 1993), two of which may hybridize with N. leucocephala ssp. pauciflora (Alva Day, California Academy of Sciences, pers. comm. 1993). These two subspecies, N. leucocephala ssp. bakeri and N. leucocephala ssp. plieantha, differ from N. leucocephala ssp. pauciflora in stature, degree of hairiness, or size, number, or lobing of floral parts. The species that are being proposed for listing are not hybrids.
