FR940325-1-00025 FR940325-1-00007 §120.210 Restricted areas. (a) Each operator of a vessel to which this part applies shall designate the following areas of the vessel as ``restricted areas''. (1) The navigational bridge. (2) The communications center or radio room. (3) The engine room. (4) The administrative spaces. (5) The armory. (6) Control rooms for fire fighting equipment. (7) Other areas, determined by the operator, to which access must be restricted to maintain the security of the vessel. (b) Each restricted area must be appropriately secured, with access limited to authorized personnel. (c) Each restricted area must be distinctly marked with a placard, mounted at eye level, that is at least 20 centimeters (8 in) high by 30 centimeters (12 in) wide with the words ``Restricted Area_Authorized Personnel Only'' in red letters, at least 5 centimeters (2 in) high, on a white background, in enough languages that each member of the crew can understand at least one of them. (d) Each restricted area must be equipped with an intrusion detection system that activates an audible alarm in accordance with §120.420(a). (e) Each restricted area and its intrusion detection system must be designated in the plan required by §120.300. §120.220 Ship security officer. (a) Each operator of a vessel to which this part applies shall designate a ship security officer for the vessel. (b) This officer shall be responsible for_ (1) Conducting, amending, and updating the survey required by §120.310; (2) Instituting, monitoring, and recording training for members of the crew relative to security; (3) Conducting regular inspections of the vessel; (4) Proposing modifications to the plan required by §120.300, to correct its deficiencies and satisfy the security requirements of the vessel; (5) Encouraging vigilance, as well as general awareness of security, aboard the vessel; (6) Reporting all occurrences or suspected occurrences of unlawful acts and related activities in accordance with §120.250; and (7) Coordinating, with the terminal security officer of each terminal at which the vessel embarks or disembarks passengers, implementation of the plan required by §120.300. §120.230 Training. (a) Training for security aboard each vessel to which this part applies is the responsibility of the operator and the ship security officer of the vessel. (b) This training must be provided to all members of the crew with security duties and must emphasize measures to take when advised by the Commandant or the COTP of an increased threat to the vessel or persons on the vessel. (c) Subjects for training must include, but need not be limited to_ (1) Communications; (2) Control of access; (3) Patrol; (4) Response to emergencies; (5) Reporting; (6) Characteristics and behavior of persons who may commit unlawful acts; (7) Review of security standard operating procedures (SSOPs) for the vessel; and (8) Support from shoreside relative to security. (d) A record of the date and kind of training for security aboard ship provided to each member of the crew receiving training must stay on the vessel for the duration of the member's employment plus six months. The operator shall make all such records available to the COTP upon request. §120.240 Coordination with terminal security. (a) Before embarking or disembarking passengers at a passenger terminal, the operator of a vessel to which this part applies shall, where practicable, work with the operator of the terminal, to provide security for the passengers and the vessel. The operator of the vessel need not duplicate any provisions of this part fulfilled by the operator of the terminal unless directed by the Commandant. (b) The operator of the vessel shall_
