FR940617-2-00090 FR940617-2-00052 A. Transportation Conformity and Section 182(f) Exemptions The transportation conformity rule states that its NO X provisions do not apply when the Administrator has determined under section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act that ``additional reductions of NO X would not contribute to attainment.'' Although two other passages of the transportation conformity rule use this language (which is borrowed from section 182(f)(1)(A)'s test for areas outside an ozone transport region) without specifically referring to section 182(f), EPA believes there is no appropriate basis to interpret this identical language differently under the transportation conformity rule than under the Clean Air Act. Consequently, EPA believes this common language should be interpreted similarly for purposes of both section 182(f) and conformity NO X exemptions. Therefore, EPA is providing guidance which would exempt nonclassifiable ozone nonattainment areas outside an ozone transport region from the conformity rule's NO X provisions on the same substantive basis as the applicable section 182(f) test. 1 1 As explained in footnote 6 of the May 27, 1994 memorandum from John Seitz, referenced above, for purposes of the NO X exemption test, EPA is interpreting the term ``contribute to attainment'' to mean that the State (or petitioner) need only show whether additional NO X reductions would contribute to attainment, not whether such reductions would contribute to attainment and maintenance. EPA believes that Congress could reasonably have believed it appropriate to require that States impose reasonably available control technology (RACT) and new source review (NSR) requirements on NO X sources for areas in nonattainment, but that the States could be left to decide for themselves whether to impose these NO X controls or other measures for maintenance purposes, even if these controls could ``contribute'' to maintenance. EPA believes this rationale also applies in the conformity context, where EPA believes it is reasonable to allow States that have attained the NAAQS to decide for themselves how best to ensure maintenance of the standard. And, as explained below, EPA has conditioned the monitoring-based section 182(f) and conformity exemptions on continued monitoring data that do not show violations of the NAAQS. This will provide an additional incentive for States to track NO X emissions (and limit such emissions, where necessary) to ensure that future violations do not occur. EPA notes that its conclusion regarding the relevance of maintenance may well be different for other Clean Air Act provisions where the test is whether emissions reduction measures are ``necessary'' for attainment, even if maintenance is not explicitly mentioned. See section 211(c)(4)(C) (allowing States to overcome federal preemption of State fuel controls where ``necessary'' to achieve a NAAQS) and section 184(c) (providing for EPA approval of ozone transport commission recommendations of additional control measures ``necessary'' to bring any area in the region into attainment). It may make less sense to disregard maintenance to disallow more stringent fuel controls under section 211 or to disapprove additional controls under section 184 where these measures not only contribute to but are ``necessary'' for maintenance. The rationale that the State might appropriately retain discretion to choose other options to ensure maintenance makes less sense when the specific measures in question are ``necessary.'' The transportation conformity rule applies to all nonattainment and maintenance areas, and does not distinguish between nonclassifiable nonattainment and other nonattainment areas. Consequently, EPA interprets the transportation conformity rule's reference to the need for nonattainment areas to obtain a section 182(f) exemption in order to be relieved of the NO X conformity requirements to include nonclassifiable ozone nonattainment areas ( i.e. , submarginal, transitional, incomplete/no data areas), even though such areas are not subject to Clean Air Act section 182(f) itself. This means that ozone nonattainment areas, including nonclassifiable ozone nonattainment areas, can only be exempted from the NO X provisions of the transportation conformity rule if EPA determines that the area satisfies the substantive test required for an areawide section 182(f) exemption, through a process similar to that required for section 182(f) exemptions which are not related to conformity. Thus, for nonclassifiable ozone nonattainment areas outside the Northeast ozone transport region, EPA will consider requests for determinations that additional NO X reductions would not contribute to attainment if such areas already have air quality data that demonstrate attainment of the ozone standard, that are consistent with 40 CFR part 58 requirements, and that are recorded in EPA's Aerometric Information Retrieval System (AIRS). Once made, this determination would relieve an area of the transportation conformity rule's NO X provisions. A more thorough explanation of the conditions and process for obtaining the 182(f) exemption is given in the May 27, 1994 Seitz memorandum. B. Condition on NO X Exemptions for Areas Outside the Ozone Transport Region With Monitoring Data Demonstrating Attainment If a NO X transportation conformity exemption request is based solely on monitoring data demonstrating attainment, EPA's approval of the exemption, if otherwise warranted, will be granted on a contingent basis, i.e., the exemption would last for only as long as the area's monitoring data continues to demonstrate attainment. If subsequently it is determined that the area has violated the standard, the exemption, as of the date of the determination, would no longer apply. EPA would notify the state that the exemption no longer applies, and would also provide notice to the public in the Federal Register . Existing transportation plans and TIPs and past conformity determinations will not be affected by a determination that the NO X exemption no longer applies, but new conformity determinations would have to observe the NO X requirements of the conformity rule. The State must continue to operate an appropriate air quality monitoring network, in accordance with 40 CFR part 58, to verify the attainment status of the area. The air quality data relied on for the above determinations must be consistent with 40 CFR part 58 requirements and other relevant EPA guidance and recorded in EPA's Aorometric Information Retrieval System (AIRS).
