FR941003-2-00187 FR941003-2-00066 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20576; File No. 812&hyph;8424] Sentry Life Insurance Company, et al. September 26, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of Application for an Order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``1940 Act'' or ``Act''). applicants: Sentry Life Insurance Company (``Sentry''), Sentry Variable Account II of Sentry (``Sentry Account''), Sentry Investors Life Insurance Company (``SILIC''), Sentry Investors Variable Account II of SILIC (``SILIC Account,'' and, together with the Sentry Account, the ``Accounts''), and Sentry Equity Services, Inc. (``SESI'') (collectively, the ``Applicants''). relevant 1940 act section: Order requested under Section 17(b) of the 1940 Act for exemption from Section 17(a) thereof and under Section 6(c) of the Act for exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) thereof. summary of application: Applicants seek an Order to the extent necessary to permit the transfer of assets of the SILIC Account to the Sentry Account and to permit the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge under certain variable annuity contracts from the assets of the Sentry Account as provided for by the SILIC Contracts originally issued through the SILIC Account and proposed to be transferred to and supported by the Sentry Account. filing date: The application was filed on May 28, 1993 and was amended and restated on March 29, 1994 and on September 6, 1994. hearing or notification of hearing: An Order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on October 21, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. addresses: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: Sentry Life Insurance Company, 1800 North Point Drive, Stevens Point, Wisconsin 54481; Sentry Investors Life Insurance Company, 1800 North Point Drive, Stevens Point, Wisconsin 54481; Sentry Equity Services, Inc., 1800 North Point Drive, Stevens Point, Wisconsin 54481. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: W. Thomas Conner, Attorney, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management, at (202) 942&hyph;0670. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch Applicants' Representations 1. Sentry is a stock life insurance company that was organized under the laws of the State of Wisconsin in 1958. SILIC is a stock life insurance company that was originally organized in 1966 under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as Patriot General Life Insurance Company. SILIC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sentry. SESI is registered with the SEC as a broker-dealer, is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., and serves as the principal underwriter for variable annuity contracts issued through the Sentry Account and the SILIC Account (the ``Sentry Contracts'' and the ``SILIC Contracts,'' respectively, and, together, the ``Contracts''). Sentry, SILIC , and SESI are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Sentry Insurance a Mutual Company, a Wisconsin mutual insurer. 2. Sentry established the Sentry Account in 1983 pursuant to the laws of the State of Wisconsin. The Sentry Account is registered under the Act as a unit investment trust, and the Sentry Contracts are registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (``1993 Act''). SILIC established the SILIC Account in 1983 to the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The SILIC Account is registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust, and the SILIC Contracts are registered under the 1933 Act. 3. Each Account consists of four subaccounts: a Liquid Asset Subaccount; a Growth Subaccount; a Limited Maturity Bond Subaccount; and a Balanced Subaccount. Each of the subaccounts invests exclusively in shares of a corresponding portfolio of the Neuberger & Berman Advisers Management Trust (``Fund''). The Fund is registered under the 1940 Act as a diversified open-end management investment company, and the shares issued by the Fund are registered under the 1933 Act. 4. The Sentry Contracts and the SILIC Contracts are identical in all material respects, except for the identity and depositor of the separate account issuing the respective Contract. The Contracts provide for the accumulation of contract values and payment of monthly annuity payments on a variable basis. The Contracts are designed for use by individuals in retirement plans on a qualified or non-qualified basis. 5. Sentry has or will shortly enter into an agreement providing for the sale of all outstanding stock of SILIC to an unrelated third party. One of the conditions of the sale will be that Sentry and SILIC enter into an assumption reinsurance arrangement providing for the transfer to Sentry of all assets and liabilities of SILIC, other than the minimum amount of capital necessary to support SILIC's licenses. Sentry will, pursuant to the assumption reinsurance agreement, assume legal ownership of the SILIC Account assets and become responsible for satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations arising under the SILIC Contracts and outstanding at the time of the transaction. 6. In order to avoid the administrative duplication that would result from maintaining two identical unit investment trusts, Sentry has decided to effectively merge the Accounts by transferring the assets of the SILIC Account (consisting of shares of the Fund) to the Sentry Account (the ``Proposed Transaction''). The Sentry Account will continue to exist, and the SILIC Separate Account thereafter will be deregistered as an investment company. The effect of the Proposed Transaction will be that, as of its effective date, the Sentry Account will support the Sentry Contracts, the SILIC Contracts ( i.e., those originally issued by the SILIC Account), and any Contracts issued subsequent to the effective date of the Proposed Transaction. The assets supporting the former SILIC Contracts will continue to be invested exclusively in shares of the Fund. 7. The Proposed Transaction will be effected at the net asset values of the subaccounts involved, and no charges will be imposed or other deductions made in connection therewith. The Proposed Transaction also will not affect the net asset value of any subaccount: the net asset values for the four subaccounts of the Sentry Account in effect immediately after the transaction will be identical to the net asset values for the subaccounts of the SILIC Account in effect immediately prior to the transaction. All costs of the transaction will be borne by Sentry and not by Contractowners. 8. The succession of Sentry to SILIC as the insurance company issuing the Contracts will not dilute or otherwise adversely affect the economic interests of the Contractowners. The only change discernible to a Contractowner as a result of the Proposed Transaction will be the identity and depositor of the separate account in which his or her cash value is invested. The fees deducted from assets supporting the former SILIC Contracts after the Proposed Transaction will not differ in amount or type from those currently being deducted from the Sentry Account. After the Proposed Transaction, the guarantees that are not allocated to the Sentry Account ( e.g., the minimum death benefit) will be backed by Sentry's pool of assets, which, based on financial information as of December 31, 1993, is more than sixty times larger than SILIC's. Moreover, as of the date hereof, Sentry is rated ``A+'' by A.M. Best, while SILIC is rated ``NA4'' (rating procedure inapplicable). 9. The Proposed Transaction and the other transactions related to the sale of SILIC will be approved in advance by the respective Boards of Directors of Sentry and SILIC. Prior approval of the transaction will be obtained from the Massachusetts Insurance Department and any other applicable regulatory authority. To the extent notification to Contractowners is required pursuant to generally applicable state insurance laws relating to assumption reinsurance, it will be provided. Applicable state insurance law does not require that Contractowners vote on the transaction or be granted any ``opt-out'' rights. 10. In offer to reflect the transfer of assets supporting the SILIC Contracts to the Sentry Account, Sentry will file a new 1933 Act registration statement for the Contracts and will amend the 1940 Act registration statement for the Sentry Account. Once the new 1933 Act registration statement becomes effective, Sentry will distribute copies of the prospectus contained therein to owners of outstanding Contracts. Once the Proposed Transaction is effected, application will be made to the Commission pursuant to Section 8(f) of the Act and Rule 8f&hyph;1 thereunder for an order declaring that the SILIC Account has ceased to be an investment company.
