FR941116-2-00132 FR941116-2-00096 Wednesday November 16, 1994 Part VI Department of Labor Employment and Training Administration Job Training Partnership Act: Job Corps Program; Selection of Sites for Centers; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 220␣/␣Wednesday, November 16, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Employment and Training Administration Job Training Partnership Act: Job Corps Program; Selection of Sites for Centers AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice; selection of center sites. SUMMARY: The Department of Labor requests assistance in identifying sites for locating four new Job Corps centers. This notice specifies the requirements and criteria for selection. DATES: Proposals are requested by March 13, 1995. ADDRESSES: Proposals shall be addressed to the Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., room N4508, Washington, DC 20210. Attention: Peter E. Rell, Director, Office of Job Corps. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Peter E. Rell, Director, Office of Job Corps. Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;8550 (this is not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of Labor (Department) is soliciting proposals for sites to establish four new Job Corps centers. The Job Corps program is designed to serve disadvantaged young women and men, 16 through 24, who are in need of additional educational, vocational and social skills training, and other support services in order to gain meaningful employment, return to school or enter the Armed Forces. The program is primarily a residential program operating 24 hours per day, 7 days per week with non-resident enrollees limited by legislation to 20 percent of national enrollment. However, while the 20-percent level should be used as a guideline, the percentage of non-residents can vary from center to center, depending upon local needs. To assist potential applicants, the Department of Labor will conduct an orientation session from 9 a.m. to 12 noon on December 14, 1994 in the Bureau of Labor Statistics Training Center, room G440, Postal Square Building at 2nd and Massachusetts Avenue, Washington, DC (photo I.D. required for entrance). The orientation will enable prospective proposers to obtain clarification of the information provided in this Notice. If you plan to attend, please notify Mr. Peter E. Rell at the phone number listed above by December 9, 1994. From this solicitation, the Department intends to select four localities for locating new centers. One of the four localities is intended to be a replacement site for the Chesapeake Job Corps Center, which was located in Maryland and was closed in 1989 for reasons unrelated to performance. This solicitation is for site selection only and not for the operation of these Job Corps centers. A competitive contract procurement for selection of a center operator at each site will be initiated and completed well after the site selection process has been completed. Congress continued the Job Corps expansion authorized in previous years by appropriating $10 million in the Fiscal Year 1995 Department of Labor Appropriations Act to initiate four additional new Job Corps centers. The accompanying congressional report language described the use of a competitive process in selecting these sites and said that the Department should give priority to those localities having a high level of organized community support for a center and which are: •In States with less than 2 percent of eligible youth currently served by the Job Corps program; •In States which can demonstrate a high incidence of minority or other youth unemployment; •In States that currently have two or fewer Job Corps centers and have not recently been selected for a new center in the Department's selection process; and •In States with high percentages of non-urban youth. Also, the report language instructed the Department to give consideration to proposed sites that will serve individuals with limited English proficiency.
