FR941207-0-00128 FR941207-0-00022 Eligibility Requirements Minimum Equity Limit for the Control Group 58. In the Fifth Report and Order, the Commission adopted a methodology for assessing an applicant's compliance with the financial caps for the entrepreneurs' blocks and for small business size status based on the distinction between: (a) Noncontrolling investors (whose financial status would not be attributed to the applicant); and (b) investors holding interests in the control group of the applicant. The gross revenues, assets and personal net worth limits of attributable investors ( i.e., those with more than 25 percent equity) and all control group members, regardless of the size of their individual interests, are included in assessing an applicant's compliance with the financial caps. To qualify as a women or minority-owned business, the Commission further required that the control group be composed entirely of women and minorities. The control group requirement ensures that designated entity and entrepreneur principals retain control of the applicant and own a substantial financial interest in the venture. At the same time, it enables noncontrolling investors outside the control group to provide essential capital to an applicant without their revenues, assets or net worth being attributed to the applicant or their non-minority or male status disqualifying the applicant. 59. The Commission adopted two control group options in the Fifth Report and Order. Under the first option, passive investors are permitted to own up to 75 percent of the applicant's total equity, so long as: (1) No investor holds more than 25 percent of the applicant's passive equity (which was subsequently defined to include up to 15 percent of a corporation's voting stock); and (2) in the case of a corporate applicant, at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock is held by the control group. In the case of partnership applicants, the control group must own all the general partnership interests. The Commission determined that this minimum equity level strikes an appropriate balance between the competing considerations of permitting qualified bidders to raise capital and ensuring that designated entities receive a significant economic benefit from the venture. The Commission extended an alternate option to qualified women or minority-owned businesses. Under this option, the Commission would permit a single investor in a minority or women-owned applicant to own up to 49.9 percent of the passive equity (which we subsequently defined to include up to 15 percent of a corporation's voting stock), so long as the control group holds the remaining 50.1 percent of the equity. As with the first option, the control group is required to retain control and, in the case of a corporate applicant, hold at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock. Also, ownership interests are to be calculated on a fully diluted basis. 60. Petitions filed by BET, Columbia PCS, CTIA, EATEL, Lehman Bros. and Omnipoint variously address the Commission's restrictions on the composition of an applicant's control group. Specifically, petitioners request clarification that our attribution rules and definitions of minority and women-owned business be interpreted to permit ``nonqualifying'' noncontrolling investors within the control group. ``Nonqualifying'' investors, as petitioners describe, are investors that are neither women nor minorities, or investors that if attributed would cause the applicant to exceed the financial caps. EATEL argues that to do otherwise may preclude participation by existing companies whose existing corporate structures would disqualify an applicant absent significant expenditures for corporate restructuring. EATEL maintains that existing entities have the greatest amount to offer applicants in terms of financial and technical resources. Petitioners also request that the Commission allow a limited amount of equity investment in the control group to help the applicant comply with the 25 percent minimum equity requirement. Columbia PCS, for example, advocates adoption of a bright-line test that would require at least a 75 percent equity and a 100 percent voting interest in the control group to be held by ``qualifying'' entities. Columbia PCS maintains that designated entities will be unable to raise sufficient capital unless this clarification is made. EATEL and CTIA maintain that the 100 percent equity requirement for minority and women-owned control groups is too restrictive for entities already in existence. Instead, they argue that businesses which are in fact controlled by women and/or minorities, but which have numerous non-controlling shareholders (including some that are neither women nor minorities), should be eligible for the preferences we adopted for minority and women-owned businesses. BET also requests clarification that a control group may be comprised of a single individual. 61. Omnipoint, Columbia PCS, CTIA and Lehman Brothers contend that the 25 percent minimum equity ownership restriction is too high and that designated entities will face insurmountable difficulties arranging financing if it is not reduced. To remedy this problem, Lehman Brothers proposes two alternative solutions. First, for publicly traded companies, Lehman proposes that public shareholders with less than 5 percent equity should be counted towards the control group's 25 percent equity threshold. Lehman maintains that this proposal would permit control group equity to be diluted by new shareholders, but not below a minimum equity level (Lehman recommends 10 percent). Second, Lehman suggests that all designated entities should be permitted to dilute their 25 percent equity interests in the following circumstances: (a) Not earlier than one year after license grant, to dilute control group equity to a total of not less than 20 percent; (b) not earlier than two years, to dilute control group entity to a total of not less than 15 percent; and (c) not earlier than three years to dilute control group equity to a total of not less than 10 percent. Lehman argues that this proposal would provide designated entities efficient access to capital, thereby improving their competitive position. CTIA recommends that an applicant should be eligible to bid on the C and F blocks with at least 10 percent equity. Lehaman Brothers requests that the Commission modify its control group definition to provide that members of the control group receive dividends, profits and regular and liquidating distributions in proportion to the actual possession of equity held, rather than in proportion to their interest in the total equity of the applicant. Lehman Brothers contends that our rules could be interpreted to mean that such distributions must be paid on options held but not exercised by control group members, rather than on the basis of actual shares held. 62. After considering the record, and as described below, we modify our rules to allow certain noncontrolling investors who do not qualify for the entrepreneurs' block or as a small business to be investors in an applicant's control group. We also allow entities that are controlled by minorities and/or women, but that have investors that are neither minorities nor women, to be part of the control group. We agree with petitioners that some accommodation should be made in our regulations to allow participation in an applicant's control group by existing firms controlled by designated entities or entrepreneurs that have investors that, if attributed, would cause the applicant to exceed the small business or entrepreneurs' blocks financial caps or, for minority or women-owned applicants, investors that are not minorities or women. We will therefore modify our definition of a minority and women-owned business to include preexisting companies that are controlled by women or minorities but have noncontrolling investors in the control group who are not minorities or women. Similarly, we will allow preexisting companies that, in aggregate, meet our entrepreneurs' block and small business size standards to be members of the control group even if one or more of the noncontrolling investors in those companies would disqualify the company based on its gross revenues or total assets. We believe that these rule changes will provide a reasonable balance between the need to ensure that designated entities have a significant economic investment in the applicant and the financing realities of a PCS venture.
