FR940713-2-00098 FR940713-2-00061 (6) housekeeping and laundry; (7) medical records; (8) materials management and plant maintenance; (9) support services for charitable foundations; and (10) all miscellaneous services not related to patient care and not exceeding an expenditure of $250,000 annually. (C) Independent Services means all services other than those carried out by the Partnership under this Final Consent Judgment. (D) Managed Care Plan means a health maintenance organization, preferred provider organization, or other health services purchasing program that uses financial or other incentives to prevent unnecessary services and includes some form of utilization review. (E) Mease means the Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc. and all subsidiaries and affiliates. (F) Morton Plant means Morton Plant Health System, Inc. and all subsidiaries and affiliates. (G) Partnership means the nonprofit, tax-exempt organization that Morton Plant and Mease may create and operate in accordance with this Final Consent Judgment. III Applicability This Final Consent Judgment applies to Morton Plant and Mease, to the Partnership created by them, to Morton Plant's and to Mease's officers, directors, trustees, administrators, agents, employees, successors and assigns and to all other persons in active concert or participation with any of them who receive actual notice of this Final Consent Judgment pursuant to F.R.C.P. 65(d). IV Prohibited Conduct Morton Plant and Mease shall not consummate their agreement to consolidate as set forth in their Letter of Intent, dated October 19, 1993, or any other agreement to merge, consolidate, or combine, except in accordance with the terms of this Final Consent Judgment. V Bona Fide Partnership Morton Plant and Mease may enter into a Partnership in which they consolidate and jointly operate certain patient care services and administrative services under the following conditions: (A) Morton Plant and Mease may agree to consolidate and jointly operate any Eligible Partnership Patient Care Services and any Eligible Partnership Administrative Services. (B) The Partnership may own and operate any Eligible Partnership Patient Care Service and any Eligible Partnership Administrative Service and may provide such service to Morton Plant and Mease. The Partnership shall sell each service to Morton Plant and Mease on the same terms and conditions in an amount equal to cost. The Partnership shall conduct an annual cost accounting. (C) Morton Plant and Mease may appoint members to a Partnership board, which individuals may be members of each hospital's board. Executives at Morton Plant and Mease may also serve as executives of the Partnership and on the boards of their respective hospitals and of the Partnership. The Partnership board will govern the services provided by the Partnership. The Partnership board and its executives may not discuss Independent Services, managed care contracting for Morton Plant or Mease, or the marketing or pricing of any services, including Eligible Partnership Patient Care Services or Eligible Partnership Administrative Services, with the following exception: the Partnership may market and price those services set out in Paragraph II(A)(10) as long as Morton Plant and Mease continue their present practice of providing their patients and physicians with information on other providers of these services in the market. The Partnership board may request Morton Plant and Mease to contribute capital to the Partnership, but each hospital shall exercise its own independent judgment on how much capital to contribute. (D) Morton Plant and Mease shall provide plaintiffs with written notification of their intent to consolidate and jointly operate any additional or new services (such as pediatrics and neonatal level II services) through the Partnership under the terms of this Final Consent Judgment. Morton Plant and Mease shall also provide any information reasonably necessary for plaintiffs to assess the competitive impact of adding such services to the Partnership. Morton Plant and Mease may consolidate and jointly operate the additional or new services unless either plaintiff provides a written objection within 120 days of receiving the necessary information. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Morton Plant and Mease may jointly operate through the Partnership any new service not currently provided by Morton Plant or Mease by providing plaintiffs with at least 90-days' notice, so long as the new service is a specialized inpatient procedure commonly recognized in the medical community as ``tertiary'' or higher, and is performed only by physician subspecialists with specialized support staff and expensive equipment. (E) Morton Plant may lend or grant Mease up to $21 million for Mease's planned expansion under terms preventing Morton Plant from obtaining any control or leverage over Mease's management or operations. (F) Morton Plant, Mease and the Partnership may become obligated parties, guarantors or co-makers on debt instruments and the assets of Morton Plant, Mease and the Partnership may be pledged as security for such debt instruments so long as all such obligations are approved separately by Morton Plant and Mease. Neither Morton Plant nor Mease shall unreasonably withhold consent to, impose conditions on, or attempt to influence the use of funds obtained by the other hospital through such financing for Independent Services. In the event that Morton Plant or Mease believes the other has unreasonably withheld such consent, the matter shall be submitted to binding arbitration under the American Arbitration Association Rules. (G) Nothing in this Final Consent Judgment is intended to prevent Morton Plant, Mease and/or the Partnership from participating in lawful integrated delivery networks such as accountable health partnerships, physician organizations and physician networks of their medical staff; provided that participation decisions shall be made independently by Morton Plant, Mease and the Partnership. (H) In the event that federal or state legislation enacted subsequent to the entry of the Final Consent Judgment permits conduct prohibited by this Judgment, Morton Plant and Mease may move for and plaintiffs will reasonably consider an appropriate modification of the Final Consent Judgment. This provision in no way limits Morton Plant's or Mease's right to seek any modification of this Final Consent Judgment. (I) The Partnership shall establish adequate protections to keep information concerning pricing, managed care contracts, negotiations with managed care plans, and marketing and planning of Morton Plant and Mease separate and to insure that the information of one hospital is not transmitted to or received by the other hospital directly or indirectly. Adequate protections shall include, at a minimum, confidentiality agreements for employees with access to such information and protocols for preparation of separate reports for Morton Plant, Mease, and the Partnership.
