FR941019-0-00002 FR941019-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Federal Grain Inspection Service 7 CFR Part 800 RIN 0580&hyph;AA36 FGIS To Offer Official Pesticide Residue Testing AGENCY: Federal Grain Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule revises the regulations under the United States Grain Standards Act (USGSA), as amended, and establishes the fee for a new service offered by the Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS). This service will provide for an official pesticide residue testing program for 29 pesticides in wheat. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation is effective November 18, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: George Wollam, FGIS, USDA, Room 0623 South Building, (202) 720&hyph;0292. Executive Order 12866 This rule has been determined to be significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, has been reviewed by OMB. Major importers of U.S. wheat such as Japan, China, Mexico, and Korea have indicated a strong interest in having U.S. grain officially tested for the presence of specific pesticide residues. FGIS will be offering certification of these specific pesticide levels for export and domestic wheat. The anticipated volume of requests for this service is 500 samples per year or 10 per week. This represents approximately $100,000 per year, which will reimburse the costs of providing the service. FGIS has provided official pesticide residue testing under the Agricultural Marketing Act since the early 1980's. Producers, grain handlers, processors, and foreign buyers of U.S. grain expect FGIS to provide an impartial assessment of grain quality as required by its legislative authority. FGIS, in turn, responds to industry requests by developing testing procedures and soliciting comments regarding the specific action before implementation. It is participants in the grain industry who determine who should conduct the analysis based on the documentation needed to fulfill contract requirements established by the grain market. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Federal Grain Inspection Service has determined that this proposed action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12778 This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This action is not intended to have retroactive effect. The USGSA provides in Section 87g that no State or subdivision may require or impose any requirements or restrictions concerning the inspection, weighing, or description of grain under the Act. This final rule will not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. There are no administrative procedures which must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification David Shipman, Acting Administrator, FGIS, has determined that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities as defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) because most users of the official inspection and weighing services and those entities that perform these services do not meet the requirements for small entities. Information Collection Requirements In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. chapter 35), the information collection requirements contained in part 800 have been previously approved by OMB under control number 0580&hyph;0013.
