FR940523-1-00013 FR940523-1-00005 Presort categories would be chosen based on, but not limited to, the following criteria: •Presort categories most often used by different mailers (to ensure testing of the most commonly used products). •Presort categories where significant mail preparation error is being detected by the Postal Service. •Presort categories that are relatively new. For the first PAVE test cycle, the Postal Service proposes the following domestic presort categories: •Presorted First-Class. •First-/third-class barcoded letter-size: _Tray-based. _2-Tier package-based. _3-Tier package-based. •Second-class presort (carrier route, 3/5 digit, and basic). •Third-class presort (3/5 digit and basic). •Third-class carrier route presort. A presort product developer requesting one or more of the files for PAVE testing would also receive a technical guide that details specifications for each test category. These specifications would include such information as: •Mailpiece specifications (mailpiece thickness, weight, length, and height). •Mail processing category. •Maximum pieces to a tray (if applicable). •Minimum pieces to a tray (if 3/4 full tray is a pertinent criteria). •Mail entry point. •Sortation levels allowed (if applicable). •Overflow trays (if allowed). •Total number of records (addresses) contained in the file. OCR Testing As detailed later, all the test files would be provided to requesting presort product developers in electronic media (magnetic tape, cartridge, and diskette). However, for optical character reader (OCR) applicants, the Postal Service would provide the First-/third-class barcoded letter-size test(s) as a physical test deck of actual mailpieces. The Postal Service proposes that the physical test deck, rather than an electronic file, would better accommodate the actual sortation process of an optical character reader. This physical test deck would be similar to that used in MLOCR Accuracy Support System (MASS) testing, consisting of several thousand sample mailpieces that would be sent to the applicant's location for OCR presorting. The entire test deck would be presorted as would a regular mailing in that particular category, trayed, labeled, and documented, and then returned to the Postal Service for PAVE evaluation. Similar to other PAVE participants, eligible OCR participants would consist of those manufacturers that initially developed the presort software product used in the OCR, regardless of commercial availability, or those that made modifications that alter the sorting logic, documentation generation capability, or add to or revise the software's original parameters. Test Cycle and Frequency The Postal Service proposes the following PAVE test cycle for 1994: 1. Submitting Applications (August 1&hyph;31) Software developers would complete and forward order forms for a specific test file(s) to the Postal Service for receipt no later than August 31. 2. Distributing of Test Files (September 1&hyph;30) NCSC would mail the test file(s) to requesters during this period. 3. Returning Test Files (September 1&hyph;October 15) Presort product developers would process the test file through the presort product being tested and return the sorted file, along with hard copy documentation supporting accurate sortation and rate application, for receipt by NCSC no later than October 15. 4. Evaluating and Responding (November 15&hyph;December 15) The Postal Service would examine the hard copy documentation for accuracy and provide evaluation results to the presort product developer no later than December 15. 5. Retesting (November 15&hyph;December 31) Developers would have this period to request, process, and be reevaluated on those test(s) that they had failed in the initial test cycle. 6. Publishing PAVE-Certified Developers (January, 1995) A list of PAVE-certified presort product developers, product names, version numbers, and presort categories would be published in the Postal Bulletin (or a similar publication/listing as is currently used for CASS/MASS certified vendors). Note: Although the Postal Service proposes the above PAVE cycle to establish reasonable time frames and cut-off dates for each process, steps 2 through 5 would be expedited where possible.
