FR940919-2-00043 FR940919-2-00032 4. Upsets ``Upset'' means an exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with technology based permit effluent limitations because of factors beyond the control of the permittee. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper operation. An upset constitutes an affirmative defense to an action brought for noncompliance with such technology based permit limitation if the requirements of 40 CFR 122.41(n)(3) are met. (Note that this provision does not apply to water quality requirements.) 5. Removed Substances This permit does not authorize discharge of solids, sludge, filter backwash, or other pollutants removed in the course of treatment or control of wastewaters to waters of the United States unless specifically limited in Part 1. Section C. Monitoring and Records 1. Representative Sampling Samples and measurements taken as required herein shall be representative of the volume and nature of the monitored discharge. All samples shall be taken at the monitoring points specified in this permit and, unless otherwise specified, before the effluent joins or is diluted by any other wastestream, body of water, or substance. Monitoring points shall not be changed without notification to and the approval of the Permit Issuing Authority. 2. Flow Measurements Appropriate flow measurement devices and methods consistent with accepted scientific practices shall be selected and used to insure the accuracy and reliability of measurements of the volume of monitored discharges. The devices shall be installed, calibrated and maintained to insure that the accuracy of the measurements are consistent with the accepted capability of that type of device. Devices selected shall be capable of measuring flows with a maximum deviation of less than # 10% from the true discharge rates throughout the range of expected discharge volumes. Guidance in selection, installation, calibration and operation of acceptable flow measurement devices can be obtained from the following references: (1) ``A Guide of Methods and Standards for the Measurement of Water Flow'', U.S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards, NBS Special Publication 421, May 1975, 97 pp. (Available from the U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. Order by SD catalog No. C13.10:421.) (2) ``Water Measurement Manual'', U.S. Department of Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, Second Edition, Revised Reprint, 1974, 327 pp. (Available from the U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. Order by catalog No. 127.19/2:W29/2, Stock No. S/N 24003&hyph;0027.) (3) ``Flow Measurement in Open Channels and Closed Conduits'', U.S. Department of Commerce, National Bureau of Standards, NBS Special Publication 484, October 1977, 982 pp. (Available in paper copy or microfiche from National Technical Information Service (NTIS), Springfield, VA 22151. Order by NTIS No. PB&hyph;273 535/5ST.) (4) ``NPDES Compliance Flow Measurement Manual'', U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Water Enforcement, Publication MCD&hyph;77, September 1981, 135 pp. (Available from the General Services Administration (8BRC), Centralized Mailing Lists Services, Building 41, Denver Federal Center, Denver, CO 80225.) 3. Monitoring Procedures Monitoring must be conducted according to test procedures approved under 40 CFR Part 136, unless other test procedures have been specified in this permit. 4. Penalties for Tampering The Clean Water Act provides that any person who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate, any monitoring device or method required to be maintained under this permit shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000 per violation, or by imprisonment for not more than 2 years per violation, or by both. 5. Retention of Records The permittee shall retain records of all monitoring information, including all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this permit, and records of all data used to complete the application for this permit, for a period of at least 3 years from the date of the sample, measurement, report or application. This period may be extended by the Permit Issuing Authority at any time. 6. Record Contents Records of monitoring information shall include: a. The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements; b. The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurements; c. The date(s) analyses were performed; d. The individual(s) who performed the analyses; e. The analytical techniques or methods used; and f. The results of such analyses. 7. Inspection and Entry The permittee shall allow the Permit Issuing Authority, or an authorized representative, upon the presentation of credentials and other documents as may be required by law, to: a. Enter upon the permittee's premises where a regulated facility or activity is located or conducted, or where records must be kept under the conditions of this permit; b. Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that must be kept under the conditions of this permit; c. Inspect at reasonable time any facilities, equipment (including monitoring and control equipment), practices, or operations regulated or required under this permit; and d. Sample or monitor at reasonable times, for the purposes of assuring permit compliance or as otherwise authorized by the Clean Water Act, any substances or parameters at any location.
