FR940204-0-00063 FR940204-0-00021 The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by these taxa in determining to make this rule final. Because three of the four plants are threatened by one or more of the following factors_urban and agricultural development, recreational use, sand mining, dune stabilization projects, or extinction from stochastic events_the preferred action is to list Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana, Chorizanthe robusta (inclusive of vars. hartwegii and robusta ), and Erysimum teretifolium as endangered. Other alternatives to this action were considered but not preferred because not listing these species at all or listing these species as threatened would not provide adequate protection and would not be in keeping with the purposes of the Act. Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens is also threatened by the same factors listed above, as well as by ongoing military activities on the Fort Ord Army Base and its pending disposal. However, the wider range and greater number of populations and individuals of this species indicate that it is not now in danger of extinction throughout a significant portion of its range, as are the other three species, but is likely to become endangered within the foreseeable future. Therefore, the preferred action is to list C. pungens var. pungens as threatened. Not listing this species would not provide adequate protection and would not be in keeping with the purposes of the Act. For reasons discussed below, the Service is not designating critical habitat for these species at this time. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary designate critical habitat at the time a species is determined to be endangered or threatened. Section 4(b)(6)(C) further indicates that a concurrent critical habitat designation is not required if the Service finds that a prompt determination of endangered or threatened status is essential to the conservation of the involved species or that critical habitat is not then determinable. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat for Chorizanthe robusta and Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens is prudent but presently not determinable and that designation of critical habitat for Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana and for Erysimum teretifolium is not prudent. The Service will propose designation of critical habitat for certain populations of Chorizanthe robusta and Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens that would likely not be imperiled by the threat of vandalism, collecting, or other human activities. Section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to insure that their activities are not likely to destroy or adversely modify critical habitat of a listed species. This stipulation for Federal agencies is in addition to the requirement to insure that their actions do not jeopardize the continued existence of federally listed species. Therefore on lands where Federal actions, funding, authorizations, or licensing occurs, critical habitat would provide an added benefit to the conservation of these species. On non-Federal land, the designation of critical habitat may result in increased awareness of the need for protection. The designation of critical habitat could be useful for State landowners because they could use the designation to identify areas of special concern and to help establish priorities for their own land management. Section 4(b)(2) of the Act requires the Service to consider economic and other impacts of designating a particular area as critical habitat. The Service must evaluate the effects of activities that occur within the ranges of these plants. The Service must gather data on precise habitat needs and ownership boundaries to be able to precisely define the critical habitat of these two plant taxa. In addition, the Service must analyze the economic impacts that could result from the designation of particular areas as critical habitat. Designation of critical habitat for Chorizanthe robusta and Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens is currently not determinable due to the need for this type of information. A proposal to designate critical habitat at this time would delay this final rule to list the species as threatened or endangered. The Service believes that a prompt determination of endangered or threatened status for these species is essential to ensure the benefits of conservation measures provided to species upon listing under the Act. Once the Service has gathered the necessary data, it will publish a proposal to designate critical habitat for Chorizanthe robusta and Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens.
