FR940314-0-00031 FR940314-0-00005 (3) For Hamilton Standard Model 14RF&hyph;21 propellers, in accordance with TR No. 61&hyph;5, dated July 27, 1993, to Hamilton Standard MM P5189. (d) Make a one-time entry into propeller maintenance records to record: (1) That the initial torque check was performed; (2) The propeller hub retaining nuts were loosened and tightened in accordance with paragraph (c) of this AD; and (3) The torque values. (e) Thereafter, perform repetitive torque checks at intervals not to exceed 500 hours time in service since the last inspection, in accordance with the applicable TR to the Hamilton Standard MM's listed in paragraph (a) of this AD. (f) Install all propellers after the effective date of this AD using the propeller hub retaining nut tightening procedure defined in the applicable TR to the Hamilton Standard MM's listed in paragraph (c) of this AD. Record the torque values in accordance with paragraph (d) of this AD. (g) Visually inspect and investigate all external propeller oil leakage at the next line check, or within 70 hours TIS after the effective date of this AD, whichever occurs first. If the leakage is found to be caused by other than a leak in the blade seal, the pressure relief valve, or actuator assembly, the propeller must be removed from service and replaced with a serviceable propeller prior to further flight. (h) Thereafter, visually inspect and investigate all external propeller oil leakage at intervals not to exceed 70 hours TIS since the last inspection, or at the next line check, whichever occurs first. If the leakage is found to be caused by other than a leak in the blade seal, the pressure relief valve, or actuator assembly, the propeller must be removed from service and replaced with a serviceable propeller prior to further flight. (i) An alternative method of compliance or adjustment of the compliance time that provides an acceptable level of safety may be used if approved by the Manager, Boston Aircraft Certification Office. The request should be forwarded through an appropriate FAA Principal Maintenance Inspector, who may add comments and then send it to the Manager, Boston Aircraft Certification Office. Note: Information concerning the existence of approved alternative methods of compliance with this airworthiness directive, if any, may be obtained from the Boston Aircraft Certification Office. (j) Special flight permits may be issued in accordance with FAR 21.197 and 21.199 to operate the aircraft to a location where the requirements of this AD can be accomplished.
