FR941219-0-00066 FR941219-0-00016 (iv) The information set out in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. (v) A written acknowledgement that the applicant (and any co-applicant) has/have read and understood the disclosure, and understand that the disclosure is a required part of the mortgage application. This acknowledgement shall be evidenced by the signature of the applicant and any co-applicant. (4) The following is a model format, which includes several options, for complying with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The model format may be annotated with additional information that clarifies or enhances the model language. The lender or table funding mortgage broker (or dealer) should use the language that best describes the particular circumstances. (i) Model Format: The following is the best estimate of what will happen to the servicing of your mortgage loan: (A) Option A. We may assign, sell, or transfer the servicing of your loan while the loan is outstanding. [We are able to service your loan[.][,] and we [will] [will not] [haven't decided whether to] service your loan.]; or (B) Option B. We do not service mortgage loans[.][,] [and have not serviced mortgage loans in the past three years.] We presently intend to assign, sell, or transfer the servicing of your mortgage loan. You will be informed about your servicer. (C) As appropriate, the following paragraph may be used: We assign, sell, or transfer the servicing of some of our loans while the loans are outstanding, depending on the type of loan and other factors. For the program for which you have applied, we expect to [assign, sell, or transfer all of the mortgage servicing][retain all of the mortgage servicing] [assign, sell, or transfer XX % of the mortgage servicing]. (ii) [Reserved] (c) Servicing Disclosure Statement and Applicant Acknowledgement; delivery. The lender, table funding mortgage broker, or dealer that anticipates a first lien dealer loan shall deliver Servicing Disclosure Statements to each applicant for mortgage servicing loans. Each applicant or co-applicant must sign an Acknowledgement of receipt of the Servicing Disclosure Statement before settlement. (1) In the case of a face-to-face interview with one or more applicants, the Servicing Disclosure Statement shall be delivered at the time of application. An applicant present at the interview may sign the Acknowledgment on his or her own behalf at that time. An applicant present at the interview also may accept delivery of the Servicing Disclosure Statement on behalf of the other applicants. (2) If there is no face-to-face interview, the Servicing Disclosure Statement shall be delivered by placing it in the mail, with prepaid first-class postage, within 3 business days from receipt of the application. If co-applicants indicate the same address on their application, one copy delivered to that address is sufficient. If different addresses are shown by co-applicants on the application, a copy must be delivered to each of the co-applicants. (d) Notices of Transfer; loan servicing. (1) Requirement for notice. (i) Except as provided in this paragraph or paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, each transferor servicer and transferee servicer of any mortgage servicing loan shall deliver to the borrower a written Notice of Transfer, containing the information described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, of any assignment, sale, or transfer of the servicing of the loan. The following transfers are not considered an assignment, sale, or transfer of mortgage loan servicing for purposes of this requirement if there is no change in the payee, address to which payment must be delivered, account number, or amount of payment due: (A) Transfers between affiliates; (B) Transfers resulting from mergers or acquisitions of servicers or subservicers; and (C) Transfers between master servicers, where the subservicer remains the same. (ii) The Federal Housing Administration (FHA) is not required under paragraph (d) of this section to submit to the borrower a Notice of Transfer in cases where a mortgage insured under the National Housing Act is assigned to FHA. (2) Time of notice. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section: (A) The transferor servicer shall deliver the Notice of Transfer to the borrower not less than 15 days before the effective date of the transfer of the servicing of the mortgage servicing loan; and (B) The transferee servicer shall deliver the Notice of Transfer to the borrower not more than 15 days after the effective date of the transfer. (C) The transferor and transferee servicers may combine their notices into one notice, which shall be delivered to the borrower not less than 15 days before the effective date of the transfer of the servicing of the mortgage servicing loan. (ii) The Notice of Transfer shall be delivered to the borrower by the transferor servicer or the transferee servicer not more than 30 days after the effective date of the transfer of the servicing of the mortgage servicing loan in any case in which the transfer of servicing is preceded by: (A) Termination of the contract for servicing the loan for cause; (B) Commencement of proceedings for bankruptcy of the servicer; or (C) Commencement of proceedings by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) for conservatorship or receivership of the servicer or an entity that owns or controls the servicer. (iii) Notices of Transfer delivered at settlement by the transferor servicer and transferee servicer, whether as separate notices or as a combined notice, will satisfy the timing requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (3) Notices of Transfer; contents. The Notices of Transfer required under paragraph (d) of this section shall include the following information: (i) The effective date of the transfer of servicing;
