FR940407-1-00075 FR940407-1-00015 Thursday April 7, 1994 Part IV Department of the Interior Bureau of Indian Affairs 25 CFR Part 256 Housing Improvement Program; Resource Allocation Methodology; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 67␣/␣Thursday, April 7, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Indian Affairs 25 CFR Part 256 RIN 1076&hyph;AD01 Resource Allocation Methodology for the Housing Improvement Program AGENCY: Bureau of Indian Affairs, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This document proposes a revision to the distribution method for Housing Improvement Program (HIP) funds from a housing inventory basis to documented eligible applicants. A technical correction is also made to eliminate Category C, Downpayments which is inconsistent with the intent of the HIP. A revision is proposed to eliminate individuals who own a home acquired under Federal housing assistance from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) through an Indian Housing Authority from being served under HIP. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before June 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed regulations should be addressed to Ron Thurman, Housing Specialist, Division of Housing Assistance, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 18th and C Streets NW. (Mail Stop 2525 MIB), Washington, DC 20240. Request for Comments: Comments are requested from tribes, individuals, and tribal organizations. The Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs, will mail a copy of this Federal Register Notice to all Federally-recognized Tribes with a personal letter explaining her support for HIP and her interest in the proper use of HIP funds. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ron Thurman, Housing Specialist, Division of Housing Assistance, (202) 208&hyph;5427. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Since FY 1986, the BIA has distributed HIP funds using a formula that is based on biennial housing inventories submitted by individual tribes. The funding calculation formula is based on 90% of the repair need and up to 10% of the new construction need indicated by the inventories, except for Alaska where the percentages are 95% and 35%. These figures are converted to dollars, and the dollar amount is divided by the number of years required to complete a work plan. The formula is the basis for proportional distribution of appropriated funds. The use of percentages based on an assumed HIP responsibility does not reflect an accurate picture of individuals eligible for HIP assistance. For a variety of reasons, many of the housing inventories are not accurate. Accuracy would require a house-by-house assessment and completion of a housing inventory work sheet describing the condition of each house inventoried to support the repair or replacement decision. Most tribes do not have sufficient qualified personnel with a construction background to complete the work sheet accurately. Presently, there is no requirement to determine whether the individual house is occupied and owned by a person who is eligible for HIP assistance. At a meeting in Albuquerque, New Mexico, November 1&hyph;5, 1993, the Joint Tribal/DOI/BIA Reorganization Task Force recommended that HIP be transferred in FY 1995 to the Tribal Priority Allocation (TPA) section of the budget where program priorities and funding levels are established by individual tribes. They further recommended that the resource allocation methodology for HIP be revised from housing inventory to documented eligible applicants to ensure that funding distribution better responds to need. The policy of the Department of the Interior is, whenever practical, to afford the public an opportunity to participate in the rulemaking process. Accordingly, interested persons may submit written comments regarding the proposed rule to the location identified in the Addresses section of this document.
