FR940516-1-00080 FR940516-1-00005 ii. Monitoring. In accordance with ยง63.8(c)(4) of the General Provisions, all continuous monitoring systems measuring either emissions or an operating parameter shall complete a minimum of one measurement cycle (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period. BLR source category. For BLR manufacturers, the determination of compliance varies for each type of control or capture system. Owners and operators complying with the standard by using carbon adsorbers, condensers, incinerators, and total enclosures on continuous processes may be determined to be out of compliance with the standard if, for any 1-hour period, the average operating parameter value exceeds or is less than the value established during the initial performance test, as applicable. A 1-hour averaging time is chosen to determine compliance because it parallels the length of time for each of the three test runs conducted for the initial performance test. WSR source category. Wet strength resins are produced in batch processes, during which emissions may vary significantly. Therefore, longer averaging times are necessary for WSR processes than for BLR processes. The averaging time proposed for WSR processes is the time required to complete one batch operation (typically about 8 hours). Because producers of WSR do not vary the production process from batch to batch, emissions data averaged over the course of one batch operation would be representative of the actual emissions from future batch runs. G. Selection of Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements The owner or operator of any BLR or wet strength resin facility subject to these standards would be required to fulfill all reporting requirements outlined in the General Provisions 40 CFR part 63. No special considerations have been identified for these industries that would warrant additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements. H. Operating Permit Program Under Title V of the Act, all HAP-emitting facilities will be required to obtain an operating permit. Oftentimes, emission limits, monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements are scattered among numerous provisions of State implementation plans (SIP's) or Federal regulations. As discussed in the proposed rule for the operating permit program published on May 10, 1991 (58 FR 21712), this new permit program would include in a single document all of the requirements that pertain to a single source. Once a State's permit program has been approved, each facility containing that source within that State must apply for and obtain an operating permit. If the State wherein the source is located does not have an approved permitting program, the owner or operator of a source must submit the application under the proposed General Provisions of 40 CFR part 63. VII. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing A public hearing will be held, if requested, to discuss the proposed standard in accordance with section 307(d)(5) of the Clean Air Act. Persons wishing to make oral presentation on the proposed standards for epoxy resins production and non-nylon polyamides production should contact EPA at the address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. Oral presentations will be limited to 15 minutes each. Any member of the public may file a written statement before, during, or within 30 days after the hearing. Written statements should be addressed to the Air Docket Section address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble and should refer to Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;37. A verbatim transcript of the hearing and written statements will be available for public inspection and copying during normal working hours at EPA's Air Docket Section in Washington, DC (see ADDRESSES section of this preamble). B. Docket The docket is an organized and complete file of all the information submitted to or otherwise considered by EPA in the development of this proposed rulemaking. The principal purposes of the docket are:
