FR940304-1-00094 FR940304-1-00014 Design options . Both the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers and Whirlpool Corporation provided detailed comments on each design option. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 5&hyph;22 and Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 6&hyph;13). A number of the comments concerned design changes to improve heat exchanger (evaporator and condenser) performance. These improvements can be put into two categories; designs for increasing the heat transfer surface area and designs for increasing the heat transfer coefficients. The heat transfer surface area can be increased by any of the following methods: increasing the depth of the coil by adding vertical tube rows, increasing the frontal area of the coil by increasing the height or width, increasing the fin density, or adding a subcooler to the condenser coil. The heat transfer coefficients can be increased by using an enhanced fin design or grooved (rifled) refrigerant tubing. In addition, spraying condensate on the condenser can improve its heat transfer coefficient. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers and Whirlpool Corporation commented that cabinet size could prevent or at least limit the number of tube rows that could be added to increase the depth of the coil. In addition, they state that the effect of each successive tube row on system performance diminishes rapidly. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers also commented that compressor reliability could be affected. The addition of tube rows increases the internal volume of the system and, therefore, the amount of refrigerant required. Compressor reliability could be reduced as the compressor would be required to pump excess refrigerant. Whirlpool Corporation added that a thicker coil will increase air flow restriction and may actually reduce efficiency. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 9&hyph;10; Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 8). In the analysis of additional tube rows, the Department used engineering design data provided by room air conditioner manufacturers. The data were based on measurements taken from actual room air conditioner units and included information that specified the number of tube rows that could be added to the existing coils. The computer simulation model which was used in the analysis of room air conditioners considered the effect that additional tube rows have on the entire room air conditioner refrigerant system. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers and Whirlpool Corporation commented that increasing the frontal area of the coil would require an increase in chassis size. Coils in existing room air conditioners are already so large that any useful increase would require an increase in the size of the cabinet. The incremental cost for such a change would be significant. Whirlpool Corporation added that an increase in frontal area reduces the water removal capability of the evaporator coil. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 10; Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 7). The Department agrees with the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers's and Whirlpool Corporation's comments regarding the increase of the coil's frontal area. Any useful increase in performance would require that the cabinet size be increased as well. Manufacturers' cost data for this design were taken into consideration in the analysis. The computer simulation model takes into account the impact of increasing the coil frontal area on the evaporator's water removal capability. Both the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers and Whirlpool Corporation stated that there is a limit to how high the fin density can be increased before air flow becomes too restricted and adversely affects the efficiency of the unit. In addition, an increased fin density might prevent the proper drainage of condensate from the evaporator. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers added that dirt build-up is a serious concern in coil design. With a higher fin density, greater dirt build-up is likely to result in coil degradation and lower unit efficiency. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 11; Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 8). The Department solicited comments from room air conditioner manufacturers regarding the maximum allowable fin densities for a variety of evaporator and condenser coils. Their comments served as a guideline to how high fin densities could be increased for prospective coils. The computer simulation model is capable of calculating the effect that increased fin density has on the air-side pressure drop across the coil and, in turn, the power consumption of the fan motor.
