FR940404-2-00171 FR940404-2-00092 Barbara Crane, International Population Fellow, Bureau of Refugee Programs, Department of State Sandra A. Dembski, Director, Office of International Economic Policy, Bureau of International Organization Affairs, Department of State Duff G. Gillespie, Acting Deputy Assistant Administrator, Bureau for Research and Development, Agency for International Development Nan E. Kennelly, Office of Multilateral Organizations and Migration Policy, Bureau for Refugee Programs, Department of State Sarah Kovner, Special Assistant to the Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services Roger G. Kramer, Acting Director, Division of Immigration Policy and Research, Department of Labor Elizabeth Maguire, Acting Director, Office of Population, Bureau for Research and Development, Agency for International Development Ellen Marshall, Population Policy Consultant, Bureau for Refugee Programs, Department of State David Ogden, International Activities Specialist, Environmental Protection Agency David L. Schiele, United States Mission to the United Nations, New York Private Sector Advisers Bella Abzug, President, Women's Environment and Development Organization, New York, New York Byllye Avery, Visiting Fellow, Harvard School of Public Health, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania Peggy Curlin, President, Center for Development and Population Activities, Washington, DC Robin Duke, Chairman, Board of Directors, Population Action International, Washington, DC Adrienne Germain, Vice President, International Women's Health Coalition, New York, New York Mary Faith Mitchell, Population Program Officer, Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California Helen Rodriguiz-Trias, President, American Public Health Association, Brookdale, California Jeane Rosoff, President, Alan Guttmacher Institute, Washington, DC Susan Sechler, Director, Pew Global Stewardship Initiative, Washington, DC Steven Sinding, Director, Population Sciences, The Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York Patricia Waak, Director, Population Program, National Audubon Society, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the 17th Session of the Hague Conference on Intercountry Adoption, Hague Conference on Private International Law (HCOPIL), The Hague, The Netherlands, May 10&hyph;29, 1993 Representative Peter H. Pfund, Assistant Legal Adviser for Private International Law, Department of State Alternate Representative James L. Ward, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Department of State Public Members Gloria F. DeHart, Deputy Attorney General_California, American Bar Association, Washington, DC Connie Fails, Adoptive Mother, Little Rock, Arkansas Susan Freivalds, Executive Director, Adoptive Families of America, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota Steven M. Kirsh, President, American Academy of Adoptive Attorneys, Indianapolis, Indiana Arthur T. von Mehren, Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Massachusetts William Pierce, President, National Council For Adoption, Washington, DC Betsey Rosenbaum, Director, Family & Child Welfare Services, American Public Welfare Association, Washington, DC Sheri Sweitzer, Secretary to Senator Howard M. Metzenbaum, Member, Board of Directors, Adoption Service Information Agency, Washington, DC Peter D. Trooboff, Covington & Burling, Washington, DC Advisers Rita Boie, Senior Immigration Examiner, Immigration and Naturalization Service Beth Cooper, Office of Citizens Consular Services, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Department of State Vanessa Laird, Office of the Assistant Legal Adviser for Consular Affairs, Department of State
