FR940805-2-00008 FR940805-2-00006 Procurement List; Addition AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Addition to the Procurement List. SUMMARY: This action adds to the Procurement List a commodity to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, Suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman (703) 603&hyph;7740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On February 25, 1994, the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled published notice (59 FR 9189) of proposed addition to the Procurement List. Comments were received from the current contractor for the grommet in response to a request for sales data. In providing the data, the contractor indicated that loss of the contract would increase its prices for other items made of the same material, and reduce the company's competitiveness, because it would have to pay higher prices for the smaller volume of the material it would order if the grommet is added to the Procurement List. The contractor also indicated that it had spent a great amount of money to develop molds for the grommet, as a new producer would have to do. Because it has several molds, the contractor believes that it can produce the grommet for many years without subsequent investment, and that its experience with the molds permits it to keep the molds in running order easily. The contractor did not provide data to indicate the extent of the impact which paying higher prices for material would have on the company. Consequently, the Committee cannot assess how much it would add to the impact of losing Government sales of the grommet. The sales loss alone represents such a small percentage of the contractor's total sales that the Committee does not consider it to constitute severe adverse impact. The contractor's point about a new producer having to create new molds at substantial cost would appear to be a way of claiming that this cost would be reflected in the price the Government will pay for molds produced under the Committee's program. However, the Committee is required to set a fair market price for items the Government buys under its program. Consequently, the nonprofit agency which will produce the grommet under the Committee's program will not be able to charge an unfairly high price for the grommets in order to recoup its costs for the new molds. After consideration of the material presented to it concerning capability of qualified nonprofit agencies to provide the commodity, fair market price, and impact of the addition on the current or most recent contractors, the Committee has determined that the commodity listed below are suitable for procurement by the Federal Government under 41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c and 41 CFR 51&hyph;2.4. I certify that the following action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The major factors considered for this certification were: 1. The action will not result in any additional reporting, recordkeeping or other compliance requirements for small entities other than the small organizations that will furnish the commodity to the Government. 2. The action does not appear to have a severe economic impact on current contractors for the commodity. 3. The action will result in authorizing small entities to furnish the commodity to the Government. 4. There are no known regulatory alternatives which would accomplish the objectives of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c) in connection with the commodity proposed for addition to the Procurement List. Accordingly, the following commodity is hereby added to the Procurement List: Grommet 8140&hyph;01&hyph;051&hyph;9951 This action does not affect current contracts awarded prior to the effective date of this addition or options exercised under those contracts. Beverly L. Milkman, Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19159 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;33&hyph;P
