FR940610-1-00078 FR940610-1-00008 (f) Milk requirement for children ages 2&hyph;17. A serving of milk as a beverage or on cereal or used in part for each purpose shall be a menu item for school breakfasts. Schools shall comply with the minimum required serving sizes for milk in ยง220.8a(a)(2) and with the other requirements for milk in ยง220.8a(d) and ยง220.8a(g). (g) Offer versus serve. Each participating school shall offer its students at least three menu items as required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Under offer versus serve, senior high students are required to take at least two of the three menu items. At the discretion of the school food authority, students below the senior high level may also participate in offer versus serve. The price of a reimbursable breakfast shall not be affected if a student declines menu items or accepts smaller portions. State educational agencies shall define ``senior high.'' (h) Choice. To provide variety and to encourage consumption and participation, schools should, whenever possible, provide a selection of foods and types of milk from which children may make choices. When a school offers a selection of more than one type of breakfast or when it offers a variety of foods and milk for choice as a reimbursable breakfast, the school shall offer all children the same selection regardless of whether the children are eligible for free or reduced price breakfasts or pay the school food authority designated full price. The school may establish different unit prices for each type of breakfast offered provided that the benefits made available to children eligible for free or reduced price breakfasts are not affected. (i) Substitutions. Schools shall make substitutions for students who are considered to have disabilities under 7 CFR part 15b in accordance with ยง220.8a(f). (j) Nutrient Standard Menu Planning/Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning for children age 2&hyph;17. In order to assure that school breakfasts meet the nutritional standards provided in paragraph (b) of this section, nutrient analysis shall be conducted on all foods offered as part of a reimbursable meal. Such analysis shall be over the course of each school week. The school food authority shall either independently conduct Nutrient Standard Menu Planning or shall request that the State agency allow Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning. (1) The National Nutrient Database and software specifications. (i) Nutrient analysis shall be based on information provided in the National Nutrient Database for Child Nutrition Programs. This database shall be incorporated into software used to conduct nutrient analysis. Upon request, FNS will provide information about the database to software companies that wish to develop school food service software systems. (ii) Any software used to conduct nutrient analysis shall be evaluated and, as submitted, been determined to meet the minimum requirements established by FNS. However, such review does not constitute endorsement by FNS or USDA. Such software shall provide the capability to perform all functions required after the basic data has been entered including calculation of weighted averages as required by (j)(2) of this section. (2) Determination of weighted averages. (i) Foods offered as part of a reimbursable meal shall be analyzed based on menu items, portion sizes, and projected serving amounts and shall be weighted based on their proportionate contribution to the meals. Therefore, foods more frequently selected will contribute more nutrients than foods which are less frequently selected. Such weighting shall be done in accordance with guidance issued by FNS as well as that provided by the software used. (ii) An analysis of all menu items and foods offered in the menu over each school week shall be computed for calories and for each of the following nutrients: Protein; vitamin A; vitamin C; iron; calcium; total fat; saturated fat; and sodium. The analysis shall also include the dietary components of cholesterol and dietary fiber. (3) Comparing average daily levels. Once the procedures of paragraph (j)(2) of this section have been completed, the results shall be compared to the appropriate age group level for each nutrient and for calories in the table, Minimum Nutrient Levels for School Breakfasts, in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. In addition, comparisons shall be made to the nutrition standards provided in paragraph (b) of this section in order to determine the degree of conformity. (4) Adjustments based on students' selections. The results obtained under paragraph (j)(2) of this section shall be used to adjust future menu cycles to accurately reflect production and student selections. Menus will require further analysis and comparison, depending on the results obtained in paragraph (j)(2) of this section when production and selection patterns change. The school food authority may need to consider modifications to the menu items and foods offered based on student selections as well as modifications to recipes and other specifications to ensure that the nutrition standards in paragraph (b) of this section are met. (5) Standardized recipes. Under Nutrient Standard Menu Planning, standardized recipes shall be developed and followed. A standardized recipe is one that was tested to provide an established yield and quantity through the use of ingredients that remain constant in both measurement and preparation methods. USDA/FNS standardized recipes are included in the National Nutrient Database for the Child Nutrition Programs. In addition, local standardized recipes used by school food authorities shall be analyzed for their calories, nutrients and dietary components and added to the local database by that school food authority.
