FR940203-2-00129 FR940203-2-00068 Changes: None. Priority_Collaboration To Implement the State School-to-Work Opportunities System Comment: One commenter requested that, in paragraph (b)(2) of the priority, the phrase ``including State agency officials responsible for special education, vocational rehabilitation, and other transition services'' be added following the reference to ``other appropriate officials.'' This commenter believed that all appropriate interagency experts must be included in a collaborative effort toward implementation of each State's School-to-Work Opportunities system. Discussion: The Secretaries agree that the implementation of each State's School-to-Work Opportunities system must be a collaborative effort involving numerous officials within the State. Systemic change and the provision of appropriate education, training, and employment opportunities for all students cannot be achieved otherwise. However, beyond specifying the involvement of the Governor, the State educational agency, the State agency officials responsible for job training and employment, economic development, and postsecondary education as the priority does the Secretaries have opted not to dictate to States which additional State officials must be included in this collaborative effort. The Secretaries do, however, encourage the collaboration of those officials named by the commenter and, in fact, list ``rehabilitation agencies and organizations'' among those entities which the State should actively involve in the implementation of statewide systems. Changes: None. Priority_Active and Continued Involvement by Interested Parties Comments: In addition to the interested parties specifically listed in paragraph (b)(3) of the priority as those whose active and continued involvement must be demonstrated in order for an application to be given absolute priority, several commenters suggested that the Secretaries add specific references to the following additional interested parties: Language minority communities, Private Industry Councils, related services personnel (such as vocational rehabilitation counselors and job coaches) following the word ``teachers,'' and human services agencies. One commenter suggested that teachers be moved to the top of the existing list of interested parties in order to indicate that priority will be assigned to applications placing priority upon the cooperation of teachers. Two of the commenters were particularly interested in ensuring the active and continued involvement of those parties that are most critical to the preparation of disabled populations for work and that are essential to the success of disabled youth within the job setting. Discussion: The Secretaries agree that the active and continued involvement of each of the parties named by the commenters would be entirely appropriate under paragraph (b)(3) of the priority notice, and have revised paragraph (b)(3) accordingly. Specifically, with regard to Private Industry Councils established under the Job Training Partnership Act and with regard to vocational rehabilitation personnel, the Secretaries wish to point out that, in the definition of the term ``partnership,'' these have been specifically named by the Secretaries as parties that may be included within partnerships. In addition to the parties suggested by the commenters, the House and Senate School-to-Work Opportunities bills include vocational student organizations and State or regional cooperative education associations to the list of other interested parties. The Secretaries have added vocational student organizations and State and regional cooperative education associations to paragraph (b)(3) because the Secretaries consider these two entities to be appropriate additions to the list of parties that may be involved in the State School-to-Work Opportunities system, and to ease the transition from funding under this Notice to funding under anticipated School-to-Work Opportunities legislation. In adding the parties suggested by the commenters and the parties in the House and Senate bills, the Secretaries wish to emphasize that the list of other parties in paragraph (b)(3) is purely illustrative of the types of parties whose active and continued participation in a State's School-to-Work system would be appropriate. Thus, while the Secretaries will place an absolute priority upon applications that provide for the active and continued involvement of employers and other interested parties, the Secretaries have chosen to allow each State the flexibility to determine which parties in addition to employers would most effectively assist the State to implement its School-to-Work Opportunities system.
