FR940920-2-00063 FR940920-2-00027 Environmental Monitoring: Environmental monitoring is required in two areas which are of particular concern to Region 10: discharge of drilling muds and cuttings below-ice to water depths shallower than 20 meters and within 1000 meters of an area of biological concern (i.e., a unique biological community or habitat). The Director has determined that controlled discharges to these areas, in accordance with 40 CFR 125.123(a) and the limitations and conditions in the draft permit, will not cause unreasonable degradation of the marine environment. Environmental monitoring is required to verify that discharges to these areas will not produce conditions in the future that would lead to unreasonable degradation. C. Deck Drainage (Discharge 002) Deck drainage includes all waste resulting from deck washings, spillage, rainwater, and run-off from gutters and drains including drip pans and work areas. Oil and grease are the primary pollutants identified in deck drainage. In addition to oil, various other chemicals used in drilling operations may be present. Specific conventional, toxic, and non-conventional pollutants found in deck drainage are controlled by the prohibition on the discharge of free oil. Deck drainage discharges are not continuous and can vary significantly in volume. Free oil: EPA is controlling pollutants found in deck drainage by the prohibition on the discharge of free oil. This limit is the current BPT level of control and is also the appropriate level of control under BCT and BAT. No free oil is permitted from the discharge of deck drainage in accordance with the offshore oil and gas effluent guidelines (58 FR 12506, March 4, 1993). Deck drainage was subject to this limitation in the previous permits issued by Region 10 and past practices have not resulted in violations of this limit. Compliance with the free oil limitation for deck drainage will be by visual observation for a sheen on the receiving water as mandated by the offshore oil and gas guidelines (58 FR 12506, March 4, 1993), except under the conditions described below. The Static Sheen Test will also be required for the monitoring of deck drainage during unstable or broken ice and stable ice conditions. Use of the Static Sheen Test will prevent a violation of the free oil limitation in those discharges most likely to be contaminated with oil. This would not be possible with an after-the-fact visual observation of a sheen on the receiving water. This requirement is similar to requirements in the Region's previous permits and will not result in any additional costs to the industry. Flow Rate: Flow rate is required to be estimated monthly. The basis for this requirement is Section 308 of the Act. D. Sanitary Wastes (Discharge 003) The sanitary wastes from offshore oil and gas facilities are made up of human body wastes from the toilets and urinals. The volume and concentrations of these wastes vary widely with time, occupancy, platform characteristics, and operational status (U.S. EPA, 1993a). Floating Solids: The prohibition on floating solids is mandated by the offshore oil and gas guidelines for facilities intermittently manned or continuously manned by fewer than 10 persons (58 FR 12470, March 4, 1993). This requirement does not specifically apply to facilities continuously manned by 10 or more persons (however, the method of compliance with the residual chlorine limit effectively limits floating solids for these facilities). Since previous permits for exploratory operations in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas have prohibited the discharge of floating solids for all facilities regardless of staffing, Region 10 is continuing the requirement in this permit based upon antibacksliding provisions [40 CFR 122.44(l)(2)]. This BCT prohibition on the discharge of floating solids is equivalent to the current level of control for sanitary wastes in previous permits. Residual Chlorine: Chlorine is regulated by the Agency in the offshore oil and gas effluent guidelines as a conventional pollutant. Chlorine is added to the wastestream to control fecal coliforms in the discharge. Facilities continuously manned by 10 or more persons are required to have a residual chlorine content of 1 milligram per liter (and maintained as close to the limit as possible). This limitation has been in previous Region 10 permits and is in the proposed permit as well. For facilities with fewer than 10 persons or intermittently staffed by any number of persons (i.e., M91M facilities), the proposed permit prohibits the discharge of floating solids only, with no chlorine limitation.
