FR940216-0-00080 FR940216-0-00010 B. Factors Affecting Selection of the Phase II Standards In determining the Phase II reformulated gasoline standards, EPA considered the health, environmental, and energy impacts, as well as the cost and the technological feasibility of reformulating gasoline to attain emission reductions of VOCs, toxics, and NO X . EPA's analyses of these factors are discussed briefly below, and in detail in the RIA. 1. Health and Environmental Impacts The purpose of the reformulated gasoline program is to reduce motor vehicle emissions of ozone forming VOCs and certain specified toxic air pollutants in those areas most in need of such reductions. As discussed above, EPA is also reducing ozone forming NO X emissions from RFG as a part of this rulemaking. EPA measured the health and environmental benefits of the reformulated gasoline program in terms of the number of tons of VOC, NO X , and toxics reduced, since the Act specifies mass-based emissions reductions. The benefits of toxics reductions were further evaluated on the basis of the number of cancer incidences avoided, since this is a common measure of the effectiveness of toxics control. The reader is directed to section C below for quantified estimates of these reductions. The benefits of ozone reduction will be gained through the reduction of both VOC and NO X emissions. Ambient ozone levels and the effect of VOC emission reductions on these levels vary from city to city, making it difficult to quantify the benefits of the VOC reduction beyond tons of emissions reduced. In general, reductions in VOC emissions will improve the air quality of most affected areas and thereby reduce the negative health impacts of exposure to high levels of ozone. Visibility and other environmental measures are also improved through reductions in emissions of ozone precursors. Similar benefits will be gained through reductions in NO X emissions. The reader is directed to subsection C.2 for further discussion on the health and environmental benefits of NO X control. Reducing ozone levels in highly populated urban areas would help to reduce short-term health effects such as impaired lung function, cough, nausea, chest pain, throat irritation, increased susceptibility to respiratory infection, and increased sensitivity of asthmatics to allergens (e.g., pollen) and other bronchoconstrictors. Long-term health effects of exposure to ozone include accelerated aging of the lungs, reduced elasticity of the lungs, scarring of lung tissue, and permanent reductions in baseline lung function. Although the reformulated gasoline program is concentrated in urban areas, some reformulated gasoline will be used in rural areas as a result of spillover in the distribution system. Reducing ozone levels in rural areas would enhance agricultural crop yield, currently estimated to be reduced by as much as $2&hyph;3 billion per year by existing ozone concentrations. 11 In addition, lower ozone levels would help reduce damage to forest ecosystems which experience lower tree growth rate, foliage damage, and increased susceptibility to stress (e.g., insects, disease, drought) caused by current tropospheric ozone levels. 12 11 U.S. EPA, ``Air Quality Criteria for Ozone and Other Photochemical Oxidants,'' EPA Report No. EPA&hyph;600/8&hyph;84/020A-E, p.1&hyph;27. 12 Ibid., p. 7&hyph;1 through 7&hyph;4. Reductions in mobile source emissions of the air toxics addressed in the reformulated gasoline program (benzene, 1,3-butadiene, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, and POM) may result in fewer cancer incidences. A number of adverse noncancer health effects have also been associated with exposure to air toxics, particularly with higher level exposures experienced in particular microenvironments such as parking garages and refueling stations. These other health effects include blood disorders, heart and lung diseases, and eye, nose, and throat irritation. Some of the toxics may also be developmental and reproductive toxicants, while very high exposure can cause effects on the brain leading to respiratory paralysis and even death. The use of reformulated gasoline meeting the Phase II standards will likely help to reduce some of these health effects, as well. A more thorough discussion of the variety of possible non-cancer effects of concern from exposure to air toxics is contained in EPA's Motor Vehicle-Related Air Toxics Study. 13 13 EPA document 420&hyph;R&hyph;93&hyph;005, April 1993. The emissions reductions and cancer incidences avoided as a result of today's standards are discussed below in section C. In addition to the benefits from reductions in emissions of VOC, NO X , and toxics, other environmental benefits will be realized as a result of the use of reformulated gasoline. Emissions of carbon monoxide will decrease as the result of adding oxygen to the fuel, to the benefit of areas out of attainment for this air pollutant and to human health in general. 14 In addition, since reformulated gasoline is projected to cost more than conventional gasoline, it is possible that consumers will purchase and, thus, use less gasoline, resulting in fewer overall emissions due to mobile sources. 14 Most of this benefit will occur as a result of the use of oxygen in Phase I RFG, not from the Phase II reductions. 2. Energy Impacts Production of Phase II reformulated gasoline subject to performance standards for VOC, NO X , and toxics will require an increase in the amount of energy used at the refinery. An estimate of the energy used depends on many factors, including how the energy balance is evaluated, the type and source of oxygenate, the refinery configuration, and the reformulation approach. Determining an exact energy increase associated with reformulated gasoline production (on the basis of a constant level of gasoline energy produced) is difficult. As later sections of this document will show, the standards for VOC and NO x reduction promulgated today will likely be met largely through reductions in the sulfur content and Reid vapor pressure (RVP) of the fuel. The process used to remove sulfur from gasoline, hydrodesulfurization, is an energy intensive process; mainly due to the need for and consumption of hydrogen. The energy impact will depend on the sulfur level of the crude used by the refinery and the level of sulfur control necessary for that refinery to meet the standards. Reducing the RVP of the fuel requires removal of the lighter compounds in the fuel, also an energy consuming process. Overall, it is expected that the energy consumption by refineries in producing Phase II reformulated gasoline will increase slightly (perhaps a couple percent) over the level of energy used to make Phase I RFG, but the magnitude of this increase is difficult to measure due to the many variables involved.
