FR941220-0-00026 FR941220-0-00005 Excluded Services (§409.49) Comment: One commenter stated that the Medicare home health benefit should cover drugs and biologicals furnished in the home. Response: We cannot accept this comment because section 1861(m)(5) of the Act specifically excludes drugs and biologicals from Medicare home health coverage. Comment: One commenter noted that the regulations text in the proposed rule omitted paragraph (c) of §409.49. Response: The proposed rule did inadvertently omit paragraph (c) of this section from the regulations text, although the provisions of paragraph (c) were described in the preamble. This final rule includes paragraph (c), which excludes from home health coverage services which would not be covered if furnished as hospital inpatient services. We have specified this exclusion because the unnumbered material in section 1861(m) of the Act following paragraph (m)(7) specifically precludes home health coverage of any service that would not be covered as an inpatient hospital service. Comment: One commenter stated that exclusion from coverage of housekeeping services is too restrictive. Response: We do not agree. It is important to note that §409.49(d) excludes only those services whose sole purpose is to allow the beneficiary to continue to reside in his or her home. If a home health aide performs some light housekeeping incidental to providing a covered home health aide service, that visit would not be excluded from coverage. However, a visit for the sole purpose of providing housekeeping services would not be covered, as these services are not related to the treatment of the beneficiary's illness or injury. As we stated in the preamble of the proposed rule, this does not represent any change from current Medicare policy and would not affect the coverage of home health aide services that are essential for healthcare, such as bathroom disinfection and the cleaning of soiled sheets. Also, it is important to note that this exclusion applies to Medicare coverage of aide services under the home health benefit and has no impact on coverage of ``homemaker'' services furnished under the Medicare hospice benefit. ``Homemaker'' services, which we consider to be identical to housekeeping services, are specifically mentioned as a covered hospice service in 42 CFR 418.202(g). Comment: Several commenters asked that we clarify Medicare coverage of home health services furnished to end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. One commenter specifically requested clarification of Medicare coverage of a home health nursing visit to furnish wound care related to an abandoned shunt site. Response: Because Medicare's composite rate payment to an ESRD facility is intended to subsume payment for all dialysis-related services, any service directly related to a beneficiary's dialysis is covered as a dialysis service and not as a home health service. Home health services that are not related to an ESRD beneficiary's dialysis, however, can be covered under the home health benefit if all requirements are met (for example, the beneficiary is homebound). Only those services which are directly related to the beneficiary's dialysis (and not to other aspects of renal disease) are excluded by this paragraph. Because wound care for an abandoned shunt site is not directly related to the beneficiary's dialysis, a nursing visit to furnish such care to a qualified Medicare home health beneficiary would be covered. Comment: One commenter stated that the reference to §410.36 in paragraph (f) appears to exclude coverage of wound supplies and intravenous maintenance supplies. Response: Paragraph (f) excludes from coverage only those items which meet the requirements of §410.36(b) for prosthetic devices. That is, prosthetic devices that replace all or part of a body organ (with the exception of catheters, catheter supplies, ostomy bags, and bags relating to ostomy care) are excluded from coverage under the home health benefit. Section 1861(m) of the Act indicates that medical supplies and durable medical equipment are covered home health services. Since prosthetic devices are not also listed in section 1861(m), they cannot be covered as home health services. Items described in §410.36(a), such as surgical dressings, are not excluded by this paragraph. Any item that meets the requirements for coverage contained in §409.45(f) of this rule as medical supplies may be covered as a home health service. Condition of Participation: Home Health Aide Services (§484.36) Comment: Several commenters stated that the current requirement that home health aides must receive at least 12 hours of in-service training each calendar year is overly burdensome. The commenters did not protest the required number of training hours but found the requirement that the training be furnished within each calendar year to present burdensome scheduling problems. The commenters said these scheduling problems were particularly difficult in the cases of home health aides who were hired late in the calendar year and therefore were obligated to complete the 12 hours of training in a relatively short period of time.
