FR941019-1-00014 FR941019-1-00001 (ii) Any departures from the outage plan during the shutdown or refueling outage shall be evaluated in the manner also described above and appropriate measures implemented. (d) Requirements for licensees of PWRs. All licensees of pressurized-water reactors must provide instrumentation for monitoring water level in the RCS during midloop operation. The accuracy of the instrumentation shall not be affected by changes in pressure in the RCS or connected systems. The installed instrumentation shall include visible and audible indications in the control room to alert operators before water level falls below a prescribed limit. (e) Implementation. (1) All licensees must comply with paragraph (c) of this section by no less than 6 months before the first refueling outage that starts either 12 months or more after the effective date of this section or 12 months or more after issuance of the Commission's regulatory guide giving details and examples of approaches to satisfy these requirements (whichever is later). (2) If the licensee chooses to install or modify systems, structures, or components to comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, such hardware installation and/or modification must be completed by the end of the first refueling outage that starts either 12 months or more after the effective date of this section or 12 months or more after issuance of the Commission's regulatory guide giving details and examples of approaches to satisfy these requirements (whichever is later). (3) All licensees must submit technical specifications required by paragraph (c)(3)(iii) within 6 months after issuance of the final regulatory guide providing guidance on compliance with the requirements of this section. (4) All licensees of PWRs, except as noted in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, must comply with paragraph (d) of this section by the end of the first refueling outage that starts either 12 months or more after the effective date of this section or 12 months or more after issuance of the Commission regulatory guide giving details and examples of approaches to satisfy this requirement (whichever is later). (5) The requirement in paragraph (e)(4) of this section does not apply to those plants that have completely defueled for final shutdown but still retain an operating license (i.e., those plants that are preparing for decommissioning). Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 14th day of October, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle, Acting Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25916 Filed 10&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;P
