FR940606-0-00026 FR940606-0-00007 Executive Order 12866 also requires that the record for ``significant'' rules include an assessment of the potentially effective and reasonably feasible alternatives to the planned action. The potentially effective and reasonably feasible alternatives to the control requirements in the HON were also analyzed as part of the rule development process. The methods for and results of these analyses are described in the HON's Background Information Document (BID). The BID was included in the HON docket at proposal, and thus it was also available for public comment. In addition, many of the alternative requirements considered by the Administrator were described in the preamble for the HON proposal. The potential costs associated with selection of the final provisions are primarily the result of statutory requirements. All elements of the cost that are not directly attributable to statutory requirements were deemed appropriate because the Administrator determined that they were necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of this rule, the Administrator has determined that the benefits justify the costs. The Administrator has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. D. Regulatory Flexibility Act Compliance The Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) requires the EPA to consider potential impacts of Federal regulations on small business entities. If a preliminary analysis indicates that a proposed regulation would have a significant economic impact on 20 percent or more of small entities, then a regulatory flexibility analysis must be prepared. Regulatory impacts are considered significant if any of the following criteria are met: (1) Compliance increases annual production costs by more than 5 percent, assuming costs are passed on to consumers; (2) compliance costs as a percentage of sales for small entities are at least 10 percent more than compliance costs as a percentage of sales for large entities; (3) capital costs of compliance represent a ``significant'' portion of capital available to small entities, considering internal cash flow plus external financial capabilities; or (4) regulatory requirements are likely to result in closures of small entities. The potential costs of the requirements for medium sized storage vessels were considered as part of the economic impact analysis for the entire regulation. The assessment of the economic impacts of the overall regulation were presented in the April 22, 1994 Federal Register (59 FR 19449). Therefore, the addition of the final provisions to the standard does not alter the conclusion that the standard is not expected to have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small firms. Pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 605(b), I hereby certify that this attached rule will not have an economic impact on small entities because no additional costs will be incurred. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 63 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Hazardous substances, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: May 27, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
