FR940603-2-00154 FR940603-2-00091 (d) Quality of Key Personnel (10 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) The principal investigator and other key staff have adequate training or experience, or both, in spinal cord injury care and rehabilitation and demonstrate appropriate potential to conduct the proposed research, demonstration, training, development, or dissemination activity; (2) The principal investigator and other key staff are familiar with pertinent literature or methods, or both; (3) All the disciplines necessary to establish the multidisciplinary system described in Section 359.11(a) are effectively represented; (4) Commitments of staff time are adequate for the project; and (5) The applicant is likely, as part of its non-discriminatory employment practices, to encourage applications for employment from persons who are members of groups that traditionally have been underrepresented, such as (i) Members of racial or ethnic minority groups; (ii) Women; (iii) Persons with disabilities; and (iv) The elderly. (e) Adequacy of Resources (10) points. The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) The facilities planned for use are adequate; (2) The equipment and supplies planned for use are adequate; and (3) The commitment of the applicant to provide administrative and other necessary support is evident. (f) Budget/Cost Effectiveness (10 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) The budget for the project is adequate to support the activities; (2) The costs are reasonable in relation to the objectives of the project; and (3) The budget for subcontracts (if required) is detailed and appropriate). (g) Dissemination/Utilization (5 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) There is a clear defined plan for dissemination and utilization of project findings; (2) The research results are likely to become available to others working in the field; (3) The means to disseminate and promote utilization by others are defined; and (4) The utilization approach is likely to address the defined need. (h) Evaluation Plan (10 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) There is a mechanism to evaluate plans, progress and results; (2) The evaluation methods and objectives are likely to produce data that are quantifiable; and (3) The evaluation results, where relevant, are likely to be assessed in a service setting. Eligible Applicants: Public and other nonprofit agencies and organizations are eligible to apply for awards under this program. Program Authority: 29 U.S.C. 762.
