FR940429-0-00102 FR940429-0-00012 (C) Provide estimates of the costs of coordinating the institutions' and State's information systems with an information system developed by the SPRE; and (iii) Must submit a budget for developing the standards and the complaint procedures and, if relevant, for providing cost estimates for the SPRE's information system. The budget cannot exceed the State's allotment. (2) If the State's allotment is less than the State's anticipated cost of carrying out the activities described in paragraph (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section, the State shall first use its allotment to develop the review standards. If a portion of the allotment remains after the State develops its review standards, the State may develop procedures for receiving and responding to complaints from students, faculty, and others regarding institutions in the State. The State may use any remaining portion of its allotment to provide cost estimates for the SPRE's information system only after it has completed developing its review standards and complaint procedures. (c) Application after standards are established. (1) If the Secretary has not disapproved the State's review standards under §667.22, to receive its allotment, the State must submit to the Secretary_ (i) Its plan to review referred institutions; and (ii) A budget for those reviews that does not exceed the State's allotment calculated under §667.11, less any amount expended by the SPRE in carrying out the activities under paragraph (b) of this section. (2)(i) If a SPRE anticipates that the cost of reviewing all the referred institutions will exceed the State's allotment, the SPRE shall, as part of its plan, submit a priority system for selecting institutions to review from among the referred institutions; and (ii) The SPRE shall have discretion in developing its priority system, except that the SPRE must make its top priority for review, referred institutions that the Secretary has scheduled for recertification under 34 CFR part 668, subpart B. (iii) A SPRE may establish the lowest reveiw priority for an institution if_ (A) The institution is referred to the SPRE for a reason described in §667.5(b)(6) concerning the timely submission of an audit report or §667.5(b)(9) concerning a change of ownership that results in a change of control; and (B) The SPRE previously conducted a review of the institution as a result of a referral for the same reason in §667.5(b)(6) or (b)(9), respectively, and found no significant violations of the State's standards. (d) Timely submission. A State may submit to the Secretary the information required in paragraph (c) of this section at the same time that it submits to the Secretary the information and documentation required under paragraph (b) of this section. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;1099a&hyph;3) §667.13 Approval of funding application. (a) Before standards are established. The Secretary approves a State's plan and budget submitted before the State establishes review standards if_ (1) The plan provides a reasonable basis, and adequate budget justification, for carrying out the activities described in §667.12(b)(1); (2) If applicable, the plan includes a priority system for using the State's allotment as described in §667.12(b)(2); and (3) The budget includes only reasonable allowable costs within the State's allotment. (b) After standards are established. After the State establishes review standards, the Secretary approves a State's plan and budget for the allowable activities described in §667.14 if_ (1) The plan provides adequate budget justification for those activities; (2) The plan provides for a reasonable scheme for reviewing referred institutions; (3) The plan includes a priority system for review of institutions as described in §667.12(c)(2); (4) The proposed contracts with private agencies, nationally recognized accrediting agencies, or peer review systems to carry out SPRE functions included in the plan are reasonable and appropriate; and (5) The budget includes only reasonable allowable costs within the State's allotment. (c) Failure to submit an acceptable application. If a State does not submit an application for funds under §667.12 or its application is not approved under this section_ (1) The State is ineligible to receive_ (i) Any funds appropriated to carry out this program; (ii) Its allotment of any funds appropriated under the SSIG Program; and (iii) Any funds appropriated to carry out the NEISP Program; and (2) The Secretary_ (i) Does not designate as eligible for participation in a title IV, HEA program any institution located in that State seeking initial participation in that program, any branch campus located in that State for which an institution seeks an initial designation of eligibility under 34 CFR part 600, or any institution located in that State that has undergone a change in ownership that results in a change in control as determined in 34 CFR part 600; and (ii) Grants only provisional certification, as determined in 34 CFR part 668, to an institution in that State not described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;1099a&hyph;3)
