FR940725-2-00051 FR940725-2-00035 Review Criteria Review panels composed mainly of nonfederal members will evaluate applications for awards. Staff from MCHB and ACYF will also serve on review panels. The following review criteria will be used to review and evaluate CISS/HVAF applications: _Documentation of joint involvement of State MCH and State Child Welfare agencies in the development of the application and their intent to work together in developing the health component of the Five-Year FP/FS State Plan including a time-framed strategy to ensure completion of required tasks. _Extent of existing and planned collaborative activities to be conducted in conjunction with any MCH systems initiatives including the MCH Block Grant, MCH State Systems Development Initiative (SSDI), Community Integrated Service Systems (CISS) or related Special Projects of Regional and National Significance (SPRANS) and the assurance of mechanisms to promote collaboration between MCH and CW in developing the State's MCH Services Block Grant application. _Extent to which CISS/HVAF applicants will build on existing and planned collaborative initiatives with other agencies (health, education, mental health, justice) to link and coordinate services for children and families at the community level. _The quality and feasibility of the project plan or methodology and its relation to the project's goals and objectives. _Level of proposed community input and involvement in design of the plan. _Use of requested grant funds to carry out proposed health planning activities. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements (approved under OMB No. 0937&hyph;0195). Under these requirements, the community-based nongovernmental applicant must prepare and submit a Public Health System Impact Statement (PHSIS). The PHSIS is intended to provide information to State and local health officials to keep them apprised of proposed health services grant applications submitted by community-based nongovernmental organizations within their jurisdictions. Community-based nongovernmental applicants are required to submit the following information to the head of the appropriate State and local health agencies in the area(s) to be impacted no later than the Federal application receipt due date: (a) A copy of the face page of the application (SF 424). (b) A summary of the project (PHSIS), not to exceed one page, which provides: (1) A description of the population to be served. (2) A summary of the services to be provided. (3) A description of the coordination planned with the appropriate State and local health agencies. Executive Order 12372 The Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant program has been determined to be a program which is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372 concerning intergovernmental review of Federal programs. The OMB Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.110. Dated: July 20, 1994. Ciro V. Sumaya, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18049 Filed 7&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;P
