FR940627-2-00080 FR940627-2-00031 Other Points for Consideration by Non-Profit Grantees The following points are to aid non-profit Grantees in administering the Act and in complying with the requirements of NIH funding agreements. First, Grantees must ensure that the rights to inventions resulting from Federal funding are not assigned without NIH approval. An exception to this is when the assignment is made to an organization which has as one of its primary functions the management of inventions, in which case, the assignee will be subject to the same provisions as the Grantee. Second, Grantees must share royalties collected on NIH supported inventions with the inventors and the balance of any royalties or income earned, after payment of expenses, including payment to inventors and incidental expenses to the administration of subject inventions, must be utilized for the support of scientific research or education. Third, Grantees must employ reasonable efforts to attract licensees of subject inventions that are small business firms. Additionally, Grantees must provide a preference to small business firms when licensing a subject invention if Grantees determine that small business firms have plans or proposals for marketing the invention which, if executed, are equally as likely to bring the invention to practical application as any plans or proposals from applicants that are not small business firms. However, Grantees must be satisfied that the small business firms have the capability and resources to carry out plans or proposals. The decision whether to give a preference in any specific case is at the discretion of the Grantee. However, since sponsored research agreements typically provide exclusive licenses or options to such rights to the sponsor, Grantees should seriously consider and provide for these issues when negotiating such agreements. Conclusion Technology transfer is a vehicle through which the fruits of NIH funded research are transferred to industry to be ultimately developed into preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic products to advance human health. In a dynamic and multinational marketplace, if the United States is to remain a world leader in technological and scientific innovation, both the public and private sectors must work together to foster rapid development and commercialization of useful products to benefit human health, stimulate the economy, and enhance our international competitiveness, while at the same time protecting taxpayers' investment and safeguarding the principles of scientific integrity and academic freedom. It is in this spirit that the NIH encourages Grantees to address the issues and apply the points for consideration identified in this document when developing sponsored research agreements with commercial entities. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15466 Filed 6&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;P
