FR940620-1-00079 FR940620-1-00009 (2) The Government shall not publish a deliverable technical data item or items identified in this contract as being subject to paragraph (l) of this clause or authorize others to publish such data on its behalf if, prior to publication for sale by the Government and within twenty-four (24) months following the date specified in this contract for delivery of such data or the removal of any national security or export control restrictions, whichever is later, the Contractor publishes that item or items for sale and promptly notifies the contracting officer of such publication(s). Any such publication shall include a notice identifying the number of this contract and the Government's rights in the published data. (3) This limitation on the Government's right to publish for sale shall continue as long as the data are reasonably available to the public for purchase. (END OF ALTERNATE I) 17. Section 252.227&hyph;7014 is added to read as follows: 252.227&hyph;7014 Rights in Noncommercial Computer Software and Noncommercial Computer Software Documentation. As prescribed in 227.503&hyph;6(a)(1), use the following clause: RIGHTS IN NONCOMMERCIAL COMPUTER SOFTWARE AND NONCOMMERCIAL COMPUTER SOFTWARE DOCUMENTATION (XXX 1994) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause: (1) Commercial computer software means software developed or regularly used for non-governmental purposes which_ (i) Has been sold, leased, or licensed to the public; (ii) Has been offered for sale, lease, or license to the public; (iii) Has not been offered, sold, leased, or licensed to the public but will be available for commercial sale, lease, or license in time to satisfy the delivery requirements of this contract; or, (iv) Satisfies a criterion expressed in (a)(1) (i), (ii), or (iii) and would require only minor modification to meet the requirements of this contract. (2) Computer database means a collection of recorded data in a form capable of being processed by a computer. The term does not include computer software. (3) Computer program means a set of instructions, rules, or routines, recorded in a form that is capable of causing a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations. (4) Computer software means computer programs, source code, source code listings, object code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae, and related material that would enable the software to be reproduced, recreated, or recompiled. Computer software does not include computer databases or computer software documentation. (5) Computer software documentation means owner's manuals, user's manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions for using the software. (6) Developed means that_ (i) A computer program has been successfully operated in a computer and tested to the extent sufficient to demonstrate to reasonable persons skilled in the art that the program can reasonably be expected to perform its intended purpose; (ii) Computer software, other than computer programs, has been tested or analyzed to the extent sufficient to demonstrate to reasonable persons skilled in the art that the software can reasonably be expected to perform its intended purpose; or, (iii) Computer software documentation required to be delivered under a contract has been written, in any medium, in sufficient detail to comply with requirements under that contract. (7) Developed exclusively at private expense means development was accomplished entirely with costs charged to indirect cost pools, costs not allocated to a government contract, or any combination thereof. (i) Private expense determinations should be made at the lowest practicable level.
