FR940414-1-00018 FR940414-1-00005 I. Background on Title IV of SMCRA Title IV of SMCRA established an AMLR program for the purposes of reclaiming and restoring lands and waters adversely affected by past mining. The program is funded by a reclamation fee levied on the production of coal. Lands and waters eligible for reclamation under title IV are those that were mined or affected by mining and abandoned or inadequately reclaimed prior to August 3, 1977, and for which there is no continuing reclamation responsibility under State, Federal, Tribal, or other laws. Title IV provides for State or Tribal submittal to OSM of an AMLR plan. The Secretary of the Interior adopted regulations in 30 CFR parts 870 through 888 that implement Title IV of SMCRA. Under these regulations, the Secretary reviewed the plans submitted by States and Tribes and solicited and considered comments of State and Federal agencies and the public. Based upon the comments received, the Secretary determined whether a State or Tribe had the ability and necessary legislation to implement the provisions of Title IV. After making such a determination, the Secretary decided whether to approve the State or Tribe program and granted the State or Tribe exclusive authority to administer its approved plan. Ordinarily, under section 405 of SMCRA, a State or Tribe must have an approved surface mining regulatory program prior to submittal of an AMLR plan to OSM. However, on July 11, 1987, the President signed a supplemental appropriations bill (Pub. L. 100&hyph;71) that authorized the Crow, Navajo, and Hopi Tribes to adopt AMLR programs without approval of Tribal surface mining regulatory programs. Upon approval of a State's or Tribe's plan by the Secretary, the State or Tribe may submit to OSM, on an annual basis, an application for funds to be expended by that State or Tribe on specific projects that are necessary to implement the approved plan. Such annual requests are reviewed and approved by OSM in accordance with the requirements of 30 CFR Part 886. II. Background on the Hopi Tribe Plan On June 28, 1988, the Secretary of the Interior approved the Hopi Tribe plan. General background information on the Hopi Tribe plan, including the Secretary's findings, the disposition of comments, and the approval of the Hopi Tribe plan can be found in the June 28, 1988, Federal Register (53 FR 24262). Approval of the Hopi Tribe plan is codified at 30 CFR 756.15. III. Discussion of Proposed Action By letter dated February 2, 1994, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Hopi Tribe notified the Secretary of the Interior that the Tribe had satisfied the requirements of SMCRA in regard to abandoned coal mine reclamation and was, therefore, requesting the Secretary's concurrence with certification of completion of all known coal-related problems (administrative record No. HO&hyph;002&hyph;FOR). IV. Public Comment Procedures In accordance with section 411 of SMCRA, OSM is seeking public comments and information concerning any known or suspected unreclaimed lands and water resources on Hopi lands that may have been adversely affected by coal mining practices prior to August 3, 1977, and for which there is no continuing reclamation responsibility under State, Federal Tribal, or other laws. Should the Secretary concur with the certification, the Tribe intends to request, in accordance with 30 CFR part 886, AMLR funding for the construction of public facilities as provided under sections 411 (e) and (f) of SMCRA.If no past coal mining problems eligible for funding under section 404 of SMCRA are identified through this process, the Secretary intends to concur with the Tribe's certification. If, after the Secretary's concurrence, a coal problem occurs or is identified, the Tribe would have to seek immediate funding for reclaiming the coal-related problem. 1. Written Comments Written comments should be specific, pertain only to the Hopi Tribe's request for certification of completion of coal reclamation, and include explanations in support of the commenter's recommendations. Comments received after the time indicated under dates or at locations other than the Albuquerque Field Office will not necessarily be considered in the final rulemaking or included in the administrative record. 2. Public Hearing Persons wishing to testify at the public hearing should contact the person listed under for further information contact by 4 p.m., m.d.t. on April 29, 1994. The location and time of the hearing will be arranged with those persons requesting the hearing. If no one requests an opportunity to testify at the public hearing, the hearing will not be held.
