FR940819-0-00100 FR940819-0-00019 The FAA expects the final rule to help ensure that flight attendants are rested and alert when performing emergency and routine safety related duties and thereby reduce injuries and fatalities in air carrier accidents. However, as in the NPRM, the FAA has not quantified the benefits associated with this rulemaking because there is a lack of accident/incident data that can be used to directly correlate flight attendant fatigue with passenger fatalities and injuries. Instead, the FAA has examined the potential benefits of this rulemaking from a qualitative perspective. Increased Safety The FAA received comments both supporting and opposing the correlation between flight attendant duty period limitations and rest requirements and passenger safety. One commenter stated that fatigue increases during the work period, and duty times that exceed 12 hours for domestic flights and 14 hours for international flights can be expected to potentially derogate safety performance. Another commenter stated that the FAA has provided no sufficient foundation for concluding that the absence of the proposed regulations constitutes a derogation of aviation safety, and that the absence of any experience in which a flight safety problem was attributable to undue flight attendant fatigue is a strong argument that no such problem exists. FAA Response The FAA agrees with commenters who stated that inadequate rest or excessive duty periods could derogate safety. However, the commenters did not define acceptable or unacceptable levels of risk, and did not provide any justification for the distinction. Because quantifiable data was not available, the FAA was unable to calculate the quantitative benefits of the rule. The FAA recognizes that inadequate rest periods for flight attendants could create a potential safety problem. Therefore, the FAA expects that this final rule will ensure that flight attendants receive the opportunity to be rested and alert when performing emergency and routine safety-related duties, thereby reducing passenger and crew injuries and fatalities. Increased Worker Productivity The Coalition stated that, in addition to improving the safety of air travel, the regulatory evaluation should take into account the cost savings from improved worker productivity. That commenter also stated that a careful review of various studies would likely reveal that the benefits of more reasonable duty hours and adequate rest include decreased absenteeism and health problems related to fatigue. The Allied Pilot Association stated that ``the welfare of regulated employees ought to be one of the concerns of rulemakers.'' FAA Response The FAA has examined the impact of improved worker productivity as it relates to safety and has determined that reduced rest for flight attendants could impede flight attendant performance during emergency evacuations or during routine safety duties requiring a high degree of alertness. Cost savings could result from improved worker productivity; however, no information is available to quantify this benefit.
