FR941003-2-00106 FR941003-2-00049 Section 213.3207␣Department of the Army (a) U.S. Army Command and General Staff College. (1) Seven positions of professors, instructors, and education specialists. Total employment of any individual under this authority may not exceed 4 years. (b) Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Texas. (1) Two Medical Officer (Surgery) positions, GS&hyph;12, in the Clinical Division, U.S. Army Institute of Surgical Research, whose incumbents are enrolled in medical school surgical residency programs. Employment under this authority shall not exceed 12 months. Section 213.3208␣Department of the Navy (a) Naval Underwater Systems Center, New London, Connecticut. (1) One position of oceanographer, grade GS&hyph;14, to function as project director and manager for research in the weapons systems applications of ocean eddies. (b) All civilian faculty positions of professors, instructors, and teachers on the staff of the Armed Forces Staff College, Norfolk, Virginia. (c) One Director and four Research Psychologists at the professor or GS&hyph;15 level in the Defense Personnel Security Research and Education Center. (d) All civilian professor positions at the Marine Corps Command and Staff College. (e) One position of Staff Assistant, GS&hyph;301&hyph;13, whose incumbent will manage the Navy's Executive Dining facilities at the Pentagon. (f) One position of Housing Management Specialist, GM&hyph;1173&hyph;14, involved with the Bachelor Quarters Management Study. No new appointments may be made under this authority after February 29, 1992. Section 213.3209␣Department of the Air Force (a) Not to exceed four interdisciplinary positions for the Air Research Institute at the Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, for employment to complete studies proposed by candidates and acceptable to the Air Force. Initial appointments are made not to exceed 3 years, with an option to renew or extend the appointments in increments of 1, 2, or 3 years indefinitely thereafter. (b) (Reserved). (c) One Director of Instruction and 14 civilian Instructors at the Defense Institute of Security Assistance Management, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio. Individual appointments under this authority will be for an initial 3-year period, which may be followed by an appointment of indefinite duration. (d) Six positions of professor, associate professor, or professional academic staff at the Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, associated with courses of instruction of less than 10 months duration, for employment not to exceed 3 years, which may be renewed in 1-, 2-, or 3-year increments indefinitely thereafter.
