FR940728-2-00084 FR940728-2-00060 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Technical Advisory Committee for Diabetes Translation and Community Control Programs; Reestablishment ACTION: Notice of Reestablishment_Technical Advisory Committee for Diabetes Translation and Community Control Programs. Pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. Appendix 2, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announces the reestablishment of the following Federal advisory committee by the Secretary of Health and Human Services: Designation: Technical Advisory Committee for Diabetes Translation and Community Control Programs. Purpose: The Committee shall advise the Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, regarding priorities and feasible goals for translation activities and community control programs designed to reduce risk factors, morbidity, and mortality associated with diabetes and its complications. The Committee shall advise regarding policies, strategies, goals and objectives, and priorities; identify research advances and technologies ready for translation into widespread community practice; recommend public health strategies to be implemented through community interventions; advise on operational research and outcome evaluation methodologies; identify research issues for further clinical investigation; and advise regarding the coordination of programs with Federal, voluntary, and private resources involved in the provision of services to people with diabetes. Authority for this committee will expire June 15, 1996, unless the Secretary of Health and Human Services, with the concurrence of the Committee Management Secretariat, General Services Administration, formally determines that continuance is in the public interest. Dated: July 21, 1994. William H. Gimson, Acting Associate Director for Policy Coordination, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18363 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;M
