FR940617-2-00101 FR940617-2-00060 FCC Renews Advisory Committee to Enhance Network Reliability and Amends Charter AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Notice of Advisory Committee Renewal. SUMMARY: As of January 6, 1994, the Federal Communications Commission has renewed for two years the charter for an advisory committee, the ``Network Reliability Council,'' and has also subsequently amended its charter. As amended, the charter directs the committee to provide recommendations to the Commission and to the industry on the effects of increasing interconnection and new technologies on telecommunications reliability, review the recommendations contained in the industry publication, ``Network Reliability: A Report to the Nation,'' propose guidelines that will enhance availability of essential telecommunications services, such as E911, during network outages and collect data on whether network outages have disproportionate geographic or demographic impact. In order to ensure a balanced membership on the Council, the Commission has carefully selected members on the basis of their technical knowledge and the significance of questions of network reliability for their organizations and for those they represent. Any new members will be chosen so that the largest possible diversity of interests, given the function to be performed, will continue to be represented. The continuation of the advisory committee is necessary and in the public interest to prepare and evaluate recommendations to the industry and to the FCC for avoiding, and minimizing the impact of, future network outages, to monitor and encourage the implementation of its prior recommendations by the telecommunications industry, and to assess the effectiveness of the implemented recommendations on network access during outages. DATES: May 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC 20554. FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT: Jim Keegan, Chief, Domestic Facilities Division, Common Carrier, Federal Communications Commission, at (202) 634&hyph;1867. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14707 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
