FR940610-1-00071 FR940610-1-00008 (ii) A reimbursable lunch shall include a minimum of three menu items as defined in §210.2; one menu item shall be an entree and one shall be fluid milk as a beverage. An entree may be a combination of foods or a single food item that is offered as the main course. All menu items or foods offered as part of the reimbursable meal may be considered as contributing towards meeting the nutrition standards in paragraph (a) of this section, except for those foods that are considered foods of minimal nutritional value as provided for in §210.11(a)(2) which are not offered as part of a menu item in a reimbursable meal. Reimbursable lunches, as offered, shall meet the established nutrition standards in paragraph (a) of this section when averaged over a school week. (f) Milk requirement for children ages 2&hyph;17. Schools shall comply with the requirements for offering milk as provided for in §210.10a(d)(1). (g) Offer versus serve. Each participating school shall offer its students at least three menu items as required by paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section. Under offer versus serve, senior high students are required to take at least two of the three menu items offered; one menu item selected must be an entree. At the discretion of the school food authority, students below the senior high level may also participate in offer versus serve. The price of a reimbursable lunch shall not be affected if a student declines a menu item or accepts smaller portions. State educational agencies shall define ``senior high.'' (h) Choice. To provide variety and to encourage consumption and participation, schools should, whenever possible, offer a selection of menu items, foods and types of milk from which children may make choices. When a school offers a selection of more than one type of lunch or when it offers a variety of menu items, foods and milk for choice as a reimbursable lunch, the school shall offer all children the same selection regardless of whether the children are eligible for free or reduced price lunches or pay the school food authority's designated full price. The school may establish different unit prices for each type of lunch offered provided that the benefits made available to children eligible for free or reduced price lunches are not affected. (i) Lunch period. At or about mid-day schools shall offer lunches which meet the requirements of this section during a period designated as the lunch period by the school food authority. Such lunch periods shall occur between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., unless otherwise exempted by FNS. With state approval, schools that serve children 1&hyph;5 years old are encouraged to divide the service of the meal into two distinct service periods. Such schools may divide the quantities and/or menu items or foods offered between these service periods in any combination that they choose. Schools are also encouraged to provide an adequate number of lunch periods of sufficient length to ensure that all students have an opportunity to be served and have ample time to consume their meals. (j) Exceptions. Lunches claimed for reimbursement shall meet the school lunch requirements specified in this section. However, lunches offered which accommodate the exceptions and variations authorized under §210.10a(i) are also reimbursable. (k) Nutrient Standard Menu Planning for children age 2&hyph;17. In order to assure that school lunches meet the nutrition standards provided in paragraph (a) of this section, nutrient analysis shall be conducted on all menu items or foods offered as part of the reimbursable meal, except for those foods that are considered as foods of minimal nutritional value as provided for in §210.11(a)(2) which are not offered as part of a menu item in a reimbursable meal. Such analysis shall be over the course of each school week. The school food authority shall either independently conduct Nutrient Standard Menu Planning or shall request that the State agency allow Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning. (l) The National Nutrient Database and software specifications. (i) Nutrient analysis shall be based on information provided in the National Nutrient Database for Child Nutrition Programs. This database shall be incorporated into software used to conduct nutrient analysis. Upon request, FNS will provide information about the database to software companies that wish to develop school food service software systems. (ii) Any software used to conduct nutrient analysis shall be evaluated by FNS and, as submitted, been determined to meet the minimum requirements established by FNS. However, such review does not constitute endorsement by FNS or USDA. Such software shall provide the capability to perform all functions required after the basic data has been entered including calculation of weighted averages as required by paragraph (k)(2) of this section. (2) Determination of weighted averages. (i) Menu items and foods offered as part of a reimbursable meal shall be analyzed based on portion sizes and projected serving amounts and shall be weighted based on their proportionate contribution to the meals. Therefore, menu items or foods more frequently selected will contribute more nutrients than menu items or foods which are less frequently selected. Such weighting shall be done in accordance with guidance issued by FNS as well as that provided by the software used. (ii) An analysis of all menu items and foods offered in the menu over each school week shall be computed for calories and for each of the following nutrients: protein; vitamin A; vitamin C; iron; calcium; total fat; saturated fat; and sodium. The analysis shall also include the dietary components of cholesterol and dietary fiber.
