FR940404-2-00162 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the International Coffee Organization Council and Negotiating Session, International Coffee Organization (ICO), London, March 22&hyph;31, 1993 Representative Myles R.P. Frechette, Assistant United States Trade Representative, Latin America, Caribbean, and Africa, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Alternate Representative Ralph Ives, Director for Andean Affairs, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Advisers Michael Glover, Economic Officer, United States Embassy, London Thomas L. Robinson, Director, Office of Food Policy Programs, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Private Sector Advisers Joseph M. Apuzzo, President, Armenia Coffee Company, Purchase, New York George E. Boecklin, President, National Coffee Association, U.S.A., New York, New York David A. Brown, Maxwell House Coffee Company, White Plains, New York Richard Emanuele, Tardivat International Coffee Corporation, New York, New York Stephen H. Gluck, Cargill Coffee PLC, Surrey, United Kingdom John T. Hays, Coffees of Hawaii, Inc., Honolulu, Hawaii Howard C. Katz, J. Aron and Company, New York, New York James P. McCrea, Louis Dreyfus Coffee Company, Wilton, Connecticut John Sutherland, Continental Coffee Products, Chicago, Illinois Richard L. Thompson, Nestle Beverages, San Francisco, California United States Delegation to the Conference to Consider a Draft Protocol to the International Convention for the Safety of Fishing Vessels, International Maritime Organization (IMO), Torremolinos, Spain, March 22&hyph;April 2, 1993 Representative Arthur E. Henn, Rear Admiral, Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Joseph J. Angelo, Associate Program Director, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers Gene F. Hammel, International Affairs Division, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Robert L. Markle, Survival Systems Branch, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Edward J. McCauley, Lieutenant Commander, Fishing Vessel and Offshore Safety Branch, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Timothy V. Skuby, Lieutenant Commander, Fishing Vessel and Offshore Safety Branch, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Private Sector Adviser Anthony B. Ford, Safety Director, Arctic Alaska Fisheries Corporation, Seattle, Washington United States Delegation to the United Nations Conference for the Negotiation of a Successor Agreement to the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983, First Session, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Geneva, April 13&hyph;16, 1993 Representative Duane Sams, Director, Commodity Policy, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Alternate Representatives Stephanie Caswell, Office of Ecology, Health and Conservation, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Milton Drucker, Office of International Commodities, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Advisers Michael Hicks, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture Robert Konrath, United States Mission, Geneva Michael Martin, United States Forest Service, Department of Agriculture Franklyn Moore, Office of International Activities, Environmental Protection Agency Joyce Rabens, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Geneva Private Sector Adviser Wendy Baer, International Hardwood Products Association, Alexandria, Virginia
