FR940428-2-00158 FR940428-2-00072 Part I A. Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Requirements 1. During the period beginning on the effective date and lasting through expiration, the permittee is authorized to discharge from each outfall of non-contact cooling water (as defined in Paragraph I.A.1.f. below) into fresh and marine water. a. Such discharges shall be limited and monitored by the permittee as specified below: ␣ 1Effluent characteristic 1Discharge limitations other units (specify) 2Avg. monthly 2Max. daily 1Monitoring requirements 2Measurement frequency 2Sample type Flow (see I.A.1.g.)* See Figure 1 Monthly Daily average. Temperature (see I.A.1.g.)* See Figure 1 Monthly 4 grabs, reporting maximum, and averages. Total Residual Chlorine (see I.A.1.j.) Report Quarterly Grab. Non-contact cooling water may be discharged only into Class B, C, SB, and SC waters that have a drainage area larger than ten (10) square miles in accordance with Maine State Law. See Paragraph I.A.1.g. for details for determining if the specific discharge(s) have acceptable dilution and can be covered by the General Permit Program. b. The pH shall not be less than 6.0 standard units nor greater than 8.5 standard units and shall be monitored monthly with 4 grabs, reporting maximum values (see I.A.1.i. below). c. There shall be no discharge of floating solids or visible foam in other than trace amounts. d. The effluent limitations are based on the State water quality standards and certified by the State. e. Samples taken in compliance with the monitoring requirements specified above shall be taken at the point of discharge. f. Definitions: Non-contact cooling water is water used to reduce temperature which does not come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or finished product. Non-toxic water treatment additives are chemicals used in cooling water system primarily to control corrosion or prevent deposition of scale forming materials which do not exhibit any residual toxic effect on the receiving waters.
