FR940912-1-00038 FR940912-1-00010 As currently structured, the proposed rule would make extensive use of the volatile organic concentration (as measured by Method 25D). The concentration cutoffs for determining if a wastewater stream is an affected stream are formatted in terms of the volatile organic concentration. The small quantity cutoff of 1 Mg/yr is calculated using the volatile organic concentration; the effluent concentration limit is expressed in term of volatile organic concentration; and the mass removal requirements of the proposed rule are calculated using the volatile organic concentration. The EPA is aware that using the volatile organic concentration rather than a direct measure of VOC does have some limitations and drawbacks. The test method used to measure volatile organic concentration, Method 25D, is based on volatility (i.e., Henry's Law) and does not speciate organic compounds. Therefore, the results may reflect the presence of compounds that are not considered VOC (based on their photochemical reactivity). The EPA is considering ways of discounting the non-VOC components of the test results but has not included a means to do so in the proposed regulation. One option for accomplishing this would be to allow owners or operators the option of using a test method that speciates VOC. If this approach is selected, provisions could also be made to allow the measured VOC concentration to be adjusted to represent VO concentration by multiplying by the fraction emitted (f m ) values reported in the IWW CTG. The EPA also intends to include an alternative percent reduction standard based on the stripability of specific volatile organic constituents. This approach is also described in the IWW CTG. Because of the issues associated with the use of method 25D for applicability and compliance determinations, the EPA is soliciting comments all aspects of this approach. Regulatory Alternative 1 is to require emission control only of those SOCMI process unit wastewater streams having a volatile organic concentration at the point of wastewater generation equal to or greater than 1,000 ppmw and a flow rate greater than or equal to 10 Lpm. Regulatory Alternative 2 is to require emission control only of those SOCMI process unit wastewater streams having a volatile organic concentration at the point of wastewater generation equal to or greater than 800 ppmw and a flow rate greater than or equal to 5 Lpm. Regulatory Alternative 3 is to require emission control only of those SOCMI process unit wastewater streams having a volatile organic concentration at the point of wastewater generation equal to or greater than 500 ppmw and a flow rate greater than or equal to 1 Lpm. Regulatory Alternative 4 is to require emission control only of those SOCMI process unit wastewater streams having a volatile organic concentration at the point of wastewater generation equal to or greater than 100 ppmw and a flow rate greater than or equal to 1 Lpm. Regulatory Alternatives 1 through 4 also have a maximum volatile organic concentration limit whereby any wastewater stream with a volatile organic concentration above the limit would require emission control regardless of the wastewater stream flow rate; for Regulatory Alternatives 1 through 4, the same maximum concentration limit of 10,000 ppmw was used in the regulatory alternatives analysis. Regulatory Alternative 5 is to require air emission control for all SOCMI process unit wastewater streams with any detectable volatile organic concentration as determined at the point of wastewater generation (i.e., a volatile organic concentration action level of 0 ppmw). The EPA estimated nationwide VOC emission reductions that would be achieved by implementing air rules based on each of the five regulatory alternatives; the EPA also estimated the capital and annual cost of achieving the emission reductions and the nonair quality environmental and energy impacts associated with each regulatory alternative. These estimates of emissions and costs reflect the annual impacts in the fifth year following promulgation of the NSPS. The methodology used to develop estimates of VOC emissions and other impacts within the SOCMI source category for the five regulatory alternatives is based on the use of a model plant analysis and is discussed in detail in Chapter 6 of the BID and in docket number A&hyph;94&hyph;32. Model plants are typically defined to represent the affected facility over a range of sizes corresponding to the range found in the regulated industry. Two previous EPA studies developed model plants that relate to emissions from wastewater streams at SOCMI facilities: the Guideline Series Document for the Control of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Industrial Wastewater (EPA&hyph;453/D&hyph;93&hyph;056, September 1992 Draft) and the BID related to the development of the HON (EPA&hyph;453/D&hyph;92&hyph;016, November 1992). The EPA developed model plants for the SOCMI wastewater NSPS regulatory analysis by making use of information, data, and methodologies developed in these previous studies.
