FR940603-1-00191 FR940603-1-00009 This unit includes all material and labor required in the repair and/or replacement of streets, roads, drives, fences, lawns, shrubbery, watermains, pipes, pipelines and contents, under- ground power and telephone facilities, buried sewerage and drainage facilities, and any other property damaged by the trenching, except as specifically provided for in other units. This unit does not include underground cable facilities installed in the trench or cable bedding assembly units, when required. Note: Where in the judgment of the Owner greater than normal difficulty will be involved in trenching because of the presence of underground facilities of other utilities, this unit will be suffixed by the letter ``T''. This will be applicable only in those areas predesignated by the Owner on the detail maps herein. Where more than one cable is to be installed in the trench, the regular UR 2&hyph;S unit designation should be modified by a suffix corresponding to the construction drawing for the type of cable placement desired. UR 2&hyph;R (D&W)␣Trenching Assembly Unit, Rock_Consists of one (1) lineal foot of trenching in rock, measured parallel to the surface of the ground, to specified depth (D) and width(W), in inches, including the excavation, and backfilling and compacting to place cable to the depth specified in the Specifications. This unit will be specified by the Owner only when field conditions at the site show the existence of rock at a depth preventing the placing of the cable in soil to the depths required in the Specifications. This unit includes all material and labor required in the repair and/or replacement of streets, roads, drives, fences, lawns, shrubbery, watermains, pipes, pipelines and contents, underground power and telephone facilities, buried sewerage and drainage facilities, and any other property damaged by the trenching, except as specifically provided for in other units. This unit does not include underground cable facilities installed in the trench or cable bedding assembly units, when required. UR&hyph;3␣Cable Bedding Assembly Unit_Consists of one (1) lineal foot of a 2-inch bed of clean sand or soil placed in the trench under the cable and a 4-inch layer of clean sand or soil backfill over the cable to the width of the trench. Note: The exact location and number of units shall be determined by the Owner after the trenches are open in those areas where rock or other conditions make special bedding necessary. UR&hyph;4a␣Pavement Assembly Unit, Asphalt_Consists of the labor and material necessary to remove and restore one (1) lineal foot of asphalt pavement, measured along the route of the cable. All work shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of state or local authorities. Any trenching which may be necessary is included in this unit. UR&hyph;4c␣Pavement Assembly Unit, Concrete_Consists of the labor and material necessary to remove and restore one (1) lineal foot of concrete pavement, measured along the route of the cable. All work shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of state or local authorities. Any trenching which may be necessary is included in this unit. UR&hyph;5␣Underground Pipe Crossing Assembly Unit_Consists of one (1) lineal foot of steel pipe, of the inside diameter, in inches, specified in the last digit of the assembly unit designation, installed in place. This unit includes the pushing of pipe and any excavation, backfilling and tamping necessary for the installation of the pipe. The pipe will be installed at the depth specified by the Owner. Underground cable installed in the pipe is not included in this unit. UR&hyph;6␣Underground Nonpipe Crossing Assembly Unit_Consists of the labor in providing a hole in soil one (1) foot in length of a diameter sufficient to accommodate the cable to be installed therein. The depth of the hole below the surface of the ground shall be specified by the Owner. This unit includes any excavation, backfilling and tamping necessary for the installation. This unit may be used where the permanent installation of a steel pipe under the UR&hyph;5 unit is not required. Underground cable installed in the hole is not included in this unit. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor & materials 2Extended price_labor & materials UR l l l l l Total, Section UR_ XXXX Distribution Construction Units_Line Changes The general heading of Line Changes applies to the changing of existing lines or portion thereof from their existing phasing, wire size, and type to new phasing, wire size, and type and the removal of existing lines or portion thereof and replacing with new lines in close proximity thereto. In general line changes involve three types of assembly units as follows: Section H_Conversion assembly units; Section I_Removal assembly units; Section N_New construction assembly units on existing lines or in replacing lines. The assembly units that are included in Section H, I, and N are defined by symbols and descriptions which follow together with the applicable descriptions included under New construction. Where the descriptions are not correct or sufficiently explicit, or when special units are not covered by Construction Drawings, descriptions have been provided by the Engineer in the respective sections.
