FR941003-1-00078 FR941003-1-00006 (1) In the event that an agency procedure is found to be inconsistent with the Council's regulations, the agency shall follow the provisions of the Council's regulations with regard to the inconsistent provisions. (2) The Council membership's decision as to the consistency of an agency's procedures shall be determinative, in accordance with Section 211 of the Act. Subpart C_The Section 106 Process §800.7 Initiation of the section 106 process. The procedure in this subpart guides Agency Officials, State Historic Preservation Officers, and the Council in the conduct of the Section 106 process. Alternative methods of meeting Section 106 obligations are found in Subpart B of this part, ``Federal Procedures to Implement Section 106,'' and Subpart D of this part, ``Alternative Procedures.'' These include Counterpart Procedures, Programmatic Agreements, and Exempted Categories (§800.5) and Tribal Program Alternatives (§800.17). (a) Establish undertaking. In accordance with the definition set forth in §800.2(dd) and with consideration for any categorical exclusions previously established pursuant to §800.11, the Agency Official shall decide whether an undertaking exists for the purposes of Section 106. If anyone disagrees with the Agency Official's decision and notifies the Council, the Council shall review the decision in accordance with §800.12(a). (b) Coordinate with other reviews. The Agency Official shall establish a schedule for carrying out the steps of the Section 106 process that considers the overall planning and approval schedule for the undertaking and effective coordination with reviews required under other authorities including, but not limited to, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, the American Indian Religious Freedom Act, the Archeological Resources Protection Act and agency specific legislation, such as Section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act. Further information regarding coordination of the Section 106 process with those authorities is found in Subpart E of this part. (c) Plan for public participation. The Agency Official shall commence planning for informing and involving the public in the conduct of the specific steps of the Section 106 process. The Agency Official should seek to identify parties who may be concerned about the effects on historic properties, and to determine the issues that may be involved in dealing with such properties. The Agency Official should consider the likely complexity of preservation issues and the possible extent of public controversy, the nature of the potential effects of the undertaking upon historic properties, the suitability of using established public involvement procedures used by the agency to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act and related authorities, and the overall planning and approval schedule for the undertaking. Where an Agency Official determines that it is appropriate, or the State Historic Preservation Officer or the Council so request, the Agency Official shall establish a specific plan for public involvement and make it available to the State Historic Preservation Officer, the Council, interested parties, and the public at large. The Agency Official must reconsider the needs for public participation as the Section 106 process proceeds. (d) Initiate consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer. The Agency Official shall determine the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer or Officers to be involved in the Section 106 process and proceed to consult in accordance with §§800.8&hyph;800.10. (1) If the State Historic Preservation Officer declines in writing to participate in the Section 106 process, the Agency Official shall consult with the Council, without the State Historic Preservation Officer, to complete the Section 106 process. (2) If the State Historic Preservation Officer does not respond within 30 days of receipt to a written request for participation at any step in §800.8, the Agency Official may assume that the State Historic Preservation Officer concurs in the Agency Official's finding. The Agency Official may consult with the Council to complete the Section 106 process, in lieu of further efforts to obtain a response from the State Historic Preservation Officer. (3) If the State Historic Preservation Officer does not respond within 30 days of receipt to a written request for participation at any step in §§800.9 or 800.10, the Agency Official may not assume such action to indicate the concurrence of the State Historic Preservation Officer with the Agency Official's position. The Agency Official may consult with the Council to complete the Section 106 process, in lieu of further efforts to obtain a response from the State Historic Preservation Officer. (e) Identify Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations. As early as possible in planning the undertaking, the Agency Official shall initiate consultation with any Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization that the Agency Official has reason to believe might attach religious and cultural significance to historic properties in the area of potential effects, or cause such contact to be initiated by an applicant for Federal assistance or permission. Such consultation should be designed to identify the tribe's or organization's general concerns and interests regarding historic properties, and to seek the tribe's or organization's assistance in identifying historic properties and assessing effects on such properties. Consultation should be carried out in a manner consistent with §800.1(e)(5) and continue in the same manner when identifying historic properties, assessing effects, and resolving adverse effects.
