FR940128-1-00102 FR940128-1-00006 (2) There are no cross connections between the potable water system and any nonpotable system. (3) All food contact surfaces of plant equipment and utensils, including equipment used for ice production and storage, are so designed and of such material and workmanship as to be easily cleanable, and are maintained in a sanitary condition. Such surfaces shall be constructed of nontoxic materials and designed to withstand the environment of its intended use and the action of the food, cleaning compounds, and sanitizing agents. (4) All utensils and surfaces of equipment that contact food during processing are cleaned and sanitized with effective cleaning and sanitizing preparations with the following frequency: (i) Cleaned at the end of the day's operations; (ii) Cleaned and sanitized at least every 4 hours during the processing of cooked, ready-to-eat fishery products; and (iii) Sanitized before the beginning of the day's operations. (5) Gloves and outer garments that contact food or food contact surfaces are made of an impermeable material and are maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. (6) Employees' hands, gloves, outer garments, utensils and food contact surfaces of equipment that come into contact with waste, the floor, or other insanitary objects, do not contact fish or fishery products without first being adequately cleaned and sanitized. (7) Where applicable, employee's hands, gloves, outer garments, utensils and food contact surfaces of equipment that come into contact with raw product shall not contact cooked product or ice used on cooked product, without first being adequately cleaned and sanitized. (8) Hand washing and hand sanitizing facilities are: (i) Located in all processing areas in which good sanitary practice requires employees to wash and sanitize their hands; and (ii) Equipped with hand-cleaning and effective sanitizing preparations and single service towels or suitable hand drying devices. (9) Food, food contact surfaces, and food-packaging materials shall be protected from adulteration with lubricants, fuel, pesticides, cleaning compounds, sanitizing agents, metal fragments, or other chemical or physical contaminants. (10) Toxic compounds shall be identified, held, used, and stored in a manner that protects against contamination of food, food-contact surfaces, or food-packaging materials. (11) Food, food-contact surfaces, and food-packaging materials shall be protected from contaminants that may drip, drain, or be drawn into the food. (12) Compressed gases that contact food or food contact surfaces of equipment shall be filtered or treated in a way that ensures that they will not contaminate the food with unapproved indirect food additives or other chemical, physical, or microbiological contaminants. (13) Unprotected cooked, ready-to-eat fishery products, smoked fishery products, raw molluscan shellfish, and raw fish and fishery products shall be physically separated from each other during refrigerated storage. (14) Refrigeration units that store raw materials, in- process, or finished fish or fishery products that are cooked, ready-to-eat, smoked, or made in whole or in part from scombroid toxin forming species shall be operated at a temperature of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below. (15) Any person who, by medical examination or supervisory observation, is shown to have, or appears to have, an illness, open lesion, including boils, sores, or infected wounds, or any other source of microbial contamination by which there is a reasonable possibility that food, food-contact surfaces, or food- packaging materials will become contaminated, shall be excluded from any operations that may be expected to result in such contamination until the condition is corrected. (16) Adequate, readily accessible toilet facilities that provide for proper sewage disposal shall be available and maintained in a sanitary condition and in good repair. (17) No pests are in any area of a food plant. (18) The plant is designed to minimize the risk of contamination of the food, food-contact surfaces, and food- packaging material.
