FR941202-2-00186 FR941202-2-00098 (b) Elements (a) through (d) under announced assessments are also applicable to unannounced assessments; (c) Performance evaluation samples may be distributed and analyses run in the categories and for the methods that are determined by and prescribed by the inspector; and (d) All performance evaluation samples and other analyses required by the inspector are to be done as directed by the inspector. These include parameters such as: specified equipment, analysts and times, but are not limited to these factors. Factors Examined in Announced and Unannounced Laboratory Assessments. _Refer to On-site Assessments for assessment criteria required to be satisfied for accreditation. It should be noted, the inspector is not limited to these factors in reaching an evaluation and conclusion. Other factors may be considered and documented as appropriate. Laboratories will be furnished with an inspection report documenting any deficiencies found in the factors listed above or any others considered by the inspector. It shall also include whether a specific method passed or failed based on the Performance Evaluation sample. All such reports are public record and any or all of the information contained therein may be put into the National Database. Proprietary data will be excepted from all public records. The laboratory will have no more than 45 days from the date of receipt of the report to correct deficiencies noted in the inspection report. At that time, if no remedial action has been taken to correct the noted deficiencies, accreditation for categories or specific methods within those categories will be immediately revoked. 4.1.3␣Performance Evaluation Samples A critical component of laboratory assessments is the analysis of the Performance Evaluation Samples. Refer to Performance Evaluation Testing, specifically Testing of Samples, for additional information regarding separate treatment of Performance Evaluation samples, discussion of issues of availability, and purity and distribution. Performance Evaluation samples would be used and evaluated in the accreditation process in the following manner: (a) All laboratories seeking National Accreditation must receive, examine and analyze initial performance evaluation sample(s) for each category (e.g., drinking water, hazardous waste, etc.) in which they are requesting accreditation. The analysis must be completed and the results reported to the performance evaluation testing organization or the Inspector within 45 days of the receipt of the sample. (b) Each laboratory seeking national accreditation shall also be required to perform analyses on at least two performance evaluation samples, two concentrations, two times per year in each category for which they have applied for accreditation or for which the laboratory is currently accredited. (c) The laboratory will be informed of the results of the performance evaluation sample analysis within 60 days of receipt by the state agency or authorized third party contractor. The results of all of the performance evaluation sample tests indicating satisfactory or unsatisfactory compliance will be public record and will be recorded on the national database. (d) The results of the performance evaluation sample analysis will be considered, along with other information obtained from announced and/or unannounced assessments in determining whether accreditation should be granted, denied or modified for a category, or whether the laboratory should lose accreditation for a category or method within a category. 4.1.4␣Corrective Action Reports The purpose of the corrective action report is to have a written record of response to deficiencies that are noted in the laboratory assessment procedure. (a) After being notified of deficiencies from the laboratory inspection, the laboratory has 45 days from the date of receipt of the deficiency report to submit a corrective action report. (b) The state authority or authorized third party contractor will respond to the action noted in the corrective action report within 30 days of receiving it. The report must address each of the deficiencies noted on the deficiency report. (c) A laboratory can lose accreditation in a category or a method within a category by any or all of the following items: i. Failing to respond to corrective action two times; ii. Failing to submit a corrective action report;
