FR941216-2-00179 FR941216-2-00104 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Study: San Mateo County, California agency: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. action: Notice of Intent. summary: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that a supplement to a final environmental impact statement will be prepared for a proposed highway project in San Mateo County, California. for further information contact: John R. Schultz, Chief, District Operations A, Federal Highway Administration, 980 Ninth Street, Suite 400, Sacramento, California, 95814&hyph;2724; telephone: (916) 498&hyph;5041. supplementary information: The FHWA, in cooperation with the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans), will prepare a supplenent to the final environmental impact statement (EIS) on a proposal to improve State Route (SR) 1 in San Mateo County, California. The original final EIS for the improvements (FHWA&hyph;CA&hyph;EIS&hyph;83&hyph;14&hyph;F) was approved on April 16, 1986. The project study limits of alternatives considered in the final EIS extended from Half Moon Bay Airport, between Moss Beach and El Granada, on the south to Linda Mar Boulevard in Pacifica on the north, a distance of approximately 11.3 km (7 milies). The preferred alternative, identified in the final EIS and selected in the Record of Decision signed on May 30, 1986, is known as the Martini Creek alignment alternative. From the southern end, this alternative begins north of the southern project study limit on SR 1, 0.2 km (0.1 mile) north of Montara near the Chart House Restaurant. From there it swings inland, crosses Martini Creek, curves seaward (west) and then northeasterly, proceeds over the San Pedro Mountain saddle and down into the City of Pacifica where it rejoins SR 1 at Linda Mar Boulevard. The proposed project is a two-lane, controlled access facilitly; however, since the entire project on both sides of the summit exceeds six percent, the project design includes an uphill slow vehicle lane in each direction. The proposed project is approximately 7.2 km (4.5 miles) in length. Litigation regarding the project was commenced in U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California in June 1986 ( Sierra Club, et al. v. United States Department of Transportation, et al., Civ. No. 86&hyph;3384 DLJ). The project has been enjoined since September 1986, prior to the commencement of any construction. The primary issues in the litigation were 1) whether the proposed project complied with Section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act, and 2) whether the final EIS was adequate under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The District Court has now fully resolved the Section 4(f) and NEPA issues. The proposed project has been determined not to violate Section 4(f), and the final EIS has been found to comply with NEPA in all respects except one_it was found inadequate in its discussion and analysis of noise impacts. Therefore, the District Court remanded the matter to the FHWA. The District Court's specific findings regarding the deficiencies of the final EIS and the need to prepare a supplemental EIS on noise impact are set forth in the Court's Orders of April 3, 1989, and April 2, 1990. The Orders require a reanalysis of the anticipated impacts from future project-generated noise, as well as more accurate and informative measurements of ambient noise levels. The sole purpose of this supplemental EIS is to comply with the Orders and subsequent Judgment of the District Court. The supplement will be limited to addressing the deficiencies in the final EIS determined in the litigation, and, therefore, will only address noise issues. In addition to this supplemental EIS on noise, a reevaluation of the FEIS is being undertaken. The reevaluation is necessary since, due to the on-going litigation, major steps to advance the project have not occurred within three years of the last major FHWA approval. 23 C.F.R. ยง771.129(b). Therefore, a reevaluation of the FEIS will be undertaken to determine whether or not new information or circumstances relevant to environmental concerns and bearing on the proposed project or its impacts would result in significant environmental impacts not evaluated in the final EIS. 23 C.F.R. ยง771.130(a)(2). In such an event, an additional supplemental EIS on those impacts will be required and will be processed pursuant to applicable laws and regulations. Letters describing this proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, and to private organizations and individuals that have previously expressed, or are known to have, an interest in this proposal. In addition, a public hearing will be held on the draft supplemental EIS. Public notice will be given of the time and place of the hearing. The draft supplemental EIS will be available for public and agency review and comment prior to the public hearing. A formal scoping meeting is not necessary since this supplemental document is only meant to comply with the Orders of the District Court to address the issue of noise impacts. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the supplemental EIS should be directed to the FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Research, Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on December 6, 1994. John R. Schultz, Chief, District Operations A, Sacramento, California. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30881 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
