FR940825-2-00003 FR940825-2-00002 Forest Service Creaky Hart Project Area; Idaho Panhandle National Forests, Shoshone County, ID ACTION: Notice of Availability of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for public comment on proposed activities in the Creaky Hart Project Area. DATES: The comment period on this DEIS ends October 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Responsible Official, District Ranger, Steve E. Williams, Wallace Ranger District, Idaho Panhandle National Forest, P.O. Box 14, Silverton, ID 83867. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions about the proposed action and DEIS should be directed to Ted J. Pettis, NEPA Coordinator, Wallace Ranger District, Idaho Panhandle National Forest, P.O. Box 14, Silverton, ID 83867. Phone: (208) 752&hyph;1221. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the Forest Service is issuing a DEIS for public comment. The DEIS documents proposed timber management practices that move the Creaky Hart Project Area toward the desired future conditions as directed by the 1987 Idaho Panhandle National Forest's (IPNF) Forest Plan. The area is located approximately 10 air miles north of Wallace, Idaho and is approximately 13,960 acres in size. Public participation has been on going throughout the project. Comments are requested on the DEIS for the next 45 days. During this 45 day comment period, comments and concerns should be addressed to the NEPA Coordinator to assist in preparing a final EIS. The District Ranger is the responsible official for this DEIS. Alternative 7 is the preferred alternative at this time. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposed action was developed for the area that included timber harvest, reforestation activities, and minimum entry into the Trouble Creek Roadless Area through implementation of timber sales. The scope of the proposed action is limited to timber harvesting, reforestation, and related road construction/reconstruction activities. During development of the proposed action and alternatives to the proposed action, emphasis has been placed on forest health, roadless, wildlife, and water resource concerns. Seven alternatives were developed, including a No-Action Alternative. Alternative 7 is the alternative preferred by the Forest Service. Under Alternative 7, the harvest of green, dead and dying timber is scheduled for implementation. The project would produce an estimated 6.6 million board feet of timber and treat 56 timber harvest units. Openings would be no larger than 5 acres. Harvest methods include, clearcut, shelterwood, and overstory removal using helicopter and cable yarding. In this proposal 3.6 miles of road would be constructed. Roads would generally follow ridgetops and not cross any live streams. Management activities would be administered by the Wallace Ranger District of the Idaho Panhandle National Forests in Shoshone County, Idaho. This DEIS will tier to the Forest Plan (September 1987) which provides the overall guidance (Goals, Objectives, Standards and Guidelines, and Management Area direction) in achieving the desire future condition for this area. Dated: August 10, 1994. Steve E. Williams, District Ranger, Wallace Ranger District, Idaho Panhandle National Forests. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20735 Filed 8&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
