FR940323-1-00002 FR940323-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;ANM&hyph;10] Proposed Amendment to Class D Airspace; Aurora, CO AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would amend the Aurora, Buckley ANGB Airport, Colorado, Class D airspace. This action would amend the Aurora, Buckley ANGB, Colorado, Class D airspace from full-time to part-time. Airspace reclassification, in effect as of September 16, 1993, has discontinued use of the terms ``control zone'' for airports with operating control towers, and ``air traffic area,'' replacing them with the designation ``Class D airspace.'' This amendment would bring publications up to date, giving continuous information to the aviation public. DATES: Comments must be received on or before April 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to: Manager, System Management Branch, ANM&hyph;530, Federal Aviation Administration, Docket No. 94&hyph;ANM&hyph;10, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. The official docket may be examined at the same address. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the address listed above. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ted Melland, ANM&hyph;536, Federal Aviation Administration, Docket No. 94&hyph;ANM&hyph;10, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington, 98055&hyph;4056; telephone number: (206) 227&hyph;2536. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed above. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;ANM&hyph;10.'' The postcard will be date/time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in the light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination at the address listed above both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket.
