FR941003-1-00092 FR941003-1-00006 (iii) Complying with the Archeological and Historic Preservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 469(a)&hyph;(c) and implementing regulations, instead of this part, if the property is principally of archeological significance and subject to the requirements of that Act. When the Agency Official elects to follow this paragraph (b)(2)(iii), the Agency Official shall consult with the State Historic Preservation Officer on the actions proposed and provide the Council with a report on the actions after they are completed. (c) Expedited consultation. When an Agency Official elects to follow this paragraph (c), the Agency Official shall notify the State Historic Preservation Officer and the Council at the earliest possible time, describe the actions proposed to resolve the adverse effects, and request the views of the Council and the State Historic Preservation Officer on the proposed actions. The Council and the State Historic Preservation Officer shall provide an interim response to the Agency Official within 48 hours of the request and a final response to the Agency Official within 30 days of the request. (d) Other considerations_ (1) Eligibility of properties. When a newly discovered property has not previously been included in or determined eligible for the National Register, the Agency Official may assume the property to be eligible for purposes of Section 106. (2) Discoveries on tribal or Federal land. When a discovery occurs and compliance with this section is necessary on tribal or Federal lands, the Agency Official shall consult with the Indian tribe or other appropriate parties during implementation of this section's requirements and comply with the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act as required. (3) Agency responsibilities during resolution of issues involving newly discovered properties. Section 106 and this part do not require the Agency Official to stop work on the undertaking. Depending on the nature of the property and the undertaking's adverse effects on it, the Agency Official shall make reasonable efforts to avoid or minimize harm to the property until the requirements of this section are met. If the provisions of Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act are applicable, the Agency Official must comply with requirements of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act and may be required to cease the activity in the area of the discovery. Subpart D_Alternative Procedures §800.16 Federal agency program alternatives. (a) Counterpart procedures. An agency may develop counterpart procedures to substitute for Subpart B of this part. Sections 800.4 and 800.5(a) govern the development of counterpart procedures. (b) Programmatic Agreements. A Programmatic Agreement may be used to fulfill an agency's Section 106 responsibilities for certain activities or programs that would otherwise require numerous individual requests for comments. Programmatic Agreements for programs shall be developed in accordance with §800.5(b). §800.17 Tribal program alternatives. (a) Application. An Indian tribe may enter into an agreement with the Council to substitute tribal historic preservation regulations for the Council's regulations for the review of undertakings on tribal lands. (b) Request for Council approval. An Indian tribe shall request the Council to approve the substitution of tribal historic preservation regulations. The request shall be accompanied by a copy of the tribal regulations, a list of potential interested parties and the Indian tribe's comparison of the consideration afforded historic properties under its regulations and the Council's regulations. (c) Consultation. The Council shall consult with the requesting Indian tribe, the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer or Officers, the Secretary and any interested parties who so request. The requesting Indian tribe shall provide the information submitted in accordance with §800.17(b) to interested parties as determined by the Council. The Council shall provide notice to Federal agencies and consider any comments received. (d) Approval. If the Council determines that the tribal historic preservation regulations will afford historic properties consideration equivalent to that afforded by the Council's regulations, the Council shall execute an agreement with the requesting Indian tribe to that effect. (e) Effect. After an agreement is executed, an Agency Official with jurisdiction over an undertaking carried out on tribal lands covered by the agreement shall follow the approved tribal historic preservation regulations in lieu of the Council's regulations. (f) Amendment and termination. Either the Indian tribe or the Council may seek an amendment to the agreement, which shall take effect upon agreement of both parties. The agreement may be terminated at any time by the Indian tribe and by the Council after it finds that the operation of the tribal regulations do not afford historic properties consideration equivalent to the Council's regulations. §800.18 Emergency situations.
