FR940512-2-00178 FR940512-2-00078 1. Applicant must specify the goals and objectives of the program and how implementation will fulfill the requirements of the legislation identified in Part I, Section C.2, of this announcement. 2. Applicant must discuss the rate of illicit drug use by juveniles, specifically addressing the issue and incidence related to runaway and homeless youth in the community(ies) to be served and the availability (or lack) of services for runaway and homeless youth in those communities. 3. Applicant must identify the extent to which the proposed projects or activities will provide services in geographic areas where similar services are unavailable or in short supply. 4. Applicant must demonstrate an understanding of the issues related to alcohol and other drug abuse among runaway and homeless youth and the provision of services to that population. Results and Benefits Expected 1. Applicant must identify the number of runaway and homeless youth and their families to be served, the types and quantities of services to be provided and how units of service will be defined and measured. 2. Applicant must discuss how the project will enhance or increase the capacity of the applicant to provide services to address the illicit use of alcohol and other drugs by runaway and homeless youth. 3. Applicant must describe the extent to which the project will maintain, increase or improve the community's level of services and/or the coordination of services for runaway and homeless youth. 4. Applicant must discuss the expected impact of the project on the availability of services to homeless youth in the local community and indicate how the project will enhance the organization's capacity to provide services to address youth homelessness in the community. Approach 1. Applicant must describe how the program will maintain, improve, and/or expand direct alcohol and other drug abuse prevention, intervention and reduction services in their community. 2. Applicant must include detailed plans for implementing direct services based upon identified goals and objectives. Applicant must identify the strategies that will be employed and the activities that will be implemented. These should include innovative approaches to securing appropriate drug treatment services for the runaway and homeless youth to be served, for involving family members as an integral part of services provided, and for encouraging awareness of and sensitivity to the diverse needs of runaway and homeless youth who represent particular ethnic and racial backgrounds, sexual orientations, or who are street youth. 3. Applicant must identify, when appropriate, the short-term prevention and intervention strategies to be used with runaway and homeless youth in temporary emergency shelters and explain the follow-up efforts to be implemented with the youth once they leave the shelters. 4. Applicant must discuss how the proposed project will be integrated with other services to runaway and homeless youth that are provided by the applicant or that are available in the community. In addition, applicant is encouraged to show evidence of collaboration with other agencies in the development of a comprehensive approach to service delivery for runaway and homeless youth. Applicant must identify the organizations with which they will work and describe the contributions of these organizations to the project. A letter of commitment that indicates the level of responsibility and involvement must be included for each participating agency. 5. Applicant must identify and explain how the program will provide alcohol and other drug abuse prevention services to address the particular needs of runaway and homeless youth who are members of ethnic and racial minority groups, persons with limited ability to speak English and/or who are street youth. 6. Applicant must discuss the extent, if any, to which the project will incorporate new or innovative techniques. 7. Applicant must discuss plans for evaluating the project, including assessing the outcomes and accomplishments of the program and the service delivery models being implemented. 8. Applicant must describe how the activities implemented under this project will be continued by the agency once Federal funding for the project has ended. The applicant must describe specific plans for accomplishing program phase-out for the last two quarters of program project period in the event the applicant does not receive a new award.
