FR941116-0-00166 FR941116-0-00022 (iv) To increase the rent to be paid by the tenant or decrease the share of the crop or its proceeds to be received by the sharecropper; (4) The landlord or operator has adopted any other scheme or device for the purpose of depriving any tenant or sharecropper of the payments to which such person would otherwise be entitled under the program. If any of such conditions occur or are discovered after payments have been made, all or any such part of the payments as the State committee may determine shall be refunded to CCC. (b) If a landlord or operator has reduced the number of tenants from the preceding year, the landlord or operator may still participate in the current year's ARP if: (1) The reason for the reduction of tenants or sharecroppers was either: (i) The landlord or operator purchased the farm for the current year; or (ii) The tenant's lease expired, and the tenant has no further rights to the farm; and (2) The county committee determines that the landlord or operator has the necessary means, such as knowledge, equipment, and financing to conduct the farming operation. The county committee shall not consider custom farming as a necessary means to conduct the farming operation. (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, landlords or operators who in the past had tenants or sharecroppers on their land for purposes of producing the program crop and such individuals are not classified as employees subject to the minimum wage provisions under the Fair Labor Standards Act, may pay these individuals on a wage basis and will not be considered as reducing the number of tenants or sharecroppers. (d) County committees shall use information obtained from tenants and sharecroppers to determine that violations have not occurred. ยง1413.108 Offsets and assignments. (a) Producer indebtedness and claims. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any payment or portion thereof due any person shall be allowed without regard to questions of title under State law and without regard to any claim or lien against the crop, or proceeds thereof, in favor of the owner or any other creditor except agencies of the U.S. Government. The regulations governing offsets and withholdings found at part 1403 of this chapter shall be applicable to such payments. (b) Assignments. Any producer entitled to any payment may assign any such payments which are made in cash in accordance with regulations governing assignment of payment found at part 1404 of this chapter. ยง1413.109 Payments by commodities and commodity certificates and refunds. (a) Payments under the programs authorized by this part may be made in the form of commodities or commodity certificates in accordance with part 1470 of this chapter.
