FR941202-1-00002 FR941202-1-00001 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 35 [Docket No. PRM&hyph;35&hyph;12] Tri-Med Specialties, Inc.; Filing of Petition for Rulemaking AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Notice of receipt of petition for rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is publishing for public comment a notice of receipt of a petition for rulemaking, dated August 23, 1994, that was filed with the Commission by Tri-Med Specialties, Inc. The petition was assigned Docket No. PRM&hyph;35&hyph;12 on October 6, 1994. The petitioner requests that the Commission amend its regulations to permit licensed pharmaceutical manufacturers to commercially distribute, under general licensing and/or exemption, capsules containing one micro-curie of carbon-14 (C14) for administration to humans for in vivo diagnostic testing. DATES: Submit comments by February 15, 1995. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but assurance of consideration cannot be given except as to comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Submit comments to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Attention: Docketing and Service Branch, Washington DC 20555. For a copy of the petition, write to the Rules Review Section, Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael T. Lesar, Chief, Rules Review Section, Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. Telephone: 301&hyph;415&hyph;7163 or toll free: 1&hyph;800&hyph;368&hyph;5642. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Petitioner Tri-Med Specialties, Inc., headquartered in Overland Park, Kansas, maintains a licensed pharmaceutical manufacturing site in Charlottesville, Virginia. The petitioner also is licensed by the NRC ( # 45&hyph;25215&hyph;01) to perform research using C14. This research involves manufacture of capsules containing 1 micro-curie ( m Ci) of C14-urea and production of diagnostic breath test kits. The test kits are currently transferred only to facilities licensed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) (IND # 42294) and the NRC. Petitioner's Request Tri-Med Specialties requests that the NRC amend its regulations to allow for the general licensing and/or exemption for the commercial distribution by licensed pharmaceutical manufacturers of a capsule containing 1 m Ci of C14-urea for in vivo diagnostic testing. The petitioner states that the capsules would be used to test for the presence of Helicobacter pylori, a bacterium that causes peptic ulcers in the stomach. According to the petitioner, the capsules would be distributed separately or as part of a diagnostic kit that contains supplies to perform the test. The petitioner suggests the maximum number of capsules allowed in inventory at an unlicensed facility at any time be 150 (150 m Ci). Grounds for Request The petitioner states that recent medical research has found peptic ulcers are commonly caused by the H.pylori bacterium that lives in the stomach of most ulcer sufferers. According to the petitioner, in the past, doctors used the endoscopy and biopsy procedure to detect the stomach ulcers. This procedure was uncomfortable and expensive at a cost of $1000. The petitioner states that by using a C14-urea tracer, H.pylori can be detected noninvasively by having the patient swallow a capsule with 30 milliliters of water. C14-urea is broken down by H.pylori to form labeled CO 2 , which is expired in the breath. The petitioner asserts that the C14-urea test could be performed by most doctors for less than $100 cost to the patient. Public Impact The petitioner notes that the risks from the C14-urea test would be very low because the 1 m Ci of C14-urea consumed by the patient is rapidly excreted as urea in the urine or CO 2 in the breath. The petitioner states that the radiation dose received by the patient would be 0.3 millirem (an amount equal to background radiation received in 24 hours). The risk for persons administering the test would be immeasurably low and risk to the public would be close to zero. The petitioner indicates that the Commission's regulations currently contain provisions for a general license whereby physicians and veterinarians can receive, use, and dispose of byproduct material for in vitro clinical or laboratory testing without applying for a specific license. According to the petitioner, these recipients are required only to be registered with the NRC. The petitioner further asserts that the Commission's regulations permit other general licenses that have a greater likelihood of affecting the public than the proposed C14-urea test. Benefits of the Test The petitioner states that under the current regulations, the test is 95-percent accurate and quite inexpensive because of its simplicity. The test would permit doctors to determine easily whether or not ulcer patients have been cured of their infection. The benefits to the public, according to the petitioner, would be a curative therapy for ulcers that can be made available to all people, thus saving the United States an estimated $500 million per annum over conventional therapy. Conclusion The petitioner states that the test may be supplied currently only to facilities licensed to receive C14. According to the petitioner, this requirement makes the test prohibitively expensive for the great majority of doctors. The petitioner states that the test is currently being studied at four sites under a Notice of Claimed Investigational Exemption for a New Drug (IND) application accepted by the FDA and is also being used at other sites under approved research protocols. The petitioner states that all of these sites are using the test under the petitioner's IND and are also licensed by the NRC to administer C14 to patients for diagnostic testing. The petitioner states that more than 200 tests have been performed at these additional sites and that no adverse events from the tests performed as of this date have been reported. Therefore, the petitioner believes that licensed pharmaceutical manufacturers should be permitted to distribute the capsule containing 1 m Ci of C14-urea for in vivo diagnostic testing. Additional Documents The petition includes additional justification and support for the requested amendment not included in this Federal Register notice. Members of the public interested in filing comments on PRM&hyph;35&hyph;12 can obtain a copy of the petition and supporting documentation by writing to the address noted above. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 28th day of November, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle Acting Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29654 Filed 12&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;P
