FR940912-1-00022 FR940912-1-00010 B. Pollutants To Be Regulated The air pollutant to be regulated by these standards is VOC. The primary air pollutant from SOCMI wastewater facilities is VOC, which is a precursor to the formation of ozone and oxygenated organic aerosols. C. Best Demonstrated Technology Section 111 of the Act states that NSPS ``shall reflect the degree of emission limitation and the percentage reduction achievable through application of the best technological system of continuous emission reduction which (taking into consideration the cost of achieving such emission reduction, any nonair quality health and environmental impact and energy requirements) the Administrator determines has been adequately demonstrated.'' The technology basis for NSPS that meets these criteria is referred to as ``best demonstrated technology (BDT).'' In the standards development process for NSPS, BDT should be identified, the performance of BDT established, and a regulatory alternative selected that will require the use of BDT or an equivalent technology. Volatile organic compound emissions from wastewater can be effectively reduced with the following control approach: (1) Identify wastewater streams with significant VOC emission potential; (2) recycle or treat those wastewater streams to remove their potential for emissions; (3) prior to treatment or recycling, manage those waste streams in units equipped with air emission controls; (4) recycle any treatment residuals or treat any residuals to destroy the VOC; and (5) control air emissions generated by treatment processes. The treatment technology that is the basis for the proposed standards for wastewater is steam stripping, a proven treatment technology for wastewaters generated within the targeted industry. It is generally applicable to wastewater streams with the potential to emit VOC and, in general, achieves the highest VOC emission reduction among demonstrated VOC control technologies. Facilities can comply by installing the design steam stripper or by installing a stripper or other treatment device that achieves an equivalent VOC emission reduction. Control of air emissions from the stripper and from treatment residuals is also required. Although standards for wastewater are based on the performance of steam stripping, other treatment technologies such as biodegradation have also been demonstrated to be effective. To be considered equivalent to steam stripping, a properly operated biological treatment unit must achieve a 95-percent VOC reduction or meet the required mass removal while controlling air emissions. Biodegradation may also be used as one of a series of treatment processes (e.g., a steam stripper followed by a biological treatment unit) where the combination achieves a reduction of 99 percent or more in volatile organic concentration. Alternative treatment technologies other than biodegradation are permitted if their performance equals or exceeds that of steam stripping, i.e., a 99-percent VOC reduction. D. Affected Facility For the SOCMI wastewater NSPS, the affected facility will be each new process unit (and the wastewater streams it generates) at a SOCMI plant. A SOCMI process unit will be defined as one producing one or more of the chemicals listed in the regulation. A process unit at a SOCMI plant will be considered to be new if construction, modification, or reconstruction of the unit commences after the date the NSPS is proposed in the Federal Register . E. Emission Points to be Regulated The air emission points selected for the proposed regulations include all significant points in SOCMI process unit wastewater collection and treatment systems that manage process or maintenance wastewater streams or residuals generated from SOCMI process units that produce any of the listed chemicals. The air emission release points in the process unit wastewater collection and treatment system include individual drain systems, which are comprised of equipment such as open trenches, drains, manholes, junction boxes, lift stations, and weirs; surface impoundments; wastewater storage and treatment tanks; oil-water separators; containers; clarifiers; and biological treatment units. At these release points, VOC can be transferred from the process unit wastewater stream to the air.
