FR941110-0-00043 FR941110-0-00016 We proposed that, if HCFA wants to impose a civil money penalty, it must notify the provider in writing of the intent to impose a penalty. The notice would include reference to the statutory basis for the penalty, the amount of the penalty per day of noncompliance, any circumstances that were considered when determining the amount per day of the proposed penalty, and instructions for responding to the notice, including a specific statement of the facility's right to a hearing and implications of waiving a hearing. If the State proposes to impose a civil money penalty, the State would notify the facility in accordance with State procedures. We proposed that a penalty amount would be permitted to be imposed within the following ranges: •For deficiencies constituting an immediate and serious threat (that is, a severity level of 4, regardless of scope)_$3,050 to $10,000 per day; •For deficiencies constituting nonimmediate and nonserious threat above a scope or severity level of 1_$50 to $3,000 per day. •For both levels, the amount of the civil money penalty would be set at $50 increments within these ranges. Removal of the immediate and serious threat, but not the deficiencies, would justify the shift to the range of penalties that are imposed for nonimmediate and nonserious threat above a scope or severity level of 1. A penalty would be imposed at the immediate and serious level for the number of days the immediate and serious threat is present. We proposed that a provider may, in lieu of contesting the deficiency which led to the imposition of the civil money penalty, waive the right to a hearing within the specified timeframes and procedures in the regulations under §498.40 (Request for hearing) for Medicare and §431.221 (Request for hearing) for Medicaid. If the facility were to waive the right to a hearing within 60 days from the date of notice, HCFA or the State would be required to reduce the civil money penalty by 35 percent. If the facility were to waive the right to a hearing after the 60th day, HCFA's or the State's settlement would be discretionary. The reduction in the civil money penalty would reflect the savings to both the government and the provider of costs that would otherwise be incurred to formally adjudicate the dispute. The provider would be free to reject the option to waive the right to a hearing. We proposed that the daily fine amount of a facility could be increased if the facility alleges compliance, but on a revisit by HCFA or the State survey agency, the facility is still found to be noncompliant with the same requirements. The purpose of giving HCFA or the State discretion to increase the daily fine, we believe, would be to deter unfounded allegations of compliance. The amount of increase, if any, would be effective the day following the resurvey.
