FR940203-2-00098 FR940203-2-00059 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Office of Commercial Space Transportation Low Earth Orbit Space Market; Public Meeting Notice is hereby given of a public meeting called by the Department of Transportation's (DOT) Office of Commercial Space Transportation (OCST) to obtain data specifically relating to the low earth orbit (LEO) space market. The meeting is scheduled to take place on February 10, 1994, from 3&hyph;5 p.m., in the FAA Auditorium, located on the third floor of the Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration Building, 800 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC. The information obtained from this meeting will facilitate DOT's participation as a member of the Interagency Working Groups on Space Transportation for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and on the Department of Defense Space Launch Modernization Plan. DOT is also supporting efforts by the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to monitor compliance by the Russian Federation with the recently concluded U.S.-Russia commercial space launch trade agreement. OCST seeks data that would assist in defining LEO launch requirements and in projecting future space transportation needs to support market demands. Specifically, OCST is interested in obtaining LEO market projections, including the number of payloads planned for launch between the years 1994&hyph;2010, and thereafter, and the kinds of services that may be provided by LEO satellites and their applications (e.g., remote sensing, mobile communications). OCST is also interested in obtaining long-range projections of the potential revenues that may be generated by these space-based systems. Information on short-term (within the next 1&hyph;5 years) revenue projections should not be provided at the meeting unless it is otherwise publicly available. Interested parties wishing to provide short-range revenue projections not otherwise publicly available may do so in a written submission to OCST. This information will not be publicly disclosed by OCST except in aggregate form. Written submissions may be provided to OCST in addition to or in place of oral remarks presented at the public meeting. Submissions designated as proprietary will be treated confidentially. Due to the immediate need for this data to support the various DOT and Administration efforts, written submissions should be provided as quickly as possible, but no later than noon February 14, 1994, to the Office of Commercial Space Transportation, room 5415, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590 or by fax to (202) 366&hyph;7256. In order to assure the orderly presentation of information, and to try to accommodate all speakers, each person wishing to present information at the meeting, whether in a personal or a representative capacity on behalf of an organization, will be allotted five minutes. Persons who wish to present information at the meeting should notify OCST no later than February 8, 1994, to reserve their allotted time. If possible, OCST will notify interested persons if additional time is available. Department officials chairing the meeting may take additional time to ask clarifying questions of the speaker. To reserve speaking time, please telephone (202) 366&hyph;5770. Additional information may be obtained by contacting Ms. Linda H. Strine. Dated: January 31, 1994. Frank C. Weaver, Director, Office of Commercial Space Transportation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2583 Filed 2&hyph;1&hyph;94; 12:24 pm] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;62&hyph;P
