FR941216-1-00121 FR941216-1-00012 Subpart I_Storage of Explosives and Ammunition §184.90 General. A properly sited segregated and separate storage area is preferred for explosives storage. Earth-covered magazines (igloo or other subsurface) offer the greatest protection to explosives. Such magazines are preferred for the storage of all explosives. Earth-covered magazines provide protection from weather and fire, and relatively constant temperature control. §184.91 Storage considerations. Factors to consider when designating a structure for explosive storage are: (a) Magazine construction and location. (b) Quantity and characteristics of explosives to be stored. §184.92 Magazine operational regulations. (a) No loose ammunition components, packing materials, conveyors, skids, dunnage, empty boxes, or other such items shall be stored in magazines containing ammunition or explosives. (b) No crew shall work in a spot that requires passing a second crew's work aisle or position to reach an exit in a magazine. The number of crews should not exceed the number of exits. Doors shall remain unlocked and permit rapid egress. (c) Flammable liquids, except when used as the chemical filler of ammunition, or as a prepackaged storable liquid propellant, shall not be stored in magazines containing explosives. §184.93 Stacking. (a) Ammunition and explosives should be stored in original shipping containers or equivalent. Explosives or ammunition in stacks should be grouped and identified according to lots. General rules set forth in §184.93 (b) and (c), shall be followed in the absence of applicable storage drawings. (b) Methods used for stacking shall provide for good ventilation to all parts of the stack. Adequate dunnage shall be used for this purpose. (c) Aisles shall be maintained so that units in each stack may be inspected, inventoried, and removed for shipment or surveillance tests. Block storage is permitted, provided adequate ventilation of stacks exists. Unobstructed aisles shall be maintained to permit rapid egress. (d) Only one light box, pallet, or unit should be allowed per lot in storage. Stacked light units should be readily visible and immediately accessible. §184.94 Loose rounds, damaged containers. Loose rounds of ammunition, or single fiber containers with rounds therein, shall not be stored in magazines containing ammunition items packed in original shipping containers; however, they may be stored in magazines set aside for their exclusive storage. Incomplete boxes of ammunition and explosives may be stored in magazines containing complete boxes packed in original shipping containers. Conspicuously marked to identify contents and quantities, the incomplete boxes shall be placed in designated locations. Explosives and ammunition in damaged containers should not be stored in a magazine with ammunition in serviceable containers. Such containers should be repaired or the contents transferred to new or serviceable containers. Open containers and containers with covers not securely fastened shall not be allowed in magazines. Containers that have been opened shall be properly closed before being restored. Stored containers should be free from loose dust and grit. §184.95 Repairs to magazines. (a) Repairs should not be made to the interiors of magazines containing bulk explosives. Repairs to roofs, ventilators, lightning rods, doors and other parts of, or appendages to, the exteriors of magazines containing bulk explosives shall not normally require removing the explosives. Minor repairs may be made to the interiors of magazines containing finished ammunition or ammunition components. (b) The general safety requirements set forth in this part, particularly the elimination of fire hazards, shall be followed when magazines are repaired. When necessary, baffles and screens should be used to confine sparks and flames to heating apparatus. §184.96 Open storage (outdoors). Open storage of A&E is prohibited. §184.97 Storage of bulk initiating explosives. Bulk initiating explosives shall not be stored dry nor exposed to the direct rays of the sun. Containers of ample size to hold the double bag of explosives are used for normal storage. Covers designed and constructed to prevent friction and pinch points should be used. Covers of shipping containers used for long-term storage shall be equipped with a port for observing the level of the liquid contents. The viewing port shall have a transparent plastic cover proven compatible with the initiating explosives being stored. Bulk initiating explosives may, for expediency, be stored in shipping containers without viewing ports, provided they are stored in magazines that will prevent freezing; with containers on end, only one tier high; with passageways for inspection and handling. Bags of initiating explosives in storage containers shall be under distilled water. Alcohol may be added to the distilled water to prevent freezing. §184.98 Rockets and rocket motors. (a) In aboveground magazines, rockets and rocket motor items (in a propulsive state) should be pointed in the direction least exposing personnel and property in case of fire or explosion. (b) Rockets should be stored in dry, cool magazines, out of the direct rays of the sun. Prolonged exposure of rocket ammunition to either high or low temperatures may increase the normal rate of deterioration or render the motors more susceptible to ignition if handled improperly later.
