FR940921-2-00087 FR940921-2-00071 Federal Transit Administration Environmental Impact Statement for the Georgetown Branch Transitway and Trail, Montgomery County, MD AGENCY: Federal Transit Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS). SUMMARY: The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) and the Maryland Mass Transit Administration (MTA) intend to undertake an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). MTA will ensure that the EIS also satisfies the requirements of the Maryland Environmental Policy Act (MEPA). This effort will be performed in cooperation with the Montgomery County Department of Transportation (MCDOT). Other key supporting agencies include the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments (MWCOG), the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA), and the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission (M&hyph;NCPPC). The EIS will evaluate transportation improvements in the corridor between the central business districts (CBDs) in Bethesda and Silver Spring, Maryland. In particular, the focus will be on the former CSX Railroad Georgetown Branch right-of-way (ROW) which has been purchased by Montgomery County. Additionally, the corridor will connect the Bethesda and Silver Spring Metrorail stations located in the respective CBDs. In addition to a proposed transitway, which may be either a busway or light rail transit in conjunction with a parallel hiker/biker trail, the EIS will evaluate the No-Build and the Transportation System Management (TSM) alternatives and any new alternatives generated through the scoping process. Scoping will be accomplished through correspondence with interested persons, organizations, and federal, state, and local agencies, and through a public meeting. See SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION below for details. DATES: Comment Due Date: Written comments on the scope of alternatives and impacts to be considered should be sent to the MTA by October 26, 1994. See ADDRESSES below. Scoping Meeting: The public scoping meeting will be held on Wednesday, October 5, 1994, between 3 p.m. and 9 p.m. at the Armory Place. See ADDRESSES below. People with special needs should contact Lisa Colletti or Diane Melia at the MTA at the address below or by calling (410) 333&hyph;3376 or (410) 333&hyph;3389. A TDD number is also available: (410) 539&hyph;3497. The building is accessible to people with disabilities. It is located within two (2) blocks of the Silver Spring Metrorail station and is served by major Metrobus and Ride-On bus routes. The meeting will be held in an ``open-house'' format and project representatives will be available to discuss the project throughout the time period given. Informational displays and written materials will also be available throughout the time period given. In addition to written comments which may be made at the meeting or as described below, a stenographer will be available at the meeting to record comments. ADDRESSES: Written comments on project scope should be sent to Mr. Ernest Baisden, Project Manager, Maryland Mass Transit Administration, 300 West Lexington Street, Baltimore, MD 21201. The Scoping meeting will be held at the following location: Armory Place, 925 Wayne Avenue, Silver Spring, MD 20910. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. John T. Garrity, Jr., Transportation Program Specialist, Federal Transit, Administration, Region III, (215) 656&hyph;6900.
