FR940613-1-00004 FR940613-1-00001 Section 9.303␣Procedure for Requesting Records Any person may request any record relevant to NRC-licensed or regulated activities held by a possessor. The request shall be made in writing and sent to the responsible official designated by the possessor. The requester should describe the records sought with reasonable specificity. Section 9.304␣Response by Possessor (a) A possessor receiving a request for records shall respond to the request within thirty (30) days from the receipt of the request by the designated responsible official. (b) The possessor's response shall consist of one or more of the following options: (1) If the records requested do not exist or are not within the possession or control of the possessor, inform the requester of this fact. (2) If the records requested are publicly available, inform the requester of this fact and where the records may be obtained. (3) Place the records requested in the NRC's Public Document Room in Washington, DC, or in a Local Public Document Room near the possessor's facility or convenient to the requester, and inform the requester where the records may be obtained. (4) Provide the records directly to the requester. The possessor may require the requester to pay reasonable reproduction fees. (5) The possessor may refuse to disclose the requested records only if one or more of the following criteria are met: (i) The requested records have absolutely no relevance to any activity, facility, or material licensed or regulated by the NRC. (ii) The requested records contain personnel or medical files or similar personal information, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. However, records pertaining to the requester shall be disclosed directly to the requester or his or her designated legal representative. (iii) The requested records contain trade secrets or proprietary information or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information. (iv) The requested records contain safeguards information, as defined in 10 CFR part 73. (v) The requested records contain material that has been properly classified in the interests of national defense or foreign policy. (vi) The requested records contain information that would disclose the identity of a confidential source or reveal information furnished only by a confidential source, the disclosure of which would tend to reveal the source's identity. (c) Any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be provided to the requester or placed in the Public Document Room after deletion of the portions that are exempt under paragraph (b)(5). (d) Unless disclosure of the record is prohibited by law, a possessor may disclose a record containing material exempt under paragraph (b)(5) directly to the requester upon the execution of an appropriate protective agreement. Section 9.305␣Appeals (a) A requester may appeal a possessor's response for denial of access to the requested records, for charging excessive reproduction fees, or for lack of response by the possessor within the designated time limits. (b) Appeals shall be made by filing a notice of appeal with the Chairman of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel. The notice of appeal shall be filed within sixty (60) days of the possessor's final response and shall include: (i) A copy of the requester's original letter of request; (ii) a copy of the possessor's response(s), or a statement that the possessor has not responded to the request; (iii) an explanation of why the possessor's response is inadequate, erroneous, or otherwise unacceptable, or why the reproduction fees charged by the possessor are excessive. (c) Upon the receipt of a notice of appeal under this section, the Chairman of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel shall appoint an Administrative Law Judge to consider the appeal. The Administrative Law Judge shall utilize whatever informal procedures are deemed necessary to resolve the matter and may examine in camera the requested records to determine whether such records or any part thereof may be withheld under the exemptions specified in §9.304(b)(5). The burden of proof is upon the possessor to sustain its actions. (d) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be binding on the possessor. Decisions of the Administrative Law Judge shall be final and are not subject to further administrative appeals or judicial review. Section 9.306␣Penalties Refusal of a possessor to comply with an order of the Administrative Law Judge may be subject to enforcement action by the NRC. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 7th day of June, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle, Acting Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14256 Filed 6&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;P
