FR940318-1-00043 FR940318-1-00015 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 1 [CC Docket No. 94&hyph;1 FCC 94&hyph;10] Comprehensive Review of the Performance of LECs Under Price Cap Regulation AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Commission adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking initiating a comprehensive review of the performance of local exchange carriers under price cap regulation. The Commission pledged to undertake this fourth-year review when it adopted price cap regulation for the Regional Bell Operating Companies, GTE, and electing local exchange carriers (LECs). The document meets this pledge and identifies and solicits comments on three sets of issues. DATES: Comments must be filed on or before April 18, 1994, and reply comments on or before May 17, 1994. ADDRESSES: Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC 20554. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joanne Wall, Tel. (202) 632&hyph;6917. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Paperwork Reduction This proposal contained herein has been analyzed with respect to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 and found not to impose new or modified information collection requirements on the public. On January 19, 1994, the Commission adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) initiating a comprehensive review of the performance of LECs under price cap regulation. Price cap regulation for the LECs became effective on January 1, 1991, and the NPRM meets a Commission pledge to review the plan during its fourth year of operation. The Commission pledged to undertake this review when it adopted price cap regulation for the RBOCs, GTE, and electing LECs. Under LEC price cap regulation, the LECs' interstate services are grouped within baskets. Rates within each basket are capped on a formula that limits maximum rate changes. This formula produces the Price Cap Index (PCI) for the basket. Within each basket, rate changes in any one year are also limited by rate bands. The NPRM presents data indicating that access rates have declined, service quality remains the same as before price caps, and earnings have been higher than under rate of return regulation. The basic purpose of the review will be to consider whether the plan should be revised to better serve the goals of the Communications Act and the public interest. The NPRM identifies and solicits comments on three sets of issues. First, the NPRM requests comment on a set of general issues addressing whether the goals of price caps should be refined to assure that LEC price cap regulation facilitates the deployment of the facilities and services consumers and businesses will need in the future. Second, the NPRM identifies a set of issues raising questions of whether to revise the current plan to improve its performance or to adjust the plan in response to changes in technology, regulation, and the market in the near term. The third set of issues relates to a possible transition from the baseline price cap plan toward the relaxation of regulatory oversight and rate regulation as competition develops in the market for local exchange access services. The Common Carrier Bureau has established a computerized data base for use in the LEC price cap performance review. This data base is located in the Industry Analysis Division's ``FCC-State Link Bulletin Board System'' (RBBS&hyph;PC), in a directory entitled ``PRICECAP.'' (See, FCC Public Notice, DA 94&hyph;219, rel. March 8, 1994.) This 24-hour bulletin board is restricted to FCC use from 9:30 a.m.&hyph;10:30 a.m. and 1 p.m.&hyph;1:30 p.m. EST, Monday through Sunday. From 8 a.m.&hyph;9:30 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. EST, Monday through Sunday, regulatory commissions and other government agencies are priority users and, therefore, the system is not available to other users during those hours. The board is available to the public (as well as government users) from 1:30 p.m.&hyph;8 a.m. EST, Monday through Sunday.
