FR940817-2-00180 FR940817-2-00087 In the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 (``Penny Stock Reform Act''), Congress mandated that the NASD establish a toll-free telephone number (`800 number service'') for the purpose of receiving and responding to inquiries from the public regarding the background of NASD members and their associated persons. The NASD began operating its 800 number service on October 1, 1991. Upon the request of a caller, the NASD may disclose, in the form of a written report, the following information contained in the CRD: 10 past and present employment history of NASD members and their associated persons; all final disciplinary actions, 11 taken by federal and state regulatory agencies and SROs, that relate to securities or commodities transactions; and all criminal convictions reported on Form BD or Form U&hyph;4. 10 Under NASD procedures, the 800 number service operator does not provide any information over the telephone. Instead, a written copy of the information requested is sent to the caller and to the NASD member and/or associated person who is the subject of the inquiry. The identity of the caller remains confidential. See 800 Number Service Plan Approval Order, supra, note 6. 11 The NASD's 800 number service plan does not define the term ``disciplinary action.'' According to the NASD, however, the term includes, but is not limited to, information provided in response to question 7 on Form BD and question 22 on Form U&hyph;4. See Pending Event Disclosure Approval Order, supra, note 6. In 1993, the Commission approved a rule change by the NASD to expand the scope of information that is reportable through its 800 number service. 12 Thus, in addition to the information set forth above, the NASD may disclose to the public such events as pending formal disciplinary actions initiated by federal and state regulatory agencies and SROs; criminal indictments or informations; civil judgments; and certain arbitration awards in securities and commodities disputes involving public customers. Currently, the NASD relies on members and associated persons to report these events to the CRD on Form BD or Form U&hyph;4, respectively. Because this represents the only means by which the NASD can obtain data about pending disciplinary actions (other than its own), the quality of the CRD database, and thus of the 800 number service, depends on complete and timely reporting by members and associated persons. 12 See Pending Event Disclosure Approval Order, supra, note 6. The Commission notes that, in 1992, Congress requested that the General Accounting Office (``GAO'') conduct a review of various aspects of the Penny Stock Reform Act, including the NASD's 800 number service. Among other things, the GAO recommended that information about final arbitration awards be reported. Accordingly, the NASD submitted, and the Commission approved, a rule change authorizing the NASD to disclose certain arbitration awards, as well as pending formal disciplinary actions, through its 800 number service. In this context, the Commission notes that it has requested all SROs to coordinate with the NASD the transfer of information about awards rendered in each exchange's arbitration program. In the Commission's opinion, Rule 9 to Article XII should help fill a potential gap in the NASD's 800 number service, by authorizing the Exchange to report the initiation of a formal CHX disciplinary proceeding 13 involving an Exchange member, member organization or associated person, and significant changes in the status thereof, 14 directly to the CRD. As a result, that information will be available to the public whether or not it is voluntarily reported by the member or associated person. The Commission therefore finds that the proposed rule change should enhance the fairness and accuracy of the CRD database and, accordingly, of information released to the public through the 800 number service. 13 For purposes of reporting to the CRD, the CHX considers a formal disciplinary proceeding to be pending from the time charges are issued until completion of the proceeding. See supra, notes 4 and 5. 14 CHX Rule 9 provides the following examples of significant changes in the status of a pending formal disciplinary proceeding which would require disclosure: the issuance of a decision by the President; and the filing of an appeal to and/or the issuance of a decision by, a Judiciary Committee, the Exchange's Executive Committee or Board of Governors. The Commission has long believed that investors need access to reliable information in order to protect themselves against potential fraud and abuse. In this respect, Rule 9 to Article XII should help customers make an informed decision about whether they should conduct or continue to conduct business with particular securities professionals. In sum, the Commission has concluded that the rule change should increase the flow of information to the public and thus should ultimately strengthen investor protection. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) 15 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;94&hyph;12) is hereby approved. 15 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 16 16 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20122 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
