FR940418-2-00026 FR940418-2-00005 As discussed above in connection with the 1988&hyph;90 restructuring, petitioners alleged several subsidies to TAS after the second asset transfer and receipt of Italsider's shares by TAS was among them. As we explained, we believe that we have captured the full benefit to the subject merchandise from the restructuring without analyzing these individual transactions. Therefore, TAS' payment or non-payment to Italsider is irrelevant to our analysis. However, although we did not verify that TAS (in liquidation) paid Italsider for the shares, we do not believe that TAS kept the proceeds from the sale. This is because the proceeds were so large (1,563 billion lire) that they would have been more than enough to pay off all of TAS' outstanding liabilities and to return the company to a positive equity position. However, as TAS' books indicate, this did not happen. Comment 13 Petitioners maintain that although evidence presented at verification may demonstrate that Terni received Law 750/81 funds based on its identity as a producer of forgings and castings, the Department nevertheless found that Terni's accounting records did not reflect that these grants were designated only for the production of forgings and castings. Therefore, petitioners argue that Terni treated and accounted for these grants as general funds, and did not specifically allocate them to its forgings and castings operations. DOC Position We find these grants to be not countervailable since they applied to merchandise not subject to this investigation. We disagree with petitioners' argument that Terni's treatment of these funds as ``general funds'' demonstrates that they were not specifically allocated to the production of forgings and castings. We stated in the GIA that when a company receives a general subsidy, the Department does not attempt to ``trace'' or establish how the subsidy was used. Conversely, if the subsidy is tied to the production of merchandise other than the merchandise under investigation, the Department also does not attempt to trace or establish how the subsidy was ultimately used. Furthermore, we believe that respondents provided sufficient documentation, which is fully discussed in the ILVA verification report, that grants under this program specifically applied to the production of forgings and castings. As stated in the GIA at 37267, if the benefit is tied to a product other than the merchandise under investigation, the Department will not find a countervailable subsidy on the subject merchandise. Verification In accordance with section 776(b) of the Act, we verified the information used in making our final determination. We followed standard verification procedures, including meeting with government and company officials, examination of relevant accounting records and examination of original source documents. Our verification results are outlined in detail in the public versions of the verification reports, which are on file in the Central Records Unit (room B&hyph;099 of the Main Commerce Building). Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with our affirmative preliminary determination, we instructed the U.S. Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of electrical steel from Italy, which were entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after February 1, 1994, the date our preliminary determination was published in the Federal Register . If the ITC issues a final affirmative injury determination, we will instruct Customs to require a cash deposit for entries of the merchandise after that date in the amounts indicated below. ␣ 1␣ 1Percent Electrical Steel Country-Wide Ad Valorem Rate 24.42 ITC Notification In accordance with section 705(d) of the Act, we will notify the ITC of our determination. In addition, we are making available to the ITC all nonprivileged and nonproprietary information relating to this investigation. We will allow the ITC access to all privileged and business proprietary information in our files, provided the ITC confirms that it will not disclose such information, either publicly or under an administrative protective order, without the written consent of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Investigations, Import Administration. If the ITC determines that material injury, or threat of material injury, does not exist, these proceedings will be terminated and all estimated duties deposited or securities posted as a result of the suspension of liquidation will be refunded or cancelled. If, however, the ITC determines that such injury does exist, we will issue a countervailing duty order directing Customs officers to assess countervailing duties on electrical steel from Italy. Return of Destruction of Proprietary Information This notice serves as the only reminder to parties subject to Administrative Protective Order (APO) of their responsibility concerning the return or destruction of proprietary information disclosed under APO in accordance with 19 CFR 355.34(d). Failure to comply is a violation of the APO. This determination is published pursuant to section 705(d) of the Act and 19 CFR 355.20(a)(4). Dated: April 11, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9313 Filed 04&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
