FR940930-0-00082 FR940930-0-00016 Response: We acknowledge that this agreement could constitute a kickback under the Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute (42 U.S.C. 1320a&hyph;7b(b)). That statute makes it a felony to offer, pay, solicit, or receive remuneration with the intention of inducing the referral of Medicare, Medicaid, Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant, or Social Services Block Grant program business. Activities that come within the purview of the statute are not subject to prosecution if they fit within specified safe harbors, as set forth in the regulation published in the Federal Register July 29, 1991 (56 FR 35952). Consequently, an organization or individual should enter into an agreement such as that referenced in the December 1990 interim final rule only if the agreement does not violate the anti-kickback statute. Comment: Several commenters suggested that the rule should be modified so that a portion of the professional component of a screening mammogram be determined to represent the contribution of the primary care physician if the screening mammogram is taken in the primary care physician's office but interpreted by another physician. The commenters believed that the allocation of 37 percent of the payment limit to the interpreting physician's role overcompensates that physician and ignores the primary care physician's role in furnishing the mammogram. One commenter stated that the Physician Payment Reform Commission report entitled ``The Costs of Providing Screening Mammography'' allocates a flat $12 for the interpretation. As an alternative, the commenter suggested that the primary care physician be permitted to contract with the interpreting physician for payment at a rate less than 37 percent of the payment limit. Another commenter recommended that the interpretation represent 20 percent of the total fee. Response: Medicare does not pay for referrals, and exacting a fee for referrals is against the law. A qualified physician who furnishes the interpretation of the screening mammogram receives payment for the professional component of the screening mammogram. If the primary care physician furnishes neither the professional component nor the technical component of the screening mammogram, he or she is entitled to no payment for the screening mammogram. The apportionment of the screening mammography payment limit between the professional component and the technical component will reflect the payment split for the corresponding components for diagnostic mammography under the fee schedule for physicians' services. The weights of the factors reflect historical payment data, and we have no reason to believe that the apportionment is not appropriate for a screening mammography procedure. Comment: One commenter stated that the purchased service limitation set forth in section 1842(n) of the Act should not apply to the technical component of a screening mammography procedure furnished in a primary care physician's office that customarily uses a temporary or leased technologist because_ •The technologist is under the direct control and supervision of the primary care physician and, as such, meets the common law rules for an employer/employee relationship applied under the Internal Revenue Code; and •The screening mammography procedure is performed under the supervision of the primary care physician in conformance with the definition of ``direct supervision'' set forth in §410.32(a). Response: The purchased service limitation does not apply to screening mammography services because the procedures are not included in the definition of diagnostic tests under section 1861(s)(3) of the Act, as required by section 1842(n) of the Act, the statutory basis of the purchased service limitation. Section 1861(s)(13) of the Act provides for Part B coverage of screening mammography services, which are not subject to the requirements of section 1842(n) of the Act.
