FR940505-1-00346 FR940505-1-00012 Coating solids means the nonvolatile portion of an aerosol coating product, consisting of the film forming ingredients, including pigments and resins. Commercial use means the use of aerosol coating products in the production of goods, or the providing of services for profit, including touch-up and repair. Corrosion resistant brass, bronze, or copper coating means a clear coating formulated and labeled exclusively as such to prevent tarnish and corrosion of uncoated brass, bronze, or copper metal surfaces. Distributor means any person to whom an aerosol coating product is sold or supplied for the purposes of resale or distribution in commerce, except that manufacturers, retailers, and consumers are not distributors. Dye means a product containing no resins which is used to color a surface or object without building a film. Electrical coating means a coating labeled exclusively as such, which is used exclusively to coat electrical components such as wire windings on electric motors to provide insulation and protection from corrosion. Enamel means a coating which cures by chemical cross-linking of its base resin. Enamels can be readily distinguished from lacquers because enamels are not resoluble in their original solvent. Exact match finish, automotive means a topcoat which meets all of the following criteria: the product is designed and labeled exclusively to exactly match the color of an original, factory-applied automotive coating during the touch-up of automobile finishes; the product is labeled with the manufacturer's name for which they were formulated; and the product is labeled with either the original equipment manufacturer's (O.E.M.) color code number; the color name; or other designation identifying the specific O.E.M. color to the purchaser. Exact match finish, engine paint means a coating which meets all of the following criteria: the product is designed and labeled exclusively to exactly match the color of an original, factory-applied engine paint; the product is labeled with the manufacturer's name for which they were formulated; and the product is labeled with either the original equipment manufacturer's (O.E.M.) color code number, the color name, or other designation identifying the specific O.E.M. color to the purchaser. Exact match finish, industrial means a coating which meets all of the following criteria: the product is designed and labeled exclusively to exactly match the color of an original, factory-applied industrial coating during the touch-up of manufactured products; the product is labeled with the manufacturer's name for which they were formulated; and the product is labeled with either the original equipment manufacturer's (O.E.M.) color code number; the color name; or other designation identifying the specific O.E.M. color to the purchaser. Executive officer means the Executive Officer of the Air Resources Board, or his or her delegate. Exempt compounds means any of the following compounds: methane; chlorodifluoromethane (HCFC-22); trifluoromethane (HFC-23); dichlorotrifluoroethane (HCFC-123); tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134a); dichlorofluoroethane (HCFC-141b); chlorodifluoroethane (HCFC-142b); 2-chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (HCFC-124); pentafluoroethane (HFC-125); methylene chloride; 1,1,1-trichloroethane (methyl chloroform); trichlorotrifluoroethane (CFC-113); dichlorodifluoromethane (CFC-12); trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-11); dichlorotetrafluoroethane (CFC-114); chloropentafluoroethane (CFC-115); 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethane (HFC-134); 1,1,1-trifluoroethane (HFC-143a); 1,1-difluoroethane (HFC-152a); or perfluorocarbon compounds which fall into these classes: Cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated alkanes; Cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated ethers with no unsaturations; Cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated tertiary amines with no unsaturations; or Sulfur containing perfluorocarbons with no unsaturations and with sulfur bonds only to carbon and fluorine. Flat paint products means a coating which, when fully dry, registers gloss less than or equal to 15 on an 85 gloss meter, or less than or equal to 5 on a 60 gloss meter, or which is labeled as a flat coating. Flatting agent means a compound added to a coating to reduce the gloss of the coating without adding color to the coating. Floral spray means a coating labeled exclusively as such, which is sprayed on fresh flowers for the purposes of coloring, preserving or protecting their appearance. Fluorescent coating means a coating labeled as such which converts absorbed incident light energy into emitted light of a different hue. Glass coating means a coating labeled exclusively as such, which is applied to glass to tint or darken the color of the glass while retaining transparency. Ground traffic/marking coating means a coating labeled exclusively as such, which is formulated for and applied to dirt, gravel, grass, concrete, asphalt, warehouse floors, or parking lots. Such coatings must be in a container equipped with a valve and sprayhead designed to direct the spray toward the surface when the can is held in an inverted vertical position. High temperature coating means a coating labeled exclusively as such, which is formulated for and applied to substrates which will, in normal use, be subjected to temperatures in excess of 400 ○F. Hobby/model/craft coating means a coating which is designed and labeled exclusively for hobby applications and is sold in aerosol containers of 6 ounces or less.
