FR941011-2-00014 FR941011-2-00002 Records are retained as long as the agency determines they are needed. They are then destroyed. System manager and address: Assistant Inspector General for Audit, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2311. Notification procedure: Any individual may request information regarding this system of records, or information as to whether the system contains records pertaining to him/her from the Director, Information Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2309. Record access procedures: An individual may request access to a record in this system which pertains to him/her by submitting a written request to the Director, Information Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2309. Contesting record procedures: An individual may contest information in this system which pertains to him/her by submitting a written request to the Assistant Inspector General for Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2310. Record source categories: Informaiton in the system comes entirely from OIG audit employees. USDA/OIG&hyph;7 System name: Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Request Records, USDA/OIG. System location: Files are kept in the OIG headquarters office in the Agriculture Administration Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2309. Categories of individuals covered by the system: This system contains records of individuals who have made requests under the Freedom of Information Act or Privacy Act. Categories of records in the system: The request records consist of the incoming request, all correspondence developed during the processing of the request, and the final reply. Authority for maintenance of the system: Pub. L. 95&hyph;452, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App.; 5 U.S.C. 301. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Used by OIG employees as an internal control mechanism for tracking the disposition of requests and for responding to individuals who are checking on the status of their requests. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are stored in file folders.
