FR940207-2-00075 FR940207-2-00028 Rate Schedule INT&hyph;FT1 United States Department of Energy, Western Area Power Administration, Pacific Northwest-Pacific Southwest Intertie Project Schedule of Rates for Firm Transmission Service Effective Step One: The first day of the first full billing period beginning on or after August 1, 1993. Step Two: The first day of the first full billing period beginning on or after October 1, 1995, and will remain in effect through July 31, 1998, until superseded, whichever occurs first. Available Within the marketing area served by the Pacific Northwest-Pacific Southwest Intertie Project. Applicable To firm transmission service customers where capacity and energy are supplied to the Pacific Northwest-Pacific Southwest Intertie Project (AC Intertie) system at points of interconnection with other systems and transmitted and delivered, on a bidirectional basis, less losses, to points of delivery on the AC Intertie system specified in the service contract. Character and Conditions of Service Alternating current at 60 Hertz, three-phase, delivered and metered at the voltages and points of delivery established by contract. Rate Step One: Firm Transmission Service Charge: $4.46 per kilowatt per year for each kilowatt delivered at the point of delivery, as established by contract: payable monthly at the rate of $0.372 per kilowatt. Step Two: Firm Transmission Service Charge: $8.01 per kilowatt per year for each kilowatt delivered at the point of delivery, as established by contract: payable monthly at the rate of $0.6675 per kilowatt. Adjustments For Reactive Power None. There shall be no entitlement to transfer of reactive kilovolt-amperes at points of delivery, except when such transfers may be mutually agreed upon by contractor and contracting officer or their authorized representatives. For Losses Capacity and energy losses incurred in connection with the transmission and delivery of capacity and energy under this rate schedule shall be supplied by the customer in accordance with the service contract. Billing for Unauthorized Overruns For each billing period in which there is a contract violation involving an unauthorized overrun of the contractual firm power and/or energy obligation, such overrun shall be billed at 10 times the above rate.
