FR940412-1-00095 FR940412-1-00012 §148.275 Iron oxide, spent; iron sponge, spent. (a) Before spent iron oxide or spent iron sponge is loaded in a closed hold, the shipper must provide the master with a written certification that the material has been cooled and weathered for not less than eight weeks. (b) Both spent iron oxide and spent iron sponge may be transported on all-steel barges having open holds after exposure to air for a period of not less than ten days. §148.280 Magnesia, unslaked (lightburned magnesia, calcined magnesite, caustic calcined magnesite). (a) When transported by barge, magnesia, unslaked, must be carried in unmanned, all-steel, double-hulled barges equipped with weathertight hatches or covers. The barge may not carry any other cargo while unslaked magnesia is on board. (b) The shipping paper requirements in §148.60 and the dangerous cargo manifest requirements in §148.70 do not apply to the transportation of magnesia, unslaked, transported in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. (c) This part does not apply to the transport of natural magnesite, magnesium carbonate, or magnesia clinkers. §148.285 Metal sulfide concentrates. (a) Prior to loading a metal sulfide concentrate, the shipper shall provide the master of the vessel or person in charge of the barge with detailed information concerning any specific hazards based on the history of the specific metal sulfide concentrate to be loaded, and precautions to be followed when transporting that concentrate. (b) Except when the metal sulfide concentrate is carried by unmanned barge, where the information provided by the shipper in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section indicates that the metal sulfide concentrate may generate toxic or flammable gases, the appropriate gas detection equipment as specified in §§148.415 and 148.420 must be on board the vessel. (c) After loading, a metal sulfide concentrate must be trimmed reasonably level to the boundaries of the cargo hold. (d) No cargo hold containing a metal sulfide concentrate may be ventilated. (e) No person may enter a hold containing a metal sulfide concentrate unless_ (1) The atmosphere in the cargo hold has been tested and contains sufficient oxygen to support life; and (2) Where the shipper indicates that toxic gas(es) may be generated, the atmosphere in the cargo hold has been tested for the toxic gas(es) and the concentration of the gas(es) is found to be less than the TLV; or (3) An emergency situation exists and the person entering the cargo hold is wearing the appropriate self-contained breathing apparatus. §148.295 Petroleum coke, calcined or uncalcined, at 55 ○C (131 ○F) or above. (a) This part does not apply to shipments of petroleum coke, calcined or uncalcined, on any vessel when the temperature of the material is less than 55 ○C (131 ○F). (b) Petroleum coke, calcined or uncalcined, or a mixture of calcined and uncalcined petroleum coke may not be loaded when its temperature exceeds 107 ○C (225 ○F). (c) No other hazardous materials may be stowed in any hold adjacent to a hold containing petroleum coke except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. (d) In a hold over a tank containing fuel or material having a flashpoint of less than 93 ○C (200 ○F), before petroleum coke at 55 ○C (131 ○F) or above may be loaded into that hold, a 0.6 to 1.0 meter (2 to 3 foot) layer of the petroleum coke at a temperature not greater than 43 ○C (110 ○F) must first be loaded. (e) Petroleum coke must be loaded as follows: (1) For a shipment in a hold over a fuel tank, the loading of a cooler layer of petroleum coke in the hold as required by paragraph (d) of this section must be completed prior to loading the petroleum coke at 55 ○C (131 ○F) or above in any hold of the vessel. (2) Upon completion of the loading described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a 0.6 to 1.0 meter (2 to 3 foot) layer of the petroleum coke at 55 ○C (131 ○F) or above must first be loaded into each hold, including those holds, if any, already containing a cooler layer of the petroleum coke. (3) Upon completion of the loading described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, normal loading of the petroleum coke may proceed to completion. (f) The master of the vessel shall warn members of a crew that petroleum coke loaded and transported under the terms of this section is hot, and that injury due to burns is possible.
