FR941004-1-00037 FR941004-1-00012 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 46 CFR Ch. I [CCD 94&hyph;080] Alternate Inspection Compliance Programs for the U.S. Maritime Industry AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of meeting; request for comments. SUMMARY: As part of its Maritime Regulatory Reform Initiative, the U.S. Coast Guard is developing programs to provide alternatives by which the U.S. maritime industry can demonstrate compliance with applicable vessel design, construction, equipment and operational requirements. A number of concepts are under consideration, including a program to accept tests and examinations performed by vessel owners or operators who employ a rigorous system of safety management. The Coast Guard desires input from the maritime industry on the safety management systems now in use and their value in assuring vessel safety. The Coast Guard will conduct a public meeting to obtain information from members of the regulated community and the general public on this issue. DATES: The meeting will be held November 7, 1994 from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Written material should be submitted not later than November 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: The meeting will be held in Room 2415, Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20593. Written comments may be mailed to the Executive Secretary, Marine Safety Council (G&hyph;LRA), U.S. Coast Guard, 2100 Second Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20593&hyph;0001, or may be delivered to room 3406 at the same address between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LCDR David L. Scott, Project Manager, Commandant (G&hyph;MVI&hyph;1), U.S. Coast Guard, 2100 Second Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20593, telephone (202) 267&hyph;1464. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Coast Guard has been actively engaged in maritime policy reforms designed to enhance the competitiveness of the U.S. maritime industry. One aspect of maritime policy reform is to provide efficient and cost effective alternatives by which owners and operators of inspected vessels can demonstrate compliance with applicable laws and regulations. One concept under consideration is to credit tests and examinations of a vessel's systems, components or equipment performed by the vessel's owners, operators or authorized third parties as satisfying Coast Guard inspection requirements. This concept can provide vessel owners and operators with greater flexibility in complying with Coast Guard inspection requirements and may significantly reduce the time necessary to complete, or may eliminate, certain periodic Coast Guard inspections. Under such a program, vessel owners, operators or authorized third parties would conduct periodic tests and examinations in accordance with written procedures acceptable to the Coast Guard. These procedures would indicate the purpose and methodology of the test, as well as the qualifications of the personnel who perform and validate the test. They would also indicate how the test is to be documented. Periodic Coast Guard inspections would involve verifying the company's inspection records for the vessel and assessing the crew's ability to respond to likely shipboard emergencies. This concept is predicated on the vessel owner or operator employing a rigorous system of safety management. The Coast Guard is seeking to establish the characteristics for a safety management system which should be recognized under this program. There are many ways to support the quality of safety management systems, such as the ISO 9000 series, the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention (International Safety Management [ISM] Code), the International Ship Managers Association Code of Ship Management Standards, or company specific in-house safety management systems, all of which if properly implemented and maintained, may provide a basis for Coast Guard acceptance of owner, operator or third party testing. To aid the Coast Guard's efforts to establish the criteria for a recognized safety management system, and establish guidelines for alternative compliance inspection programs, views are solicited on the following questions: 1. What are the essential elements of a shipboard safety management system? 2. How should the effectiveness of a company's safety management system be measured? 3. How does a company get its safety management system qualified? 4. Should a company's safety system be certified by an independent quality system registrar as a condition for recognition by the Coast Guard?
