FR940302-0-00032 FR940302-0-00015 The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in determining to make this rule final. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list Auerodendron pauciflorum as endangered. Only 1 population consisting of 10 individuals is known to exist. Deforestation for rural, urban, and tourist development are imminent threats to the survival of the species. Therefore, endangered rather than threatened status seems an accurate assessment of the species' condition. The reasons for not proposing critical habitat for this species are discussed below in the Critical Habitat section. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary propose critical habitat at the time the species is proposed to be endangered or threatened. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat is not prudent for this species at this time. The number of individuals of Auerodendron pauciflorum is sufficiently small that vandalism and collection could seriously affect the survival of the species. Publication of critical habitat descriptions and maps in the Federal Register would increase the likelihood of such activities. The Service believes that Federal involvement in the areas where these plants occur can be identified without the designation of critical habitat. All involved parties and landowners have been notified of the location and importance of protecting this species' habitat. Protection of this species' habitat will also be addressed through the recovery process and through the section 7 jeopardy standard. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain practices. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, Commonwealth, and private agencies, groups and individuals. The Endangered Species Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the Commonwealth, and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. Such actions are initiated by the Service following listing. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against certain activities involving listed plants are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to ensure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a listed species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. No critical habitat is being proposed for Auerodendron pauciflorum , as discussed above. Federal involvement may occur through the funding of residential developments by agencies such as the Farmers Home Administration.
