FR941007-1-00041 FR941007-1-00008 Notwithstanding its proposal to require that manually deactivated air bags reactivate by manual means only, NHTSA requests comments on whether it should address the problem of ensuring both infant and non-infant safety by mandating that a manually deactivated air bag be automatically reactivated upon the occurrence of some subsequent event. The subsequent event that triggers the automatic reactivation of the air bag could be the next restarting of the vehicle. However, such a design could pose an unnecessary burden and risk in the example given above of motorists making stop-and-go shopping trips. The motorists must restart their vehicles numerous times on such trips. The combination of that fact and the automatic reactivation of the air bag each time the vehicles are restarted would multiply the occasions on which the motorists might forget to protect their infants by deactivating the air bag. To address this problem, NHTSA requests comments on whether, if it were to adopt a requirement for automatic reactivation, it should qualify that requirement further, by requiring that the air bag be reactivated only when the restarting of the vehicle occurs after the ignition has been off for more than some minimum period, perhaps a period of several hours. The ultimate decision whether to mandate manual or automatic reactivation of the air bag will depend in large measure on the agency's assessment of the relative effects of each method of reactivation on the safety of the infant and non-infant occupants of the front right passenger seating position in the vehicles affected by this rulemaking. Using data from the National Accident Sampling System (NASS) and Fatal Accident Reporting System (FARS), the agency has attempted to quantify the potential safety trade-offs in its preliminary regulatory evaluation for this rulemaking. NHTSA seeks comments and information that would enable the agency to refine its estimates of those trade-offs. D. Warning Light NHTSA is proposing to require a telltale light on the dashboard that is clearly visible from both the driver and front passenger seating positions and that is illuminated whenever the passenger air bag has been deactivated by means of the cutoff device. This light would be separate from the air bag readiness indicator already required by Standard No. 208. NHTSA is proposing that the color of the telltale be yellow, with the words ``AIR BAG OFF'' clearly visible on the telltale when the passenger side air bag has been deactivated. NHTSA believes that the indicator should be visible to the driver as a reminder that the passenger air bag is, or is not, functioning. NHTSA believes that the indicator should be also visible from the passenger seating position as a warning to non-infant occupants that they are not protected by their air bag. While the agency is requiring a warning light that is visible to the passenger, its effectiveness may be limited by whether a passenger actually looks at, or for, the light, and understands its message. The agency seeks comment on whether a supplemental or additional warning for passengers would minimize instances in which the air bag was unintentionally not reactivated. NHTSA is concerned that the level of illumination should be consistent with the ambient light condition, and is therefore requiring that the warning light indicator provide at least two levels of brightness, one of which is barely discernible to a driver who has adapted to dark ambient roadway conditions. In addition, NHTSA is specifying that the warning light indicator shall not be adjustable under any driving condition to a level that is invisible. E. Air Bag Readiness Indicator Currently, S4.5.2 of FMVSS No. 208 requires that every vehicle equipped with an air bag also be equipped with an air bag readiness indicator that informs the driver about the operational status of the air bag system. Specifically, S4.5.2 states: An occupant protection system that deploys in the event of a crash shall have a monitoring system with a readiness indicator. The indicator shall monitor its own readiness and shall be clearly visible from the driver's designated seating position. *␣*␣* NHTSA is not aware of any manufacturer which complies with this requirement by installing separate readiness indicators, one for the driver air bag and another for the passenger air bag. If a single readiness indicator for two air bags were used on a vehicle with an air bag cutoff device, the indicator would indicate the non-functioning of an air bag whenever the passenger air bag was deactivated. NHTSA is concerned that, under those circumstances, the driver would have no means of knowing the operational status of the driver air bag. NHTSA considered proposing to amend S4.5.2 to require separate readiness indicators for the driver and passenger side air bags. Instead, NHTSA is proposing to amend S4.5.2 to limit the operation of a single readiness indicator when the cutoff device is ``on'' so that the indicator monitors only the air bag that is not deactivated, i.e., the driver air bag. When the cutoff device is ``off,'' the passenger air bag would be activated, and the readiness indicator would monitor the readiness of both the driver air bag and the passenger air bag. F. Owner's Manual NHTSA is also proposing to require that manufacturers include information concerning the cutoff device in the owner's manual. NHTSA is not proposing specific language which must be included in the owner's manual. NHTSA is proposing to require the owner's manual to include instructions on the operation of the cutoff device, a statement that the cutoff device should only be used when a rear-facing infant restraint is installed in the front passenger seating position, and a warning about the safety consequences of using the cutoff device at other times. G. Labels Currently, Standard No. 208 requires that by September 1, 1994, air bag-equipped vehicles will bear a label on the sun visor that warns, in part: DO NOT INSTALL REARWARD-FACING CHILD SEATS IN ANY FRONT PASSENGER SEAT POSITION
