FR940804-1-00025 FR940804-1-00009 NMFS is soliciting information, comments or recommendations on any aspect of this proposal from all interested parties. NMFS will consider all recommendations received before reaching a final decision. Because the proposed rule for adding this species to the List of Threatened and Endangered Species and designation of critical habitat are closely related, NMFS will hold a public hearing to receive comments on both rulings (see DATES and ADDRESSES ). Classification This proposed rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the General Counsel of the Department of Commerce has certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration that the proposed rule, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities since it is primarily Federal agencies that will be affected. Therefore, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries (NOAA) has determined that the proposed designation is consistent to the maximum extent practicable with the approved Coastal Zone Management Program of the State of Florida. This determination has been submitted for review by the responsible state agency under section 3.7 of the Coastal Zone Management Act. NOAA Administrative Order 216&hyph;6 states that critical habitat designations under the ESA are categorically excluded from the requirement to prepare an environmental assessment (EA) or an environmental impact statement. However, in order to evaluate more clearly the impacts of the proposed critical habitat designation, NMFS has prepared an EA. Copies of the assessment are available on request (see ADDRESSES ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 226 Endangered and threatened species. Dated: July 25, 1994. Gary C. Matlock, Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 50 CFR part 226 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 226_DESIGNATED CRITICAL HABITAT 1. The authority citation for part 226 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1533. Subpart E_[Reserved] 2. A new subpart E is added to part 226 and reserved. 3. A new subpart F is added to part 226, consisting of §226.91, to read as follows: Subpart F_Critical Habitat for Marine Plants §226.91 Johnson's seagrass (Halophila johnsonii). (a) A portion of the Indian River, Florida, within the following boundary: Beginning at the northwestern entrance of Sebastian Inlet, follow the shoreline north to the tip of Mud Hole; cross the Indian River at Mud Hole to the Intercoastal Waterway; follow the Intercoastal Waterway south for 7.5 miles; cross the Indian River and follow the shoreline north to the southwestern entrance of Sebastian Inlet (Sebastian, Fla., 1970, U.S.G.S. 7.5 ’ quad.). (b) A portion of the Indian River, Florida, within the following boundary: Beginning at the northwestern entrance to Ft. Pierce Inlet, follow the shoreline north to the North Beach Causeway and the A1A Bridge; move west across the river at the causeway and bridge and follow the shoreline south for 1.5 miles; cross the Indian River to the shoreline of the Jensen Beach to Jupiter Inlet Aquatic Preserve; follow the shoreline north to the southwestern entrance of Ft. Pierce Inlet (Fort Pierce, Fla., 1983, U.S.G.S. 7.5 ’ quad.). (c) A portion of the Indian River within the following boundary: Beginning at the northwestern entrance of St. Lucie Inlet follow the shoreline north to the A1A Bridge; cross the river at the bridge and follow the shoreline south to the entrance of the Intercoastal Waterway at St. Lucie State Park; follow the shoreline north to the southwestern entrance of St. Lucie Inlet (Fort Pierce, Fla., 1983, U.S.G.S. 7.5 ’ quad.). (d) A portion of Jupiter Sound and Hobe Sound, Florida, within the following boundary: Beginning at the northwestern entrance to Jupiter Inlet, follow the shoreline north to the Highway 707 Bridge; cross Hobe Sound at the bridge and follow the shoreline south; cross the Route 1 Bridge and follow the shoreline to the southwestern entrance of Jupiter Inlet (Jupiter, Fla, 1983, U.S.G.S. 7.5 ’ quad. and Hobe Sound, Fla., 1967, U.S.G.S. 7.5 ’ quad.). (e) A portion of Lake Worth, Florida, within the following boundary: Beginning at the northwestern entrance to Lake Worth Inlet, follow the shoreline north to the Riviera Beach bridge; cross Lake Worth at the bridge and follow the shoreline south for 2.5 miles; cross Lake Worth and follow the shoreline to the southwestern entrance of Lake Worth Inlet (Riviera Beach, Fla., 1983, U.S.G.S. 7.5 ’ quad).
