FR941220-0-00082 FR941220-0-00014 The proposals eliciting the most comments were those regarding the job contractor concept and the related requirement of posting notice at the place of employment or worksite(s). Of the 157 business comments, 128 concerned the job contractor proposal. In total, there were 171 comments concerning the job contractor proposal, of which 153 (nearly 90%) opposed the proposal. Educational institutions commented primarily on the proposal to require the employer to identify the prevailing wage source on the labor condition application. These commenters uniformly advocated a check-off system, whereby the LCA-filing employer would check a block on the form to indicate whether the prevailing wage source was a State Employment Service Agency (SESA) determination, an authoritative source, or another legitimate source. The majority of the general public commenters were critical of the H&hyph;1B program in general, and suggested that businesses utilizing H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants should pay user fees and should be assessed substantial fines if found in violation. In further opposition to the H&hyph;1B program, several commenters (in addition to the general public) advocated that the proposed regulations did not go far enough and that LCA employers should be required to report the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant's wage earnings to the Internal Revenue Service and to trade associations in order to facilitate better monitoring of the LCA employer's activities. B. Comments to the Interim Final Rule Dated January 13, 1992 There were 45 comments to this rule. Three issues commented on are germane to this Final Rule: The movement among worksites of H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants, in-kind perquisites, and the definition of ``aggrieved party.'' Worksite movement of H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants is discussed in item 2.a below; in-kind perquisites in item 2.b; and definition of aggrieved party in item 1.f. C. Additional Discussions and Comments On December 8, 1994, a meeting was held at OMB pursuant to E.O. 12866. Other than representatives from the Department and OMB the organizations represented were the American Immigration Lawyers Association, the American Council on International Personnel, the Information Technology Association of America, the National Association of Foreign Student Advisors, and the American Council on International Priorities. Written comments were subsequently received by the Department from the American Council on International Personnel, the Information Technology Association of America and the American Immigration Lawyers Association. D. Matters Addressed in the Final Rule While the Department maintains its discretion to engage in additional rulemaking, and such proposed rulemaking is presently under consideration, this final rule culminates this series of rulemaking activities. 1. Provisions Adopted as Proposed a. Geographic/Occupational Scope of the LCA (See ยง XXXX .730(c)(2).) The Department and the public presently are not receiving a true indication of the valid job openings for which employers anticipate the need for H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants. EPA's operating experience indicates that some employers have been filing LCA's containing ``laundry lists'' of occupations and areas where an H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant might be needed, in many cases on a single labor condition application. When this practice is coupled with the potential 6-year validity period of the applications, the information disclosed to the Department and to the public can be substantially misleading with respect to the amount of hiring activity actually occurring pursuant to this program. The Department proposed to limit an individual labor condition application to a single occupation and to geographic areas only within the jurisdiction of a single ETA regional office. The Department expressed its view that, under such a rule, employers would be more likely to file LCA's for the actual number of job openings for which H&hyph;1B workers are sought, ETA would be able to better manage and collect data on the H&hyph;1B program, INS could exercise more control over the petitions filed pursuant to a labor condition application, and the Department would be better positioned to carry out enforcement activities under this program. Additionally, the Department requested comments on this proposal with specific reference to whether and to what extent this change should promote the objective of receiving applications which more accurately represent actual job openings for which H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants are being sought, and whether the change might occasion any unintended operational consequences. Nearly all of the 39 commenters on this issue indicated that if the Department wanted to get a truer picture of actual practice, instead of limiting the LCA to one occupation and ETA regional area, the Department should limit the number of workers who could be ``procured'' on one LCA. Of the 39 commenters, there were 23 against the proposal and 16 for it. One commenter recommended that the LCA be limited to one occupation, but with a nationwide filing. Several commenters from the general public advocated that each user of this program should have to pay fees in order to participate.
