FR940804-2-00158 FR940804-2-00085 4. To date, applicant has relied on the exception provided under section 3(c)(1) to avoid having to register as an investment company. 3 The number of holders of MRCs is anticipated eventually to exceed 100. At that time, applicant will be unable to continue to rely on section 3(c)(1). Accordingly, applicant requests an exemption from paragraphs (a)(5), (a)(6), and (b) of rule 3a&hyph;5 so that it can issue debt securities in the manner described above without registering as an investment company under the Act. 3 Section 3(c)(1) excepts from the definition of investment company any issuer whose securities are owned by less than 100 persons and which is not making a public offering of its securities. Applicant's Legal Conclusions 1. Rule 3a&hyph;5 excepts from the definition of investment company any finance subsidiary of an operating company. Paragraph (a)(5) of rule 3a&hyph;5 requires that a finance subsidiary relying on the rule loan to its parent company or a company controlled by its parent company at least 85% of amounts raised by the subsidiary. Paragraph (a)(6) limits the investments of the finance subsidiary to Government securities, securities of its parent company or a company controlled by its parent company, and certain other debt instruments. Rule 3a&hyph;5(b) defines a parent company and conpanies controlled by the parent company as companies that are not investment companies under section 3(a) or that are excepted or exempted by order from the definition of investment company by section 3(b) or by the rules and regulations under section 3(a). 2. Assuming that GE Capital otherwise may be deemed to be an investment company under the Act, the diversity of GE Capital's financial activities requires it to rely on the exception from the definition of investment company under section 3(c)(6). 4 Because GE Capital is excepted from the definition of investment company under section 3(c)(6), rather than under section 3(b) or the rules and regulations under section 3(a), GE Capital is not an eligible parent within the meaning of rule 3a&hyph;5(b). Consequently, applicant cannot comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(5) and (a)(6) that it invest its assets in the securities of an eligible parent company and companies controlled by the parent company. 4 Section 3(c)(6) excepts from the definition of investment company any company primarily engaged in one or more of the businesses described in paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) of section 3(c), or in one or more of such businesses (from which not less than 25% of such company's gross income during its last fiscal year was derived) together with an additional business or businesses other than investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading securities. Section 3(c)(3) excepts from the definition of investment company banks and similar institutions. Section 3(c)(4) excepts from the definition of investment company person engaged in the business of making small loans, industrial banking, or similar businesses. Section 3(c)(5) excepts from the definition of investment company persons who are engaged in the business of: ``purchasing or otherwise acquiring notes, drafts, acceptances, open accounts receivable, and other obligations representing part or all of the sales price of merchandise, insurance, and services; (B) making loans to manufacturers, wholesales, and retailers of, and to prospective purchasers of, specified merchandise, insurance, and services; and (C) purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.'' 3. Section 6(c) provides that the Commission may exempt any person or transaction from any provision of the Act or any rule thereunder to the extent that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. Applicant asserts that none of the investor protection concerns addressed by the Act are raised by its activities since it is engaged primarily in the business of financing the operations of GE Capital, and GE Capital is not an investment company. Consequently, applicant believes that the standards for relief under section 6(c) are satisfied. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19009 Filed 8&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
