FR940610-0-00030 FR940610-0-00015 a. Certification of data accuracy; to be made by an officer of the reporting company who will take legal responsibility for the accuracy of the reported data; b. Source identification information; c. Operating schedules; d. Emissions information, including both annual and typical ozone season daily emissions; e. Control equipment information; and f. Process data. 3. States must incorporate the emission statement data into an annual point source emissions submittal to the USEPA. This annual emissions submittal is first due to the USEPA by July 1, 1993; 4. In addition to the submittal of emission statements and the annual point source emissions report, the USEPA is also requesting that states submit an Emissions Statement Status Report (ESSR) beginning by July 1, 1993. The ESSR is to be submitted quarterly each year until all applicable sources have submitted emission statements. The ESSR should individually list the source facilities that are delinquent in submitting emission statements. The ESSR should also include the total annual and typical ozone season day emissions from all source facilities submitting emission statements prior to the ESSR submittal; 5. States are required to use the data collected through the emission statement program to annually update the facility-specific data contained in the Aerometric Information Retrieval System (AIRS) by July 1st of each year; and 6. States must commit to retain emission statement data and submittals for a period of at least three years. Indiana's submittal contains the adopted regulations that will apply to source facilities and that specify what data are to be submitted. The remainder of this technical review will be dedicated to reviewing the contents and technical merits of the state's adopted regulations and the accompanying state commitments. As noted above, the emission statement regulations are codified as 326 IAC 2&hyph;6. The provisions of the regulations are outlined as follows: Applicability The emission statement regulations are applicable to all sources of VOC or NO X with the potential to emit 10 tons per year or more of VOC or NO X in the Counties of: Clark, Elkhart, Floyd, Lake, Marion, Porter, St. Joseph, and Vanderburgh. The regulations are also applicable to sources of Carbon Monoxide (CO), VOC, NO X , Particulate Matter (PM), and Sulfur Dioxide (SO 2 ) which have the potential to emit 100 tons per year or more and to sources of Lead (Pb) which have the potential to emit 5 tons per year or more in the State of Indiana. If the emissions from a facility surpass the emission cutoff for any of these pollutants, the emissions of all the named pollutants must be addressed in the submitted emission statement. Definitions The definitions in 326 IAC 2&hyph;6 applicable to the emission statement regulations and of greatest relevance to the emission statement regulations are summarized here. Actual emissions means the actual rate of emissions of a pollutant from an emissions unit for the calendar year or seasonal period. Annual process rate means the actual or estimated annual fuel, process, or solid waste operating rate in an emission statement operating year. Certifying individual means the individual responsible for the completion and certification of the emission statement, such as an officer of the company or an employee, who will take legal responsibility for the accuracy of the emission statement. Control efficiency means the actual emission control efficiency achieved by the applicable emission control device(s) during the emission statement operating year. The control efficiency must reflect control equipment downtime, operation with diminished effectiveness, and any other malfunctions that occurred while the emission source(s) were in operation. If the actual control efficiency during the emission statement operating year is unknown or cannot reasonably be predicted from available data, then the efficiency designed by the manufacturer may be used. When the actual control efficiency is unknown, it should be clearly indicated that the design efficiency, and not the actual efficiency, is being reported. Control equipment identification code means the AIRS or AIRS Facility Subsystem (AFS) code which defines the equipment used to reduce by destruction or removal the amount of air pollutant in an air stream prior to discharge to the ambient air. Downtime means the period of time when the control device is not operational during the corresponding period of the process. Emission factor means an estimate of the rate at which a pollutant is released to the atmosphere as the result of some activity, divided by the rate of that activity, such as production rate or throughput. Emission statement operating year means the 12 consecutive month time period starting December 1 and ending November 30 for those sources located in Clark, Elkhart, Floyd, Lake, Marion, Porter, St. Joseph, or Vanderburgh Counties with the potential to emit VOC or NO X into the ambient air at levels equal to or greater than 10 tons per year, or the 12 consecutive month time period starting January 1 and ending December 31 for all other sources to which the emission statement regulations apply (see the discussion of applicability above). Estimated emissions method code means a one position (one character) AIRS or AFS code which identifies the estimation technique used in the calculation of estimated emissions. Fugitive emission means releases to the air that are not emitted through stacks, vents, ducts, pipes, or any other confined air stream. Fugitive emissions include equipment leaks, evaporative losses from surface impoundments, and releases from building ventilation systems. Peak ozone season means the contiguous three-month period of the year from June through August. Percentage annual throughput means: 1. The weighted percent of yearly activity for those sources located in Clark, Elkhart, Floyd, Lake, Marion, Porter, St. Joseph, or Vanderburgh Counties with the potential to emit VOC or NO X into the ambient air at levels equal to or greater than 10 tons per year and for the following periods: a. December through February; b. March through May; c. June through August; and d. September through November. 2. The weighted percent of yearly activity for all other sources to which the emission statement regulations apply for the following periods:
