FR941107-2-00164 FR941107-2-00091 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joyce M. Pickholz, Senior Counsel at (202) 942&hyph;0670 or C. Gladwyn Goins, Associate Director at (202) 942&hyph;0665, Division of Investment Management. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. FILI is a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of the State of Utah. FILI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of FMR Corp., the parent company for the group of financial services companies known as Fidelity Investments. 2. The Variable Account was established by FILI as a separate account under the laws of the state of Pennsylvania on July 22, 1987 for the purpose of funding certain variable annuity contracts issued by FILI. FILI may, in the future issue other contracts funded by the Variable Account or other FILI Accounts and deduct mortality and expense risk charges under those contracts in reliance upon the requested exemptive order, if granted. Applicants undertake that such future contracts will be substantially similar in all material respects to the Contracts. 3. FBSI is the principal underwriter for the Contracts. In 1988, FILI, the Variable Account and Fidelity Distributors Corp. (``FDC''), which at that time served as principal underwriter for the Contracts, obtained an exemptive order (the ``1988 Order'') permitting the deduction of mortality and expense risk charges under the Contracts. 1 On January 1, 1990, as part of an internal consolidation, the activities of FDC and FBSI were combined and FBSI became principal underwriter for the Contracts. All aspects of the Contracts have remained precisely the same as was represented in the application pursuant to which the 1988 Order was granted and Contract owners have continued to pay precisely the same fees as they paid (or would have paid) when FDC served as principal underwriter. 1 See Fidelity Investments Life Insurance Co., et al., Release Nos. IC&hyph;16615 (Oct. 28, 1988) (Notice) and IC&hyph;16656 (Nov. 28, 1988) (Order). 4. The Contracts are flexible premium deferred variable annuities. Annuity payments can be on a fixed basis, a variable basis, or a combination of both. If the Annuitant dies prior to the annuity date and prior to age 70, FILI will pay a death benefit equal to the greater of (1) the purchase payments made, less any withdrawals and charges thereon and (2) the Contract value as of the end of the valuation period in which proof of death is received at the service center. 5. On each Contract anniversary before the annuity date, FILI imposes an annual maintenance charge of $30. FILI currently waives this charge for any Contract under which total payments, less withdrawals, equals at least $25,000 and for contracts purchased after May 1, 1990 in exchange for a Fidelity Variable Annuity contract (another contract formerly issued by FILI). FILI reserves the right to increase this annual charge to not more than $50, if warranted by expenses, and to assess the charge against all contracts other than those issued in exchange for a Fidelity Variable Annuity. The charge assessed after the annuity date for a particular contract will never be greater than the charge in effect just before the annuity date. FILI also deducts a daily charge from the assets of the subaccounts of the Variable Account equivalent to an effective annual rate of .25%. Applicants state that the administrative charges contain no element of anticipated profit and their deduction meets the standard specified in Rule 26a&hyph;1 under the 1940 Act. 6. FILI deducts an asset charge, computed daily, for its assumption of mortality and expense risks. This charge is made by deducting daily from the assets of each subaccount attributable to the Contracts a percentage of those assets equal to an effective annual rate of .75%. Of this .75% charge, .65% is estimated to be for assuming mortality risks and .10% is estimated to be for assuming expense risks. The mortality risk FILI bears is that of making annuity payments for the life of an annuitant no matter how long that may be. FILI also bears a mortality risk by guaranteeing the death benefit if the annuitant dies prior to the annuity date. The expense risk is the risk that the costs of issuing and administering the Contracts will be greater than expected when setting the administrative charge. FILI will realize a gain from the charge for these risks to the extent that such charge is not needed to provide for benefits and expenses under the Contracts.
