FR940425-1-00021 FR940425-1-00007 Two candidate tires of the same construction type, manufacturer, line, and size designation are prepared and tested utilizing the same test procedures described above for the standard tires, except that the candidate tires are loaded to 85 percent of the test loads specified in §575.104(h). The adjusted traction coefficients of the candidate tires are determined in accordance with §575.104(f)(2) (ix) and (x). Once tested, candidate tires are assigned grades ``A'', ``B'', or ``C''. A tire that achieved a high level of performance on both asphalt (above 0.47μ) and concrete (above 0.35μ) is graded ``A''. A tire achieving at least medium performance on both surfaces is graded ``B'' (above 0.38μ on asphalt and above 0.26μ on concrete). A tire achieving relatively low performance on either or both surfaces (below 0.38μ on asphalt or below 0.26μ on concrete) is graded ``C''. From examining traction test data, NHTSA has observed that while nearly all tires achieve high traction values on the wet asphalt surface, very few achieve high values on the wet concrete surface. NHTSA conducted a statistical analysis of the traction test data since 1989 to determine the frequency distribution of the traction coefficients of tires tested on both surfaces. The analysis showed that the arithmetic mean of the traction coefficients of tires on the wet asphalt surface was 0.51μ, and the standard deviation was # 0.03μ. Assuming a normal distribution (in a normal or bell-shaped distribution, one standard deviation on both sides of the arithmetic mean represents 68.27% of the values included within the limits indicated (see ``Statistical Methods,'' by Arkin and Colton, 4th Ed. (Rev.), 1958, pages 37 and 38)), it follows that approximately 68 percent of the tires tested on the asphalt surface would have a traction coefficient greater than 0.48μ, but less than 0.54μ. The arithmetic mean of traction coefficients of tires tested on the wet concrete surface was 0.38μ, # 0.03μ, indicating that approximately 68 percent of the tires tested on the wet concrete surface would have a traction coefficient greater than 0.35μ, but less than 0.41μ. That analysis suggests that tire traction has improved to the point that it may be appropriate to upgrade the standard by raising the minimum traction values for each category. For example, an ``A'' rating could call for a traction coefficient above 0.54μ on asphalt and above 0.41μ on concrete; a ``B'' rating could be above 0.48μ on asphalt and above 0.35μ on concrete; and for ``C'', below 0.48μ on asphalt and below 0.35μ on concrete. Alternatively, a new category ``AA'' could be created, the lower limit of which could be 0.54μ for asphalt and 0.41μ for concrete, with the ``A'', ``B'', and ``C'' categories remaining as they are. Either of these alternatives would result in a more balanced distribution of tires among grades ``A'', ``B'', and ``C''. Another area of increasing concern in traction testing is the possible use of a peak tire traction category for testing rather than the sliding traction presently measured. Contemporary vehicles are increasingly utilizing anti-lock brakes where sliding traction is not the primary traction force in panic braking. Those vehicles rely on peak tire traction, that is, maximum braking action is obtained when the tire is still rolling. Although peak tire traction may be desirable information for consumers with vehicles equipped with anti-lock brakes, high peak traction may compromise other tire characteristics such as degradation of traction when cornering. If peak traction performance of tires differs substantially from sliding traction, an alternative traction grading procedure may be necessary. NHTSA needs additional data on the measurement of peak traction coefficients and on the correlation of peak traction coefficients with stopping distance, which may be available from commenters. The agency is soliciting any such data. III. Temperature Resistance The temperature resistance grade is intended to indicate the extent to which heat is generated and/or dissipated by a given tire, and the capability of the tire to withstand the resulting temperature without failure. The heat that is generated depends on the amount of energy absorbed by the tire in the flexing of the rubber and its reinforcing materials. That energy is wasted and appears in the tire as heat. The more energy wasted, the greater the amount of heat that is generated and, if the tire is not capable of dissipating that greater amount of heat and/or if the tire is not able to resist the effects of the higher operating temperature that results from that greater amount of heat, the lower the temperature resistance grade.
