FR941212-2-00034 FR941212-2-00030 II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The Amex has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and the Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change Exchange Rule 958 sets forth the obligations of Traders when they initiate options transactions on the floor of the Exchange for accounts in which they have an interest. These obligations include, but are not limited to, contributing to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, bidding and offering within prescribed parameters and, when establishing or increasing an options position, initiating such transactions on the floor of the Exchange. The Exchange now proposes to establish an additional requirement that at least 25% of a Trader's transactions and contract volume during each calendar quarter be executed in person and not through the use of orders given to a floor broker or left on a specialist's book. The Exchange believes that establishing such a requirement will result in better, more liquid markets because Traders will be available in trading crowds to contribute to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, to make competitive bids and offers, and to trade for their own account when there exists a lack of price continuity, a temporary disparity between the supply of and demand for options contracts or a temporary distortion of the price relationships between options. While the Exchange believes an in person requirement of 25% is appropriate at this time, it is further proposed that the Exchange be given the authority to increase the in person requirement above 25% should such action be deemed necessary by the Exchange. The Exchange also proposes to extend favorable capital and margin treatment to certain opening orders entered by Traders from off the Exchange floor provided at least 80% of their total transactions and contract volume is executed in person during any calendar quarter. These off-floor orders shall also be subject to Rule 958 and may be effected only for the purpose of hedging, reducing the risk of, or rebalancing a Trader's open positions. Currently, pursuant to Exchange Rule 958, only transactions initiated on the floor of the Exchange can count as Registered Trader transactions. 2 Only on-floor transactions qualify for favorable capital and margin treatment, even if such orders are entered to adjust or hedge the risk of a Trader's positions that are the result of on-floor market making activity. Because Traders cannot, according to the Exchange, effectively adjust positions or engage in hedging or other risk-limiting opening transactions from off the Exchange floor without incurring a significant economic penalty, they must be either physically present on the floor at all times while the market is open, or face significant risk of adverse market movements during those times when they must necessarily be absent from the trading floor. The Exchange believes that the imposition of these costs on such risk-adjusting transactions prevents Traders from effectively discharging their market making obligations and exposes them to unacceptable levels of risk. The Exchange believes that the proposal presents a more appropriate and realistic treatment of Traders' transactions initiated from off-floor than is currently provided by Exchange rules. Extending favorable capital and margin treatment to off-floor transactions to those Traders who satisfy an 80% in person requirement will, in the Exchange's opinion, increase the extent to which Traders' transactions contribute to liquidity and to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets by providing for a greater degree of in person trading and by enabling Traders to better manage the risk of their market making. 2 See Amex Rule 958, Commentary .01. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Amex does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;51 and should be submitted by January 3, 1995. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 3 3 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30466 Filed 12&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
