FR941207-0-00105 FR941207-0-00017 II. USEPA Action Based on the proposed full approval set forth in this Federal Register , USEPA believes that it is more likely than not that the State has corrected the original disapproval deficiency that started the sanctions clock and, therefore, USEPA is taking this interim final action finding that the State has corrected the deficiency, effective on publication. This action does not stop the sanctions clock that started under section 179 for this area on May 13, 1993. However, this action will defer the application of the offset sanction and will defer the application of the highway sanction. See 59 FR 39832 (August 4, 1994) to be codified at 40 CFR 52.31. If USEPA's direct final action fully approving the State's submittal becomes effective, such action will permanently stop the sanctions clock and will permanently lift any applied, stayed or deferred sanctions. The USEPA is also providing the public with an opportunity to comment on this final action. If based on any comments on this action and any comments on USEPA's proposed full approval of the State's submittal, USEPA determines that the State's submittal is not fully approvable and this final action was inappropriate, USEPA will take further action to disapprove the State's submittal and to find that the State has not corrected the original disapproval deficiency. As appropriate, USEPA will also issue an interim final determination or a final determination that the deficiency has not been corrected. In addition, the sanctions consequences described in the sanctions rule will also apply. See 59 FR 39832. III. Administrative Requirements Because USEPA has preliminarily determined that the State has an approvable plan, relief from sanctions should be provided as quickly as possible. Therefore, USEPA is invoking the good cause exception under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) in not providing an opportunity for comment before this action takes effect. 1 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B). The USEPA believes that notice-and-comment rulemaking before the effective date of this action is impracticable and contrary to the public interest. The USEPA has reviewed the State's submittal and, through its proposed and direct final action, is indicating that it is more likely than not that the State has corrected the deficiency that started the sanctions clock. Therefore, it is not in the public interest to initially impose sanctions or to keep applied sanctions in place when the State has most likely done all that it can to correct the deficiency that triggered the sanctions clock. Moreover, it would be impracticable to go through the notice-and-comment rulemaking on a finding that the State has corrected the deficiency prior to the rulemaking approving the State's submittal. Therefore, USEPA believes that it is necessary to use the interim final rulemaking process to temporarily stay or defer sanctions while USEPA completes its rulemaking process on the approvability of the State's submittal. Moreover, with respect to the effective date of this action, USEPA is invoking the good cause exception to the 30-day notice requirement of the APA because the purpose of this action is to relieve a restriction. See 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(1). 1 As previously noted, however, by this action USEPA is providing the public with a chance to comment on USEPA's determination after the effective date and USEPA will consider any comments received in determining whether to reverse such an action. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has exempted this action from review under Executive Order 12866. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq., USEPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, USEPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. This action temporarily relieves the sources of additional burden potentially placed on them by the sanctions provisions of the Act. Therefore, I certify that it does not have an impact on any small entities. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental regulations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Sulfur oxides. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: November 14, 1994. Valdas V. Adamkus, Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29881 Filed 12&hyph;06&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
