FR940707-1-00003 FR940707-1-00001 Despite the establishment of standard procedures in these rules, there may be situations where the Office of Hearings and Appeals needs to use procedures specific to the particular needs of a program. In those situations, DOE program regulations themselves contain procedures governing OHA proceedings conducted under authority of those particular regulations, rather than a reference to OHA procedural rules. For example, the DOE Contractor Employee Protection Program contains procedural rules governing OHA proceedings in 10 CFR part 708. Similarly, the Department has proposed procedural rules governing OHA proceedings for determining eligibility for access to classified matter as a part of 10 CFR part 710. Under these circumstances, the rules in the program rules would govern OHA proceedings in those matters, and the rules in part 1003 would not apply. With the exception of the regulations governing the filing and adjudication of an Application for Exception, explained below, the proposed rules correspond to nearly identical procedural rules contained in 10 CFR part 205, which were promulgated in the 1970's to adjudicate matters relating to the federal oil regulations. Part 205 will continue to be used only to adjudicate matters which relate specifically to the federal oil regulations. The new part 1003, proposed today, shall be utilized for adjudicating all other matters under OHA's jurisdiction. For instance, the DOE will modify ยง430.27(n) of 10 CFR part 430 (DOE Energy Conservation Program for Consumer Products) to provide that an aggrieved person filing an appeal under that part shall proceed under subpart C of the new part 1003. The DOE will also issue a conforming amendment to the interpretation and procedures implementing the Payments-Equal-to-Taxes provisions of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, to change the reference to the appellate procedures that are available. Future rulemakings which invoke OHA's adjudicatory authority will refer to the rules contained in part 1003 as the operative administrative process. Regulations concerning the filing and adjudication of an Application for Exception have been revised and are contained in 10 CFR part 1003, subpart B. Generally, an Application for Exception may be filed by a person seeking an exception from or an adjustment to a DOE regulatory requirement, where such relief is authorized by the pertinent regulations or underlying statute concerned. Similar to the regulations appearing in 10 CFR part 205, subpart D, the proposed rules provide that an aggrieved person may file an Application for Exception from a DOE regulation on the basis that the specific regulatory requirement results in a serious hardship, gross inequity or unfair distribution of burdens. The proposed rules set forth in part 1003, subpart B, present a simpler procedure than part 205, subpart D, by (1) eliminating the issuance of a Proposed Decision and Order and related procedures prior to issuance of a final Decision and Order, and (2) providing for an administrative appeal of the final Decision and Order by an aggrieved party directly to OHA, except in exception proceedings brought under section 504 of the DOE Act which will continue to be appealable to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The proposed rules make the adjudication of Applications for Exception more effective since they are more practicable than the more complex procedures of part 205, subpart D, which were formulated in contemplation of the federal oil regulations. II. Procedural Requirements Executive Order 12866 Today's regulatory action has been determined not to be a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review'' (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993). Accordingly, today's action was not subject to review under the Executive Order by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. Executive Order 12778 Section 2 of Executive Order 12778 instructs each agency to adhere to certain requirements in promulgating new regulations and reviewing existing regulations. These requirements, set forth in section 2(a) and (b)(2), include eliminating drafting errors and needless ambiguity, drafting regulations to minimize litigation, providing clear and certain legal standards for affected legal conduct, and promoting simplification and burden reduction. Agencies are also instructed to make every reasonable effort that the rulemaking notice defines key terms, specifies the effect on existing law, and describes any administrative proceeding to be available prior to judicial review and any provisions for the exhaustion of administrative remedies. DOE certifies that these proposed rules meet the requirements of section 2(a) and (b)(2) of Executive Order 12778. Executive Order 12612 Executive Order 12612 requires that regulations or rules be reviewed for direct effects on States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or in the distribution of power among various levels of government. If there are sufficient substantial direct effects, then Executive Order 12612 requires preparation of a federalism assessment to be used in all decisions involved in promulgating or implementing a regulation or rule. Today's regulations do not affect any traditional State function. There are therefore no substantial direct effects requiring evaluation or assessment under Executive Order 12612. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification These regulations were reviewed under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. et seq., which requires preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis for any regulations that will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, i.e., small businesses, small government jurisdictions. The proposed regulatory amendment updates and gives greater flexibility to previously existing procedural regulations. DOE therefore certifies that the proposed rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, and the preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis is not warranted. Paperwork Reduction Act No additional information and recordkeeping requirements are imposed by this rule (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). National Environmental Policy Act The proposed rules are strictly procedural in nature. Preparation of an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ) is not required for such rules under Appendix A to subpart D of 10 CFR part 1021.
