FR940124-2-00005 FR940124-2-00002 5. Identification of potential environmental effects of the alternatives. 6. Determination of potential cooperating agencies. The EIS will disclose the environmental effects of alternative ways of implementing the Forest Plan. The Forest Service will analyze and document the direct, indirect, and cumulative effects of the alternatives. In addition, the EIS will disclose site specific mitigation measures and their expected effectiveness. Public participation will be especially important at several points in the analysis. People are encouraged to visit with Forest Service officials at any time during the analysis and prior to the decision. A Final EIS is expected to be filed in November 1994. Two key time periods have been identified for receipt of formal comments on the analysis: 1. Scoping period (now through January 1994). 2. Review of the Draft EIS in June 1994. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of Interior, will be informally consulted throughout the analysis. To meet the requirements of the Endangered Species Act, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will review the EIS and Biological Assessment of the effects on Threatened and Endangered species, including the grizzly bear, gray wolf, and fall chinook salmon. The DEIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and available for public review by May 1994. At that time, the EPA will publish a Notice of Availability of the DEIS in the Federal Register . After a 45-day public comment period, the comments received will be analyzed and considered by the Forest Service in the final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS). The FEIS is scheduled to be completed by November 1994. The Forest Service will respond in the FEIS to the comments received on the DEIS. The responsible official is the District Ranger of the Powell Ranger District, Clearwater National Forest, Lolo, Montana 59847. The decision and reasons for the decision will be documented in a Record of Decision. The comment period on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC , 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Agoon v. Hodel , 803 f.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris , 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. Dated: January 11, 1994. Margaret J. Gorski, District Ranger, Powell Ranger District, Clearwater National Forest. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1526 Filed 1&hyph;21&hyph;94; 10:00 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
