FR941216-1-00087 FR941216-1-00012 Subpart E_Storage Compatibility System ยง184.47 General. (a) Storage of A&E is based on the capability requirements of this subpart and the hazard classification requirements of Subpart F to this part. (b) Storage compatibility groups (SCG) and hazard classification for DoD A&E items and materials are listed in the Joint Hazard Classification System (JHCS) (see TB 700&hyph;2, Explosive Hazard Classification Procedures ). Additional information may be available from the procuring activity in the form of Hazardous Component Safety Data Statements (HCSDS) for intermediate materials and items. When the solicitation or contract lacks such information, it may be requested through contract channels. (c) Compatibility and hazard classification information relating to other hazardous materials, including A&E, not contained within the JHCS, can be derived from references such as those cited below. (1) Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Transportation, Parts 100&hyph;199. (2) National Fire Protection Association, Manual 491M. 6 6 Copies may be obtained from the National Fire Protection Association, Batterymarch Park, Attn: National Fire Codes Subscription_Service Department, Quincy, MA 02269. (3) Data sheets developed by the National Safety Council. (4) Data sheets developed by the Manufacturing Chemists Association. (5) Manuals and books providing information on the properties of hazardous materials. There are a number of competent guides to the safety precautions required when handling potentially hazardous materials. These guides typically provide basic precautions, specific hazardous reactions, and industrial hygiene information. Additional guidance for industrial hygiene and industrial medicine is available from the American Council of Governmental and Industrial Hygienists and OSHA/NIOSH. (d) The previous guidance is applicable for storage and transportation only and is not intended for in-process applications. For in-process application, refer to Subpart F of this part. ยง184.48 Storage compatibility grouping. (a) All A&E are assigned one of thirteen compatibility groups (SCG). (b) Storage principles. (1) The highest degree of safety in A&E storage could be assured if each item or division were stored separately. However, such ideal storage is not generally feasible. A proper balance of safety and other factors frequently requires mixing of several types of ammunition and explosives in storage. (2) A&E shall not be stored with dissimilar materials or items that present hazards to the munitions. Examples are mixed storage of A&E with flammable or combustible materials, acids, or corrosives. (3) Different types of A&E may be mixed in storage, by item and division, provided they are compatible. A&E are assigned to a SCG when they can be stored together without significantly increasing either the probability of an accident or, for a given quantity, the magnitude of the effects of such an accident. (4) A&E should be mixed in storage only when such mixing will facilitate safe operations and promote overall storage efficiency. (5) As used in these requirements, the term ``with its own means of initiation'' indicates that the ammunition has its normal initiating device assembled to it and this device is considered to present a significant risk during storage. However, the term does not apply when the initiating device is packaged in a manner that eliminates the risk of detonating the ammunition if the initiating device should accidentally function, or when fuzed end items are configured and packaged to prevent their inadvertent arming. The initiating device may even be assembled to the ammunition, provided its safety features preclude initiation or detonation of the explosives filler of the end item if the initiating device should accidentally function. (c) Compatible ammunition and explosives. (1) Different kinds of A&E within one compatibility group are compatible and may be stored together, except for some items in SCG K and L (see Appendix A to this subpart). (2) Ammunition and explosives in substandard or damaged packaging, in a suspect condition, or with characteristics that increase the risk in storage are not compatible with other A&E and shall be stored separately. (d) Storage compatibility group. A&E are assigned to one of thirteen storage compatibility groups (A through H, J, K, L, N, and S): (1) Group A_initiating explosives. Bulk initiating explosives that have the sensitivity to heat, friction, or percussion necessary for use as initiating elements in an explosive train. Examples are wet lead azide, wet lead styphnate, wet mercury fulminate, wet tetracene, and dry PETN. (2) Group B. Detonators and similar initiating devices not containing two or more independent safety features. Items containing initiating explosives that are designed to initiate or continue the functioning of an explosive train. Examples are detonators, blasting caps, small arms primers, and fuzes. (3) Group C. Bulk propellants, propelling charges, and devices containing propellant with or without their own means of ignition. Items that upon initiation will deflagrate, explode, or detonate. Examples are single-, double-, triple-base, and composite propellants; rocket motors (solid propellant); and ammunition with inert projectiles. Liquid propellants are not included. (4) Group D. Black powder, high explosives (HE), and ammunition containing HE without its own means of initiation and without propelling charge and fuzes with two or more safety features. A&E that can be expected to explode or detonate when any given item/component thereof is initiated (except for fuzes with two or more safety features). Examples are bulk TNT, composition B, wet RDX or PETN, bombs, and CBU's. (5) Group E. A&E containing HE without its own means of initiation and with propelling charge. See paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Examples are artillery ammunition, rockets, and guided missiles. (6) Group F. Ammunition containing HE with its own means of initiation, not meeting requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section, and with or without propelling charge. HE ammunition or devices (fuzed), with or without propelling charges. Examples are grenades, sounding devices, and similar items having an in-line explosive train in the initiator. (7) Group G. Fireworks; illuminating, incendiary, smoke (including HC), or tear-producing munitions other than those munitions that are water-activated or contain white phosphorus or flammable liquid or gel. (8) Group H. Ammunition containing both explosives and white phosphorus or other pyrophoric material. Ammunition in this group contains fillers which are spontaneously flammable when exposed to the atmosphere. (9) Group J. Ammunition containing explosives and flammable liquids or gels, with or without explosives. Ammunition in this group contains flammable liquids or gels other than those that are spontaneously flammable when exposed to water or the atmosphere. Examples are liquid- or gel-filled incendiary ammunition; FAE devices; flammable, liquid-fueled missiles; and torpedoes.
