FR940325-1-00036 FR940325-1-00007 (b) If initiated by the operator of a passenger terminal, each proposed amendment to the terminal security plan, including changes to the enclosures required by §128.300(a), must be submitted to the COTP for review at least 30 days before the proposed effective date, unless a shorter period is allowed by the COTP. (c) The COTP may direct the operator of a passenger terminal to amend the terminal security plan if it is determined that implementation of the plan is not providing effective security or there is an increased threat affecting the terminal or a vessel subject to part 120 of this chapter moored at the terminal. Except in an emergency, a written notice of matters to be addressed will be issued to the operator and the operator will be provided at least 60 days to submit proposed amendments. (d) Within 15 days after receipt of a proposed amendment, the COTP will issue a letter to the operator either accepting the proposed amendment or addressing why the proposed amendment does not adequately meet the requirements of this part. (e) A notice to amend a terminal security plan or a rejection of a proposed amendment by the COTP may be appealed within 30 days of receipt as provided in §128.305. (f) If there is an emergency or other circumstance that makes the procedures in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this section impractical, the COTP may order the operator of a passenger terminal to implement increased security measures immediately. The order will incorporate a statement of the reasons for the emergency action. Orders issued by the COTP may be appealed as provided in §160.7 of this chapter. §128.310 Survey: general. (a) Each operator of a passenger terminal shall conduct an initial, comprehensive terminal security survey before preparing the plan required by §128.300. (b) The operator shall update the survey at least every two years and whenever there is a notification from the COTP of an increased threat to the terminal or a passenger vessel subject to part 120 of this chapter which moors at the terminal. (c) The operator shall update the survey and notify the COTP within 10 days of a_ (1) Change in the description of the terminal required by §128.320(e); or (2) Change in the owner, operator, or terminal security officer of the terminal or in the operator's representative. (d) The survey must identify potential threats of unlawful acts against the terminal, against a passenger vessel subject to Part 120 of this chapter moored to the terminal, or against persons on the terminal or vessel. The survey must also determine the vulnerability of the terminal to those threats. (e) The operator shall ensure that distribution, disclosure, and availability of information contained in the survey is confined to those persons with an operational need to know. These persons include the operator, the terminal manager, the terminal security officer, the ship security officer, and appropriate law enforcement officials. When not under supervision, copies of the survey under the control of the operator must be kept in a locked safe or other secure container, to prevent disclosure to unauthorized persons. §128.320 Survey: contents. The terminal security required by §128.310 must include_ (a) The date of the survey; (b) The date of the last such survey; (c) The names of the owner and operator of the passenger terminal; (d) The name, business address, and telephone number of the terminal security officer; (e) A description of the terminal that includes_ (1) A schematic showing the general layout of the terminal; (2) A schematic showing the place and purpose of each actual and potential point of access to the boarding area for passengers, including each window, door, gate, manhole, storm drain, ditch, and fence; (3) A schematic or list indicating the kind, place, area of illumination, and intensity of all security lighting; (4) A schematic or list indicating the location of each restricted area designated under §128.210 and each means of securing it; (5) A schematic or list indicating the kind and place of emergency and standby equipment for firefighting, lighting, communications, and security; and (6) A list of all firearms and ammunition on the terminal, other than those in secure baggage, indicating the persons to whom they are issued or the locations in which they are stored; (f) An account of the normal staffing of the terminal that includes_
