FR941104-1-00050 FR941104-1-00009 On June 9, 1994, the Service became aware that The Netherlands had submitted a proposal for inclusion of this species in Appendix II. The United States decided not to submit another proposal and to address unresolved issues, in an effort to reach a consensus on the proposal that The Netherlands had already submitted for this species. The Service is now seeking comments on that proposal; see the September 6, 1994, Federal Register notice (59 FR 46023). 8. African mahoganies ( Entandrophragma and Khaya ). The genera Entandrophragma (about 11 species) and Khaya (about 6 species) are native to the tropics of Africa, with Khaya extending to the Comoros Islands and Madagascar. All the species have been declining from habitat conversion and selectively varied commercial exploitation, and nearly all have been reported to be threatened in various countries and significant portions of their ranges. The majority of the 17 species have some legal protection in one or more countries, generally with respect to their export. Within the comment period the Service received six comments, with three in favor of submitting proposals for the species and two against. The Fauna and Flora Preservation Society (London, U.K.) supported the inclusion of all species of both genera in Appendix II. They stated that ``Due to the nature of the mahogany trade, it is important to appreciate that equal and parallel attention and protection must be afforded to Khaya spp. and Entandrophragma spp. as to Swietenia macrophylla *␣*␣*. There are only a few areas of Africa where *␣*␣* African mahoganies have [not] already suffered massive decline *␣*␣*.'' The NRDC also expressed support for including both genera in Appendix II and concern about the inter-relationships of trade in wood of the three genera. The AIA chair of its Rainforest and Natural Resources Task Group, who is also a member of the Steering Group of the AIA Committee on the Environment, wrote, on behalf of the architects of the AIA, in favor of the inclusion of the genera. He stated that he understood Appendix II listing would not constitute a trade ban, and that inclusion of the species would help architects and designers to make responsible and objective decisions concerning their use [since they could purchase from the CITES-approved exports]. At the Service's public meeting held on February 22, 1994, an individual representing IHPA inquired concerning the responsibilities and process used by the CPC in recommending that proposals be considered, and the intention of the Service with regard to circulating potential proposals to the range States for comments, and whether those comments would be reflected in final positions of the United States on the species. Service representatives responded that the CPC had advisory and technical roles, that Germany had the lead with African mahoganies and was communicating with the range States, and that the views of range States would be seriously considered. In early May 1994, the Service received copies of the replies Germany had received by April 26, from 13 of the 31 range States; 6 supported inclusion of the genera in Appendix II, 3 were against proposals, and 4 were neutral. In its comments submitted March 14, 1994, IHPA stated that they do not believe that these genera qualify for Appendix II. They provided a broad and detailed commentary of opposition (with enclosures), which covered the three potential proposals for the several mahoganies. Regarding in particular the African mahoganies, the IHPA stated that the volumes of traded wood listed in the proposals are not clearly linked to total reductions in standing volumes of the species across their ranges. They also stated that much is in protected areas and gave as an example that 20 percent of rainforest in Ghana is in totally protected reserves. In addition, IHPA enclosed a letter of February 18, 1994, to them from the Planning Branch of the Ghana Forestry Department, which stated that listing under CITES is not necessary for the protection of these species in Ghana, and provided details on Ghana forest management and these species; see the similar statement below, from the Ghana Timber Export Development Board.
