FR940803-0-00002 FR940803-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Federal Crop Insurance Corporation 7 CFR Part 406 Nursery Crop Insurance Regulations AGENCY: Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) amends the Nursery Crop Insurance regulations effective for the 1995 and succeeding crop years, by allowing a six month delay in the payment of premiums. The premium billing date will be extended for up to six months from September 30, to March 31 of the subsequent year insurance attaches. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mari L. Dunleavy, Regulatory and Procedural Development, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, telephone (202) 254&hyph;8314. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This action has been reviewed under USDA procedures established by Executive Order 12866 and Departmental Regulation 1512&hyph;1. This action does not constitute a review as to the need, currency, clarity, and effectiveness of the regulations affected by this rule under those procedures. The sunset review date established for these regulations is October 1, 1994. This rule has been determined to be ``not significant'' for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and therefore has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). This action will not increase the federal paperwork burden for individuals, small businesses, and other persons. The action will not have a significant economic effect on the producers served by this voluntary crop insurance program because this action liberalizes the terms of the nursery crop insurance contract for the insured. Extending credit to producers may have a minor economic effect on the insurer only if producers do not pay their premium. However, based on past experience, non-payment of nursery crop premiums has been insignificant. For years in which premium payment have been deferred, only two disputes over premium payment have occurred. This represents less than one percent of the total nursery crop policies purchased. As these disputes have not yet been resolved, all premiums may potentially be paid. Further, FCIC will administratively extend the date for payment by the reinsured company when necessary to be consistent with the final date the insured is required to submit premium payment. Therefore, this action is determined to be exempt from the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act and no Regulatory Flexibility Analysis was prepared. This program is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.450. This program is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372 which requires intergovernmental consultation with state and local officials. See the notice related to 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V, published at 48 FR 29115, June 24, 1983. This action is not expected to have any significant impact on the quality of the human environment, health, and safety. Therefore, neither an Environmental Assessment nor an Environmental Impact Statement is needed. This amendment does not contain information collections that require clearance by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35, the Paperwork Reduction Act. It has been determined under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, that the policies and procedures contained in this rule do not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. The policies and procedures in this rule will not have an increased substantial direct effect on states or their political subdivisions, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. This rule has been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12778. The provisions of this rule are not retroactive and will preempt state and local laws to the extent such state and local laws are inconsistent therewith. The administrative appeal provisions located at 7 CFR part 400, subpart J must be exhausted before judicial action may be brought for actions taken under this policy or before any proceedings for the imposition of civil penalties under 7 U.S.C. 1506 or under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies may be effective. Following publication of this rule as proposed, the public was given 15 days in which to submit comments, data, and opinions. No comments were received, however, a non-substantive change has been made to the amended language. Accordingly, this rule is hereby issued as final. Background The nursery crop insurance policy is the only Federal crop insurance policy that requires premium payment in full prior to insurance attachment. Premium for other Federal crop insurance policies can be paid later, usually at or near harvest. FCIC took such action for the 1993 and 1994 crop years. Discontinuing this practice would be burdensome to the insured, therefore, FCIC intends to continue to allow the later payment of premiums. The insurance premium will be changed from September 30 preceding the crop year, to March 31 of the crop year. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 406 Crop Insurance, Nursery, Premium deferred. Final Rule Accordingly, pursuant to the authority contained in the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq. ), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation hereby amends the Nursery Crop Insurance Regulations (7 CFR part 406) effective for the 1995 and subsequent crop years, by amending the provisions for coverage. This rule amends the regulations set forth herein in the following instances: 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 406 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1506, 1516. 2. Section 406.7 is amended in the contract by revising subsection 5.a to read as follows: ยง406.7 The application and policy. * * * * * 5. Annual Premium. a. The annual premium is earned and payable on or before September 30 preceding each crop year and will be earned in full when the policy becomes effective. Interest will begin to accrue on March 31 of the crop year. Premium will be delinquent on the termination date. * * * * * Done in Washington, DC, on July 20, 1994. Kenneth D. Ackerman, Manager, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18875 Filed 8&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;08&hyph;M
