FR940527-1-00092 FR940527-1-00014 In response to a comment in the August 30, 1991 final rule on the prospective payment system for inpatient hospital capital-related costs (56 FR 43424), we stated that interest on any funds that do not qualify as funded depreciation account funds, which would include funded depreciation deposits of less than 6 months duration, must be used to offset interest expense. Section 226.3 of the Provider Reimbursement Manual (HCFA Pub. 15&hyph;1) provides that investment income earned prior to the elapse of the 6-month period will not be offset unless the deposits are actually withdrawn during this period. We are proposing to revise §413.134(e)(1) to state specifically that investment income earned during the 6-month period will not be used to offset interest expense unless the funds are withdrawn for an improper purpose during this period. Under this change, if a provider withdraws funds from the funded depreciation account before the expiration of the 6-month time limit, and the withdrawal is made for an allowable purpose as described in §413.134(e)(3)(i)(A), the investment income earned on the funds is not offset against allowable interest expense. 2. Loans to the General Fund We propose to revise and clarify our policy regarding loans from the provider's funded depreciation fund to the provider's general fund. Sections 413.153(b)(3)(ii) and (c)(2) permit a provider to lend its funded depreciation funds to its general fund. Moreover, these sections provide that interest expense incurred on such loans are considered allowable costs. Section 226.1 of the Manual amplifies this policy by explaining that, in order for the interest expense incurred on such loans to be allowable, the interest expense must meet the ``necessary and proper'' tests (set forth in the regulations at §413.153(b) (2) and (3), and in the Manual at sections 202.2 and 202.3). This section of the Manual also explains that the funds loaned to the general fund must not be used to acquire depreciable assets used to furnish patient care because the provider is expected to use its funded depreciation, rather than to lend it, for that purpose. Finally, this section of the Manual explains that deposits to the funded depreciation fund will not be recognized to the extent that loans of funded depreciation funds to the general fund are outstanding. Rather, such deposits will be considered repayments of the loan to the general fund. Three other sections of the Manual address loans from a provider's funded depreciation fund to the provider's general fund. Section 226.C of the Manual, in discussing the availability of funded depreciation funds, provides that loans made from funded depreciation do not alter the requirement that funded depreciation must be available for the acquisition of the provider's depreciable assets used to furnish patient care, or for other capital purposes related to patient care. Section 226.3 of the Manual, in discussing the application of the 6-month rule for a deposit to become a valid funding transaction, provides that a loan of funded depreciation funds to the general fund is considered a withdrawal for purposes of applying the 6-month rule. That is, if the provider borrows from funded depreciation for a working capital purpose, and some or all of the funds borrowed were not on deposit in the funded depreciation fund for at least 6 months, the borrowing would be considered a withdrawal from the funded depreciation account. In addition, if a deposit did not satisfy the 6-month rule any investment income earned on the deposit would have to be used to offset otherwise allowable interest expense. Section 226.4B of the Manual, in an example of applying of the last-in, first-out basis to withdrawals from funded depreciation for an improper purpose, also characterizes a loan to the general fund from the funded depreciation fund as a withdrawal. In recent years, we have received a number of inquiries suggesting that loans from the provider's funded depreciation fund to the provider's general fund are characterized more appropriately as investments of funded depreciation, rather than withdrawals. We agree with the inquirers. The term ``withdrawal'' implies that the funds have been removed from the funded depreciation account and used, either for a proper purpose (for example, acquisition of a depreciable asset) or an improper purpose (for example, to purchase office supplies). In contrast, the term ``investment'' implies that the funds have not actually been removed from the funded depreciation account and used; rather, they have been temporarily converted to one or more income producing vehicles (for example, the purchase of U.S. Treasury bills). Because loans from the funded depreciation funds to the general fund generate investment income for the funded depreciation fund, we believe that such loans more properly should be considered as investments, rather than withdrawals. In conjunction with this change, we had to decide whether such loans would have to meet the ``readily marketable'' test for allowable funded depreciation investments expressed in §413.134(e) and section 226 of the Manual. We believe that, because we require that loans made from funded depreciation do not alter the requirement that the funded depreciation be available for the acquisition of depreciable assets used to furnish patient care, or for other capital purposes related to patient care, application of the ``readily marketable'' test would be redundant. That is, if a provider loans funded depreciation to the general fund, and while that loan is outstanding the provider needs funds to acquire a depreciable asset related to patient care, the provider may not borrow funds to acquire the depreciable asset. Rather, the provider must recall the funds from the general fund loan to use to acquire the asset. Accordingly, we propose to add paragraph (e)(4) to §413.134 to address loans from the funded depreciation account. New §413.134(e)(4) would both consolidate the policies now set forth in the manual sections cited above and revise our policy regarding the characterization of loans from the funded depreciation account. Such loans would be considered investments, rather than withdrawals.
