FR940610-2-00009 FR940610-2-00007 Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 173&hyph;1, June 10, 1994. Announcing the Standard for Spatial Data Transfer Standard (SDTS). Federal Information Processing Standards Publications (FIPS PUBS) are issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology after approval by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to Section 111(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 as amended by the Computer Security Act of 1987, Public Law 100&hyph;235. 1. Name of Standard. Spatial Data Transfer Standard (SDTS) (FIPS PUB 173&hyph;1). 2. Category of Standard. Software Standard, Information Interchange. 3. Explanation. This standard provides specifications for the organization and structure of digital spatial data transfer, definition of spatial features and attributes, data transfer encoding, and topological vector profile. The purpose of the standard is to promote and facilitate the transfer of digital spatial data between dissimilar computer systems. Work on a national spatial data transfer standard was initiated by the National Committee for Digital Cartographic Data Standards, American Congress on Surveying and Mapping in 1982 to develop a comprehensive set of data exchange standards for the profession. In 1985, the Standards Working Group of the Federal Interagency Coordinating Committee on Digital Cartography also began work on spatial data exchange standards. During 1987, the results of these parallel efforts were merged by the Digital Cartographic Data Standards Task Force into the proposed Digital Cartographic Data Standard, published as a special issue of The American Cartographer in January 1988. Subsequent testing, modification, and refining of the specifications were done by the Spatial Data Transfer Standard Technical Review Board. These efforts resulted in the approval and issuance of the Spatial Data Transfer Standard (SDTS) as Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication 173 consisting of three parts: Part 1_Logical Specifications, Part 2_Spatial Features, Part 3_ISO 8211 Encoding. The revision of this standard adds Part 4, the Topological Vector Profile (TVP). The TVP is a limited subset of SDTS specifications for the transfer of vector data, it also specifies several changes and clarifications to Parts 1 and 3 of SDTS. They are as follows: a. many-to-many and many-to-one relationships between spatial objects and attributes are permitted (Section 5.3); b. composite objects which do not contain component objects are permitted (Section 5.4); c. the Entity Authority and Attribute Authority subfields in the Data Dictionary/Schema module may contain a maximum of 8 characters; if Part 2 of the SDTS is the source of a definition the subfield shall contain ``SDTS-USA''; a provision for standard feature registers of other countries has been added (Section 5.12); d. the Attribute Authority subfield in the Data Dictionary/Domain and Data Dictionary/Definition modules may have a maximum length of 8 characters (Sections 5.13 and 5.14); e. the External Spatial Reference subfield in the Conformance field in the Identification module shall have a null value meaning ``undefined, not relevant'' when used in a transfer containing only a master data dictionary; it is acceptable to specify this by omitting this subfield (Section A.2.2); f. in the Point-Node module, the Attribute ID field is not mandatory for objects ``NE'' and ``NL'' (Section 5.5.4); g. in the Line module, Annex D allows the simultaneous use of both the Chain Component ID and Spatial Address subfields (Section D.6.2); and h. the ISO 8211 tag for the primary Field of the Arc module shall be ARCC (Section D.7.2). SDTS supports the transfer of vector data with geometry and topology, raster data, graphic representation modules, and geometry-only vector data. The SDTS Topological Vector Profile supports only geographic vector data with geometry and topology. An SDTS application profile, not requiring the full functionality of SDTS, defines requirements for a specific type of data and/or application. A SDTS profile simplifies the implementation of SDTS while maximizing the probability of successful data interchanges between dissimilar computer systems. 4. Approving Authority. Secretary of Commerce. 5. Maintenance Agency. U.S. Department of Interior, United States Geological Survey (USGS), National Mapping Division. 6. Related Documents. a. Federal Information Resources Management Regulations (FIRMR) subpart 201.20.303, Standards, and subpart 201.39.1002, Federal Standards.
