FR940406-2-00080 FR940406-2-00048 2. Set-Asides_SA In recognition of the special needs of Indians and Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers, a set-aside will be established to afford priority consideration to proposals submitted by agencies serving these populations. Applications which are not funded within this set-aside will also be considered competitively within the larger pool of eligible applicants. See Part D, Section 1&hyph;6, (Criterion II) for special instructions on developing a work program. 3. Nationwide Programs_NA Projects funded must be nationwide in scope and must meet the requirements of Part C.1 (General Projects). No eligible organization may receive more than $300,000 in the aggregate for a nationwide program. Part D_Review Criteria Applications which pass the initial screening and pre-rating review (See Part F, Section 5) will be assessed and scored by reviewers. Each reviewer will give a numerical score for each application reviewed. These numerical scores will be supported by explanatory statements on a formal rating form describing major strengths and weaknesses under each applicable criterion published in the Announcement. The in-depth evaluation and review process will use the following criteria coupled with the specific requirements as described in Part F. Applicants should write their project narrative to the review criteria using the same sequential order. ( Note: The following review criteria reiterate collection of information requirements contained in Part D of this Announcement. These requirements are approved under OMB Control Number 0970&hyph;0062.) Criteria for Review and Evaluation of Applications Submitted Under This Program Announcement Criterion I: Analysis of Needs/Priorities (Maximum: 13 points) (a) Target area and population to be served are adequately described (0&hyph;5 points). In addressing the above criterion, the applicant should include the following: The applicant should include a description of the target area and population to be served including specific details on any minority population(s) to be served. (b) Nature and extent of problem are adequately described and documented (0&hyph;8 points). In addressing the above criterion, the applicant should include the following: Applicant should discuss the nature and extent of the problem including specific information on minority population(s). Criterion II: Adequacy of Work Program (Maximum: 15 points) (a) Set forth realistic quarterly time targets by which the various work tasks will be completed (0&hyph;7 points). (b) Activities are adequately described and appropriately related to goals (0&hyph;8 points). In addressing the above criterion, the applicant should include the following: The applicant should address the basic criteria and legislatively-mandated activities found in Part A.3.a and should include: (a) Project priorities and rationale for selecting them; (b) Goals and objectives; and (c) Project activities. Criterion III: Significant and Beneficial Impact (Maximum 38 points) (a) Applicant proposes to significantly improve or increase nutrition services to low-income people and such improvements or increases are quantified. (0&hyph;12 points). (b) Project incorporates low-income health promotion activities, including minority low-income health promotion activities as appropriate, along with nutritional services (0&hyph;8 points). (c) Project will significantly leverage or mobilize other community resources and such resources are detailed and quantified (0&hyph;6 points). (d) Project builds on an existing outreach activity (0&hyph;5 points). (e) Proposal addresses a problem which can be resolved by one-time OCS funding or demonstrates that non-Federal funding is available to continue the project without Federal support (0&hyph;7 points). In addressing the above criterion, the applicant must include: Quantitative data for items (a),(b),(c), and (d) and discuss how the beneficial impact relates to the relevant legislatively- mandated program activities identified in Part A.3.a. Criterion IV: Coordination/Services Integration (Maximum 15 points) Proposal addresses applicant's understanding of the importance of improving the integration, coordination, and continuity of various HHS-funded services potentially available to families with children living in poverty, and the difficulty of undertaking collaborative efforts between organizations. In addressing the above criterion, the applicant should include the following: Strategies should be identified which support coordinated community-based planning, maximize the efficient and effective use of scarce resources, reduce duplicative overhead, improve accountability, and result in measurable outcomes.
