FR940617-2-00061 FR940617-2-00039 Golden Field Office; Notice of Financial Assistance Award to Electric Power Research Institute AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of financial assistance award in response to a non-competitive financial assistance application. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, 10 CFR §600.7(b)(2) is announcing its intention make a financial assistance award to the Electric Power Research Institute to perform a study on the next generation geothermal power plant. ADDRESSES: Questions regarding this announcement may be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden CO 80401, Attention: Ruth E. Adams, Contract Specialist or at (303) 275&hyph;4722. The Contracting Officer for this action is John W. Meeker and the Project Officer is Jeffrey L. Hahn. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposal was a solicited application. The Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) issued a Request for Proposal (RFP), RFP3657&hyph;01 ``Next Generation Geothermal Power Plant (NGGPP)_Phase 1 Studies'' on June 2, 1993. The purpose of the RFP was to conduct studies that would expedite development of the next generation of geothermal power plants. This includes development, evaluation and comparison of power plant concepts and ranking of the suitability of these concepts for various geothermal resources. After a competitive evaluation process, EPRI selected the Ben Holt Company to perform the study. Negotiations with the Department of Energy (DOE) for additional funding resulted in 3 additional power plant concepts to be added to the scope of work. Competition for this effort would not be appropriate for this effort since EPRI has already gone through a competitive process and it would have a significant impact on the continuance and completion of the study. The proposed project will contribute to the DOE mission of ``*␣*␣* providing the scientific foundation [and] technology *␣*␣* necessary to achieve efficiency in energy use, diversity in energy sources, and access to technical information *␣*␣*''. The results of the study will be published, presented at several geothermal conferences and made available to the geothermal industry and to the public. The proposed study to be completed by the Ben Holt Company are in harmony with the direction of the Geothermal Energy Conversion Program. The objectives of this effort are to evaluate the feasibility, efficiency, environmental impacts and the economics of geothermal power plant technologies. This study is envisioned to be vital to developers in determining which technology to use to most efficiently utilize their geothermal resource. Technologies that will be covered through this study are the following: Commercial air-cooled binary plants; commercial flash plants; advanced binary cycles, which includes the use of mixed and alternative working fluids, alternative cooling systems, advanced turbines and supersaturated turbine expansion; the Kalina cycle, which uses an ammonia-water mixture as the working fluid and regenerative pre-heating and partial vaporization; advanced flash concepts that will incorporate the use of equipment advances and cycle modifications; the use of rotary separator turbines in lieu of steam flash tanks; sub-atmospheric flash cycles; hot dry rock; steam flash/binary hybrid plants; and geothermal/natural gas hybrid plants. The above listed technologies will be optimized and rated for various geothermal resources. The geothermal resources that will be used in this evaluation provide a cross section of possible temperature and pressure ranges available. The probability of meeting the objectives listed above are very high. The Ben Holt Company has been involved in the geothermal industry for over 30 years, and the individuals involved have the experience and education that are needed and required for this study. The staff of the Ben Holt Company are qualified and positioned to provide this service. Part of the competitive process accomplished by EPRI was to verify that the applicants personnel were qualified to preform this task. DOE has also verified that the individuals involved in this study have the appropriate education and experience. The Ben Holt Company's base of operations is an office in Pasadena, California, and is fully capable of meeting their needs. The budget proposed for the anticipated work was reviewed and is considered to be appropriate and adequate. The public benefit to be derived from the proposed study will be an evaluation that shows utilities, independent power producers and developers how to optimize the geothermal resources that are available to them. This study will also show the economics and the environmental benefits of using geothermal energy. The evaluation accomplished through the proposed cooperative agreement support the geothermal energy conversion program's direction and objectives. EPRI has competitively chosen the Ben Holt Company to perform this evaluation. Therefore, issuing a solicitation for a competitive bid to accomplish a study of the Next Generation Geothermal Power Plant would be inappropriate and would have a significant adverse impact on the accomplishment and completion of the desired report. John W. Meeker, Chief, Procurement, Golden Field Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14827 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
