FR940830-0-00004 FR940830-0-00002 7 CFR Part 319 [Docket No. 93&hyph;147&hyph;1] Importation of Strawberries, Currants, and Palms AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Interim rule and request for comments. SUMMARY: We are prohibiting the importation of strawberry plants from all foreign countries except Canada and Israel and prohibiting the import of currant plants from New Zealand. These actions are necessary to prevent the introduction of exotic strawberry and currant plant diseases into the United States. We are also prohibiting the importation into the United States of an additional species of the genus Howea (sentry palms), except from Lord Howe Island, New South Wales, Australia. This action is necessary to prevent the introduction into the United States of exotic palm pests which can afflict both species of Howea. DATES: Interim rule effective August 30, 1994. Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before October 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 93&hyph;147&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Peter Grosser or Mr. Frank E. Cooper, Senior Operations Officers, Port Operations, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 635, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;8295. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Plant Quarantine Act (7 U.S.C. 151 et seq .) and the Federal Plant Pest Act (7 U.S.C. 150aa et seq. ) authorize the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) to prohibit or restrict the importation into the United States of any plants, roots, bulbs, seeds, or other plant products in order to prevent the introduction of plant pests into the United States. Regulations promulgated under this authority, among others, include 7 CFR 319.37 through 319.37&hyph;14, ``Subpart_Nursery Stock, Plants, Roots, Bulbs, Seeds, and Other Plant Products'' (the regulations). These regulations govern the importation of living plants, plant parts, and seeds for or capable of propagation, and related articles. Other sections of 7 CFR 319 deal with articles such as cut flowers, or fruits and vegetables intended for consumption. The regulations restrict or prohibit the importation of most nursery stock, plants, roots, bulbs, seeds, and other plant products. These articles are classified as either ``prohibited articles'' or ``restricted articles.'' A prohibited article is an article that the Deputy Administrator for Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ), APHIS, has determined cannot feasibly be inspected, treated, or handled to prevent it from introducing plant pests new to or not widely prevalent or distributed within and throughout the United States. Prohibited articles may not be imported into the United States, unless imported by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for experimental or scientific purposes under specified safeguards. A restricted article is an article that the Deputy Administrator for PPQ has determined can be inspected, treated, or handled to essentially eliminate the risk of its spreading plant pests if imported into the United States. Restricted articles may be imported into the United States if they are imported in compliance with restrictions that may include permit and phytosanitary certificate requirements, inspection, treatment, or postentry quarantine. Before the effective date of this rule, under ยง319.37&hyph;2 of the regulations, we prohibited the importation into the United States of strawberry plants ( Fragaria spp.) from Australia, Austria, Czechoslovakia, France, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Northern Ireland, Republic of Ireland, Switzerland, and the countries formed from the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Also, under the regulations, we allowed strawberry plants from countries other than those listed above to be imported into the United States as restricted articles. This rule prohibits the importation into the United States of strawberry plants from any country other than Canada or Israel. This action is intended to prevent the introduction into the United States of exotic strains of a fungal pathogen, red stele disease, now widespread internationally. Red stele disease attacks strawberry plant roots, reducing fruit production and in some cases killing the plant. While some strains of red stele disease already occur in the United States, APHIS needs to prevent the introduction into the United States of exotic, and possibly more virulent, strains of the disease. Also, we are requiring that phytosanitary certificates of inspection accompanying Fragaria spp. from Israel contain an additional declaration that the strawberries were found by the plant protection service of Israel to be free of red stele disease pathogen as well as any other damaging strawberry pathogens, based on visual inspection and indexing of the parent stock. This rule also prohibits the importation into the United States of currant plants ( Ribes spp.) from New Zealand. Before the effective date of this rule, the importation of currant plants was prohibited from Europe under ยง319.37&hyph;2, but currant plants could be imported from other countries as restricted articles. This action is intended to prevent the introduction into the United States of an exotic currant disease, black currant reversion agent, which has recently spread to New Zealand. Black currant reversion agent, a viral pathogen spread by an insect vector, can significantly reduce fruit production. Finally, this rule prohibits the importation of an additional species of the sentry palm ( Howea spp.), except as a restricted article from Lord Howe Island, New South Wales, Australia. Currently, the import of Howea belmoreana from all countries is prohibited. However, import of the other species of the genus, Howea forsterana , is not prohibited. Because pathogens attack most species within a genus, we believe extending the import prohibition to both species of Howea is necessary. We are allowing importation of both species of Howea from Lord Howe Island as restricted articles, however, because our review of the scientific literature did not reveal any indication of the presence of the lethal yellowing pathogen, the cadang-cadang pathogen, or any other damaging palm pests on Lord Howe Island. Additionally, New South Wales prohibits the importation of all palms and palm products onto the Lord Howe Island from all sources. We are requiring that phytosanitary certificates of inspection accompanying Howea spp. from Lord Howe Island contain both a declaration of origin (must be Lord Howe Island) and a declaration that the Howea were found by the plant protection service of New South Wales to be free of the lethal yellowing pathogen and the cadang-cadang pathogen, as well as any other damaging palm pathogens, based on visual inspection. Miscellaneous We are also changing in ยง319.37&hyph;2 the spelling of the genus name of the sentry palm from Howeia to Howea . Howea is the more common spelling. Immediate Action The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that there is good cause for publishing this interim rule without prior opportunity for public comment. Immediate action is necessary to prevent the introduction into the United States of exotic diseases affecting strawberries, currants, and sentry palms. Because prior notice and other public procedures with respect to this action are impracticable and contrary to the public interest under these conditions, we find good cause under 5 U.S.C. 553 to make it effective upon publication in the Federal Register . We will consider comments that are received within 60 days of publication of this rule in the Federal Register . After the comment period closes, we will publish another document in the Federal Register . It will include a discussion of any comments we receive and any amendments we are making to the rule as a result of the comments. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This interim rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. This interim rule prohibits the import of strawberry plants from all foreign countries except Canada and Israel and prohibits the import of currant plants from New Zealand. Also, it prohibits the import into the United States of an additional species of the genus Howea (sentry palm), except from Lord Howe Island, New South Wales.
