FR940727-0-00083 FR940727-0-00025 (10) Determine, to the extent practicable, whether an investigation is being or has been conducted which duplicates, in whole or in part, a proposed or incomplete OSC investigation, and convey that information to the OSC whenever it might avoid redundant investigative efforts. (11) Provide guidance and assistance to activity Labor Counselors in fulfilling their duties as Liaison Officers. (c) Activity Labor Counselor. The activity Labor Counselor will do the following: (1) Act as Liaison Officer for OSC investigations arising within the command, activity or installation serviced by the Labor Counselor's client Employment Office. (2) Promptly inform the MACOM labor counselor and the Chief, DAJA&hyph;LE, of any OSC inquiry or investigation. (3) Act as the legal representative of the command, activity, or installation. (4) Assist the OSC investigator with administrative matters related to the investigation, such as requests for witnesses and documents. (5) Process all OSC requests for documents. (6) Make appropriate arrangements for OSC requests to interview civilian employees and military members. (7) Ensure that personnel involved are advised of the nature and basis for an OSC investigation, the authority of the OSC, and their rights and duties. (8) Consult with the Chief, DAJA&hyph;LE, on policy and legal issues arising from the OSC investigation. (9) Keep the Chief, DAJA&hyph;LE, informed of the status of the OSC investigation. (l0) Act as agency representative before the MSPB in actions initiated by employees (individual right of action appeals). ยง516.72 Procedures. (a) Witnesses and counsel for consultation. (1) DA military and civilian managers, supervisors, and employees who are requested by OSC for an interview will be made available in accordance with arrangements the Labor Counselor will establish. Requests for the testimony of IGs will be coordinated with the Inspector General Legal Office, SAIG&hyph;ZXL, DSN 227&hyph;9734 or Commercial (703) 697&hyph;9734. (2) The Labor Counselor will ensure that witnesses are aware of their obligation to answer OSC questions, their potential to be considered ``suspects'' in OSC investigations, and their right to the assistance of counsel during interviews with OSC representatives. If the requested witness is not an ``accused'' or ``suspected'' individual and the witness asks for assistance of counsel, a DA attorney will be made available for the limited purpose of consultation regarding the witness' rights and obligations. An attorney-client relationship will not be established. (See Appendix F to this part). (3) The Labor Counselor will arrange for individual counsel for consultation from local assets. If local assets are not sufficient, assistance may be requested from other DOD activities in the area or from HQDA, DAJA&hyph;LE. DA attorneys tasked to consult with one or more witnesses individually will not be tasked to represent the DA activity concerned. (4) The Labor Counselor, as the legal representative of the activity, is precluded from assisting or representing individual witnesses during OSC interviews. (b) ``Accused'' or ``suspected'' DA personnel and counsel for representation. (1) If the OSC identifies a DA civilian employee or a military member as an ``accused'' or ``suspected'' individual, or if the Labor Counselor concludes that an individual is a ``suspect,'' the Labor Counselor will inform the individual. The Labor Counselor also will advise the individual of the availability of counsel for representation upon approval by DA General Counsel. (See Glossary, Counsel for Representation). (2) If the ``suspected'' individual desires legal representation by DA, the individual must request counsel by submitting a written request through DAJA&hyph;LE to DA General Counsel. (See Figure I&hyph;1, Appendix G, to this part). (3) During the investigation but prior to DA General Counsel approval of the request for counsel, an ``accused'' or ``suspected'' individual will be provided the assistance of counsel for consultation in the same manner as any other OSC requested witness. ``Accused'' or ``suspected'' individuals who do not request counsel for representation will be provided counsel for consultation in the same manner as any other OSC requested witness.
