FR940620-1-00086 FR940620-1-00009 (3) Form, fit, and function data means technical data that describes the required overall physical, functional and performance characteristics, (along with the qualification requirements, if applicable) of an item, component, or process to the extent necessary to permit identification of physically and functionally interchangeable items. (4) Minor modification means a modification that does not significantly alter the nongovernmental function or essential physical characteristics of an item or component, or change the purpose of a process, or is of the type customarily performed in the commercial market place. (5) Technical data means recorded information, regardless of the form or method of recording, of a scientific or technical nature (including computer software documentation). The term does not include computer software or data incidental to contract administration, such as financial and/or management information. (b) License. (1) The Government shall have the unrestricted right to use, modify, reproduce, release, or disclose technical data, and to permit others to do so, that_ (i) Have been provided to the Government or others without restrictions on use, modification, reproduction, release, or further disclosure other than a release or disclosure resulting from the sale, transfer, or other assignment of interest in the software to another party or the sale or transfer of some or all of a business entity or its assets to another party; (ii) Are form, fit, and function data; (iii) Are a correction or change to technical data furnished to the contractor by the Government; or, (iv) Have been provided to the Government under a prior contract or licensing agreement through which the Government has acquired the rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, or disclose the data without restrictions. (2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this clause, the Government may use, modify, reproduce, release, or disclose technical data within the Government only. The Government shall not_ (i) Use the technical data to manufacture additional quantities of the commercial items; or, (ii) Release, disclose, or authorize use of the technical data outside the Government without the contractor's express permission unless a release, disclosure or permitted use is necessary for emergency repair or overhaul of the commercial items furnished under this contract. (c) Additional license rights. The contractor, its subcontractors, and suppliers are not required to provide the Government additional rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, or disclose technical data. However, if the Government desires to obtain additional rights in technical data, the contractor agrees to promptly enter into negotiations with the contracting officer to determine whether there are acceptable terms for transferring such rights. All technical data in which the contractor has granted the Government additional rights shall be listed or described in a special license agreement made part of the contract. The license shall enumerate the additional rights granted the Government in such data. (d) Release from liability. The contractor agrees that the Government, and other persons to whom the Government may have released or disclosed technical data delivered or otherwise furnished under this contract, shall have no liability for any release or disclosure of technical data that are not marked to indicate that such data are licensed data subject to use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure restrictions. (End of Clause) 19. Section 252.227&hyph;7016 is added to read as follows: 252.227&hyph;7016 Rights in bid or proposal data As prescribed in 227.403&hyph;6(c), 227.404(f), or 227.503&hyph;6(d), use the following clause: RIGHTS IN BID OR PROPOSAL DATA (XXX 1994) (a) Definitions.
