FR940505-1-00438 FR940505-1-00012 (7) Test methods. (i) Any owner or operator of a unit that is required to perform a compliance test to demonstrate compliance with the standards specified in paragraph (v)(3)(i) of this section, or chooses to perform a compliance test to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(ii) of this section, shall comply with the requirements of ยง60.8 (c), (d), and (e). The test shall be performed and data reduced and reported as follows: (A) Each emission test shall be conducted while the unit is operated at maximum capacity and operating under representative operating conditions. (B) Each emission test shall be conducted in accordance with the appropriate test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Except for the modifications in this paragraph and unless otherwise approved by the Administrator: NO X shall be measured in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 7E; CO shall be measured in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 10; and the diluent shall be measured using 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 3A. Testing shall be conducted for four 15 minute testing periods. Compliance shall be evaluated for each 15 minute period. Data recorded during testing to determine the 15 minute average shall either be continuously integrated by the testing instrument and data recorder, or recorded manually at 30 second intervals during each 15 minute test period. Zero and calibration checks shall be conducted after each 15 minute test period. (C) The ppm CO emission limit required by paragraph (v)(3)(i)(B) of this section shall be established during the initial compliance test for NO X emissions to establish a ppm CO emission limit that represents good operating and combustion practices for fuel(s) burned in the unit. The CO emission limit established for determining subsequent compliance shall be documented in the applicable certification report required under paragraph (v)(6)(i)(C) of this section. (ii) Any owner or operator that chooses to comply with the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(ii)(A) of this section shall tune the unit using the equipment tuning procedure specified in this paragraph. 41 Nothing in these equipment tuning procedure shall be construed to require any act or omission that would result in unsafe conditions or would be in violation of any regulation or requirement established by Factory Mutual, Industrial Risk Insurers, National Fire Prevention Association, California Department of Industrial Relations (Occupational Safety and Health Division), Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or other relevant regulations and requirements. 41 This tuning procedure is based on a tune-up procedure developed by KVD, Inc. for the USEPA. (A) Step 1. Operate the unit at the firing rate most typical of normal operation. If the unit experiences significant load variations during normal operation, operate it at its average firing rate. (B) Step 2. At this firing rate, record stack gas temperature, oxygen concentration, and CO concentration (for gaseous fuels) or smoke-spot 42 number (for liquid fuels), and observe flame conditions after unit operation stabilizes at the firing rate selected. If the excess oxygen in the stack gas is at the lower end of the range of typical minimum values, 43 and if the CO emissions are low and there is no smoke, the unit is probably operating at near optimum efficiency at this particular firing rate. However, complete the remaining portion of this procedure to determine whether still lower oxygen levels are practical. 42 The smoke-spot number can be determined with ASTM Test Method D&hyph;2156 or with the Bacharach method. 43 Typical minimum oxygen levels for boilers at high firing rates are: 0.5 to 3 percent for natural gas; and 2 to 4 percent for liquid fuels. (C) Step 3. Increase combustion air flow to the furnace until stack gas oxygen levels increase by 1 to 2 percent over the level measured in Step 2. As in Step 2, record the stack gas temperature, CO concentration (for gaseous fuels) or smoke-spot number (for liquid fuels), and observe flame conditions for these higher oxygen levels after boiler operation stabilizes. (D) Step 4. Decrease combustion air flow until the stack gas oxygen concentration is at the level measured in Step 2. From this level gradually reduce the combustion air flow, in small increments. After each increment, record the stack gas temperature, oxygen concentration, CO concentration (for gaseous fuels) and smoke-spot number (for liquid fuels). Also, observe the flame and record any changes in its condition.
