FR940930-0-00266 FR940930-0-00031 (b) Within 30 days of the closing of an approved pre-foreclosure sale, the mortgagee shall notify the Commissioner on a form prescribed by him of the pre-foreclosure sale. 7. Section 203.365 is amended by revising paragraph (a), to read as follows: ยง203.365 Documents and information to be furnished the Secretary; claims review. (a) Items to be furnished the Secretary. Within 45 days after the deed is filed for record, in the case of a conveyance claim; or, in the case of a claim arising from a pre-foreclosure sale, within 30 days after the closing of the pre-foreclosure sale, unless extended by the Commissioner, the mortgagee must forward to the Secretary: (1) A copy of the deed to the Secretary that has been filed for record and the title evidence continued so as to include recordation of the deed; or evidence, as prescribed by the Secretary, of the closing of the pre-foreclosure sale. (2) Fiscal data pertaining to the mortgage transaction. (3) Any additional information or data that the Secretary may require. * * * * * 8. A new ยง203.370 is added immediately after ยง203.369 and before the undesignated center heading, ``Condition of Property'', to read as follows: ยง203.370 Pre-foreclosure sales. (a) General. HUD will pay FHA insurance benefits to mortgagees in cases where, in accordance with all regulations and procedures applicable to pre-foreclosure sales, the mortgaged property is sold by the mortgagor, after default and prior to foreclosure, at its current fair market value (less adjustments as the Commissioner may deem appropriate) but for less than the mortgage loan amount currently outstanding. (b) Notification of mortgagor. The mortgagee shall give notice, according to prescribed procedures, of the opportunity to be considered for the pre-foreclosure sale procedure to each mortgagor in default. All notices to mortgagors must be in an accessible format, if requested, or if required by the person's known disability, as required by 24 CFR part 9. (c) Eligibility for the Pre-foreclosure Sale Procedure. In order to be considered for the pre-foreclosure sale procedure, a mortgagor: (1) Must be an owner occupant in a single family residence that is security for a mortgage insured under this part, unless otherwise prescribed by the Secretary. (2) Must have an account in default, for such period as determined by the Secretary, which default is the result of an adverse and unavoidable financial situation. (3) Must have been provided notice of the Mortgage Assignment Program (24 CFR 203.650, et seq ), and either have been found ineligible by HUD, or have made an informed decision not to apply for an assignment. (4) Must have, at the time application is made to pursue a pre-foreclosure sale, a mortgaged property whose current fair market value, compared to the amount needed to discharge the mortgage, meets the criterion established by the Secretary, unless a variance is granted by the Secretary. (5) Must have received homeownership counseling, as defined by the Secretary, and have executed a certification to that effect.
