FR941110-0-00071 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We realize that commenters, in many cases, feel it is preferable to have unannounced surveys for the welfare of residents in nursing homes. However, after careful consideration, we have concluded that requiring all surveys to be unannounced is not mandated by the Act. Moreover, doing so would, in some cases, undermine the efficiency of the survey process in which, for example, the only thing necessary to verify compliance is a request for documentation or an interview with a particular part time employee who may, otherwise, not be at the facility if a survey is not announced. We are, therefore, revising §488.307(a) to require that only standard surveys be unannounced. We agree that survey schedules should be more unpredictable and have made this more possible at §488.308(a) by allowing the flexibility of conducting standard surveys no later than 15 months after the previous survey. We disagree with the recommendation that there should be more unannounced inspections than presently required by HCFA. The States are responsible for determining which facilities need to be surveyed and when the surveys should be scheduled, subject to the requirements of §488.307. The States already have the obligation to conduct extended surveys and complaint surveys as the need arises. Moreover, because of time and money constraints and the difficulty of scheduling the surveys already required, it would be unfair to place an additional burden on the States for conducting more surveys than required by law. We agree that complete randomness of surveys has not been achieved but we believe that complete randomness should not be our goal. Sections 1819(g)(2)(A)(iii) and 1919(g)(2)(A)(iii) of the Act provide for a flexible survey cycle. While the law does not specify the criteria to be used to determine intervals between consecutive surveys, States will undoubtedly use past performance as a primary criterion. If past performance is considered in determining how frequently to survey specific facilities, the survey cycle can not be completely random. Our intention is to strive to have surveys conducted on as random a basis as possible consistent with effective enforcement. We are aware that annual licensure cycles may compromise unannounced surveys. However, we believe that, over time, State licensure cycles will not be a factor in survey predictability since licensure and certification surveys are generally conducted concurrently. In the event that States do not move to a more flexible licensing schedule, this will not create a problem because licensing schedules will not substitute for certification requirements. We believe that it is unnecessary to require States to provide a randomization plan for the timing of surveys because we are already stating at §488.307(b) that we will review States' procedures on at least an annual basis. In addition, the law does not require States to demonstrate that substandard facilities have been targeted, but in examining the States' scheduling practices annually, we will look for logical scheduling criteria and past performance will undoubtedly be one of the reasonable criteria States can use. Comment: Several commenters stated that it is unfair for surveyors to come into a facility without any advance notice. Another commenter stated that unannounced surveys are not more beneficial than announced ones. This commenter stated that the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) announces its surveys and that this practice is less stressful and avoids placing an unnecessary mystique on the process since it is known that a survey must occur 90 days before the license expires. (We assume the commenter is referring to the expiration of accreditation.) This commenter feels that the same objective is achieved. Another commenter stated that facilities should always be given a warning that a survey will occur and ample time to correct whatever is wrong. Response: We cannot accept the comments advocating announced standard surveys. To do so would be inconsistent with sections 1819(g)(2)(A) and 1919(g)(2)(A) of the Act. Moreover, warning facilities in all cases of an upcoming survey can undermine the accuracy of survey findings which sometimes is predicated on the element of surprise. Comment: Two commenters proposed that paragraph (a) of §488.307 be revised as follows: ``(a) Basic rule. All surveys must be unannounced and their timing should be unpredictable. State survey agencies must adopt survey schedules that maximize the element of surprise. Scheduling procedures and practices must not have the effect of giving facilities notice of inspections. For example, inspections should not occur around the same time each year nor be conducted in a predictable sequential cycle.'' Response: We agree that the timing of surveys should be made as unpredictable to long term care facilities as possible. However, at this point, it does not seem practical or even possible to mandate, or enforce the total unpredictability of surveys by States or to require that all surveys be unannounced, as explained in the response to prior comments in this section. We will be looking into the possibility of incorporating some guidance on ways in which to maximize unpredictability into manual instructions.
