FR941110-0-00155 FR941110-0-00016 Section 488.410␣Action When There Is Immediate Jeopardy In conducting our review of the provisions of the regulation for conformance with the Act, we noted that the Act uses ``immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety'' to describe those situations in which immediate corrections must be achieved and immediate enforcement action must ensue, while the text of the proposed rule refers to such situations as ``immediate and serious threat.'' We have attempted to modify the terminology used in the final regulation to consistently reflect the language of the Act. Comment: Many commenters stated that the 23-day timeframe for termination is not included in the Act, that it is too short and that it does not allow adequate time for corrections. Some suggested that other timeframes, such as 45 days or 90 days, be used, while others indicated that the 23-day clock should not start until the facility has been given a chance to undertake corrections. Response: While the 23-day timeframe is not specified in the Act, HCFA has for many years used a 23-day timeframe for addressing immediate jeopardy situations encountered in other provider and supplier types. In fact, the enforcement procedures which were in effect for long term care facilities prior to the implementation of OBRA '87 provisions called for processing termination actions within 23 calendar days when immediate and serious threat to patient health or safety was documented. In these cases, if the immediate and serious threat was resolved before the end of the 23 calendar days, the termination action was lifted entirely, or if the threat was removed but other serious deficiencies remained, the termination date was extended to allow the facility additional time to correct the remaining deficiencies. Our experience in processing noncompliance actions against other facilities and against long term care facilities (both before and after OBRA '87 implementation) whose deficiencies constitute immediate jeopardy indicates that 23 calendar days is a reasonable amount of time for proper notice to the facility and to the public, as may be required. Further, it provides the facility sufficient time to react to the immediate jeopardy without unnecessarily lengthening the amount of time the facility's residents are at risk because of the situation or situations which constitute the immediate jeopardy. While we appreciate the concerns expressed by the commenters, we are not amending the 23-day timeframe in the final regulation. Comment: Another group of commenters believed that the 23-day timeframe is too long and that, for facilities in which immediate jeopardy is identified, the requirement should be that corrections be initiated immediately. Response: The 23-day timeframe is not the amount of time the facility has to begin making corrections. Rather, it is the maximum amount of time available to the facility to resolve the immediate jeopardy. It begins on the last day of the survey. A facility is ordinarily advised of the existence of immediate jeopardy at the conclusion of the survey which identified the immediate jeopardy. Most facilities in this situation that want to remain in the Medicare or Medicaid program will begin to make corrections immediately. Even for those that do not begin making corrections on their own, some time must be allowed for provision of proper notices, as required by regulation, and/or the appointment of temporary management. In consideration of these factors and the fact that it is also possible for the enforcement process to be completed in less than 23 calendar days, we are not adopting these comments in the final regulation. Comment: Some commenters asked that the regulation be amended to clarify that 23 calendar days is the maximum amount of time which a facility will be given to resolve a finding of immediate jeopardy, whether or not temporary management is utilized. One commenter said that the facility should be given an additional 23 days beyond the termination date during which a temporary manager would be utilized to attempt to achieve compliance. Response: We have accepted the first comment. We agree that 23 calendar days is the maximum time allowed for a facility with immediate jeopardy to resolve the jeopardy. It is not possible for a facility to first be given 23 calendar days to correct deficiencies pending termination followed by another period of time during which temporary management is utilized in an attempt to regain compliance. Comment: Some commenters cited the 23-day timeframe as a disincentive for the use of temporary management as an alternative remedy. Response: We do not believe that use of the 23-day timeframe is a disincentive for use of temporary management based on the seriousness of deficiencies identified at this level as well as the need to take immediate corrective action. Comment: A number of commenters indicated that the facility should not be given the opportunity to refuse temporary management. Response: As noted in the comments and responses for §488.415, facilities will not be offered a formal choice of whether to accept or refuse temporary management. When HCFA or a State chooses to implement this remedy, a temporary manager will be installed unless the facility refuses to relinquish control to the temporary manager, in which case, immediate termination will be sought. Comment: A few comments indicated that there should be an immediate ban on admissions to the facility, large civil money penalties and/or immediate assignment of a State monitor for these cases.
