FR940106-1-00122 FR940106-1-00013 Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain activities. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Endangered Species Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the States and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. Such actions are initiated by the Service following listing. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against taking and harm are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(4) of the Act requires Federal agencies to confer informally with the Service on any action that is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a proposed species or result in destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. If a species is subsequently listed and its critical habitat is designated, section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to insure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into consultation with the Service. Federal actions that may affect the splittail or its critical habitat, should any be designated, include those authorized, carried out, or funded by the Army Corps of Engineers, Bureau of Reclamation, National Marine Fisheries Service, and EPA. The Army Corps of Engineers funds projects and issues permits for water pumping and diversion facilities, levee construction or repair, bank protection activities, deep-water navigation channel dredging and dredge spoil disposal projects, sand and gravel extraction, marina and bridge construction, diking of wetlands for conversion to farmland, and tidal gate or barrier installation. The Bureau of Reclamation and California Department of Water Resources construct, operate, and/or manage water export facilities. EPA reviews State water quality standards and promulgates replacement standards, pursuant to the Clean Water Act, if State standards are found to be inadequate. In 1991, EPA disapproved portions of the California State Water Resources Control Board's Water Quality Control Plan for Salinity for the San Francisco Bay-Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Estuary. Accordingly, EPA has published in this same Federal Register separate part proposed replacement standards for those portions of the State's salinity standards that were disapproved. Under section 4 of the Act, listing the splittail will provide additional impetus for the development of a recovery plan to bring together Federal, State, and private efforts to develop conservation strategies for this species. The Service has convened the Delta Native Fishes Recovery Team to prepare a recovery plan for declining native fishes in the Estuary. The recovery plan will develop a framework for agencies to coordinate activities and cooperate with each other in conservation efforts. The plan will set recovery priorities and estimate the costs of various tasks necessary to accomplish recovery goals. Site-specific management actions necessary to achieve survival and recovery of the splittail and other fishes native to the Estuary ecosystem also will be described in this plan. The Act and its implementing regulations found at 50 CFR 17.31 set forth a series of general prohibitions and exceptions that apply to all threatened wildlife not covered by a special rule. These prohibitions, in part, would make it illegal for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to take (including harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, collect, or attempt any such conduct), import or export, transport in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, or sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce any such species. It also is illegal to possess, sell, deliver, carry, transport, or ship any such wildlife that has been taken illegally. Certain exceptions apply to agents of the Service and State conservation agencies.
