FR940317-1-00109 FR940317-1-00013 A copy of the report of a marine casualty investigation disclosing the basis for a claim under section II or III of this chapter will be furnished to the Commander, USARCS within 60 days after the day on which the marine casualty occurred or after notice of such casualty. An interim report will be forwarded if the investigation has not been completed within the 60-day period. The report will contain original signed statements of all witnesses and other original documentary evidence to the extent practicable. §536.136 Form of claim. (a) A demand letter may initiate a claim. Formalization of a claim may be accomplished at any time before consummation of the settlement or compromise. It is preferable that claims under section II of this chapter be submitted on SF 95; however, the submission of a special form, in view of commercial practice, is not required. The reporting of a maritime casualty under §536.135 will not be deferred in anticipation of the receipt of a claim. (b) Claims of foreign nationals will be stated in the currency of the country in which the casualty occurred, or in the currency of the nationality of the claimant if other than the country of the casualty. Subpart I_Claims Under Article 139, Uniform Code of Military Justice §536.137 Statutory authority. The authority for this subpart is Article 139, UCMJ (10 U.S.C. 939), which provides for redress for property willfully damaged or destroyed, or wrongfully taken, by members of the armed forces of the United States. §536.138 Purpose. This subpart sets forth the standards to be applied and the procedures to be followed in the processing of claims for damage, loss, or destruction of property owned by or in the lawful possession of an individual whether civilian or military, a business, a charity, or a State or local government, where the property was wrongfully taken or willfully damaged by military members of DA. Claims cognizable under other claims statutes may be processed under this subpart. §536.139 Effect of disciplinary action. Administrative action under Article 139 and this subpart is entirely separate and distinct from disciplinary action taken under other sections of the UCMJ or other administrative actions. Because action under Article 139 and this chapter requires independent findings on issues other than guilt or innocence, the mere fact that a soldier was convicted or acquitted of charges is not dispositive of a claim under Article 139. §536.140 Claims cognizable. Claims cognizable under Article 139, UCMJ, are limited to_ (a) Claims for property willfully damaged. Willful damage is damage which is inflicted intentionally, knowingly, and purposefully without justifiable excuse, as distinguished from damage caused inadvertently or thoughtlessly through simple or gross negligence. Damage, loss, or destruction of property caused by riotous, violent, or disorderly acts, or by acts of depredation, or through conduct showing reckless or wanton disregard of the property rights of others may be considered willful damage. (b) Claims for property wrongfully taken. A wrongful taking is any unauthorized taking or withholding of property, not involving the breach of a fiduciary or contractual relationship, with the intent to temporarily or permanently deprive the owner or person lawfully in possession of the property. Damage, loss, or destruction of property through larceny, forgery, embezzlement fraud, misappropriation, or similar offense may be considered wrongful taking. §536.141 Claims not cognizable. Claims not cognizable under this subpart and Article 139 include_ (a) Claims resulting from negligent acts. (b) Claims for personal injury or death. (c) Claims resulting from acts or omissions of military personnel acting within the scope of their employment. (d) Claims resulting from the conduct of Reserve component personnel who are not subject to the UCMJ at the time of the offense. (e) Subrogated claims, including claims by insurers. §536.142 Limitations on assessments. (a) Time Limitations. To be considered, a claim must be submitted within 90 days of the incident out of which the claim arose, unless the special court-martial convening authority (SPCMCA) acting on the claim determines that good cause has been shown for the delay.
