FR940523-2-00126 FR940523-2-00070 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION [Ref. Docket 43232] Office of the Secretary Prohibition on the Sale of Passenger Air Transportation to Lebanon Notice reaffirming the restriction prohibiting the sale, in the United States, of passenger air transportation to Lebanon. We are publishing this notice in its entirety as an appendix to this document. DATE: Issued in Washington, DC, May 17, 1994. Patrick V. Murphy, Acting Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs. Notice As a result of foreign air carriers adding service to Beirut, Lebanon, over the past few years, the Department has increased its monitoring activities relating to the air transportation restrictions put in place with regard to Lebanon in 1985. This has led to the issuance of a number of consent cease and desist orders and the assessment of substantial civil penalties for violations of these restrictions. Investigations of possible violations by a number of other airlines and travel agents are continuing. By this Notice, we once again take the opportunity to reaffirm the restrictions that were put in place as a result of security concerns by Department Order 85&hyph;7&hyph;45, as modified by Order 92&hyph;8&hyph;25. Specifically, it is a condition of all certificates held by U.S. air carriers, all permits held by foreign air carriers and all exemptions from sections 401 and 402 of the Federal Aviation Act that the holder shall not sell in the United States any passenger transportation by air which includes any type of stop in Lebanon. The Department has consistently interpreted this restriction to apply to all sales activities in the United States by air carriers and their agents, including travel agents, consolidators, wholesalers and other third parties, that are utilized to transact such sales. This prohibition includes any activity undertaken in the United States that effectuates the sale of such air transportation and includes, but is not limited to, reservations made in the United States by any air carrier or its agents by mail, overnight express, courier, telephone, facsimile or other means to any air carrier or its agents, including travel agents, consolidators, wholesalers and other third parties, located outside the United States that results in the issuance of a passenger ticket or the confirmation of a reservation for passenger air transportation to Lebanon. The fact that a ticket for air transportation is issued outside the U.S. is not dispositive of whether the sale of that ticket was made in the U.S. Thus, for example, a travel agent receiving reimbursement in the U.S. for a passenger ticket for air transportation service to Lebanon, who obtains that ticket through an airline or consolidator in Canada, would be in violation of the Department's Lebanon restrictions. Likewise, an airline that accepts a U.S. telephone purchase in Canada for air transportation to Lebanon, with ticket delivery in the U.S., would also violate our Lebanon restrictions. These agents and airlines would be subject to the imposition of substantial civil penalties. Moreover, criminal prosecution could result from knowing and willful violations of the law. This Notice shall be published in the Federal Register and shall be served on all certificated air carriers, all foreign air carriers, the United States Departments of State and Justice, the Air Transport Association, the International Air Transport Association, the National Air Carrier Association, the American Society of Travel Agents, and the Association of Retail Travel Agents. By: Dated: May 17, 1994. Patrick V. Murphy, Acting Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12513 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;62&hyph;P
