FR940826-2-00099 FR940826-2-00055 The movants point to two developments to support their argument that there has been a significant change in circumstances. First, they argue that AT&T's acquisition of McCaw, if permitted by this Court and the FCC, will substantially change the cellular business by permitting entry of the nation's largest long distance carrier into the local cellular exchange business. This entry, they argue will place the BOC cellular systems at a substantial competitive disadvantage, thereby harming consumers. Second, they argue that entry into the wireless business is imminent in the form of SMR and PCS. They suggest that entry of these new providers will eliminate the need for equal access to preserve competition in the provision of long distance services to cellular subscribers. Neither of these developments justify the relief the BOCs seek. The proposed final judgment that the Department has negotiated with AT&T refutes the BOCs' argument that AT&T will have different equal access rules. Rather, that proposed decree and the order proposed for the BOCs' motion applies consistent rules to both the BOCs and AT&T. The terms of the AT&T/McCaw judgment, if approved, would expand the scope of equal access to apply to McCaw cellular exchanges that do not currently provide equal access. As a result, that judgment will eliminate the competitive disadvantage that the BOCs claim they currently face. Ironically, granting the BOCs' motion would create the harm they claim they want to end_placing a cellular provider in a position where it must provide equal access while competing with a provider that need not do so. The BOCs' other contention is likewise without merit. As yet, there are no SMR or PCS providers of wireless telephony generally available today. It is, of course, possible that at some point these new technologies will offer wireless service in competition with today's cellular duopolists. When it will happen and what effect, if any, it will have on competition in the market for cellular telephone service is now unknown. The FCC has not yet assigned PCS licenses. Indeed, the Commission has not yet even said when licenses will be awarded. Once the licenses are assigned, the licensees must take a number of time-consuming steps before they can offer service. They must develop the necessary technology, obtain financing and build networks. The very nature of PCS, including the services to be provided and the technology to be employed, is not yet settled. 34 BellSouth itself told the FCC that ``cellular systems and new PCS licensees will be competitors only to a very limited degree.'' 35 It is, of course, impossible to say how long it will take to develop PCS, but it appears that it will be some time before PCS service will have any impact on competition for wireless telephony. Any assertion that PCS has changed the competitive environment is premature at best. 34 See Peterson, ``Positioning PCS on the Telecom Landscape,'' Telephony, 26 (December 13, 1993). Mr. Peterson is Manager of Market Research at Motorola's General System Sector, a prospective PCS manufacturer, and is positioned to be well informed on PCS. 35 PCS Comments of BellSouth, In the matter of Amendment of the Commission's Rules to Establish New Personal Communications Services 48 n.96 (F.C.C. Nov. 9, 1992). BellSouth relied on a forecast by Telocator that ``shows cellular service prices in 2002 remaining 14&hyph;67% higher than the price for `personal telecommunications service' and as much as three times as expensive as telepoint service.'' Id. Several firms are in the process of accumulating radio spectrum currently allocated to Special Mobile Radio (SMR) with the stated intention of offering wireless telephone service. While that service might be closer to deployment than PCS, when and if it will be available is not yet known. SMR providers currently offer a dispatch service that is functionally distinct from cellular telephone service. 36 36 Dispatch service is used by fleet dispatchers, such as those that issue assignments to taxicabs and utility repair trucks. Some SMR providers offer interconnection with the public switched telephone network; such service, however, is far less convenient than cellular service and is used infrequently. SMR customers who need mobile telephone service usually have SMR and cellular telephone equipment in their vehicles. Three firms are attempting to convert SMR spectrum to wireless telephone use. Nextel Communications Inc. is the only firm that has begun construction of an SMR system that would provide cellular-like telephony service. Nextel has noted that it could still face a number of difficulties, including having substantially less radio spectrum than that allocated to cellular telephone providers (which could cause its costs to be substantially higher), a limited number of equipment suppliers and a current inability to offer nationwide service. Nextel's filing also indicates that its service might not have adequate voice quality. 37 37 Nextel Communications, Inc., Securities and Exchange Commission, Form S&hyph;3, pp. 28, 36 (February 8, 1994). This voice quality problem has also been noted by McCaw's Chief Operating Officer, who testified that Nextel's voice quality is currently poor. Mr. Barksdale noted that Nextel might have to halve its capacity to improve its voice quality, further increasing its costs. 38 As with PCS, the BOCs' assertion that SMR deployment constitutes a significant change in circumstances is, at best, premature. 38 Deposition of James Barksdale, June 28, 1994, 218&hyph;221 (Exh. I hereto). Mr. Barksdale's deposition was taken during the Department's investigation of the AT&T/McCaw transaction. Presumably, Mr. Barksdale had an incentive to emphasize the likelihood of Nextel's success as an entrant into the mobile telephone business.
