FR940223-0-00040 FR940223-0-00018 Final rule §3001.54(j)(6), which applies to both volumes and revenues, moves in the direction of CPUM's proposal, since some of the requirements contained in its preamble now apply at the rate category level. The amended preamble reiterates that estimates required by rules §3001.54(j) (2), (3), and (5), must be derived from econometric demand studies at the class and subclass level. It is not required that estimates at the rate category level be derived from econometric studies. If they are derived from econometric studies, however, the amended preamble language applies to them the requirement that supporting rationale be provided if the assumptions underlying the estimate depart from those underlying the econometrics. As discussed above, the amended preamble language also requires supporting rationale where the billing determinants underlying a rate category revenue estimate differ from those implicit in the corresponding volume forecast. McGraw-Hill, Inc. proposed two refinements to the language of proposed rule §3001.54(j)(5)(vi). One would have refined the language of paragraph (a) of the proposed rule, which would have required the Postal Service to identify its methods for deriving its price indices. McGraw-Hill's proposed refinement would have specifically required the Postal Service to identify the time period and the rate schedule applicable to the billing determinants reflected in the price indices. Comments of McGraw-Hill, Inc., of December 2, 1993, at 3. Where price indices reflect billing determinants of a specific time period and rate schedule, the Postal Service should, of course, identify them. But McGraw-Hill's refined language might have been too restrictive to accommodate price indices based on median, composite, or other adjusted billing determinant values. As noted above, we have deleted specific references to price indices in our final rules, with the understanding that full documentation of the manner in which they are derived is required by current rules §3001.54(j)(6). McGraw-Hill's proposed refinement is therefore moot. McGraw-Hill also proposed refined language for paragraph (e) of proposed rule §3001.54(j)(5)(vi), which proposed thresholds that would have triggered the requirement that the Postal Service explain differences between estimated and implied subclass revenue. McGraw-Hill's refinement, though well considered, is moot, since we have deleted threshold tests from our final rules. McGraw-Hill also proposed that we make the following additions to the Postal Service's ongoing data reporting requirements: (i) the Postal Service shall furnish annually a pro forma Cost and Revenue Analysis (``CRA'') report that tracks the determinations made in the preceding omnibus rate case decision; (ii) the CRA report shall identify any change in attribution assumptions from the previous year's report; (iii) if the attribution assumptions employed in a CRA report differ from those used in the Commission's decision in the preceding rate case, the Postal Service shall file a pro forma report that uses the assumptions employed in the Commission's decision; and (iv) billing determinants shall be reported on a quarterly rather than annual basis. [Comments of McGraw-Hill, Inc., of December 2, 1993, at 4&hyph;5.] As McGraw-Hill notes, these requirements were first proposed in Docket No. RM91&hyph;1 [57 FR 39160, 39163&hyph;39164], but were not actively considered because of subsequent changes in the focus of that docket. Id. at 5. We will defer their consideration. The proposals relating to the CRA are well considered, but are more appropriately dealt with after the impending omnibus rate case has been processed. The proposals regarding billing determinant reports may also be taken up at that time. Regulatory Evaluation It has been determined pursuant to 5 U.S.C. §605(b) that these rules will only affect informational requirements applicable to the United States Postal Service, and it is certified that these rules will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities under the terms of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. §501 et seq. Since these rules apply only to the Postal Service, it has also been determined that these rules do not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment pursuant to Executive Order 12612. The rules, which would apply only to the Postal Service in postal rate proceedings, do not contain any information collection requirements as defined in the Paperwork Reduction Act 44 U.S.C. §3502(4)(B), and consequently the review provisions of 44 U.S.C. §3507 and the implementing regulations in 5 CFR part 1320 do not apply.
