FR940325-0-00043 FR940325-0-00009 (1) In the application for certification, a statement that the vehicles for which certification is required will not, to the best of the manufacturer's belief, when included in the manufacturer's production-weighted average emission level, cause the applicable NO X standard(s) to be exceeded. (2) No longer than 90 days after the end of a given model year of production of engine families included in the NO X averaging program, the number of vehicles produced in each engine family at each certified NO X emission level. (h) Additionally, manufacturers participating in any of the NO X and/or particulate averaging, trading, or banking programs for heavy-duty engines shall submit for each participating family: (1) In the application for certification: (i) A statement that the engines for which certification is requested will not, to the best of the manufacturer's belief, when included in any of the averaging, trading, or banking programs cause the applicable NO X or particulate standard(s) to be exceeded. (ii) The type (NO X or particulate) and the projected number of credits generated/needed for this family, the applicable averaging set, the projected U.S. (49-state) production volumes, by quarter, NCPs in use on a similar family and the values required to calculate credits as given in §86.091&hyph;15. Manufacturers shall also submit how and where credit surpluses are to be dispersed and how and through what means credit deficits are to be met, as explained in §86.091&hyph;15. The application must project that each engine family will be in compliance with the applicable NO X and/or particulate emission standards based on the engine mass emissions, and credits from averaging, trading and banking. (2) End-of-year reports for each engine family participating in any of the averaging, trading, or banking programs. (i) These reports shall be submitted within 90 days of the end of the model year to: Director, Manufacturers Operations Division (EN&hyph;6405J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460. (ii) These reports shall indicate the engine family, the averaging set, the actual U.S. (49-state) production volume, the values required to calculate credits as given in §86.091&hyph;15, the resulting type (NO X or particulate) and number of credits generated/required, and the NCPs in use on a similar NCP family. Manufacturers shall also submit how and where credit surpluses were dispersed (or are to be banked) and how and through what means credit deficits were met. Copies of contracts related to credit trading must also be included or supplied by the broker if applicable. The report shall also include a calculation of credit balances to show that net mass emissions balances are within those allowed by the emission standards (equal to or greater than a zero credit balance). The credit discount factor described in §86.091&hyph;15 must be included as required. (iii) The 49-state production counts for end-of-year reports shall be based on the location of the first point of retail sale (e.g., customer, dealer, secondary manufacturer) by the manufacturer. (iv) Errors discovered by EPA or the manufacturer in the end-of-year report, including changes in the 49 state production counts, may be corrected up to 180 days subsequent to submission of the end-of-year report. Errors discovered by EPA after 180 days shall be corrected if credits are reduced. Errors in the manufacturer's favor will not be corrected if discovered after the 180 day correction period allowed. (i) Failure by a manufacturer participating in the averaging, trading, or banking programs to submit any quarterly or end-of-year report (as applicable) in the specified time for all vehicles and engines that are part of an averaging set is a violation of section 203(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act for each such vehicle and engine. (j) Failure by a manufacturer generating credits for deposit only in either the HDE NO X or particulate banking programs to submit their end-of-year reports in the applicable specified time period (i.e., 90 days after the end of the model year) shall result in the credits not being available for use until such reports are received and reviewed by EPA. Use of projected credits pending EPA review will not be permitted in these circumstances. (k) Engine families certified using NCPs are not required to meet the requirements outlined above. 5. Section 86.094&hyph;15 of subpart A is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(2)(iii) and (b)(6)(ii) to read as follows: §86.094&hyph;15 NO X and particulate averaging, trading, and banking for heavy-duty engines. (a) * * * (2) * * *
