FR940304-0-00043 FR940304-0-00015 Response: The information obtained from the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM codes will be used for compiling statistical information. Any new requirements or procedures would not be implemented without physician input and, if appropriate, a notice of proposed rulemaking. Comment: One commenter asserted that the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM coding system is a bulky, unreliable system for gathering data. Response: The ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM coding system was developed under the guidance of the National Center for Health Statistics for greater specificity in reporting illnesses and injuries in the United States. The ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM coding system is the best system available for recording the diagnoses of Medicare beneficiaries. The system is not considered unreliable by most users; however, errors do occur as a result of physicians' incorrect application of the codes. To help make the coding system meet the needs of all users, we welcome input from interested physicians, organizations and the public through the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM Coordination and Maintenance Committee meetings. Comment: One commenter asked for the name of an agency that can give advice and answer questions concerning coding issues. Response: The AHA is the official clearinghouse for questions concerning the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM system. They accept written questions and will provide a written reply. The AMA is also providing ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM coding advice to its members through their CPT Clearing House Hotline (312) 464&hyph;4737. In addition, each carrier has designated a contact person to answer the concerns raised by the physicians they service. We encourage close communication between a physician and the carrier to avoid coding problems. Comment: Several commenters expressed concern that requiring coding to the fifth digit is burdensome and will require a more skilled person to properly code the diagnoses. One commenter stated that prior to the new physician diagnostic coding requirement, coding by physicians was generally limited to three digits. Response: We did not anticipate a significant burden upon physicians as a result of coding to the fifth digit level when the proposed rule was published, and have not had complaints from the physician community since that time. We continue to believe that most physicians or their office staff create reference lists of diagnoses encountered most often. Since 1979, the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM coding system has been in use and has contained five digit codes. Thus, we do not agree that coding by physicians previously was limited to three digits. Comment: One commenter asserted that it would be advantageous if the format requirements for submitting bills or requests for payment are published with the proposed rule. Response: The Medicare Carriers Manual explains how to fill out bills and requests for payment. Basically, the only format requirement for the diagnostic coding is to put each appropriate code in the space that is provided for those codes under the heading ``Nature of Illness or Injury.'' The form HCFA&hyph;1500 and accompanying sections of the Carriers Manual are already subject to public comment, pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. In accordance with that Act, OMB reviews the form HCFA&hyph;1500 and its instructions at least once every 3 years. The Department publishes a notice in the Federal Register that informs the public of OMB's review and solicits comments for OMB's consideration in the course of its review. Comment: The AMA stated that pathologists have expressed a concern that failure to list a second diagnosis after V72.6, Laboratory examination, may lead to medical necessity review problems. The AMA requested that we inform the carriers that V72.6 code meets the Medicare coding requirements. Response: We agree that in many instances one code (V72.6) will explain the reason for the patient's encounter. Carriers should identify a way of determining the proper coverage policy issue through the use of a screen. We recommend that all laboratory claims begin with the code V72.6, Laboratory examination. However, by supplying a second code to describe the reason for the referral, the bill or request for payment can clearly be identified as referrals to evaluate symptoms, signs, or diagnoses, instead of being part of a routine physical examination that is not covered by Medicare. Comment: One commenter inquired about how the ``V'' codes should be sequenced for diagnostic services on the bill or request for payment.
