FR940119-1-00024 FR940119-1-00007 Intermediate Cutting means any removal of trees from a stand between the time of its formation and the harvest cutting. Examples of intermediate cutting include, but are not limited to, cleaning, thinning, liberation, improvement, hazard removal, salvage and sanitation cuttings. Mining means any activity related to the discovery, extraction and exploitation of minerals or mineral materials including, but not limited to, actions taken pursuant to the Mining Act of 1872, 30 U.S.C. 22 et seq. , the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, 30 U.S.C. 181 et seq ., the Mineral Materials Act of 1947, 30 U.S.C. 601 et seq. , or any other activity using hydraulic equipment, pans, ground sluicing, sluice boxes, rockers, or suction dredges. Motorized and Mechanical Equipment has the same meaning as ``mechanical transport'' and ``motorized equipment'' in 36 CFR 293.6(a) and (b), except that this term does not include either motorized or nonmotorized rivercraft or motorized wheelchairs or other devices used solely to assist persons with disabilities. Motorized Rivercraft means any boat capable of being mechanically propelled by propeller(s) or jet pump(s) upstream through rapids. Non-Motorized Rivercraft means any boat which is not a motorized rivercraft. Other Lands means all nonwilderness National Forest Systems lands in the HCNRA. Paleontological Resources means any remains, trace, or imprint of a plant or animal that has been preserved in the Earth's crust prior to the Holocene epoch. Ranger is the HCNRA Area Ranger, Wallowa-Whitman National Forest, with offices located in Enterprise, Oregon, Riggins, Idaho, and Clarkston, Washington, except for the Rapid Wild and Scenic River where the term refers to the Salmon River District Ranger, Nez Perce National Forest, located in Whitebird, Idaho. Selective Cutting means single tree or group selection cutting and is the periodic removal of trees individually or in small groups from an uneven aged forest in order to maintain diverse stands of irregular constitution and for which the management of the forest ecosystem is a primary consideration. Suitable means it is appropriate to apply certain resource management practices to a particular area of land, as determined by an ecological and environmental analysis of the land. A unit of land may be suitable for a variety of individual or combined management practices. Wild and Scenic Rivers means the designated segments of the Snake, Rapid, Imnaha and any other river or segment thereof in the HCNRA hereafter designated as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Wilderness Lands means the Hells Canyon Wilderness, that portion of the Eagle Cap Wilderness in the HCNRA, and any other wilderness in the HCNRA hereafter designated as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System. §292.42 Management standards and guidelines. (a) In addition to existing statutory and regulatory authority governing administration of National Forest System lands and resources, the standards and guidelines in §§292.43 to 292.48 of this subpart prescribe the scope and extent of certain activities that may occur in the HCNRA. These standards and guidelines are consistent with the overall objective of administering the HCNRA to preserve its natural beauty, historical and archaeological values and enhance its recreational and ecological values and the public's enjoyment. The standards and guidelines may vary depending on whether the land where the proposed activity is contemplated is within the Wilderness Lands or the Other Lands. (b) The standards and guidelines of this subpart govern the previous programmatic direction in the Comprehensive Management Plan that has been incorporated into the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan. Site specific environmental analysis may be required even in those situations where a use or activity is permissible under the standards and guidelines set forth in this subpart.
