FR941011-2-00016 FR941011-2-00003 Forest Service Opportunity to Comment on Development of Long-Term Strategy for Management of Anadromous Fish-Producing Watersheds in California AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice; opportunity for public comment. SUMMARY: The USDA Forest Service (FS) (lead agency) and the USDI Bureau of Land Management (BLM) (cooperating agency) will develop and implement a long-term strategy for management of anadromous fish-producing watersheds in California. The objective of the strategy is to maintain and restore ecological functions and processes that create good habitat for Pacific salmon and steelhead trout. The area to be addressed includes portions of Mill, Deer, and Antelope Creek watersheds managed by the Lassen National Forest; portions of nine watersheds managed by the Los Padres National Forest; portions of the Redding Resource Area, Ukiah District, of the BLM; and portions of the Carmel River Watershed in the Hollister Resource Area, Bakersfield District, of the BLM. Areas managed by the FS and BLM already implementing direction from the President's Forest Plan for the Pacific Northwest are not included because long-term management direction for anadromous fish-producing watersheds is already provided. The Mendocino, Shasta-Trinity, Klamath, and Six Rivers National Forests and other areas managed by the FS and BLM within the range of the northern spotted owl are therefore excluded. The geographic area to be addressed is that covered by PACFISH interim management direction for anadromous fish-producing watersheds in California. (PACFISH refers to the proposed interim management strategy analyzed in the Environmental Assessment for the Implementation of Interim Strategies for Managing Anadromous Fish-producing Watersheds in Eastern Oregon and Washington, Idaho, and portions of California (PACFISH EA)). Preliminary review indicates that implementation of FS land and resource management plans and BLM resource management plans for the affected areas already provides protection of anadromous fish habitat. However, the adequacy of those plans and consistency among plans and between the FS and BLM is being reviewed in light of information developed for the PACFISH EA. The analysis conducted for the PACFISH EA indicates that implementation of PACFISH will have minor environmental effects in California because of the relatively small size, discontiguous, and geographically dispersed ownership pattern of the affected FS and BLM administered lands, and because of the protection already afforded by the implementation of existing management plans. The PACFISH interim management strategy is intended to arrest degradation of riparian and aquatic habitat and initiate ecosystem recovery across four western States while long term strategies are prepared. In addition to the relatively small area in California, the interim strategy also covers an extensive area of FS and BLM administered lands in Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. Long-term strategies for the management of anadromous fish-producing watersheds will be developed for those areas within the context of the Eastside Ecosystem Management Project and the Upper Columbia River Basin Project. For the development of a long-term management strategy in California, this comment process will be used by the FS and BLM to help determine whether existing management plans (with or without the addition of PACFISH interim direction) adequately protect anadromous fish habitat; what, if any, additional issues need to be addressed; the appropriate level of National Environmental Policy Act analysis for the development of such a strategy; and the level of interagency coordination necessary to insure a consistent approach to management on FS and BLM administered lands in California. DATES: Comments concerning the analysis should be received in writing by January 9, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Katherine Clement, Director, Land Management Planning, 630 Sansome Street, San Francisco, CA 94111. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Katherine Clement, Director, Land Management Planning, (415) 705&hyph;1834. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pacific salmon and steelhead trout occur naturally from southern California northward to the Arctic Ocean. These fish populations comprise a large number of stocks, or populations that originate from specific watersheds during specific times of year as juveniles, migrate to the ocean, and generally return to reproduce in their natal watersheds. Of the more than 400 stocks from California, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington recently evaluated in a report published by the American Fisheries Society, 106 were found to be extinct, 214 were considered to be at ``moderate'' or ``high'' risk of extinction or of ``special concern,'' and about 120 were considered ``secure.''.
