FR941116-0-00186 FR941116-0-00022 (1) Fremont, Harrison, Mills, Monona, and West Pottawattamie Counties in Iowa; (2) Adams, Furnas, Harlan, Kearney, and Phelps Counties in Nebraska; and (3) Bon Homme, Charles Mix, Douglas, Turner, and Yankton Counties in South Dakota. (b) Farms enrolled in the VPLP must be administratively located in one of the selected counties. §1416.101 Basic program provisions. (a) The enrollment period for this program will coincide with the period established for the Acreage Reduction Program (ARP) signup which will be March 1 to April 29, 1994. All producers sharing in the crop produced on the farm must complete form CCC&hyph;135 to enroll in this program. (b) A farm enrolled in the VPLP must have an established crop acreage base (CAB) for the enrolled crop in accordance with part 1413 of this chapter. (c) Producers on a farm shall be considered to have met the requirements of the current year ARP for barley, corn, grain sorghum, oats, and wheat, respectively, if requirements for the VPLP for such crop, as set forth in this section, are met. (d) Participating producers shall be determined eligible for program benefits in accordance with 7 CFR parts 1497 and 1498 of this chapter, respectively. (e) In order to participate, producers on a farm must enroll 1 or more wheat or feed grain crops into the program on a farm having a CAB for such a crop. (f) Eligible crops to be enrolled in the VPLP are as follows: (1) Wheat; (2) Corn; (3) Grain sorghum; (4) Barley; and (5) Oats. (g) Producers with farming interests on multiple farms are not required to enroll all farms into the VPLP. (h) Farm owners must treat operators, tenants, and sharecroppers fairly, in accordance with §1413.107 of this chapter. (i) Producers must not be in violation of controlled substance provisions in accordance with part 796 of this title. (j) Except for Bureau of Indian Affairs, Federal agencies are ineligible for VPLP payments. (k) Acreage conservation reserve, in accordance with §1413.61 of this chapter, is not required for crops enrolled in the VPLP. (l) The provisions of §1413.41 of this chapter do not apply to crops enrolled in VPLP. (m) The provisions of §1413.43 of this chapter do not apply to crops enrolled in VPLP. (n) The sum of the planted acreage for all enrolled wheat and/or feed grain program crops shall not exceed the sum of the enrolled wheat or feed program CAB's on the farm. (o) Producers who do not comply with the terms and conditions of the VPLP for a crop shall be required to refund all or a part, as determined appropriate by CCC, of the current year payments received by such producers for such crop. §1416.102 Production limitation quantity (PLQ) and carryover quantities. (a) Producers participating in the VPLP must agree not to market, barter, donate, or use on the farm, including use as livestock feed, a quantity greater than the sum of the PLQ for enrolled crops, calculated in paragraph (d) of this section and eligible carryover determined according to paragraph (b) of this section. (b) Carryover production will be defined as eligible and ineligible carryover as follows: If the crop was:
