FR940104-0-00086 FR940104-0-00016 §685.302 Correspondence school schedule requirements. (a) A school offering a course of study by correspondence shall establish a schedule for submission of lessons by its students and provide it to a prospective student prior to the student's enrollment. (b) The school shall include in its schedule_ (1) A due date for each lesson in the course; (2) A description of the options, if any, available to the student for altering the sequence of lesson submissions from the sequence in which they are otherwise required to be submitted; (3) The date by which the course is to be completed; and (4) The date by which any resident training must begin, the location of any residential training, and the period of time within which that resident training must be completed. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. ) §685.303 Disbursing borrowers' loan proceeds and counseling borrowers. (a) Purpose. This section establishes rules governing a school's disbursement of a borrower's Federal Direct Stafford, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford, or Federal Direct PLUS loan proceeds, and for counseling borrowers. The school shall also comply with any rules for processing a loan contained in 34 CFR part 668. (b) General. (1) A school may not disburse any loan proceeds unless the school or the alternative originator has obtained an executed legally enforceable promissory note from the borrower. (2)(i) Except in the case of a late disbursement under paragraph (d) of this section, or as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, a school may disburse loan proceeds only to a student whom the school determines continuously has maintained eligibility in accordance with the provisions of §685.200 from the beginning of the loan period certified by the school. (ii) If, after the first disbursement is made to the student, the student becomes ineligible due solely to the school's loss of eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs or the Direct Loan Program, the school may make the second or subsequent disbursement to the borrower as permitted by 34 CFR part 668. (iii) If, prior to when the loan is made to the student, the student temporarily ceases to be enrolled on at least a half-time basis, the school may make the first disbursement of the loan and any subsequent disbursement to the student if the school subsequently determines and documents in the student's file_ (A) That the student has resumed enrollment on at least a half-time basis; (B) The student's revised cost of attendance; and (C) That the student continues to qualify for the entire amount of the loan, notwithstanding any reduction in the student's cost of attendance caused by the student's temporary cessation of enrollment on at least a half-time basis. (3) The school may credit a registered student's account with only those loan proceeds covering costs of attendance owed to the school by the student for which substantially all of the school's students incurring those costs have been billed. (4) A school may not deliver loan proceeds to a student borrower earlier than ten days before the first day of the period of enrollment. (5) If a registered student withdraws or is expelled prior to the first day of classes of the period of enrollment for which the loan is made or fails to attend school during that period, or if the school is unable for any other reason to document that the student attended school during that period, the school, within 30 days of the period described in §685.304(b), shall notify the Secretary of the student's withdrawal, expulsion, or failure to attend school, if applicable, and return to the Secretary_ (i) Any loan proceeds credited directly by the school to the student's account; and (ii) The amount of payments made directly by the student to the school, to the extent that they do not exceed the amount of any loan proceeds delivered by the school to the student. (6) A school may not apply the first disbursement of a Federal Direct Stafford or Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loan to the account of a student who is enrolled in the first year of an undergraduate program of study and who has not previously received a Federal Stafford, Federal Supplemental Loans for Students, Federal Direct Stafford, or Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loan until 30 days after the first day of the student's program of study. (c) Processing of the proceeds of a Direct Loan Program loan. (1) After the student has registered, the school shall_ (i) Not more than three weeks prior to the first day of the period of enrollment_ (A) Credit the amount of the loan proceeds to the student's account; (B) Notify the student or parent borrower in writing that it has so credited that account; and (C) Deliver to the student or parent borrower the remaining loan proceeds, subject to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, not later than 45 days after the disbursement of the funds. (ii) Subject to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, disburse the loan proceeds to the borrower. (2) A school may not credit a student's account or release the proceeds of a loan to a student who is on a leave of absence, as described in §685.304(c). (d) Late disbursement. (1) For purposes of this paragraph, a disbursement is late if the school delivers loan proceeds_ (i) After the loan period; or (ii) Before the end of the loan period, but after the student ceased to be enrolled at the school on at least a half-time basis.
