FR940727-1-00040 FR940727-1-00014 By removing some of the barriers to Subtitle C management for lamps, a special collection system approach could minimize concerns about decreased participation in the Green Lights program by simplifying and clarifying the requirements for mercury-containing lamp collection while maintaining Subtitle C control over final treatment and disposal (or recycling) for these lamps. Such an approach could help in assuring that the substantial environmental benefits offered by the Green Lights program are realized through increased participation. Management costs under the special collection system approach proposed on February 11, 1993, would be lower than full Subtitle C management because hazardous waste transporters and manifests would not be required for lamp shipments between the generator and the consolidation facility, and permits would not be required for storage at interim consolidation points. However, under the Special Collection System the management of mercury-containing lamps (after reaching the consolidation point) would be more expensive than the management of these lamps under the conditional exclusion (although the larger volumes managed at these consolidation points may result in certain economies of scale for transport and disposal or recycling). The Agency requests comment on whether spent hazardous waste lamps should be regulated under the special collection system approach proposed February 11, 1993. Documents included in the docket for this proposal include estimates indicating that approximately 3.9 billion spent lamps of all types may be disposed of annually in the country (including 550 million spent fluorescent lamps) and that lighting is one of the second largest contributors of mercury to the municipal waste stream (from all types of mercury-containing lamps). In addition, the Agency believes that spent mercury-containing lamps of some type must be generated by almost every commercial and industrial establishment in the country. In addition, a special collection system approach could address all types of spent lamps that fail the toxicity characteristic and are therefore hazardous waste, not only mercury-containing lamps. Such an approach seems appropriate since any type of waste lamp is likely to be ``universal'' in nature. The Agency requests comment on whether various types of spent lamps (e.g., incandescent, neon), other than mercury-containing lamps, typically fail the TC test (or exhibit other characteristics) and would be hazardous waste under the current RCRA Subtitle C toxicity characteristic (40 CFR 261.24). Indeed, should the Agency choose, in a final rule, to conditionally exempt mercury-containing lamps from regulation under Subtitle C, the Agency may still elect to add other types of lamps to the universal waste management system. The Agency requests comment on this approach and on whether, how frequently, and for what TC constituents various lamp types may fail the toxicity characteristic. The Agency also requests that commenters submit any additional data that may be available on this question. The Agency requests comment on a special collection system for management of spent lamps including the same basic structure and requirements for generators, transporters, consolidation points, and destination facilities as proposed on February 11, 1993 for management of hazardous waste batteries and pesticides. The Agency is also specifically requesting comment on the items discussed below. First, in the February 11, 1993, proposal the Agency proposed a quantity limit for storage of batteries above which generators and consolidation points would be required to notify the Agency of their storage activities. The Agency requests comment on a notification requirement for generators and consolidation points storing more than 35,000 spent mercury-containing lamps. This requirement is similar in substance to the notification requirement proposed in the Universal Wastes rule (proposed ยง273.11(c) and ยง273.13(d) (58 FR 8129&hyph;8130)). EPA is suggesting a numerical limit rather than a weight limit because lamp packaging (e.g., the cardboard boxes in which new replacement lamps were shipped) may constitute a large proportion of the total weight of a shipment or stored quantity of lamps. In addition, industry practice appears to be to quantify inventories by number of lamps rather than by weight, calculated by multiplying the number of boxes of lamps in storage or in a shipment by the number of lamps per box. Since about 35,000 lamps roughly correspond to a full truckload of packaged fluorescent lamps, the Agency is suggesting a 35,000 limit for fluorescent lamps. The Agency also requests comment on appropriate quantity limits for notification for other hazardous waste lamps types.
