FR941117-2-00054 FR941117-2-00040 •Identifies, studies, and makes recommendations for modifying Medicare coverage and payment policies to reflect changes in beneficiary health care needs, program objectives, and the health care delivery system. •Initiates special studies in response to identified problems in payment or coverage of physician services. •Reviews policies developed in other areas for their impact on physician payment. g. Office of Chronic Care and Insurance Policy (FKA5) •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on the coverage of and payment methods for services provided by skilled nursing facilities, home health agencies, hospices, comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facilities, community mental health centers, and outpatient rehabilitation therapy providers. Develops and evaluates requirements for participation of these providers in Medicare. •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on the coverage of mental health services, including partial hospitalization, clinical psychologists' services, and clinical social workers' services. •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and principles for applying limitations to the costs of skilled nursing facilities. Develops criteria for exceptions to cost limitations and reviews and makes decisions on skilled nursing facility requests for such exceptions. •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on entitlement to hospital insurance and supplementary medical insurance, premium amounts and collection, general requirements for payment of claims, beneficiary rights and protections, limitation on liability, hearings and appeals, technical exclusions, and other technical issues. •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on Medicare as secondary payer, coordination of other payers' benefits with Medicare, and Medicare supplemental insurance (Medigap). •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on the coverage of and payment methods for durable medical equipment, orthotics, prosthetics, braces, splints, and other supplies and devices. (1) Division of Skilled Nursing Care (FKA51) •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on the coverage of and payment methods for services provided by skilled nursing facilities. Develops and evaluates requirements for participation of skilled nursing facilities in Medicare and nursing facilities in Medicaid. •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and principles for applying limitations to the costs of skilled nursing facilities. Develops criteria for exceptions to and exemptions from cost limitations. Reviews and makes decisions on skilled nursing facility requests for such exceptions or exemptions. •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on spell of illness, and the deductibles, coinsurance, and benefit limits applicable to skilled nursing facilities. •Develops, evaluates, and reviews national Medicare policies and standards relating to subacute care. •Participates in the development and evaluation of a prospective payment system for skilled nursing facility services. •Develops, evaluates, and reviews regulations, guidelines, and instructions required for the dissemination of policies to Medicare contractors and the health care field. (2) Division of Home Care and Therapy (FKA52) •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on the coverage of and payment methods for services provided by home health agencies, hospices, comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facilities, community mental health centers, and outpatient rehabilitation therapy providers. Develops and evaluates requirements for participation of these providers in Medicare. •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on the coverage of mental health services, including partial hospitalization, clinical psychologists' services, and clinical social workers' services. •Develops and evaluates national Medicare policies and standards on the deductibles, coinsurance, and benefit limits applicable to the provider and practitioner services described above. •Develops, evaluates, and reviews national Medicare policies and standards relating to managed care organizations. •Develops, evaluates, and reviews regulations, guidelines, and instructions required for the dissemination of policies to Medicare contractors and the health care field.
