FR940603-1-00100 FR940603-1-00009 §1726.326 Construction or equipment contract amendment, REA Form 238. The amendment form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Construction or Equipment Contract Amendment Project Designation XXX Date XXX Amendment No. XXX Contract No. XXX Bond extension attached XX Yes XX No Delivery or Completion Date: Original XXX As Amended XXX Instructions: 1. The Architect-Engineer shall submit three (3) copies of this form for each contract which has been approved by REA, to the Owner. 2. The Owner will submit the three (3) copies of this form to REA for approval. Reasons for, and details and description of the amendment XXX (If additional space is needed, use reverse or separate sheet) A summary of the original contract price and amendments thereto, including this amendment, follows: (Amendments which decreased the price are preceded by a (^) minus sign). Original Contract Price, $ XXX Amendment Number 1, $ XXX Amendment Number 2, $ XXX Amendment Number 3, $ XXX Amendment Number 4, $ XXX Amendment Number 5, $ XXX Amendment Number 6, $ XXX Amendment Number 7, $ XXX Amendment Number 8, $ XXX Amended Contract Price, $ XXX This amendment, providing for an increase of $ XXX / decrease of $ XXX in the contract price is submitted pursuant to the provisions of said contract. (The Administrator of REA is hereby authorized to approve this amendment either in whole or in part and to delete such items as do not meet his approval). To the extent the items hereof are approved the contract shall be amended. Accepted XXX Contractor By XXX President-Owner-Partner (Strike out inapplicable title. If signed by other than above, power of attorney should be attached or on file with REA.) XXX Date XXX Owner By XXX President-Board of Directors XXX Date Approved XXX Architect-engineer XXX Date ␣ 1Item No. 1Reasons for and Description of Contract Amendment No. XXX 1Labor or Installation1 1Material or Equipment1 1Total ␣ l l l l l n,n,s ␣ Net Total l l l 1Changes in Cost (decrease preceded by (^) minus sign.) To be filled in when applicable.
