FR940805-1-00073 FR940805-1-00013 (i) assessment as warranted; (ii) detoxification under clinically supervised conditions; (iii) diagnosis of chemical dependency; (iv) determination as to whether an individual requires non-pharmacologically or pharmacologically supported care; and (v) referrals to specified community resources for the development of individual treatment plans by a multi-disciplinary team. (25) Substance abuse programming. The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan to provide substance abuse education, intervention, assessment and treatment to inmates who are diagnosed as substance abusers. The administrator, health authority and substance abuse program provider shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. The plan shall link existing community programs and services to the facility program. The plan shall include, at a minimum: (i) assessment and evaluation; (ii) referral for treatment, if requested or court-ordered; and (iii) availability of appropriate self-help groups. (26) Informed consent. The health authority shall observe informed consent standards of the community for all inmate care, examinations, treatments and procedures affected by informed consent. In the case of minors, the informed consent of a parent, guardian or legal custodian shall apply when required by law. Health care shall be rendered against an inmate's will only in accordance with law. (27) Participation in research. The health authority shall prohibit the use of inmates for medical, pharmaceutical, or cosmetic experiments. This standard shall not preclude individual treatment of an inmate based on need for a specific medical procedure that is not generally available. (28) Confidentiality of health records. In compliance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974) as amended and 42 CFR Part 2 (Regulations on Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient Records), the health authority shall keep the health record confidential. The health authority shall require that, at a minimum: (i) the active health record shall be maintained separately from the confinement record; (ii) access to the health record shall be controlled by the health authority; and (iii) the health authority shall share with the administrator or designee information regarding an inmate's medical management, security and the ability to participate in programs. (29) Medical record contents. The health authority shall approve the method of recording entries in the record and the form and format of the record. An inmate's medical/mental health record shall contain: (i) copies of the completed intake screening form; (ii) the health appraisal data collection form; (iii) prescribed medications and their administration; (iv) laboratory, x-ray and diagnostic studies; (v) the signature and title of each documenter; (vi) consent and refusal forms; (vii) release of information forms; (viii) place, date and time of health encounters; (ix) discharge summary of hospitalization (if applicable); and (x) health service reports (e.g., dental, psychiatric and other consultations). (30) Transfer of health information and records. Summaries or copies of the health record shall be sent routinely to the health authority of any facility to which the inmate is transferred. The inmate shall authorize, in writing, the transfer of health records and information, unless otherwise provided by law or administrative regulation having the force and effect of law. (k) Release _(1) Court programs. The facility shall cooperate with and assist in coordinating court intervention and diversion programs, pretrial release and probation services. (2) Temporary release. Temporary release programs shall include: (i) provision for release for funerals and ritual or ceremonial purposes; (ii) sanction by the appropriate court; (iii) operating, screening and selection procedures; (iv) written rules of inmate conduct; (v) a requirement for supervision of inmates while on release; (vi) a record-keeping system that documents dates, times and authorization for release; (vii) a system to evaluate program effectiveness; and (viii) efforts to obtain community cooperation and support. (3) Work or education release. The administrator or designee shall allow inmates in this classification to participate in work or education release programs. The appropriate court shall sanction education and work release. (4) Final release. Written procedures for final release of inmates shall include, but shall not be limited to: (i) verification of identity and release authority; (ii) completion of release arrangements, including person or agency to whom the inmate is to be released, if applicable; (iii) verification that all inmate property leaves with the inmate and that no facility property leaves the facility; (iv) completion of any pending action, such as grievances or claims for damages or lost possessions; (v) transfer of health information if appropriate; and (vi) transportation arrangements, if required. (5) Sentence reduction. Where tribal code permits, the administrator or designee shall allow sentence reduction based on evidence of good behavior. (6) Detainers. The presence of a detainer shall not automatically prevent the release of an inmate from the detention facility. ยง10.14 Inmate programs and services.
