FR940505-1-00280 FR940505-1-00012 (B) If the VOC is in a mixture made up of both VOC compounds and compounds which are not VOC, the vapor pressure shall be determined by the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.034 where: P voc =Total vapor pressure of the portion of the mixture which is composed of VOC, n=Number of VOC components in the mixture, i=Subscript denoting an individual component, P i =Vapor pressure of a VOC component determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(xi)(A) of this section, and X i =Mole fraction of the VOC component of the total mixture. (C) If the VOC is in a mixture made up of only VOC compounds, the vapor pressure shall be determined by ASTM Method D2879&hyph;86 (incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section) or by the above equation. (xii) Baseline Emissions. Unless otherwise specified in paragraph (b) of this section, baseline VOC emissions shall be calculated for each emissions source in accordance with one of the procedures specified below: (A) If daily emissions records which are consistent with the emission inventory data submitted by the State for the control area on November 15, 1992 are available for the calendar years 1989 and 1990, baseline emissions shall be based on the median value of daily emissions recorded for the two-year period. (B) If daily emissions records are not available for the calendar years 1989 and 1990 or are inconsistent with the emission inventory data submitted by the State for the control area on November 15, 1992 or were not submitted, baseline emissions shall be based on the average daily emissions value calculated for the two-year period. The average daily emissions value shall be calculated by dividing emissions for the two-year period by the operating or usage time for the two-year period. If solvent or coating usage data are not available, emissions associated with solvent or coating usage may be estimated from purchase-order records. The operating or usage time for the two-year period shall be based on one of the criteria specified as follows: ( 1 ) The number of days specified in a federally enforceable permit if the emissions source operated under the conditions of a federally enforceable permit which restricted operating times during the two-year period, ( 2 ) The average number of days that the emissions source was operated or used over the two-year period if documentation is available to support the number, or ( 3 ) 730 days if documentation of the number of days that the emissions source was operated or used over the two-year period is not available. (xiii) Implementation Year Monthly Baseline Emissions. Baseline emissions as defined in paragraph (a)(4)(xii) of this section shall be adjusted prior to the implementation year (2001) of the FIP cap program in the control area as follows: (A) The reductions that are projected to occur as a result of both SIP and FIP measures between 1990 and 2001 shall be subtracted from the baseline emissions. This value shall be defined as the reduced daily baseline emissions and is denoted in pounds of VOC/day. (B) The reduced daily baseline emissions shall be annualized by multiplying the daily value by 365. This value shall be defined as the reduced annual baseline emissions and is denoted in pounds of VOC/year. (C) The reduced annual baseline emissions shall be converted into a monthly value by dividing by 12. This value shall be defined as the implementation year monthly baseline. (5) Enforcement. (i) All sources and facilities subject to provisions of ยง52.2952 shall be subject to unannounced inspections by representatives of the USEPA pursuant to section 114 of the Clean Air Act. (ii) Documentation maintained by all sources, facilities, and persons subject to this section must be sufficient to demonstrate compliance with all requirements of this section and must be provided to representatives of USEPA upon request. (iii) Failure to comply with any provision of this section is a violation of the applicable implementation plan for purposes of section 113 of the Clean Air Act. (iv) Each 50 pounds of emissions in excess of a facility's monthly cap shall be a separate violation for federal enforcement purposes. (b) Stationary and Area Source Control Measures. (1) Industrial and Commercial Solvents/Coatings. (i) Definitions. (A) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the general definitions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section apply. (B) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the following definitions also apply: Adhesives means any substance or mixture of substances intended to serve as a joining compound. Aerospace component means the fabricated part, assembly of parts, or completed unit of any aircraft or space vehicle. Aerospace component coating facility means a facility that includes one or more aerospace component coating unit(s). Aerospace component coating unit means a coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating or reinforcing material is applied on or impregnated into an aerospace component.
