FR940711-2-00039 FR940711-2-00024 Southeastern Power Administration Proposed Power Marketing Policy for Georgia-Alabama-South Carolina System of Projects AGENCY: Southeastern Power Administration (Southeastern), DOE. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Southeastern has developed the following proposed power marketing policy for its Georgia-Alabama-South Carolina System of Projects pursuant to Notice published in the Federal Register of September 8, 1993, 58 FR 47273, and in accordance with Procedure for Public Participation in the Formulation of Marketing Policy published July 6, 1978, 43 FR 29186. In the Notice, Southeastern proposed a System Policy which would deal with the complete Georgia-Alabama-South Carolina System of Projects including systems both east and west of the Savannah River. Based on analysis of proposals and recommendations received, consultations with interested parties and further studies and considerations, Southeastern decided to develop a policy applying to the system effective with the expiration of existing contracts, or as soon thereafter as is practical. The policy, when finalized, will constitute written guidelines for future disposition of power from the system. The policy is developed under authority of Section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944, 16 U.S.C. 825s, and Section 302(a) of the Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977, 42 U.S.C. 7152. Interested persons are invited to submit written comments directly to Southeastern and/or present written or oral views, or data at the public comment forums on the proposed policy. DATES: Written comments are due on or before September 16, 1994. Public comment forums will be held in Atlanta, Georgia on August 29, 1994, and in Columbia, South Carolina on August 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Five copies of written comments should be submitted to: Administrator, Southeastern Power Administration, Department of Energy, 2 South Public Square, Samuel Elbert Building, Elberton, Georgia 30635. The public comment forums will each begin at 10:30 a.m. at the following locations: August 29, 1994, Sheraton Gateway Hotel, 1900 Sullivan Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30337; August 31, 1994, Sheraton Hotel & Conference Center, 2100 Bush River Road, Columbia, South Carolina 29210. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. John A. McAllister, Jr., Administrator, Southeastern Power Administration, Department of Energy, 2 South Public Square, Samuel Elbert Building, Elberton, Georgia 30635, 706&hyph;283&hyph;9911. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Southeastern received only one response to its September 8, 1993, solicitation for proposed and recommendations contained in its Notice of Intent to Formulate Power Marketing Policy. This response was carefully considered as were facts gathered from those who consulted with Southeastern. Major issues raised by the proposed policy are determination of marketing area, allocation of power among area customers, handling of energy at pump-storage installations, utilization of area utility systems for power integration, firming, wheeling, exchange and other essential relationships, wholesale rates, handling of resale relationships, and conservation measures. An Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact have been prepared indicating that the proposed power marketing policy will not have a significant effect upon the quality of the human environment. A copy may be obtained by contacting the Administrator at the address or telephone number listed above. The public comment forums will not be adjudicative in nature. The Administrator shall act as or appoint a forum chairman. At the start of the forums the chairman shall briefly explain procedures and rules. Customers and the public shall be allowed to make oral statements and comments, introduce relevant documents, and ask questions regarding the proposed power marketing policy of Southeastern representatives at the forum. Persons requesting to speak shall notify Southeastern at which forum or forums they desire to speak at least 3 days before the particular forum is scheduled so that a list of forum participants can be prepared. If necessary, the chairman may establish time limitations for oral presentations by these participants to assure that all who register to speak shall have an opportunity to do so. Others will be permitted to speak if time allows. Those unable to speak because of time limitations and others who so desire may submit written comments. The chairman and Southeastern representatives may question forum participants and, the chairman, at his discretion, may permit other participants a like privilege. Questions not answered by Southeastern representatives during a forum shall be specifically identified by the chairman in the transcript and shall be subsequently responded to by Southeastern in writing. All documents introduced and written answers to questions shall be available for inspection and copying at Southeastern headquarters in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act. Forum proceedings shall be transcribed. Copies of the transcript may be purchased from the reporter. Customers and the public may consult or file written comments and questions with Southeastern regarding the proposed marketing policy on or before September 16, 1994. All such questions shall receive expeditious response, September 16, 1994. All such questions shall receive expeditious response, and all such comments, questions and answers shall be available at Southeastern headquarters for inspection or copying in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act. The forum transcripts will likewise be available for inspection at Southeastern headquarters in Elberton, Georgia. Issued at Elberton, Georgia, June 21, 1994. John A. McAllister, Jr., Administrator.
