FR940324-1-00018 FR940324-1-00004 (ii) Contract(s) to export the quantity of barrels stated in the application, which may be contingent upon issuance of the export license to the applicant. (iii) The crude oil: (A) Has a gravity of 20 degrees API or lower; (B) Was produced within the state of California, including its submerged state lands; (C) Was not produced or derived from a U.S. Naval Petroleum Reserve; and (D) Was not produced from submerged lands of the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf. (4) OEL will adhere to the following procedures for licensing exports of California crude oil: (i) OEL will issue validated licenses for approved applications in the order in which OEL received the application (date-time stamped), with the total quantity authorized not to exceed 25 percent (2.28 million barrels) of the annual (9.125 million barrels) authorized volume per license. If any unused quota exists, OEL will continue to issue licenses for the unused portion of the quota. (ii) OEL will approve only one application per month for each company and its affiliates, as long as there are other non-affiliated applications pending during that month. (iii) OEL will carry forward any portion of the 25 MB/D quota that OEL has not licensed, except that OEL will not carry over any unallocated portions more than 30 days into a new calendar year. (iv) OEL will return to the available authorized export quota any portion of the 25 MB/D quota that OEL had licensed but a licensee had not shipped within the 90 day authorized license term, except that OEL will not carry over unshipped volumes more than 30 days into a new calendar year. (5) License holders: (i) Have 90 calendar days from the date OEL issued the license to export the quantity authorized on the license. The exporter is required to provide OEL with a certified statement confirming the date and quantity of exports. (ii) May combine authorized quantities into one or more shipments, provided that the validity period of none of the affected licenses has expired. (iii) Are prohibited from transferring the license to another party. See, 15 CFR part 787. (6) OEL will allow, pursuant to ยง786.7(c) of this subchapter, a 10 percent shipping tolerance on the unshipped balance based upon the volume of barrels it has authorized. In addition to the 10 percent tolerance on the unshipped volume of barrels, OEL will allow a 25 percent shipping tolerance on the total dollar value of the license. (7) OEL: (i) Will not carry over to the next calendar year pending applications from the previous year. (ii) Will apply the procedures described in this section without notifying the public concerning any increase in export volume authorized by the Secretary of Energy from time to time. Dated: March 17, 1994. Sue E. Eckert, Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6885 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DT&hyph;P
