FR940314-2-00049 FR940314-2-00026 Morgantown Energy Technology Center Financial Assistance Award (Potential Sources Sought) AGENCY: Department of Energy (DOE), Morgantown Energy Technology Center. ACTION: Expressions of interest. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy is seeking expressions of interest for the Office of Environmental Management Technology Leveraging Initiative. The Office of Environmental Management was established in November 1989 and was tasked with cleaning up the legacy of environmental pollution at DOE weapons complex facilities, preventing further environmental contamination, and instituting responsible environmental management. The magnitude and complexity of many aspects of this mission are such that it cannot be achieved using existing technology without incurring high costs. The technology leveraging initiative is to transfer into practice technologies developed by DOE in its national laboratories or in other agreements. It will also be beneficial to the nation if the new or improved technologies developed to clean up the DOE weapons complex facilities can be used by other government agencies and for other industrial cleanup applications. Considering that DOE and the world market needs for environmental cleanup are immense, there is a large potential market for technology transfer. Consequently, cost sharing will be a key consideration. It is anticipated that this activity will be partially DOE funded at initiation, and will mature to self sufficiency with little or no Government funding. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: D. Denise Riggi, I&hyph;07, U.S. Department of Energy, Morgantown Energy Technology Center, P.O. Box 880, Morgantown, West Virginia 26507&hyph;0880, Telephone: (304) 291&hyph;4241. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: It is envisioned that the work scope will address methods for environmental technology integration and transfer, which means facilitating the licensing of DOE funded technologies, guiding the startup of new venture companies with DOE developed technologies, identifying markets and assessing the commercial potential of the DOE developed technologies, and promoting coordination between DOE and U.S.-based industry to address environmental cleanup technology development issues of mutual interest. The developed technologies are in the following focus areas: (1) Contaminant Plume Containment and Remediation, (2) Mixed Waste Characterization, Treatment, and Disposal, (3) High-Level Waste Tank Remediation, (4) Landfill Stabilization, and (5) Facility Transitioning, Decommissioning, and Final Disposition. Interested parties should provide: statements of experience and capabilities in both the technical and business aspects specifically associated with the focus areas and work scope; your perception of the discussed activity; a name and telephone number for a point of contact; and be limited to 5 pages. Statements should be submitted to the attention of D. Denise Riggi, U.S. Department of Energy, Morgantown Energy Technology Center, P.O. Box 880, Morgantown, WV 26507&hyph;0880. Closing date for the submission of statements of interest is fifteen (15) days from the publication date of this notice. This notice is for information and planning purposes, does not constitute a request for proposal and is not to be construed as a commitment by the Government to issue a solicitation or enter into an award. Issued in Washington, DC, March 4, 1994. Randolph L. Kesling, Acting Director, Acquisition and Assistance Division, Morgantown Energy Technology Center. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5898 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
