FR940128-1-00112 FR940128-1-00006 2. Decomposition . A finding of any organoleptically detectable decomposition should result in the organoleptic examination of the entire lot. If decomposition is detected in more than 2.5 percent of the fish in the lot, the processor should perform a histamine analysis on a representative sample of fish from the lot. The results should be treated in accordance with section 3.a.3. of this Appendix. 4. Processing Critical Control Point. Products that are undergoing processing should not be exposed to ambient temperatures of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or higher for more than a cumulative total of 4 hours. Processors should ensure that this requirement is met by monitoring and recording, at least every 2 hours, the length of time that the product is exposed to temperatures of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or higher. 5. Additional Critical Control Points. The guidelines relating to cooked ready to eat fish and fishery products specified by Appendix A, sections 6 and 7 should also be applied to scombroid toxin forming species, where applicable. Appendix C to Part 123_[Reserved] Appendix D to Part 123_Product Integrity 1. General guidelines for product integrity. 2. Product integrity critical control points. 1. General Guidelines for Product Integrity This Appendix provides guidance on how a processor can use an HACCP-based approach to ensure that all fish and fishery products are in compliance with the economic adulteration and misbranding provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (sections 402(b) and 403, respectively). This guidance applies to controlling economic factors including the identity of species, weight, count and size, and the percentage of valuable constituents. These factors must be accurately represented on the label and labeling of a food. 2. Product Integrity Critical Control Points Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) plans prepared in accordance with subpart A of 21 CFR part 123 will typically include the following critical control points, as appropriate, that can be used to ensure the economic integrity of the product: a. Receipt of Raw Material A processor must ensure that the fish and fishery products that it receives are correctly identified as to species at the point of receipt into its processing facility. Methods used for identification upon receipt may include, but are not limited to: 1. Exams. Physical examination of the seafood species by qualified personnel; 2. Evaluations. Laboratory evaluation (e.g., protein chromatography); and 3. Acceptance of species identity as certified by a supplier under either a Limited or a General and Continuing Guaranty, as provided for by section 303(c)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 CFR 7.12 and 7.13). b. Labeling-Economic Value A processor must ensure that the finished product labels, labeling, and invoices accurately represent the weight, count, and size of the product, as well as the presence and amount of any valuable constituents. An example would be the handling of shrimp and breading material to make breaded shrimp. The processor must ensure that the shrimp has not been adulterated by the addition of water, and that the valuable constituents are present at levels that are consistent with FDA standards of identity (21 CFR part 161) and compliance policy guides. The processor thus should provide for monitoring of the level of the valuable constituents throughout receipt, processing, and distribution to ensure that: 1. Identification. The species is correctly identified by its common or usual name and is so represented on the label and labeling. Guidance in selecting the correct common or usual name of a species is provided by the FDA Fish List. Specific requirements are given in 21 CFR 101.18 and 21 CFR part 161. 2. Valuable constituents. The valuable constituents of the product are not omitted or abstracted from the product (e.g., breaded shrimp contains the required weight ratio of shrimp to breading and, if appropriate, shrimp of the size and weight specified on the label or labeling). 3. Substitution. No substance is substituted wholly or in part for the valuable constituent (e.g., through added water or glazing, or substitution of crab flavored surimi for crab meat in a product labeled as crab cake). 4. Damage or inferiority. Damage or inferiority is not concealed in any manner (e.g., through bleaching or coloring of product to conceal its true nature or condition of wholesomeness). 5. Product adulteration. No substance is added to, or mixed with, the product to increase its bulk or weight or to reduce its quality, or make it appear of better or greater value than it is (e.g., through adding water to a product by chemical or other means). PART 1240_CONTROL OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASES 2. The authority citation for 21 CFR part 1240 continues to read as follows. Authority: Secs. 215, 311, 361, 368 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 216, 243, 264, 271). 3. Section 1240.3 is amended by revising paragraph (p) to read as follows:
