FR940317-1-00111 FR940317-1-00013 (2) In the absence of full restitution, the investigating officer will determine whether the claim is cognizable and meritorious under the provisions of Article 139 and this chapter and the amount to be assessed each offender. This amount will be reduced by any restitution accepted by the claimant from an offender in partial satisfaction. Within 10 working days or such time as the SPCMCA may provide, the investigating officer will make findings and recommendations and submit these to the SPCMCA. (3) If the soldier is absent without leave so that he or she cannot be provided with notification, the Article 139 claim may be processed in the soldier's absence. If an assessment is approved, a copy of the claim and memorandum authorizing pay assessment will be forwarded by transmittal letter to the servicing finance and accounting office (FAO) for offset input against the soldier's pay account. In the event the soldier is dropped from the rolls, the servicing FAO will forward the assessment documents to Commander, Defense Finance and Accounting Services, ATTN: Military Pay Operations, Indianapolis, Indiana 46249. (e) Legal review. The SPCMCA will refer the claim to the area claims office or claims processing office servicing his or her command to review for legal sufficiency and advice. This will be either after completion of the investigating officer's report or subsequent to the SPCMCA's decision that the claim is clearly not cognizable (§536.143(c)(2)). That office will furnish within 5 working days or such time as the SPCMCA will provide a written opinion as to_ (1) Whether the claim is cognizable under the provisions of Article 139 and this subpart. (2) Whether the findings and recommendations are supported by evidence. (3) Whether there has been substantial compliance with the procedural requirements of Article 139, this subpart, and AR 15&hyph;6. (4) Whether the claim is clearly not cognizable (see section 536&hyph;143(c)(2)) and final denial action can be taken without appointing an investigating officer. (5) If the investigator recommends an assessment more than $5,000, the Judge Advocate/claims attorney will forward the packet to the head of the area claims office for the legal review. Within 5 working days, the head of the area claims office will forward the packet, with recommendations, to the GCMCA for approval of an assessment not to exceed $10,000. If the recommended assessment is over $10,000, the head of the area claims office will then forward the packet to the Commander, USARCS for final approval of the assessment. (f) Final action. After considering the advice of the legal advisor, the approval authority will disapprove or approve the claim in an amount equal to or less than the amount recommended by the investigating officer up to $10,000. The approval authority will notify the claimant, and any soldier subject to his or her jurisdiction, of the determination and the right to request reconsideration. (See §536.144.) A copy of the investigating officer's findings and recommendations will be enclosed with the notice. The approval authority will then suspend action on the claim for 10 working days pending receipt of a request for reconsideration unless he or she determines that this delay will result in substantial injustice. The approval authority will direct the servicing finance officer for the soldier against whom assessments are approved to withhold such amount from the soldier not to exceed $10,000. (See §536.142(b)). For any soldier not subject to the approval authority's jurisdiction, the approval authority will forward the claim to that commander who does exercise special court-martial jurisdiction over the soldier for collection action. (g) Assessment. Subject to any limitations provided in appropriate regulations, the servicing finance officer will withhold the amount directed by the approval authority and pay it to the claimant. The assessment is not subject to appeal and is conclusive on any finance officer. If the servicing finance officer finds that the required amount cannot be withheld because he or she does not have custody of the soldier's pay record or because the soldier is in a no pay due status, the servicing finance officer will promptly notify the approval authority of this in writing. (h) Post settlement action. After action on the claim is completed, the claims office servicing the command which took final action will retain the original claim file and forward a complete copy of the claim file to the SPCMCA. The article 139 claim will be filed locally, IAW the Modern Army Record Keeping System (MARKS). If a claim for the same incident is filed UP AR 27&hyph;20, chapter 11, a copy of the article 139 claim will be incorporated into the chapter 11 claim file. (i) Remission of indebtedness. Title 10, United States Code, section 4837(d), which authorizes the remission and cancellation of indebtedness of an enlisted person to the United States or its instrumentalities, is not applicable and may not be used to remit and cancel indebtedness determined as a result of action under Article 139. §536.144 Reconsideration. (a) General. Although Article 139 does not provide for a right of appeal, either the claimant or a soldier whose pay is assessed may request the SPCMCA or a successor in command to reconsider the action. A request for reconsideration will be submitted in writing and will clearly state the factual or legal basis for the relief requested. The SPCMCA may direct that the matter be reinvestigated. (b) Reconsideration by the original SPCMCA. The original SPCMCA may reconsider the action so long as he or she occupies that position, regardless of whether a soldier whose pay was assessed has been transferred. The original SPCMCA may modify it if he or she determines that the action was incorrect, subject to paragraph (d) of this section. However, the SPCMCA should only modify the action on the basis of fraud, substantial new evidence, errors in calculation, or mistake of law. (c) Reconsideration by a successor in command. Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, a successor in command may only modify an action on the basis of fraud, substantial new evidence, errors in calculation, or mistake of law apparent on the face of the record. (d) Legal review and action. Prior to modifying the original action, the SPCMCA will have the claims office render a legal opinion and fully explain the basis for modification as part of the file. If a return of assessed pay is deemed appropriate, the SPCMCA should request the claimant to return the money, setting forth the basis for the request. There is no authority for repayment from appropriated funds. (e) Disposition of files. After completing action on reconsideration, the SPCMCA will forward the reconsideration action to the claims office who will then file the action in accordance with §536.143(h). Subpart J_Claims Cognizable Under the Foreign Claims Act General §536.145 Statutory authority. The authority for this subpart is contained in the following statutes: (a) 10 U.S.C. 2734 as amended, commonly referred to as ``The Foreign Claims Act.'' (b) 10 U.S.C. 2734a as amended, commonly referred to as ``The International Agreement Claims Act.'' (c) The Act of 8 September 1961 (10 U.S.C. 2736), as amended. (d) Act of 4 March 1923 (36 U.S.C. 121, 138b). §536.146 Scope.
