FR940407-1-00044 FR940407-1-00012 3. Book Value Versus Market Value Capitalization Ratios . Another capital structure issue is whether to use market or book values in computing the capitalization ratios ( i.e. , the weights) in the WACC formula. Technically, capitalization ratios should be computed on the basis of market value. A capital structure computed on the basis of historical ( i.e. , book values) as opposed to current market values misrepresents the true capital structure over time, since price levels fluctuate. The common practice is, nevertheless, to compute capitalization ratios on the basis of book values. This is defended on grounds that a regulated firm supposedly raises capital in such a fashion that a target capitalization ratio expressed on the basis of book values is maintained by the company. Consequently, regulators must compute the firm's overall cost of capital on the same basis in order to ensure that the company's capital costs are adequately covered. In addition, book value capitalization ratios are stable and the regulator is, therefore, not required to deal with the uncertainties associated with volatile market weights. Further, effective regulation is said to force book and market values toward equality. Accordingly, the Commission's proposed rule requires the use of book value capitalization ratios in computing the WACC. 4. Average Versus Year-End Capital Structure. Finally, there is the issue of whether a year-end or average capital structure should be used in computing the WACC. The fact that financial variables and ratios are commonly stated on an average basis argues in favor of using an expected average capital structure projected over a future test year, rather than a year-end capital structure. Earnings per share, for example, are typically expressed on the basis of average number of shares outstanding. Equity returns are also frequently expressed on the basis of average common-stock equity. In addition, an average capital structure computed over a future test year is likely to represent the company's capital structure during the time interval in which a proposed general rate increase will be in effect better than a year-end capital structure, because the company could acquire new capital from, or return existing capital to, investors during that period of time. The use of an average capital structure rather than a year-end capital structure is, therefore, more likely to enable a regulated firm to actually earn its allowable rate of return. Accordingly, the Commission's proposed rule specifies the use of test-year average 25 book value capitalization ratios in computing the WACC. 25 Such average ratios are computed using the average amount of each capital component (expected to be) outstanding during the test year. The average test year amount outstanding for any class of capital is computed by adding the amount of a particular type of capital (expected to be) outstanding at the beginning of the test year to the amount of that same type of capital (expected to be) outstanding at the end of the test year, and dividing the sum of the two amounts outstanding by two.
