FR940803-1-00003 FR940803-1-00001 As part of its collection efforts, the committee has requested delinquent handlers to promptly submit assessment payments. However, such requests have not substantially decreased the frequency of delinquent payments. To facilitate the collection of assessments needed for the maintenance and functioning of the committee, the committee recommended that a late payment charge of five (5) percent of the unpaid assessment balance be applied to any handler account more than thirty days overdue, and an interest charge of one (1) percent per month be applied to any assessment balance, plus the late payment charge, remaining unpaid after sixty days. The interest charge added to the bill after 60 days would be compounded monthly until the delinquent handler's assessment plus late payment charge and unpaid interest charges have been paid in full. The committee believes these charges are high enough to encourage timely payment of assessments, and are within the interest range customarily charged by banks on commercial accounts. This proposal is intended to encourage handlers to pay their assessments when due, thereby eliminating potential inequities. The committee believes that the recommended action is the only alternative available to ensure timely payments. The proposal is expected to reduce the need for Department involvement with compliance efforts and thereby reduce the costs for the government to administer the marketing order program. Based on available information, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this action would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1988 [44 U.S.C. Chapter 35], the information collection requirements that are contained in this proposal have been previously approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB number 0581&hyph;0112. Interested persons are invited to submit their views and comments on this proposal. A 15-day comment period is considered appropriate because any changes to the regulations, if adopted, should be in effect as soon as possible to encourage timely payments. All comments timely received will be considered prior to finalization of this proposed rule. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 947 Marketing agreements, Potatoes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR part 947 is proposed to be amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 947 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. PART 947_IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN MODOC AND SIKIYOU COUNTIES, CALIFORNIA, AND ALL COUNTIES IN OREGON, EXCEPT MALHEUR COUNTY 2. A new ยง947.141 is added to read as follows: ยง947.141 Late payment and interest charges. The committee shall impose a late payment charge on any handler who fails to pay his or her assessment within thirty (30) days of the billing date shown on the handler's assessment statement received from the committee. The late payment charge shall, after 30 days, be five percent of the unpaid assessment balance. In the event the handler fails to pay the delinquent assessment amount, plus the late payment charge, within 60 days following the billing date, an additional one percent interest charge shall be applied monthly thereafter to the unpaid balance, including any accumulated interest. Any amount paid by a handler as an assessment, including any charges imposed pursuant to this paragraph, shall be credited when the payment is received in the committee office. Dated: July 28, 1994. Robert C. Keeney, Deputy Director, Fruit and Vegetable Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18876 Filed 8&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
