FR941110-0-00142 FR941110-0-00016 As a result of our review of these comments, we are not making final proposed §488.180(e)(1)(i), Certification of compliance or noncompliance, because it appears to conflict with §488.402(f). As proposed, we are providing in §488.325(f), that the State must provide the State's long-term care ombudsman with any report of adverse actions specified at §488.406 imposed on a facility. We believe that this provision will keep residents informed about each enforcement action. Whatever additional publicity States may wish to give notices of adverse action is their decision. We are also revising paragraph (f) to note the exceptions in notification requirements for civil money penalties and restructured it to clarify them. Section 488.404␣Factors To Be Considered in Selecting Remedies We received comments on proposed §488.204, as well as on our solicitation of comments in the preamble to the proposed rule, about the scope and severity measures; specifically, we asked for comments on how scope and severity values were described and how they were to be assigned. We will address all of the comments we received on scope and severity in this section of the preamble. Comment: The majority of commenters did not comment on the scope scale. Several commenters expressed support for using scope and severity scales to determine the enforcement response to facility noncompliance. Other commenters opposed using these scales. Of those opposed, some believed that the scales, absent any measurable criteria, introduce another opportunity for surveyor inconsistencies to occur. Others thought the scope and severity level definitions were too broad and vague to be applied consistently by surveyors, allowing too much government discretion in the selection of remedies, while one commenter believed that the determination of remedies should be left to the judgment of the survey agency. A few commenters argued that the scales were impractical because they were either too complex or prescriptive and left no room for surveyor judgment. Several commenters argued that the use of scope and severity scales conflict with Congressional intent to eliminate a hierarchy of participation requirements. They contend that by ranking the seriousness, that is, importance, of a facility's deficiencies, the scope and severity scales foster the belief that some requirements are more important than others. One commenter questioned why the scope and severity scales were being put into regulation. This commenter believed that codifying the criteria used for determining remedies is inappropriate and will invite additional legal challenges by nursing home providers dissatisfied with severity and scope level determinations. One commenter was concerned that the scope and severity scales failed to provide enough regulatory guidance on the exact criteria that will be used in making remedy determinations to ensure that the enforcement response is appropriate to the nature of the noncompliance. We received a variety of proposals for reconfiguring the scope and severity scales from provider organizations, State governments and consumer advocate organizations. One consumer advocate organization proposed a scope and severity scale with three tiers of severity (immediate jeopardy, substandard quality of care, and other violations), while retaining the definition of scope as we proposed. This proposal called for a plan of correction for all level 1 deficiencies (other violations) regardless of scope and a mandatory civil money penalty for scopes of 3 and 4. Additionally, the proposal specified that the State or HCFA must impose a directed plan of correction if the violation is repeated. All other remedies could be imposed at the option of the State or HCFA.
