FR941220-0-00027 FR941220-0-00005 Response: We agree with the commenters that this requirement would be overly burdensome and have revised proposed §484.36(b)(2)(iii) to require each aide to receive at least 12 hours of in-service training per 12 month period. Without the requirement that the training be received in each calendar year, this provision will allow HHAs a full 12 months to provide the required in-service training to newly hired home health aides. The revised requirement will also allow HHAs greater flexibility in scheduling in-service training programs. Comment: One commenter stated that the provision of §484.36(c) requiring the registered nurse to assign the home health aide to a specific patient reduces the HHA's scheduling flexibility and ability to send a substitute aide in the event of sickness or other unforeseen circumstances. Response: This requirement represents no change from the current requirements of this section. Although we understand that this requirement may slightly reduce the HHA's scheduling flexibility, we believe that the benefits to be gained by its encouragement of consistency in care and familiarity between patient and home health aide far outweighs any reduction in scheduling flexibility. This requirement does not prevent the assignment of more than one aide to a patient, and we certainly do not intend it to preclude the use of a substitute aide when illness or other unforseen circumstances prevents the regularly scheduled aide from providing services. Comment: One commenter stated that a licensed practical nurse (LPN) should be allowed to perform the required home health aide supervisory visit. Response: We do not agree. We believe that the more extensive educational background of a registered nurse (RN) makes the RN better equipped to assess the care provided by the home health aide as well as the total effect of the care on the patient's condition. Therefore, we believe that it is in the best interest of the patient's health and safety to require that supervisory visits be performed by an RN. It has long been Medicare policy that the RN's extensive professional training uniquely qualifies him or her to perform evaluation and supervisory functions. This recognition of the RN's qualifications is represented not only in this section but in §484.30, which describes skilled nursing services, §484.16, which describes the group of professional personnel, and §484.14(d), which requires therapeutic services to be furnished under the supervision of a physician or RN. Comment: One commenter opposed the requirement that a supervisory visit be performed no less frequently than every two weeks as costly to the HHA and unnecessary because these patients are regularly seen by a nurse or therapist who likely performs a basic assessment of the care furnished by the home health aide anyway. Response: We disagree with the commenter. If the patient is receiving skilled care from a registered nurse or therapist on a biweekly basis, then the professional can easily perform the required supervisory visit during the course of his or her visit to furnish covered skilled care. Therefore, we believe that patients in the situation described by the commenter present little cost or difficulty to an HHA scheduling supervisory visits. Not all patients, however, receive skilled nursing or therapy services on such a regular basis. When a patient is receiving skilled nursing or therapy services, we believe that it is in the best interest of the patient to require the registered nurse or appropriate therapist to supervise and assess the care furnished by the home health aide on a biweekly basis. This supervisory visit ensures that the aide services will be regularly assessed to ensure that they are furnished properly and of benefit to the treatment of the patient's illness or injury. Comment: Many commenters oppose the proposed provision in §484.36(d)(2)(i), which would have required at least one supervisory visit per month to occur while the aide is furnishing services if the patient is receiving one or more skilled services. Many commenters also oppose the proposed provision in paragraph (d)(2)(ii), which would have required all supervisory visits to occur while the aide is furnishing services when the aide is not employed directly by the HHA. Response: We have accepted these comments and are not including these proposed supervisory requirements contained in §484.36(d)(2)(i) and (ii) in the final rule. We have concluded that the improvement in the quality of home health aide services that has occurred as a result of the home health aide training and competency evaluation requirements implemented in 1990, as well as the increase in patient participation in care that has resulted from the recently implemented patient rights requirements of §484.10, make the proposed requirements for direct aide supervision unnecessary. These requirements were proposed in response to a study published by the Office of the Inspector General in September 1987. (``Home Health Aide Services for Medicare Patients'', OA1&hyph;02&hyph;86&hyph;00010, September 1987.) Since the time this study was completed, however, we have instituted the training and evaluation requirements referred to above as well as annual in-service training and performance review requirements. We believe that these requirements have significantly improved the quality and oversight of home health aide services. In addition, the institution of patient rights requirements has given home health patients a more comprehensive knowledge of their rights regarding care planning and provision. This, in effect, lets the patient play a greater role in the oversight of the care he or she receives.
