FR940516-2-00159 FR940516-2-00097 d. Supporting Documentation: This section should include any required documents and any additional information necessary or useful to the description of the project. The amount of information given in this section will depend on the type of project proposed, but should be no more than 20 pages. The applicant should present any information that would emphasize the value of the project in terms of the significance of the problems addressed. Without such information, the merits of the project may not be fully understood, or the value of the project may be underestimated. The absence of adequate supporting documentation may cause reviewers to question assertions made in describing the project and may result in lower ranking of the project. Information presented in this section should be clearly referenced in the project description. IV. Review Process and Criteria A. Initial Evaluation of Applications Applications will be reviewed to assure that they meet all requirements of this announcement, including eligibility and relevance to the Oyster Disease Research Program. B. Consultation With Experts in the Field of Oyster Disease Research For applications meeting the requirements of this solicitation, NMFS will conduct a technical evaluation of each project prior to any other review. This review normally will involve experts from non-NOAA as well as NOAA organizations. All comments submitted to NMFS will be taken into consideration in the technical evaluation of projects. Reviewers will be asked to comment on the following evaluation criteria: 1. Problem description and project conceptual approach toward resolution, especially the applicant's comprehension of the problem(s), familiarity with related work that is completed or ongoing, and the overall concept proposed to resolve the problem(s) (30 points). 2. Soundness of project design/technical approach, especially whether the applicant provided sufficient information to technically evaluate the project and, if so, the strengths and weaknesses of the technical design proposed for problem resolution (35 points). 3. Project management and experience and qualifications of personnel, including organization and management of the project, and the personnel experience and qualifications (15 points). 4. Justification and allocation of the budget in terms of the work to be performed (20 points). C. Review Panel NMFS will convene a review panel of nationally or regionally recognized experts in the scientific and management aspects of oyster disease research who will review each proposal as follows:
