FR940208-2-00074 FR940208-2-00061 NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION Privacy Act of 1974; Establishment of a System of Records AGENCY: National Science Foundation (NSF). ACTION: Notice of establishment of a Privacy Act system of records. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the Office of Polar Programs (OPP) of the NSF is establishing a system of records. This action covers records in the agency's Antarctic Conservation Act Files. EFFECTIVE DATES: This action will be effective without further notice on March 10, 1994, unless comments are received that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Interested persons may submit written comments to Herman Fleming, Division of Contracts, Policy and Oversight, National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Room 1265, Arlington, Virginia 22230. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Herman Fleming, Privacy Act Officer, at (703) 306&hyph;1243. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, notice is given that the NSF proposes to establish a system of records identified as: NSF&hyph;56_Antarctic Conservation Act Files Title 5 U.S.C. 552a(e) (4) and (11) provide that the public be provided a 30-day comment period in which to comment on a new record system. Dated: January 26, 1994. Herman G. Fleming, Reports Clearance and Privacy Act Officer, National Science Foundation. NSF&hyph;56 System name: Antarctic Conservation Act Files. System location: Office of Polar Programs, National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA 22230. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals who have applied for permits pursuant to the Antarctic Conservation Act, and/or individuals who have been contacted regarding Antarctic Conservation Act compliance. This includes but is not limited to individuals who have sought Antarctic Conservation Act permits. Categories of records in the system: All documents and correspondence related to the individual's contact with the Antarctic Conservation Act system, including the permitting process, and investigations pertaining to compliance. Authority for maintenance of the system: 16 U.S.C. 2401, et seq. (Pub. L. 95&hyph;452, as amended, 5 U.S.C. app.) Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and purposes of such uses: Information from this system may be disclosed to: (1) Federal agencies involved in enforcing or implementing the Antarctic Conservation Act; (2) A court, administrative or other adjudicative body, involved in enforcement of the Antarctic Conservation Act; (3) Federal, state, or local agencies, or foreign governments, where disclosure is necessary in order to obtain records in connection with an investigation of the Office of Polar Programs; (4) Other Federal agencies in response to the issuance of a security clearance, the award of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant, or other benefit by the requesting agency to the extent that the record is relevant; (5) A Federal agency where the records are relevant to an agency decision with regard to disciplinary or other administrative action concerning their employee; (6) The Merit Systems Protection Board (including the Office of the Special Counsel), in order to carry out its agency's functions; (7) Persons, including witnesses, who may have information, documents or knowledge relevant to an Antarctic Conservation Act investigation or enforcement proceeding;
