FR941212-1-00015 FR941212-1-00010 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;087] RIN 2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Neponset River, MA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is considering a change to the regulations governing the Granite Avenue Bridge over the Neponset River between Boston and Milton, Massachusetts, by authorizing the bridge to open on signal May 1 through October 31; 6 a.m. to 12 midnight and to open on signal at all other times provided at least one (1) hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge. This action will relieve the bridge owner of the unnecessary burden of having personnel at the bridge at all times during the above period and should still provide for the reasonable needs of navigation. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 10, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Commander (obr), First Coast Guard District, Captain John Foster Williams Federal Building, 408 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Massachusetts 02110&hyph;3350. Comments may also be hand-delivered to this address. The comments and other materials referenced in this notice will be available for inspection and copying by appointment at the Captain John Foster Williams Federal Building, Room 628, 408 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts. Normal office hours are between 6:30 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William C. Heming, Bridge Administrator, First Coast Guard District, (212) 668&hyph;7170. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments Interested persons are invited to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written views, comments, data, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking (CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;087), the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give reasons for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying and electronic filing. If not practical, a second copy of any bounded material is requested. Persons desiring acknowledgment that their comments have been received should enclose a stamped, self-addressed post card or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period and may change this proposal in light of comments received. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Commander (obr), First Coast Guard District at the address listed under ADDRESSES . The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If the Coast Guard determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are Mr. John McDonald, First Coast Guard District Bridge Branch, Project Manager and Lieutenant Commander S.R. Watkins, First Coast Guard District Legal Office, Project Counsel. Background and Purpose The Granite Avenue Bridge over the Neponset River between Boston and Milton, Massachusetts has a vertical clearance of 6 ’ above mean high water (MHW) and 16 ’ above mean low water (MLW). Vessels from the Milton Yacht Club are the primary users of the Granite Avenue Bridge. The yacht club is located upstream of the bridge. The yacht club docks are removed from the waterway in December of each year and there are no other waterway users that would require openings during the winter months. Because of this lack of facility, the bridge owner, the Massachusetts Highway Department (MHD), proposes to have drawtenders on one hour recall to respond to requests for openings at all times from November 1 to April 30 and from May 1 through October 31; 12 a.m. to 6 a.m. daily. Discussion of Proposed Amendments MHD has requested a change to the present operating regulations in 33 CFR §117.611, which require that the bridge open on signal from May 1 through October 31 at all times and from April 1 through April 30 and November 1 through December 31, the bridge shall open on signal from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily. At all other times the bridge shall open if at least a twenty four (24) hour advance notice is given to the bridge owner by calling the number posted at bridge. There have been few requests for openings during the proposed one (1) hour advance notice time periods. The bridge owner has requested that the bridge open on signal from May 1 through October 31; 6 a.m. to 12 midnight. At all other times the bridge will open if at least a one hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge. This change to the regulations is being proposed due to the infrequent requests for openings during the proposed one (1) hour advance notice time periods. This action will relieve the bridge owner of the burden of having personnel at the bridge during the above time periods but should still provide for the reasonable needs of navigation. The drawtenders will be on call to open the draw when the advance notice is given to the highway department by calling the number posted at the bridge. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866, and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation, under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT, is unnecessary. This conclusion is based on the fact that the regulation will not prevent mariners from transiting the Granite Avenue Bridge. It will require only that mariners plan their transits and provide a one hour advance notice. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this action will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). Because of the reasons discussed in the Regulatory Evaluation above, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this action, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
