FR940426-0-00008 FR940426-0-00003 Subpart E_Delegations of Authority; Agency Issuances and Certain Correspondence §1700.60 Agency issuances. Except as may be specifically delegated from time to time to the Deputy Administrator, or others, all authority is reserved by the Administrator to approve and issue regulations and other information published in the Federal Register , bulletins, informational publications, staff instructions concerning Agency administrative matters and those affecting more than one program, and unnumbered memoranda (mailings to borrowers in more than one program and all REA staff). Signature authority is also reserved by the Administrator for written responses to Members of Congress, Governors, State Legislators, Federal Agency heads or Cabinet officials, as well as other controlled correspondence for Agency response. Additionally, signature authority is reserved by the Administrator for Agency mass mailings which include but are not limited to mailings to accountants, engineers, and consultants. §1700.61 Agency publications control officer. The Deputy Administrator is designated the Agency Publications Control Officer. §§1700.62&hyph;1700.69 [Reserved] Subpart F_Delegations; Authorities Reserved by the Administrator §1700.70 General. Authority for all matters not specifically delegated in subparts D through L of this part, or by other written delegation, is reserved to the Administrator, including, without limitation, the following authorities reserved in this subpart. §1700.71 Rural economic development loan and grant and distance learning and medical link grant programs. Approval of the following: (a) Applications for loans or grants when all conditions for such approval have been met. (b) All zero-interest loans and grants. (c) Any modifications in the method of carrying out loan purposes, or in the amount of applications selected and loans or grants approved. (d) Extension of principal and interest repayments for rural development purposes. §1700.72 Electric program. (a) Approval of the following loans, loan guarantees, lien accommodations or subordinations: (1) All discretionary hardship loans. (2) All insured loans, loan guarantees, and lien accommodations or subordinations to finance operating costs. (3) All loans, loan guarantees, and lien accommodations or subordinations of more than $15,000,000 for distribution and power supply borrowers. (4) All loans, loan guarantees, and lien accommodations or subordinations for distribution borrowers that are members of a power supply borrower that is in default of its obligations to the Government or that is currently assigned to the Financial Services Staff, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator. (5) All insured loans, loan guarantees, and lien accommodations or subordinations that require an Environmental Impact Statement. (6) All certifications and findings required by the RE Act or other applicable laws and regulations, the placing and releasing of conditions precedent to the advance of funds, and all mortgages, loan contracts or other necessary documents relating to the authorities reserved in paragraph (a) of this section. (b) And execution of all loan contracts, mortgages or other documents in connection with loans, loan guarantees and lien accommodations approved by the Administrator. (c) Approval of the following for unpaid and outstanding loans and loan guarantees: (1) Rescission of loans or termination of loan guarantee commitments when the amount of the rescission or termination is more than $15,000,000. (2) Requests to extend the time period for advancing loan funds if: (i) The borrower is delinquent in payments on loans made or guaranteed by REA or in litigation that may affect loan security; or (ii) The request does not fully comply with the requirements specified in applicable REA regulations. (3) Extension of time of prepayment principal and interest pursuant to Section 12 of the RE Act, for borrowers in default or currently assigned to the Financial Services Staff.
