FR940504-2-00065 FR940504-2-00055 It is estimated that there are fewer than 1000 giant pandas remaining in the wild in scattered and isolated populations, and that approximately 100 are held in captivity. Conservation of the giant panda appears to involve two broad areas of activities: habitat protection, management and expansion; and the captive breeding of animals with the ultimate goal of reintroductions into available habitat. The primary concerns associated with individual giant panda import permit applications are: (1) the potential for stimulating the unwarranted removal of additional pandas from the wild; (2) the need for a clear connection between imports and conservation activities for giant pandas; (3) the need to ensure that imports will not disrupt or defer existing captive-breeding efforts; and (4) the potential for planned captive-breeding efforts in the U.S. to maximize the probability of enhancing international captive-breeding efforts. With the possibility of receiving an increased number of import permit applications for giant pandas for public exhibition and/or captive breeding purposes, the Service feels that a re-examination of the long-range implications of panda imports is necessary to further ensure that such imports best serve the conservation needs of the species. In response to these rapidly developing events and the increased interest in a coordinated captive-breeding program for the giant panda, the Service has decided to suspend the review and processing of future permit applications for the import of giant pandas until it has had an opportunity to evaluate additional and pertinent information on the subject, and has developed, if necessary, new policy or guidelines for the issuance of import permits for giant pandas. During this moratorium the Service will evaluate the potential effects of further loans on the survival of the giant panda, including the cumulative impacts of an anticipated increase in the number of import permit applications from U.S. institutions. As part of the review process, the Service will convene a public working meeting on May 26, 1994, (see DATES section of this notice), and perhaps additional meetings, to provide active participation in the process of developing a proposed policy. The meeting will provide an opportunity for discussion of specific topics presented below. Interested organizations and individuals that cannot participate in the meeting may submit comments on these issues to the address given above (see ADDRESSES section) by June 30, 1994. In addition, at appropriate times during the review the Service will engage in direct discussions with representatives of the government of the People's Republic of China, and with the Secretariat of CITES in Geneva, Switzerland. Such discussions will be designed to ensure full understanding of the respective policies and goals of each country for implementation of CITES in general and for panda conservation in particular. PUBLIC COMMENTS SOLICITED: The Service intends to complete the review and development of any necessary new policy or guidelines as quickly as possible. Interested organizations and the public are invited to comment on the existing need for new policy or guidance for the evaluation of giant panda import permit applications in the future, to suggest criteria that should be included or considered when developing new policy or guidance, and to suggest any other issues relative to giant panda conservation that the Service should consider during this review. Suggested criteria should take into account the necessary applicability of the requirements of the Endangered Species Act and CITES regarding permit issuance. Any draft policy or guidelines developed as a result of this review will be published in the Federal Register for review and comment. Authority: The authority for this action is the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (TIAS 8249), the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), and the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Dated: April 21, 1994. George T. Frampton, Jr., Assistant Secretary_Fish and Wildlife and Parks. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10601 Filed 5&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
