FR941019-1-00016 FR941019-1-00002 The international risk-based capital standards (the Basle Accord or Accord) 1 set forth a framework for measuring capital adequacy under which risk-weighted assets are calculated by assigning assets and off-balance-sheet items to broad categories based primarily on their credit risk, that is, the risk that a loss will be incurred due to an obligor or counterparty default on a transaction. 2 Off-balance-sheet transactions are incorporated into risk-weighted assets by converting each item into a credit equivalent amount which is then assigned to the appropriate credit risk category according to the identity of the obligor or counterparty, or if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of the collateral. 1 The Basle Accord was proposed by the Basle Committee on Banking Supervision (Basle Supervisors' Committee, BSC) and endorsed by the central bank governors of the Group of Ten (G&hyph;10) countries in July 1988. The Basle Supervisors' Committee is comprised of representatives of the central banks and supervisory authorities from the G&hyph;10 countries (Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States) and Luxembourg. In January 1989 the FDIC Board adopted a similar framework to be used by state nonmember banks. 2 Other types of risks, such as market risks, generally are not addressed by the risk-based framework. The credit equivalent amount of an interest rate or exchange rate contract (rate contract) is determined by adding together the current replacement cost (current exposure) and an estimate of the possible increases in future replacement cost, in view of the volatility of the current exposure over the remaining life of the contract (potential future exposure, also referred to as the add-on). Each credit equivalent amount is then assigned to the appropriate risk category generally based on identity of the counterparty. The maximum risk weight applied to interest rate or exchange rate contracts is 50 percent. 3 3 Exchange rate contracts with an original maturity of 14 calendar days or less and instruments traded on exchanges that require daily payment of variation margin are excluded from the risk-based capital ratio calculations. A. Current Exposure A state nonmember bank that has a rate contract with a positive mark-to-market value has a current exposure or a possible loss equal to the mark-to-market value. 4 For risk-based capital purposes, if the mark-to-market value is zero or negative, then there is no replacement cost associated with the contract and the current exposure is zero. The sum of current exposures for a defined set of contracts is sometimes referred to as the gross current exposure for that set of contracts. 4 The loss to a bank from a counterparty's default on a rate contract is the cost of replacing the cash flows specified by the contract. The mark-to-market value is the present value of the net cash flows specified by the contract, calculated on the basis of current market interest and exchange rates. The Accord, as endorsed in 1988, provided that current exposure would be determined individually for every rate contract entered into by a banking organization. Generally, institutions were not permitted to offset, that is, net, positive and negative mark-to-market values of multiple rate contracts with a single counterparty 5 to determine one current exposure relative to that counterparty. In April 1993 the BSC proposed a revision to the Accord, endorsed by the G&hyph;10 Governors in July 1994, that permits institutions to net positive and negative mark-to-market values of rate contracts subject to a qualifying, legally enforceable, bilateral netting arrangement. Under the revision to the Accord, institutions with qualifying netting arrangements could replace the gross current exposure of a set of contracts included in such an arrangement with a single net current exposure for purposes of calculating the credit equivalent amount for the included contracts. If the net market value is positive, then that market value equals the current exposure for the netting contract. If the net market value is zero or negative, then the current exposure is zero. 5 Netting by novation however, was recognized. Netting by novation is accomplished under a written bilateral contract providing that any obligation to deliver a given currency on a given date is automatically amalgamated with all other obligations for the same currency and value date. The previously existing contracts are extinguished and a new contract, for the single net amount, is legally substituted for the amalgamated gross obligations. On July 25, 1994, the FDIC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to amend its risk-based capital guidelines in accordance with the BSC April 1993 proposal. 59 FR 37726, July 25, 1994. 6 Generally, under the proposal, a bilateral netting arrangement would be recognized for risk-based capital purposes only if the netting arrangement is legally enforceable. The bank would have to have a legal opinion(s) to this effect. That proposal is consistent with the final July 1994 change to the Accord. 6 The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency issued a similar joint netting proposal on May 20, 1994 and the OTS issued its netting proposal on June 14, 1994. B. Potential Future Exposure The second part of the credit equivalent amount, potential future exposure, is an estimate of the additional exposure that may arise over the remaining life of the contract as a result of fluctuations in prices or rates. Such changes may increase the market value of the contract in the future and, therefore, increase the cost of replacing it if the counterparty subsequently defaults. The add-on for potential future exposure is estimated by multiplying the notional principal amount 7 of the underlying contract by a credit conversion factor that is determined by the remaining maturity of the contract and the type of contract. The existing set of conversion factors used to calculate potential future exposure, referred to as the add-on matrix, is as follows: 7 The notional principal amount, or value, is a reference amount of money used to calculate payment streams between the counterparties. Principal amounts generally are not exchanged in single-currency interest rate swaps, but generally are exchanged in foreign exchange contacts (including cross-currency interest rate swaps). ␣ 1Remaining maturity 1Interest rate contracts (percent) 1Exchange rate contracts (percent) One year or less 0 1.0 Over one year 0.5 5.0 The conversion factors were determined through simulation studies that estimated the potential volatility of interest and exchange rates and analyzed the implications of movements in those rates for the replacement costs of various types of interest rate and exchange rate contracts. The simulation studies were conducted only on rate contracts, because at the time the Accord was being developed activity in the derivatives market was for the most part limited to these types of transactions. The analysis produced probability distributions of potential replacement costs over the remaining life of matched pairs of rate contracts. 8 Potential future exposure was then defined in terms of confidence limits for these distributions. The conversion factors were intended to be a compromise between precision, on the one hand, and complexity and burden, on the other. 9 8 A matched pair is a pair of contracts with identical terms, with the bank the buyer of one of the contracts and the seller of the other. 9 The methodology upon which the statistical analyses were based is described in detail in a technical working paper entitled ``Potential Credit Exposure on Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Rate Related Instruments.'' This paper is available upon request from the FDIC's Reading Room by calling (202) 898&hyph;8785.
