FR940921-2-00083 FR940921-2-00069 (The Registry has historically treated aircraft leases as instruments affecting an interest in property.) There is nothing in the language of section 503 of the Act, or by way of legislative history to the Act of 1958 and predecessor Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, to suggest that section 503 of the Act mandates disclosure of confidential financial information. The purpose of section 503 of the Act is ``*␣*␣* to create a central clearing house for recordation of title so that a person, wherever he may be, will know where he can find ready access to the claims against, or liens, or other legal interests in an aircraft.'' Aircraft Trading And Services v. Braniff, Inc. 819 F.2d 1227 at 1231 (2nd Cir. 1987), quoting language in Philko Aviation, Inc. v. Shacket, 462 U.S. 406 at 411 (1983), which language comes from house hearings leading to passage of the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938. To our knowledge, there is no case law that indicates that section 503 of the Act either requires disclosure of financial information or that a legislative purpose of section 503 of the Act was to provide information concerning financial fitness or safety of airlines. In the FAA Assistant Chief Counsel's letter of September 27, 1993, he posed the question whether a document with schedules omitted is a ``conveyance.'' That question is relevant because under section 503 of the Act, FAA records only ``conveyances'' as defined in section 101(20) of the Act. Only a few commenters responded to the question. As previously noted, one attorney argued that a document which is anything less than the complete agreement of the parties is not a conveyance. However, other commenters say that such a document may be a conveyance: 1. *␣*␣* so long as the provisions relating to the conveyance of title or interest are not redacted *␣*␣*. 2. Because a conveyance is similar to an enforceable sale of goods under UCC 2&hyph;201 which requires only a writing sufficient to show a contract of sale. 3. Because a ``bare-bones conveyance'' is sufficient. 4. Because such a conveyance is considered ``acceptable by the Administrator.'' We believe that such a document with certain, limited omissions or redactions is a conveyance. It would be difficult to explain why a 30-page, original lease signed by the parties is not a conveyance simply because a schedule showing stipulated loss values has been intentionally omitted. The fact that the parties to such a lease may also have reached agreement as to stipulated loss value (which they are unwilling to disclose) does not, in our judgment, make the lease submitted for recordation any less a conveyance. The regulations which implement section 503 of the Act are set out in part 49 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 49); §49.1 is a restatement of section 503 of the Act. Section 49.31 is a restatement of the definition of ``conveyance'' in section 101(20) of the Act and includes release, cancellation, and discharges as authorized in section 503(b) of the Act. Section 49.33 states the eligibility requirements of recording conveyances. As pertinent to this discussion, §49.33(a) provides that a conveyance must be ``in a form prescribed by, or acceptable to, the Administrator for that kind of conveyance.'' Determinations of what are ``*␣*␣*acceptable to, the Administrator.'' can be found in the Registry's Examination Guidelines, and in opinions of the Assistant Chief Counsel for the Aeronautical Center. There are no FAA guidelines which presently speak to the issue of recordability with omissions and redactions. During the last 5 years law firms have routinely sought favorable opinions concerning the redaction of schedules containing confidential financial information. The Assistant Chief Counsel frequently finds such redactions acceptable. Therefore, it appears, as one of the commenters has suggested, that certain redacted conveyances when submitted for recordation are in a form which has been found and continues to be found acceptable. Section 49.33(c) provides that a conveyance must be an original or duplicate original document. As discussed earlier, there is no indication that a Congressional purpose would be defeated by allowing the withholding of certain financial information. Nor for that matter, does §49.33(c) require that an original document or duplicate original document contain such information when no Congressional purpose would be served. Therefore, we regard an allowably redacted conveyance with ink signatures to meet the requirement for an ``original or duplicate original document.'' Based on the foregoing discussion, we believe that the recording of documents with limited redactions or omissions is not contrary to statute, regulation, or other directive. We next turn to Locke Parnell's claim that rulemaking action is necessary in order to continue the practice of recording documents with omissions or redactions. Such action would include general notice of proposed rulemaking and the public's opportunity to participate in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553 (b) and (c).
