FR940902-1-00040 FR940902-1-00005 Section 172(c)(9) requires the plan to provide for implementation of specific measures to be undertaken if the area fails to make reasonable further progress ( i.e. , contingency measures), or to attain the primary NAAQS by the attainment date applicable under this part. The General Preamble, referenced above, provides guidance on SIP requirements for SO 2 nonattainment areas. It discusses contingency measures for SO 2 and states that it is unlikely for an area to implement SO 2 controls and fail to attain the NAAQS. Therefore, USEPA interprets ``contingency measures'' for SO 2 to include the ability to rely on comprehensive State programs to identify violations and to provide for compliance and enforcement. Minnesota Stat. ยง115.071 provides that the provisions issued by the MPCA may be enforced by various means. The orders also contain reporting requirements necessary to determine compliance. Given this information, it has been determined that the submittal contains appropriate contingency measures. III. Proposed Rulemaking Action The USEPA is proposing to disapprove the Minnesota SIP revision for SO 2 for the St. Paul Park/Ashland area of AQCR 131. However, if the above comments, detailed in this action, are adequately addressed in revisions to this plan, and those revisions are submitted to USEPA by the end of the 30-day comment period, then, assuming no other substantive adverse public comments are received, USEPA intends to publish a direct final rulemaking approving the SIP revision as a whole including the supplemental submittal. If, at the end of the 30-day comment period, the issues are still unresolved, final rulemaking disapproving the SIP revision will be promulgated. Public comments are solicited on the requested SIP revision and on USEPA's proposal to disapprove. Public comments received by October 3, 1994 will be considered in the development of USEPA's final rulemaking action. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting, allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. USEPA shall consider each request for revision to the SIP in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors, and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225). A revision to the SIP processing review tables was approved by the Acting Administrator for the Office of Air and Radiation on October 4, 1993 (Michael Shapiro's memorandum to Regional Administrators). A future notice will inform the general public of these tables. Under the revised tables, this action remains classified as Table 2. The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this regulatory action from Executive Order 12866 review. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , USEPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. (5 U.S.C. 603 and 604.) Alternatively, USEPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. USEPA's disapproval of the State request under Section 110 and Subchapter I, Part D of the CAA does not affect any existing requirements applicable to small entities. Any pre-existing Federal requirements remaining in place after this disapproval. Federal disapproval of the State submittal does not affect its state enforceability. Moreover, USEPA's disapproval action does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities because it does not remove existing requirements nor does it impose any new Federal requirements. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Air Pollution Control, Environmental protection, Incorporation by Reference, Reporting and record keeping requirements, Sulfur dioxide. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671(q). Dated: August 22, 1994. Valdas V. Adamkus, Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21695 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
