FR940128-1-00049 FR940128-1-00006 FDA is proposing to require at §123.10(b) that processors maintain sanitation control records that document the occurrence and findings of the inspections required by §123.10(a) as well as the frequency required by §123.10(c). FDA is also proposing to require that the problems found during these inspections be corrected, and the corrections recorded in accordance with proposed §123.10(d). Such corrections are essential to the proper working of the HACCP system. The records that are produced are subject to the recordkeeping requirements of proposed §123.8, including being subject to inspection by FDA investigators. FDA has tentatively concluded that HACCP-type preventive controls, including recordkeeping, will ensure that the hazards caused by insanitation are controlled by design. Recordkeeping is the key to an HACCP-type system. The agency's access to these records is essential to ensuring that the system is working. In addition to these proposed requirements, FDA is encouraging processors in §123.10(e) to have a written standard operating procedure for sanitation. The details of many sanitation procedures can differ from plant to plant depending upon the type of operation and other conditions. For example, how a piece of equipment should be cleaned can differ from plant to plant. In one plant, it may be necessary to disassemble all or part of the equipment in order to clean it. In other plants, breaking down the equipment may not be necessary. Likewise, different cleaning compounds may be needed from one plant to another in order to solve specialized problems such as buildups of mineral deposits. FDA is therefore encouraging each processor to study its own plant and develop a procedure that is tailored to that processor's needs and circumstances. 2. Evisceration of Raw Fish In 1988, following botulism outbreaks traced to consumption of kapchunka, FDA published compliance policy guide (CPG) 7108.17 for salt-cured, air-dried, uneviscerated fish (53 FR 44949 November 7, 1988). In this CPG, FDA stated that the processing and sale of smoked and salted uneviscerated fish products pose a potential health hazard, and that it would consider such products to be adulterated under section 402(a)(4) of the act in that they have been prepared, packed, or held under insanitary conditions whereby they may have been rendered injurious to health (Ref. 175). FDA issued this CPG in an effort to prevent further outbreaks, as well as other potential health hazards, related to the consumption of ungutted fish products. The agency recognized only two exceptions: (1) Small species, such as anchovies and herring pieces (sprats), provided that they are processed by a method that will ensure a water-phase salt content of at least 10 percent, a water activity below 0.85, or a pH of 4.6 or less; and (2) fish that are fully cooked before further processing. As previously noted, C. botulinum , as well as other microorganisms, are naturally present in the intestinal tract of both fresh-water fish and marine fish. Therefore, it is essential not only to remove the viscera but to do so in a manner that does not contaminate the fish flesh with viscera contents. It is the viscera that can contain the majority of the hazardous microorganisms (e.g., C. botulinum and L. monocytogenes ) that pose the potential health hazard (Refs. 165 through 167). After the viscera is removed, it must be discarded immediately to a segregated area, using a method that minimizes the potential for contamination or cross-contamination of utensils, equipment, raw materials, and other processed products. Uneviscerated fish that have been smoked, smoke-flavored, or salted, and that are intended to be filleted after processing, pose the same potential health hazard as those products sold as uneviscerated whole fish. The potential health hazard is created when the viscera is removed after processing. As the fish are being filleted, the viscera may be cut, and its contents may spill out, contaminating the processed fish. As a result, the opportunity arises for C. botulinum spore outgrowth and toxin production as well as for growth of other food spoilage microorganisms in these types of products. Therefore, the agency is proposing to require in §123.10(f) that, subject to the same limitations that were set forth in the CPG: (1) All fish for smoking or salting be eviscerated prior to processing, and (2) the process of evisceration must be performed in an area that is segregated and separate from other processing operations. H. Imported Seafood As stated earlier, imports make up over half of the seafood consumed in this country, in sharp contrast to meat and poultry, which are primarily domestically produced. Many of the hazards that can affect imported seafood are likely to occur before it enters the United States. These hazards include those that can be acquired from the environment before harvest and those that are process-induced. Detection of these hazards is the focus of the current regulatory system, and thus FDA tries to ensure safety by testing imported product. However, product testing places a substantial burden on the agency. The system currently is overburdened because of limits on the number of government personnel available to collect and analyze samples of imported product. In addition, FDA is concerned because this system does not promote industry responsibility and accountability the way an HACCP-based problem prevention system would. Given when most problems with imported seafood occur, these problems can be more efficiently controlled if the seafood is subject to HACCP controls before it is offered for import into this country than if the product is simply tested at the time that it is offered for sale. Therefore, FDA has tentatively concluded that these HACCP regulations should cover imported products in the same manner, to the extent possible, that they cover domestic products.
