FR941121-0-00111 FR941121-0-00011 (a) No station authorization in the radio services governed by this part shall be granted to or held by a foreign government or its representative. (b) No station authorization in the radio services governed by this part shall be granted to or held by an entity providing or seeking to provide commercial mobile radio services (except such entities meeting the requirements of §20.9(c) of this chapter) if such entity is: (1) An alien or the representative of any alien; (2) A corporation organized under the laws of any foreign government; (3) A corporation of which any officer or director is an alien or of which more than one-fifth of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens or their representatives or by a foreign government or representative thereof, or by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country; (4) A corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any other corporation of which any officer or more than one-fourth of the directors are aliens, or of which more than one-fourth of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens, their representatives, or by a foreign government or representative thereof, or by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country, if the Commission finds that the public interest will be served by the refusal or revocation of such license. 5. Section 90.119 is revised to read as follows: §90.119 Application forms. The following application forms shall be used_ (a) Form 600 shall be used to apply: (1) For new base, fixed, or mobile station authorizations governed by this part. (2) For system authorizations, where the system meets the requirements of §90.117. (i) Application for a radio system may be submitted on a single Form 600. (ii) If the control station(s) will operate on the same frequency as the mobile station, and if the height of the control station(s) antenna(s) will not exceed 6.1 meters (20 feet) above ground or an existing man-made structure (other than an antenna structure), there is no limit on the number of such stations which may be authorized. Appropriate items on Form 600 shall be completed showing the frequency, the station class, the total number of control stations, the emission, and the output power of the highest powered control station. Applicants for all control stations in the 470&hyph;512 MHz band must furnish the information requested in the relevant items in Form 600. (3) For modification or for modification and renewal of an existing authorization. See §90.135. (4) For the Commission's consent to the assignment of an authorization to another person or entity, except for authorization to provide commercial mobile radio service. In addition, the application shall be accompanied by a letter from the assignor setting forth his or her desire to assign all right, title, and interest in and to such authorization, stating the call sign and location of the station, and stating that the assignor will submit his or her current station authorization for cancellation upon completion of the assignment. Form 1046 may be used in lieu of this letter. (5) For reinstatement of an expired license. See also paragraphs (b)(1) and (e) of this section. (b) Form 405&hyph;A shall be used to: (1) Apply for license reinstatement or renewal if the reinstatement or renewal does not involve the modification of the station or system license. (2) Notify the Commission of a change in the licensee's name or mailing address that occurs during the license term. See §90.135(b). (3) Notify the Commission that the licensee has discontinued station operation and wishes to cancel the license. See §90.157. (c) Form 490 shall be used whenever it is proposed that a licensee for a commercial mobile radio service in this part change, as by transfer of stock ownership, the control of a corporate licensee or for the Commission's consent to an assignment of an authorization to another person or entity. (d) Form 572, Temporary Permit to Operate a Part 90 Radio Station, should be properly executed if the applicant is eligible and desires to operate his or her station pending the processing of his or her formal application. See also §§90.159, and 90.657. (e) Form 574&hyph;R shall be used to apply for renewal of an existing authorization and may be used to apply for reinstatement of an expired license, if the renewal or reinstatement does not involve the modification of the station or system license. (Form 574&hyph;R is generated by the Commission and mailed to the licensee prior to the expiration of the license term.) 6. Section 90.131 is amended by adding introductory text before paragraph (a) to read as follows: §90.131 Amendment or dismissal of applications. This rule governs all applications relating to radio services in this part, including applications filed by entities meeting the requirements of §20.9(c) of this chapter, except applications concerning facilities used to provide commercial mobile radio services, which are governed by §90.161. * * * * * 7. Section 90.135 is amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: §90.135 Modification of license. * * * * *
