FR940802-2-00101 FR940802-2-00056 Kay Frances Dolan, Director, Office of Personnel, Federal Aviation Administration Arlene I. Feldman, Regional Administrator, New England Region, Federal Aviation Administration Cathal L. Flynn, Assistant Administrator for Civil Aviation Security, Federal Aviation Administration Garrome P. Franklin, Regional Administrator, Great Lakes Region, Federal Aviation Administration Darlene Freeman, Associate Administrator for Aviation Safety, Federal Aviation Administration Norman T. Fujisaki, Deputy Director, Operations Research Service, Federal Aviation Administration Mark L. Gerchick, Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation Administration Margaret M. Gilligan, Chief of Staff, Federal Aviation Administration Theron A. Gray, Assistant Administrator for Information Technology, Federal Aviation Administration Jackie L. Gregory, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Civil Aviation Security, Federal Aviation Administration Charles H. Huettner, Deputy Associate Administrator for Aviation Safety, Federal Aviation Administration Frederick M. Isaac, Regional Administrator, Northwest Mountain Region, Federal Aviation Administration Dewitte T. Lawson, Jr., Regional Counsel, Western Pacific Region, Federal Aviation Administration Ruth A. Leverenz, Director, Office of Budget, Federal Aviation Administration Louise E. Maillett, Director, Office of Environment and Energy, Federal Aviation Administration Duane J. Mason, Manager, Airway Facilities Division, Great Lakes Region, Federal Aviation Administration A. Bradley Mims, Assistant Administrator for Government Industry Affairs, Federal Aviation Administration Homer C. McClure, Associate Administrator, Aeronautical Center, Federal Aviation Administration Herbert R. McLure, Assistant Administrator for Human Resource Management, Federal Aviation Administration Lynn A. Osmus, Director, Office of Civil Aviation Security Operations, Federal Aviation Administration Neil Planzer, Director, Air Traffic Plans and Requirements Service, Federal Aviation Administration Martin T. Pozesky, Associate Administrator for System Engineering and Development, Federal Aviation Administration Cynthia D. Rich, Assistant Administrator for Airports, Federal Aviation Administration Fanny Rivera, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Information Technology, Federal Aviation Administration Stanley Rivers, Director, Systems Maintenance Service, Federal Aviation Administration H. Ann Rosenwald, Director, Office of Human Resource Development, Federal Aviation Administration Raymond Salazar, Director, Latin America and Caribbean Office, Federal Aviation Administration Carl B. Schellenburg, Regional Administrator, Western-Pacific Region, Federal Aviation Administration Jacqueline L. Smith, Regional Administrator, Alaskan Region, Federal Aviation Administration Quentin S. Taylor, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Airports, Federal Aviation Administration George W. Terrell, Manager, Maintenance Engineering Division, Federal Aviation Administration John E. Turner, Associate Administrator for National Airspace System Development, Federal Aviation Administration Leon C. Watkins, Assistant Administrator for Civil Rights, Federal Aviation Administration James W. Whitlow, Assistant Chief Counsel General Legal Services Division, Federal Aviation Administration William H. Williams, Jr., Director, Office of Aviation Systems Standards, Federal Aviation Administration Winifred Woodward, Director, Center for Management Development, Federal Aviation Administration
