FR941202-2-00016 FR941202-2-00007 Petitioner argues that although Dalmine's shares were nominally publicly traded, the vast majority of Dalmine shares were indirectly owned by the GOI and, therefore, shares were not purchased in adequate volume by private investors to establish a valid benchmark. Specifically, petitioner contends that in 1991 ILVA owned 99.9 percent of Dalmine and, therefore, Dalmine's shares were in fact not publicly traded. Consequently, because essentially no private purchases were being made, the market price at the time of the equity infusion cannot serve as a valid benchmark. Furthermore, petitioner asserts that it is highly likely that the remaining shares not purchased by ILVA were purchased indirectly by the GOI through other holding companies. In response to our questionnaire, Dalmine provided a list of all purchasers of shares in the 1989 offering. There is not evidence to indicate that the shares not purchased by ILVA were purchased by other government controlled or owned entities, as petitioner suggests. Moreover, the extent of ILVA's ownership in 1991 is not relevant to the choice of a benchmark for the equity investment in 1989. We have preliminarily determined that, because 18.3 percent of the equity infusion was purchased by private shareholders, the sale of these shares provides the market-determined price for Dalmine's equity. Furthermore, in accordance with section 355.44 (e)(1) of the Department's Proposed Regulations, we preliminarily determine that the equity infusion is not countervailable because the market-determined price for Dalmine's shares is not less than the price paid by ILVA for those shares. B. European Social Fund (``ESF'') Grants The ESF was established by the 1957 European Economic Community Treaty to increase employment and help raise worker living standards. As described in Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel, the ESF receives its funds from the EC's general budget whose main revenue sources are customs duties, agricultural levies, value-added taxes collected by the member states, and other member state contributions. The member states are responsible for selecting the projects to be funded by the EC. The EC then disburses the grants to the member states which manage the funds and implement the projects. According to the EC, ESF grants are available to (1) people over 25 who have been unemployed for more than 12 months; (2) people under 25 who have reached the minimum school-leaving age and who are seeking a job; and (3) certain workers in rural areas and regions characterized by industrial decline or lagging development. The GOI has stated that the ESF grants received by Italy have been used for vocational training. Certain regions in the South are also eligible for private sector re-entry and retraining schemes. Since 1990, the vocational training grants have been available to unemployed youths and long-term unemployed adults all over Italy, according to the GOI. Before 1990, however, the GOI gave preference to certain regions in Italy. In Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel, we determined that this program was not regionally specific and not otherwise limited to a specific enterprise or industry, or group of enterprises or industries. Furthermore, we noted that to the extent there is a regional preference ( i.e., southern Italy) in the distribution of ESF benefits, it has not resulted in a countervailable benefit to the production of the subject merchandise, which is produced in northern Italy.
