FR940805-1-00137 FR940805-1-00014 (ii) The CP plan shall describe the jurisdiction's appropriate and practicable procedures to handle complaints from citizens related to the consolidated plan, amendments, and performance report. At a minimum, the CP plan shall require that the jurisdiction must provide a timely, substantive written response to every written citizen complaint, within an established period of time (within 15 working days, where practicable, if the jurisdiction is a CDBG grant recipient). (7) Criteria for amendment to plan. The CP plan must specify the criteria the jurisdiction will use for determining what constitutes a substantial change in the jurisdiction's planned or actual activities that requires an amendment to the consolidated plan. (See §91.505.) It must address such changes as changes in the use of CDBG funds from one eligible activity to another or changes in the method of distribution of such funds. (c) Adoption of CP plan. The jurisdiction must provide citizens with a reasonable opportunity to comment on the original citizen participation (CP) plan and on any amendments to the CP plan, and must make the CP plan public. The CP plan must be in a format accessible to persons with disabilities. (d) Use of CP plan. The jurisdiction must follow its citizen participation plan. Subpart C_Local Governments: Contents of Consolidated Plan §91.200 Contents and format. The consolidated plan shall be submitted in such format as may be prescribed by HUD, including forms and narratives, or in such other format as jointly agreed upon by HUD and the jurisdiction. The content shall comply with the requirements of this part, including the requirement of §91.105 to include a summary of public comments. §91.205 Housing and homeless needs assessment. (a) General. The plan must describe the jurisdiction's estimated housing needs and needs for supportive services projected for the ensuing five-year period. Housing data included in this portion of the plan shall be based on data available from the U.S. Census, as updated by any properly conducted local study, or any other reliable source that the jurisdiction clearly identifies and should reflect the consultation with social service agencies conducted in accordance with §91.100 and the citizen participation process. For a jurisdiction seeking funding under the HOPWA program, the needs described for housing and supportive services must address the needs of persons with HIV/AIDS and their families throughout the metropolitan area. (b) Categories of persons affected. (1) The plan must describe the jurisdiction's need for assistance for extremely low-income, very low-income, low-income, and moderate-income families, for renters and owners, for elderly persons, for large families, and for persons with disabilities. The description of housing needs shall include a discussion of the cost burden and severe cost burden, overcrowding (especially for large families), and substandard housing conditions being experienced by extremely low-income, very low-income, other low-income, and moderate-income renters and owners compared to the jurisdiction as a whole. (2) For any of the categories enumerated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, to the extent that any racial or ethnic group has disproportionately greater need in comparison to the needs of that category as a whole, assessment of that specific need shall be included. For this purpose, disproportionately greater need exists when the percentage of persons in a category of need who are members of a particular racial or ethnic group is at least 10 percentage points higher than the percentage of persons in the category as a whole. (3) With respect to a jurisdiction seeking assistance under the HOPWA program, the plan must identify the size and characteristics of the population with HIV/AIDS and their families within the eligible metropolitan statistical area it will serve. (c) Homeless needs. The plan must describe the nature and extent of homelessness, including rural homelessness, within the jurisdiction. The plan must include an estimate of the special needs of various categories of families and individuals who are homeless or threatened with homelessness (such as persons with mental illness or with substance abuse problems), in accordance with a table prescribed by HUD. The plan also should contain a narrative description of the nature and extent of homelessness by racial and ethnic group, to the extent information is available. (d) Lead-based paint hazards. The plan must estimate the number of housing units within the jurisdiction that are occupied by low-income families or very low-income families that contain lead-based paint hazards, as defined in this part. §91.210 Housing market analysis. (a) General characteristics. Based on information available to the jurisdiction, the plan must describe the significant characteristics of the jurisdiction's housing market, including such aspects as the supply, demand, and condition and cost of housing and the housing stock available to serve persons with disabilities and to serve persons with HIV/AIDS and their families. The jurisdiction must identify and describe any areas within the jurisdiction with concentrations of racial/ethnic minorities and/or low-income families, stating how it defines the terms ``area of low-income concentration'' and ``area of minority concentration'' for this purpose. The locations and degree of these concentrations must be identified, either in a narrative or on one or more maps.
