FR940719-2-00143 FR940719-2-00080 39. AAI and the Plan represent that the Plan trustees have determined that the proposed transactions are in the best interests of Plan participants, and are consistent with the policies and purpose of the Plan as recited in various Plan documents, including its registration statement. In this regard, AAI and the Plan represent that the Plan trustees have determined that the Fund's Money Market Portfolio has substantially the same investment objectives as the Plan's money market investment portfolio and, likewise, that the Fund's Total Return Portfolio has substantially the same investment objectives as the Plan's balanced portfolio. 40. AAI and the Plan represent that Plan participants will benefit from the fact that the expense of liquidating Plan assets, purchasing Fund shares with cash, and reinvesting the cash in substantially the same assets, would be avoided. AAI and the Plan further represent that, to the extent that the Plan trustees have determined that the Fund's Money Market Portfolio and Total Return Portfolio should replace the Plan's current money market portfolio and balanced portfolio, respectively, the proposed transactions would greatly diminish the expense of this replacement to Plan participants. 41. AAI and the Plan represent that the proposed transactions are consistent with the provisions of ERISA regarding reporting and disclosure, participation and vesting, funding, fiduciary responsibility, administration and enforcement that are applicable to defined contribution plans. 42. AAI and the Plan represent and agree that if the exemptions requested herein pursuant to section 17(b) of the 1940 Act are granted, the Plan will purchase shares of the Fund with investment securities only if the following conditions are met: (a) Shares of the Money Market Portfolio or the Total Return Portfolio of the Fund will be purchased with investment securities of the Plan's money market portfolio or balanced portfolio. (b) The transactions will be effected at the ``independent current market price'' of the investment securities (as that term is defined in Rule 17a&hyph;7 under the 1940 Act), and at the net asset value of appropriate Fund share next computed after the closing of the transaction. (c) No brokerage commission, fee (except for customary transfer fees), or other remuneration will be paid in connection with the transactions. (d) The Fund's board of directors, including a majority of those directors who are not interested persons of the Fund, or interested persons of such persons shall: (i) review the terms of the transactions, the composition of the investment portfolios of the Plan to be used as the purchase price in the transactions, and the value (and the valuation method) of the investment securities comprising the purchase price in the transactions; and (ii) adopt a resolution determining separately for each transaction, that the transaction is reasonable and fair to the existing investors in the appropriate Fund portfolio, that the transaction would not subject the Fund to overreaching, and that the investment securities offered by the Trustees on behalf of the Plan in that transaction are consistent with the investment objective, policies and restrictions of the related Fund portfolio. (e) The Fund agrees in writing that it will maintain and preserve for a period of not less than six years from the end of the fiscal year in which the transaction occurs_and for the first two years in a readily accessible place_a written record of each such transaction setting forth: (i) a description of the investment securities used as the purchase price for Fund shares; (ii) the terms of such transaction; and (iii) the information and materials upon which the determinations described in condition (d) above were made. Conclusion 1. AAI and the Plan request an order of the Commission pursuant to section 17(b) of the 1940 Act exempting them from section 17(a) of the 1940 Act to the extent necessary to permit the Plan to purchase certain classes of shares of the Fund with investment securities of the Plan. AAI and the Plan submit that, for the reasons stated above, the terms of the proposed transactions_including the consideration to be paid and received: (i) Are reasonable and fair to the Fund, its Money Market Portfolio, its Total Return Portfolio, its shareholders, and the variable contract owners invested in the Money Market Portfolio and the Total Return Portfolio; and (ii) do not involve overreaching on the part of any person concerned. Furthermore, the proposed transactions will be consistent with the general purposes of the 1940 Act and the policies of the Fund, its Money Market Portfolio, and its Total Return Portfolio. 2. In addition, Life of Virginia and the Accounts request an order pursuant to section 6(c) of the 1940 Act, exempting them as well as any future accounts from the provisions of sections 9(a), 13(a), 15(a), and 15(b) of the 1940 Act, and Rule 6e&hyph;3(T)(b)(15) thereunder, to the extent necessary to permit the Accounts and any future accounts to hold shares of the Fund at the same time that the Plan and other qualified retirement and pension plans hold shares of the Fund. 3. For the reasons stated above, Applicants submit that the proposed transactions do not present any of the conditions or abuses that the 1940 Act was designed to prevent, and that the requested exemptions are appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12175 Filed 5&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
