FR941116-0-00142 FR941116-0-00022 §1413.31 Notice of CAB's and yields. (a) The operator and all producers on a farm shall be notified in writing of the CAB's, yields and IAM's that are established for the farm, unless such operator or producer has on file in the county office a request in writing that such operator or producer not be furnished with the notice. (b) Representatives of the county committee may correct errors that resulted in incorrect yields and CAB's on form ASCS&hyph;476, Notice of Acreage Bases, Yields, Allotments and/or Quotas, and use the correct entry for program crops enrolled in a production adjustment program for all the current crop year calculations unless the county committee determines, with State committee representative approval, that both of the following situations apply: (1) The error was not so great that the producer should have noticed the error; (2) The producer, relying on the erroneous ASCS&hyph;476 notice and acting in good faith: (i) Materially changed plans because of the erroneous form ASCS&hyph;476, and (ii) Was not notified by the county committee in time to comply with the corrected form ASCS&hyph;476 without suffering a loss. (c) County committees shall use the correct entry for all purposes for nonparticipating program crops. Subpart F_Extra Long Staple Cotton Crop Acreage Bases and Yields. §1413.34 ELS cotton counties. (a) ELS cotton means any of the following varieties of cotton which is ginned on a roller gin and is grown in counties specified by CCC: (1) American-Pima; (2) Sea Island; (3) Sealand; (4) All other varieties of the Barbadense species of cotton, and any hybrid thereof; and (5) Any other variety of cotton in which one or more of these varieties predominate. (b) (1) An annual review of counties designated as suitable for the production of ELS cotton will be conducted. Counties in which ELS cotton is currently being grown and for which a roller-type gin is available will be designated or redesignated, as appropriate. For 1991&hyph;1995 such counties are: (i) Alabama: Butler and Monroe; (ii) Arizona: Cochise, Gila, Graham, Greenlee, La Paz, Maricopa, Mohave, Pima, Pinal, Santa Cruz, Yavapai, and Yuma; (iii) California: Fresno, Imperial, Kern, Kings, Madera, Riverside, and Tulare; (iv) Florida: Alachua, Escambia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Madison, Marion, Santa Rosa, Suwannee, and Union; (v) Georgia: Berrien, Brooks, Cook, Early, and Thomas; (vi) Mississippi: Bolivar, Carroll, Coahoma, DeSoto, Hinds, Holmes, Humphreys, Issaquena, Lafayette, Leflore, Madison, Panola, Quitman, Sharkey, Sunflower, Tallahatchie, Tunica, Warren, Washington, and Yazoo; (vii) New Mexico: Chaves, Dona Ana, Eddy, Hidalgo, Luna, Otero, and Sierra; (viii) Texas: Andrews, Atascosa, Bee, Bexar, Borden, Brewster, Cochran, Culberson, Dawson, Dimmit, El Paso, Frio, Gaines, Hockley, Hudspeth, Jeff Davis, Kinney, La Salle, Loving, Lynn, Medina, Pecos, Presidio, Reeves, Refugio, Terry, Uvalde, Ward, Yoakum, and Zavala. (2) Additional counties may be designated by CCC during the year as deemed appropriate, and a list of these counties will be available in State and county ASCS offices. §1413.35 ELS cotton CAB's. The CAB established for a crop of ELS cotton on a farm shall be the average of the planted and considered planted acreages, according to §§1413.10 and 1413.11, for ELS cotton for the 3 years immediately preceding the year prior to the current year. A county must have an ELS cotton designation before ELS cotton CAB's can be established.
