FR940118-0-00026 FR940118-0-00008 Responses: (1) Rule 461.2 does not specify RACT for controlling VOC emissions from vegetable oil; rather, the purpose of the rule is to establish RACT for controlling the VOC emissions from the processing operations which extract vegetable oil. Hexane extraction of vegetable oil is known to cause substantial emissions of VOCs, and these are the types of emissions that are controlled by Rule 461.2, not emissions from vegetable oil. The EPA policy memorandum dated April 1991 (``The Impact of Declaring Soybean Oil Exempt from VOC Regulations on the Coatings Program'') specifically addresses cooking processes which use vegetable oil. Besides, Rule 461.2 would not be considered defective even if it adopted a more stringent definition of VOC than EPA. (2) Specification of Control Equipment: The NCPA and Institute commented that Rule 461.2 was defective because the rule specifies control technology rather than a performance standard_the NCPA and the Institute argue that this approach will reduce flexibility and discourage innovation in identifying control equipment. Response: Rule 461.2 provides that emissions from the desolventizer-toaster or extractor be controlled either by use of a condenser and mineral oil scrubber with a 90% control efficiency, or with ``[a]n emission control device, with a combined capture and control efficiency of at least 90 percent by weight, confirmed by source testing.'' EPA interprets this provision of the rule as establishing a performance standard rather than as establishing a specific control technology in that alternatives to the condenser and the scrubber are allowed as long as capture and control efficiency performance standards are met. Although the second requirement of Rule 461.2 (which states that emissions from the desolventizer-toaster conveyor, cooler or tumbler, be controlled with a mineral oil scrubber that has a combined capture and control efficiency of at least 90 percent by weight) does designate a specific control technology, EPA has not placed regulatory restrictions on State and local agencies with respect to the range of acceptable measures and/or performance standards that must be specified in a RACT rule. EPA believes that the State should decide the degree of flexibility to provide to regulated industry in selecting acceptable control measures and/or performance standards. EPA Action EPA is finalizing action to approve the above rules for inclusion into the California SIP. EPA is approving the submittal under section 110(k)(3) as meeting the requirements of section 110(a) and part D of the CAA. This approval action will incorporate these rules into the federally approved SIP. The intended effect of approving these rules is to regulate emissions of VOCs in accordance with the requirements of the CAA.
