FR940506-2-00016 FR940506-2-00006 The orchard set-up costs for all growers were amortized over 20 years (See memorandum to Holly A. Kuga, 4/21/94). Because several growers failed to provide actual orchard set-up costs, we must base our determination on the ``best information available'' (BIA), pursuant to 19 CFR 353.37(a). For those growers that did not or could not provide actual set-up costs, we used grower number 17's average cost per hectare, collected at verification, as BIA to calculate set-up costs. These are the highest orchard set-up costs of the 20 growers in our sample. For growers that allocated costs over the productive area, that is, canopy area, we made adjustments to include the headlands and sidelands in the productive area of the kiwifruit orchard for the purpose of allocating costs. We made adjustments to growers' cost for depreciation, interest, labor, repairs, management, vehicles, fertilizer, spraying, rates (property tax), electricity, shelter, water, general and administrative, pruning, and mowing on a farm-specific basis where appropriate. For the grower that failed verification, we used BIA to determine its COP, pursuant to 19 CFR 353.37(a). This BIA was based on the highest COP we calculated for all responding growers. We calculated a simple average COP from the sampled growers' individual COPs. The total COP was calculated on a New Zealand dollar per single-layer tray equivalent basis (NZ$/SLT). Pursuant to Department practice, in conducting our COP analysis, if over 90 percent of a respondent's sales of a particular model were at prices above the COP, we did not disregard any below-cost sales of that model because we determined that the respondent's below-cost sales were not made in substantial quantities, as required under section 773(b) of the Tariff Act. See Certain Carbon Steel Butt-Weld Pipe Fittings from Thailand; Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, 57 FR 21065 (1992). If between 10 and 90 percent of a respondent's sales of a particular model were at prices above the COP, we retained the sales above cost for analysis, and we examined the sales below cost to determine whether they occurred over an extended period of time. Consistent with the Departments' practice, the Department disregarded those sales made below cost if occurring in more than two months. Where we found that more than 90 percent of respondent's sales of a model were at prices below the COP and over an extended period of time, we disregarded all home market sales of that model and based FMV on constructed value (CV) in accordance with section 773(b) of the Tariff Act. There is no information on the record demonstrating that prices of below cost sales would recover all costs within a reasonable period of time. To calculate CV, the statutory minimum profit of eight percent was added because the NZKMB's actual profit was less than the statutory minimum (See section 773(e) of the Tariff Act). We added selling, general and administrative expenses for the NZKMB to the farm's average cost per tray because the actual expenses were higher than the statutory minimum of 10 percent. We adjusted third-country prices, where appropriate, to reflect deductions for rebates, New Zealand inland freight, New Zealand inland freight insurance, New Zealand port loading expenses, ocean freight and charter insurance. Direct advertising, imputed credit, and letter of credit charges were also deducted. We also deducted indirect selling expenses including inventory carrying costs, New Zealand instore and fire insurance, product liability and tamper insurance, indirect advertising, and other indirect selling expenses when calculating FMV for comparison to ESP transactions. This deduction for third country indirect selling expenses was capped by the amount represented by U.S. indirect selling expenses plus U.S. commissions, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b). Preliminary Results of Review We have preliminarily determined that the following margin exists for the period November 27, 1991, through May 31, 1993: ␣ 1Manufacturer/exporter 1Margin (percent) New Zealand Kiwifruit Marketing Board 35.86 Interested parties may request disclosure within five days of the date of publication of this notice, and a hearing within 10 days of the date of publication. Any hearing requested will be held as early as convenient for parties but not later than 44 days after the date of publication, or the first workday thereafter. Case briefs, or other written comments, from interested parties may be submitted not later than 30 days after the date of publication of this notice. Rebuttal briefs and rebuttal comments, limited to issues raised in the case briefs, may be filed no later than 37 days after the date of publication. The Department will publish the final results of review, including its results of its analysis of issues raised in any such written comments. The Department shall determine, and the Customs Service shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries. Individual differences between U.S. price and FMV may vary from the percentage stated above. Upon completion of this review, the Department will issue appraisement instructions concerning the respondent directly to the U.S. Customs Service. Furthermore, the following deposit requirements will be effective for all shipments of the subject merchandise, entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the publication date of the final results of this administrative review, as provided for by section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act: (1) The cash deposit rate for the reviewed firm will be that firm's rate established in the final results of this administrative review; and (2) the cash deposit rate for merchandise exported by all other manufacturers and exporters who are not covered by this or any previous administrative review conducted by the Department will be the ``all others'' rate of 98.60 percent established in the LTFV investigation. These deposit requirements, when imposed, shall remain in effect until publication of the final results of the next administrative review. This notice serves as a preliminary reminder to importers of their responsibility under 19 CFR 353.26 to file a certificate regarding the reimbursement of antidumping duties prior to liquidation of the relevant entries during this review period. Failure to comply with this requirement could result in the Secretary's presumption that reimbursement of antidumping duties occurred and the subsequent assessment of double antidumping duties. This administrative review and notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)) and 19 CFR 353.22. Dated: April 29, 1994. Paul L. Joffe, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10989 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
