FR940202-2-00150 FR940202-2-00072 (v) Describe procedures for the supervision of participants engaged in the service activities; and (vi) Discuss the process by which the program will ensure that service participants will not displace paid workers, including considerations with appropriate labor unions. Limitations There are activities that are not appropriate for Summer of Safety participants. Concern for the physical safety of participants and the specialized training/skill requirements for certain law enforcement/corrections tasks limit the types of service activities which are appropriate. Certain other activities are not appropriate absent a clear link to a broad community public safety effort. Finally, some tasks are not suitable for national service programs at all. Specifically: _The Corporation will not support programs that place service participants in situations that: (1) Involve the arrest process, (2) involve the chain of custody of evidence, (3) involve witnessing criminal incidents which may result in participants being called as witnesses in adjudicatory proceedings, (4) result in intentional contact with suspected criminal offenders, (5) involve contact with defendants or convicted offenders unless appropriate safeguards are in place, or (6) otherwise pose significant risk to participant safety (e.g., working alone in a high-crime neighborhood, etc.). _Although the Corporation recognizes the importance of such activities and their indirect connection to public safety in the long-term, Summer of Safety grant funds may not be used to support programs which provide positive activities for youth (i.e., recreation, field trips, cultural opportunities, social/athletic events, vocational support, academic assistance, mentoring, etc.) unless they are conducted as components of specific public safety initiatives. The program, when taken as a whole, must have a clear, consistent, and visible public safety purpose and target specific crime/violence/fear reduction outcomes. _Activities that do not provide a direct benefit to the community, such as clerical work or research, may be performed if they support direct service, but may not be the primary activity of a national service program. _Certain activities are prohibited for participants in all national service programs. These activities include: efforts to influence legislation; organizing protests; petitions; boycotts or strikes; assisting or deterring union organizing; impairing contracts for services or collective bargaining agreements; partisan political activity; religious instruction; or benefitting profit-making businesses, labor unions, partisan political organizations, or non-profit organizations which fail to comply with section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. Further information about these prohibited activities may be found in the Corporation's Proposed Program Regulations, published in the Federal Register on January 7, 1994. (d) Continuation While demonstrable impact should be evidenced during the summer, it is not likely that problems will be solved during an 8&hyph;10 week period. In addition, efforts with a longer-term horizon, such as the development of plans for action beyond the scope of the summer effort, may also begin during the summer. It is important to ensure that promising community-based activities are not lost at the end of the summer. Unless a program will achieve its intended impact in the summer only or its impact will be long-term with no further program effort, the continuation of priority program activity should be addressed in the proposal. Among the possibilities for continuation which should be considered are: _The SOS program is able to institutionalize the conduct of critical service activities with existing resources. _A combination of local, state and private funds are found which permit the continuation of service and volunteer activities. _The SOS program partnership may establish (or expand) an effective volunteer cadre to continue its efforts. Accordingly, proposals must include plans that: (i) Identify priority activities or strategies which will be sustained following the summer. This may be the entire program, select components, or efforts begun in the summer that will be brought to fruition.
