FR940128-1-00089 FR940128-1-00006 (2) FDA also specifically requests comments on the number of cases of illness included in the baseline estimate (33,035) that may be due to factors outside the processors' control, such as those due to recreational harvests (that are not eventually sent to processors), those due to restaurants and supermarkets, and those due to consumer mishandling. (3) As mentioned above, FDA has also estimated potential benefits associated with increased seafood consumption. These benefits will only be realized if the price increase resulting from this rule does not offset the effect of increased demand for seafood which will result from reduced consumer anxiety. FDA requests specific comment on the likelihood that seafood consumption will be increased as a result of this rule. (4) FDA has identified but not quantified benefits to seafood exporters as well as reduced public anxiety associated with the safety of seafood. FDA requests comments on these benefits (including how to quantify them) as well as other potential benefits such as how HACCP will help firms gain better control over their operations, better sanitation and greater efficiencies such as reduced product waste. E. Tribal Governments FDA is aware that some tribal governments are involved in the processing of seafood for interstate commerce. The agency expects that the proposed regulations will apply to them in such cases. Executive Order 12875 of October 26, 1993, requires, among other things, consultation with tribal governments before the formal promulgation of regulations containing unfunded Federal mandates. While FDA does not believe that the proposed regulations would impose an unfunded Federal mandate, the agency wishes to foster consultation on matters that might significantly affect tribal communities. Consequently, FDA specifically requests comment on the economic effect of the proposed regulations on tribal governments. F. Availability of PRIA/RFA FDA acknowledges considerable uncertainty in both cost and benefit estimates of the proposed regulations and requests comment on all aspects of the PRIA and the RFA. The full PRIA/RIA is available at the Dockets Management Branch (address above). XI. Environmental Impact The agency has carefully considered the potential environmental effects of this action. FDA has concluded that the action will not have a significant impact on the human environment, and that an environmental impact statement is not required. The agency's finding of no significant impact and the evidence supporting that finding, contained in an environmental assessment, may be seen in the Dockets Management Branch (address above) between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. XII. Request for Comments Interested persons may, on or before April 28, 1994, submit to the Dockets Management Branch (address above) written comments regarding this proposal. Two copies of any comments are to be submitted, except that individuals may submit one copy. Comments are to be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. Received comments may be seen in the office above between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. XIII. References The following references have been placed on display in the Dockets Management Branch (address above) and may be seen by interested persons between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday.
