FR940404-0-00063 FR940404-0-00019 (c) Hospitals not covered by the audit provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;133 shall be subject to the audit requirements of the Federal awarding agencies. (d) Commercial organizations shall be subject to the audit requirements of the Federal awarding agency or the prime recipient as incorporated into the award document. §19.27 Allowable costs. For each kind of recipient, there is a set of Federal principles for determining allowable costs. Allowability of costs shall be determined in accordance with the cost principles applicable to the entity incurring the costs. Thus, allowability of costs incurred by State, local or federally-recognized Indian tribal governments is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;87, ``Cost Principles for State and Local Governments.'' The allowability of costs incurred by non-profit organizations is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;122, ``Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations.'' The allowability of costs incurred by institutions of higher education is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;21, ``Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.'' The allowability of costs incurred by hospitals is determined in accordance with the provisions of Appendix E of 45 CFR part 74, ``Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals.'' The allowability of costs incurred by commercial organizations and those non-profit organizations listed in Attachment C to Circular A&hyph;122 is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR part 31. §19.28 Period of availability of funds. Where a funding period is specified, a recipient may charge to the grant only allowable costs resulting from obligations incurred during the funding period and any pre-award costs authorized by the Federal awarding agency. Property Standards §19.30 Purpose of property standards. (a) Sections 19.31 through 19.37 set forth uniform standards governing management and disposition of property furnished by the Federal Government whose cost was charged to a project supported by a Federal award. Federal awarding agencies shall require recipients to observe these standards under awards and shall not impose additional requirements, unless specifically required by Federal statute. The recipient may use its own property management standards and procedures provided it observes the provisions of §§19.31 through 19.37. (b) Transfer of capital assets. Section 12(k) of the Federal Transit Act, as amended, (49 U.S.C. app. 1608(k)) allows the transfer without compensation of real property (including land) and equipment acquired under the Act for another public purpose under certain conditions. Procedures to allow these transfers have not been issued. §19.31 Insurance coverage. Recipients shall, at a minimum, provide the equivalent insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds as provided to property owned by the recipient. Federally-owned property need not be insured unless required by the terms and conditions of the award. §19.32 Real property. Each Federal awarding agency shall prescribe requirements for recipients concerning the use and disposition of real property acquired in whole or in part under awards. Unless otherwise provided by statute, such requirements, at a minimum, shall contain the following. (a) Title to real property shall vest in the recipient subject to the condition that the recipient shall use the real property for the authorized purpose of the project as long as it is needed and shall not encumber the property without approval of the Federal awarding agency. (b) The recipient shall obtain written approval by the Federal awarding agency for the use of real property in other federally-sponsored projects when the recipient determines that the property is no longer needed for the purpose of the original project. Use in other projects shall be limited to those under federally-sponsored projects (i.e., awards) or programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by the Department of Transportation. (c) When the real property is no longer needed as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the recipient shall request disposition instructions from the Federal awarding agency or its successor Federal awarding agency. The Federal awarding agency shall observe one or more of the following disposition instructions. (1) The recipient may be permitted to retain title without further obligation to the Federal Government after it compensates the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property attributable to the Federal participation in the project.
