FR941202-0-00004 FR941202-0-00001 2. The NRC will regulate the radiation safety of patients where justified by the risk to patients and where voluntary standards, or compliance with these standards, are inadequate. 3. The NRC will minimize intrusion into medical judgments affecting patients and into other areas traditionally considered to be a part of the practice of medicine. In conformance with this policy, the Commission is eliminating certain restrictions in the NRC regulations on the practices of medicine and pharmacy (e.g., compounding), and is providing the authority for research involving human subjects and the use of radiolabeled biologics. The Commission believes that these restrictions can be eliminated without compromising the level of protection of public health and safety against radiological hazards. The Commission recognizes that physicians have the primary responsibility for the diagnosis and treatment of their patients or human research subjects and recognizes that nuclear pharmacists have the primary responsibility for the preparation of radioactive drugs. NRC regulations are predicated on the assumption that properly trained and adequately informed physicians and pharmacists will make decisions that are in the best interest of their patients or human research subjects. Furthermore, the pharmacological aspects of radioactive drugs, including drug safety and efficacy, are regulated by the FDA or the States. II. The Proposed Rule, Public Comments, and NRC Responses The Commission published the proposed rule in the Federal Register on June 17, 1993 (58 FR 33396), and provided a 120-day public comment period. About 2,500 copies of the notice of the proposed rulemaking were mailed to all applicable NRC licensees, Agreement State and Non-Agreement State agencies, and other interested groups. The NRC received 284 comment letters in response to the proposed rule. There were 280 letters in support of the proposed rule, 1 letter in opposition to the proposed rule, and 3 letters provided comments without specifically indicating support for or opposition to the proposed rule. There were 182 letters from individuals working in commercial pharmacies, 3 from pharmaceutical manufacturers, 6 from hospitals, 7 from professional associations, 6 from universities, 5 from governmental agencies, and 75 who did not indicate their affiliations. In terms of commenters' professions or qualifications, the vast majority of letters were from pharmacists. Public comments and the NRC's responses are presented below. General comments are presented first, followed by specific comments associated with individual sections of the rule for which comments were received. The discussion of the changes in the proposed rule language is presented in section III entitled ``Discussion of Final Rule Text.'' Referring to section V, entitled ``Text of Final Regulations,'' may expedite the reader's understanding of the public comments and the NRC's responses. General Comments (1) Comment. The NRC is ``straying very far'' from its mandate and competence in regulating the medical uses of byproduct material. The commenter appended a copy of section 104 of the Atomic Energy Act, entitled ``Medical Therapy and Research and Development,'' as rationale for the commenter's viewpoint.
