FR940627-2-00067 FR940627-2-00027 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention RIN 0905-ZA70 [Program Announcement Number 476] Violence Against Women; Multifaceted Community-Based Demonstration Projects; Notice of Availability of Funds For Fiscal Year 1994 Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announce the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for cooperative agreements to create multifaceted community-based Violence Against Women (VAW) prevention demonstration projects. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives described in ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of Violent and Abusive Behavior. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section, ``Where to Obtain Additional Information.'') Authority This program announcement is authorized under sections 301, 317, 391, 392 and 393, of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241, 247b, 280b, 280b-1 and 280b-2), as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Applications may be submitted by public and private, nonprofit and for-profit organizations, and governments and their agencies. Thus, universities, colleges, research institutions, hospitals, other public and private organizations, State and local governments or their bona fide agents, federally recognized Indian tribal governments, Indian tribes or Indian tribal organizations, and small, minority- and/or women-owned businesses are eligible to apply. Availability of Funds Approximately $1,375,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund up to five demonstration projects. Awards are expected to range from $250,000 to $300,000 with an average award of $275,000, and are expected to begin on or about September 30, 1994. Awards will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period up to 5 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Non-competing continuation awards for new budget periods within the approved project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress as evidenced by required reports and site visits. Note: At the request of the applicant, Federal personnel may be assigned to a project area in lieu of a portion of the financial assistance. Definitions Violence Against Women (VAW) is defined as threatened or actual use of physical force against a woman that either results or has the potential to result in injury or death. This type of violence includes the physical, sexual, or psychological assault of women by partners, intimates, family members, and acquaintances. Commonly referenced types of behavior that fit within this definition include family and intimate violence, spouse abuse, partner abuse (including same sex relationships), women battering, courtship violence, sexual assault, and date rape. Public health approaches violence as a health issue and consequently, uses injuries, both fatal and nonfatal, psychological and physical, to quantify the impact of violence. For the purposes of this announcement, the area of attention is in primary prevention of violence against adolescent (12+ years of age) and adult women by persons known to the victim (family members, partners, and intimates) rather than by strangers. Interventions for VAW may encompass training/education, legal (e.g., mandatory arrest policies), behavioral, or environmental change strategies. Multifaceted programs are programs which incorporate multiple interventions aimed at reducing the incidence of VAW and that results in injury or death. Since beliefs and behaviors are difficult to change, effective prevention models require a combination of interventions that provide specific strategies for establishing a coordinated program. For multifaceted programs to be effective, interventions must be complementary. For example, the benefits of referral protocols are potentiated by expanding emergency shelter and support services for victims. No single solution has been effective in the prevention of VAW. To maximize effectiveness, primary prevention programs should be based on multiple complementary interventions in multiple settings. These programs should be community-based and tailored to meet the specific needs of the community, including the most effective strategies and personnel. Supporting and empowering communities to develop effective prevention programs will represent an essential model for delivering interventions for those in need. The community-based model has been successful in dealing with other public health prevention efforts such as HIV prevention.
