FR940819-0-00006 FR940819-0-00002 (1) Implement a regulation that provides that a violation of the prohibition against taking, withholding, or threatening to take or withhold a personnel action in reprisal for making or preparing a lawful communication by a person subject to 10 U.S.C. Chapter 47 (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) is punishable as a violation of 10 U.S.C. 892 (Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice). The implementing regulation shall also provide that such a violation by a DoD civilian employee is punishable under regulations governing disciplinary or adverse action. (2) On receipt of a report of investigation from the IG, DoD, that concludes that a member suffered reprisal, and when implementation of the recommendations requires action by a BCMR, advise that member that assistance in preparing an application to the BCMR may be sought from the legal office supporting the member's command. (3) Ensure that the Military Department IG: (i) On receipt of a member's allegation of reprisal for making or preparing a protected disclosure, expeditiously investigates that allegation. No investigation is required when such allegation is submitted more than 60 days after a member became aware of that personnel action that is the subject of the allegation. (ii) At the request of the IG, DoD, investigates cases arising in the DoD Component. (iii) For those investigations conducted at the request of the IG, DoD, within 90 days of the receipt of an allegation, provides the IG, DoD, with an investigative report containing a thorough review of the facts and the circumstances about the allegation, the relevant documents acquired during the investigation, and summaries of interviews conducted. (iv) For all other investigations of alleged reprisal against a member for making or preparing a protected disclosure, on completion of the investigation, informs the member in writing of the results of the investigation. This may be accomplished by providing the member a thorough summary of the investigative report or a copy of the investigative report, edited as necessary under 32 CFR part 285. The information provided to the member must contain a summary of the material evidence and an analysis of that evidence that supports the determination of whether reprisal occurred. Regardless of the form of communication, the information provided must be in sufficient detail to allow the member to pursue the issue further. (v) At the request of a BCMR, submits a copy of that investigative report to the BCMR. (vi) At the request of a BCMR, gathers further evidence and issues a further report to the BCMR. (4) Ensure that the BCMR: (i) In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1552, determines whether to resolve an application for the correction of records, made by a member or a former member of the Armed Forces who has filed a timely complaint, alleging a personnel action was taken in reprisal for making or preparing a lawful communication. That may include the receipt of oral argument, examining and cross-examining witnesses, taking depositions, and conducting an evidentiary hearing at the BCMR's discretion. When the BCMR decides to resolve such application, it shall: (A) Review the report of any investigation into the member's allegation of reprisal conducted by the IG, DoD, or the IG of a DoD Component. (B) As deemed necessary, request that the IG, DoD, or the IG of the DoD Component originally investigating the allegation gathers further evidence.
