FR941006-1-00044 FR941006-1-00008 (iv) Exception 4. Gross proceeds that are part of a reasonably required reserve or replacement fund (other than a bona fide debt service fund) for the tax-exempt bond issue. (v) Exception 5. Gross proceeds that are invested in taxable obligations, but only if the yield on each obligation (computed separately and on the basis of an arm's length purchase price) is no higher than the yield on the tax-exempt bond issue. (vi) Exception 6. Eligible gross proceeds that are not invested in one-day certificates of indebtedness or pursuant to paragraphs (c)(5)(i&hyph;v) (Exceptions 1 through 5), but only if the total amount of such eligible gross proceeds on any particular day is less than $25,000. This paragraph (c)(5)(vi) (Exception 6) shall not apply to gross proceeds that are part of a reasonably required reserve or replacement fund (other than a bona fide debt service fund). (vii) Exception 7. Gross proceeds that are not invested pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(iv) (Exception 4) or paragraph (c)(5)(vi) (Exception 6), and that are invested in any taxable obligation the yield on which is higher than the yield on the tax-exempt bond issue, but only if taxable obligations described in paragraph (c)(5)(v) (Exception 5), and the tax-exempt obligations described in (c)(5)(i) (Exception 1) are not available for investment (for example, because market interest rates are too high and statutory or indenture restrictions prevent investments in tax-exempt obligations). (viii) Exception 8. Gross proceeds that are not invested in demand deposit securities due to an inadvertent error. (6) See ยง344.1(f) as to improper certifications. ยง344.8 Issue date and payment. (a) General. The subscriber shall fix the issue date on the subscription, the issue date to be a business day at least three business days after receipt of the subscription by the Division of Special Investments. Full payment for each subscription must be submitted by the Fedwire funds transfer system with credit directed to the Treasury's General Account. Full payment should be submitted by 3 p.m., Eastern time, to ensure that settlement on the securities occurs on the date of issue. (b) Noncompliance. The penalty imposed on any subscriber which fails to make settlement on a subscription once submitted shall be to render the subscriber ineligible thereafter to subscribe for securities under this offering for a period of six months, beginning on the date the subscription is withdrawn or the proposed issue date, whichever occurs first. The Division of Special Investments may determine to waive the six month penalty, pursuant to the provisions governing waiver of regulations set forth under 31 CFR 306.126. Where settlement occurs after the proposed issue date and the Division of Special Investments determines, pursuant to 31 CFR 306.126, that settlement is acceptable on an exception basis, the six month penalty will be waived, and the subscriber shall be subject to a late payment assessment. The assessment will include payment of an amount equal to the amount of interest that would have accrued on the securities from the proposed issue date to the date of settlement, as well as an administrative fee of $100 per subscription. Assessments under this subsection are due on demand. Failure to pay an assessment shall render the subscriber ineligible thereafter to subscribe for securities under this offering until the assessment is paid. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535&hyph;0091) ยง344.9 Redemption. (a) General. A security may be redeemed at the owner's option, provided a request for redemption is received not less than one business day prior to the requested redemption date. Partial redemptions may be requested; however, an account balance of less than $1,000 will be redeemed in total. Payment will be made by crediting the reserve account maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank or Branch by the financial institution servicing the account owner. (b) Notice. Notice of redemption must be submitted, either on a designated Treasury form or by letter, by the official(s) authorized to redeem the securities, as shown on the subscription form, to the Division of Special Investments, Bureau of the Public Debt, 200 Third Street, PO Box 396, Parkersburg, WV 26102&hyph;0396. The notice may be submitted by facsimile equipment to the Bureau of the Public Debt at (304) 480&hyph;6818, by mail, or by other carrier. The notice must show the account number and the tax identification number of the subscriber. The notice of redemption must be received at the Bureau of the Public Debt by 1 p.m., Eastern time, one business day prior to the requested redemption date. (c) Certification. By completing the redemption form, subscribers certify to the fact that the proceeds to be received will be expended within one day of receipt thereof for the purpose for which the tax-exempt bond was issued.
