FR940613-2-00012 FR940613-2-00006 [Docket No. 940420&hyph;4120] RIN 0648&hyph;ZA05 Announcement of Opportunities for Research Funding in the National Estuarine Research Reserve System for Fiscal Year 1995 AGENCY: Sanctuaries and Reserves Division (SRD), Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM), National Ocean Service (NOS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Department of Commerce (DOC). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Sanctuaries and Reserves Division of the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management is soliciting proposals for funding research within the National Estuarine Research Reserve System. The focus of funding for the upcoming annual grant period is the restoration of estuarine and estuarine-like ecosystems. This notice sets forth funding priorities, selection criteria, and procedures for proposal submission. DATES: All pre-proposals must be postmarked no later than July 15, 1994. Notification regarding the disposition of the pre-proposals will be issued on or about September 1, 1994. Final proposals must be postmarked no later than November 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: CAPT. Francesca M. Cava, Chief, Sanctuaries and Reserves Division, NOAA/Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, 1305 East-West Highway, SSMC4, # 12520, Silver Spring, MD 20910, Attn: FY95 NERRS Research. FAX: 301&hyph;713&hyph;0404. See Appendix I for National Estuarine Research Reserve addresses. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 For further information on research opportunities under the National Estuarine Research Reserve System, contact the on-site personnel listed in Appendix I or CAPT. Francesca M. Cava of the Sanctuaries and Reserves Division (see Addresses above). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Authority and Background Section 315 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended (CZMA), 16 U.S.C. 1461, establishes the National Estuarine Research Reserve System (NERRS). 16 U.S.C. 1461 (e)(1)(B) authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to make grants to any coastal state or public or private person for purposes of supporting research and monitoring within a national estuarine reserve that are consistent with the research guidelines developed under subsection (c). This program is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under ``Coastal Zone Management Estuarine Research Reserve,'' Number 11.420. II. Information on Established National Estuarine Research Reserves The NERRS consists of estuarine areas of the United States which are designated, developed, and managed for research and educational purposes. Each National Estuarine Research Reserve (Reserve) within the NERRS is chosen to reflect regional differences and to include a variety of ecosystem types in accordance with the classification scheme of the national program as presented in 15 CFR part 921. Each Reserve is suited to support a wide range of beneficial uses of ecological, economic, recreational, and aesthetic value which are dependent upon maintenance of a healthy ecosystem. Each site provides habitat for a wide range of ecologically and commercially important species of fish, shellfish, birds, and other aquatic and terrestrial wildlife. Each Reserve has been designed to ensure its effectiveness as a conservation unit and as a site for long-term research and monitoring. As part of a national system, the Reserves collectively provide an excellent opportunity to address research questions and estuarine management issues of national significance. For a detailed description of the sites, contact individual site Managers and/or Research Coordinators. The on-site contacts and addresses of the National Estuarine Research Reserves are provided in Appendix I.
