FR940314-0-00061 FR940314-0-00012 M815␣Barcoded_Two-Tier Package-Based Mailings 1.0␣Basic Standards * * * * * 1.2␣Packaging [Add the following sentence to the end of this section:] Packaging (no separator cards) is required in AADC trays (except for full AADC trays containing only residual packages), mixed-AADC trays, and less-than-full working or residual trays. 1.3␣No Packaging Packages or separator cards are not required for larger than card-size pieces in full 5-digit trays, full AADC trays containing only residual AADC packages, full working trays under 4.2 and 4.3, and full First-Class residual trays under 4.4. * * * * * 1.5␣Separator Cards Separator cards must not be used in a less-than-full tray for the entry SCF, in AADC trays, in mixed-AADC trays, in working trays, or in residual trays unless permitted by 5.0. * * * * * 4.0␣Residual Mail 4.1␣Definition Pieces remaining after packages and trays are prepared under 2.0 and 3.0 are residual (nonqualifying) mail. Residual second- and third-class mail must be prepared under an option in 4.2 and 4.3. Residual First-Class Mail must be prepared under 4.2 and 4.3, or 4.4, or 4.5, except that preparation may be finer than those standards, by agreement between the mailer and the entry post office for multiple acceptance times. All residual mail must be presented under 4.6. 4.2␣AADC Residual Preparation Options Residual second- and third-class mail must be prepared under one of these options and in accordance with 4.3. First-Class Mail may be prepared under one of these options and 4.3 if not prepared under 4.4 or 4.5. a. Separate AADC Preparation. Residual mail is trayed separately from qualifying mail. Groups of 10 or more residual pieces to an AADC area in L804 are placed in AADC trays and mixed-AADC trays. AADC trays are required if there are enough pieces to fill a tray, but less-than-full AADC trays are permitted. Residual pieces in mixed-AADC trays and in less-than-full AADC trays must be prepared and labeled as AADC packages. Remaining groups of fewer than 10 pieces to an AADC are placed in separate working trays. Packages and trays must be prepared under 4.3. b. Intermixed SCF/AADC Preparation. Some residual mail is trayed with qualifying mail. Groups of 10 or more residual pieces to the same AADC area in L804 are packaged by AADC and placed in AADC trays (with qualifying mail) and in mixed-AADC trays. AADC trays are required if there are enough pieces to fill a tray, but less-than-full AADC trays are permitted. AADC trays containing only residual AADC packages are allowed. Mixed-AADC trays are limited to residual AADC packages. At the mailer's option, residual mail may be packaged by 3-digit ZIP Code and placed in SCF trays (remaining pieces sorted by AADC). A less-than-full tray for the origin SCF containing only residual packages is allowed. Remaining groups of fewer than 10 pieces to an AADC are placed in separate working trays. Packages and trays must be prepared under 4.3. 4.3␣AADC Residual Preparation Subject to 4.1 and 4.2, residual mail must be prepared as follows: a. Package size: (1) 3-digit (option 4.2b only): optional with no minimum for residual pieces in single- or multi-3-digit SCF trays. (2) AADC: required at 10 pieces per AADC (use L804) for residual pieces in mixed-AADC trays, in less-than-full AADC trays, and in AADC trays (under option 4.2b) that also contain qualifying mail. Packages of fewer pieces not permitted. (3) Working: required grouping of pieces by AADC (use L804) in working trays. Packaging required only in a less-than-full working tray as follows: prepare as few packages as possible, each not more than 6 inches thick, without regard to AADC breaks. b. Package presort and labeling: (1) Optional 3-digit (only for option 4.2b): use green Label 3 or OEL. (2) AADC (required, except in full residual AADC trays): use pink Label A or OEL. (3) Working (required in less-than-full working tray): use facing slip marked ``WORKING'' or ``WKG'' or the optional endorsement line ``WORKING.'' c. Tray size: (1) Optional 3-digit (only for single 3-digit SCFs in L002, Column A, identified with three bullets and prepared under option 4.2b): required full trays; less-than-full and overflow trays prohibited, except for one less-than-full tray for the single 3-digit origin SCF. (2) Optional SCF (only for option 4.2b): required full trays; less-than-full and overflow trays prohibited, except for one less-than-full tray for the origin SCF. (3) AADC: required if enough pieces to fill tray; less-than-full and overflow trays permitted. (4) Mixed-AADC: required full trays; one less-than-full tray permitted. (5) Working: required full trays; one less-than-full tray permitted. d. Tray presort sequence and Line 1 labeling: (1) Optional 3-digit (only for single 3-digit SCFs under option 4.2b); use L002, Column A (facilities identified with three bullets), on Line 1. (2) Optional SCF (only for option 4.2b); use L002, Column B, on Line 1 for 3-digit areas listed in Column C. (3) AADC (required); use L804 on Line 1. (4) Mixed-AADC (required); on Line 1 use ``MXD'' followed by the applicable origin SCF name, state, and SCF code from L002, Column A (facilities identified with three bullets), or Column B, except use L805 for second- and third-class mail entered by the mailer at an ASF or BMC. (5) Working (required); on Line 1 use ``MXD'' followed by the applicable origin SCF name, state, and SCF code from L002, Column A (facilities identified with three bullets), or Column B, except use L805 for second- and third-class mail entered by the mailer at an ASF or BMC. e. Line 2: class (FCM, 2C, NEWS, or 3C), followed by LTRS and: (1) On 3-digit trays (only single 3-digit SCFs under option 4.2b) and SCF trays (option 4.2b only): BARCODED. (2) On AADC trays: AADC BARCODED. (3) On mixed-AADC trays: BARCODED PKGS. (4) On working trays: BARCODED WKG. 4.4␣Sequencing, Grouping_First-Class Mail Only [Insert text of current 4.2 and renumber as 4.4. Revise the first sentence to read as follows:] First-Class residual pieces may be sequenced by ZIP Code and presented with a listing: [Delete renumbered 4.4f. Reletter 4.4g and h as 4.4f and g. Revise renumbered and relettered 4.4g to read:] g. For Line 2: FCM LTRS BARCODED WKG. 4.5␣Separation by Rate_First-Class Mail Only [Insert text of current 4.3 and renumber as 4.5. Revise the first sentence to read as follows:] First-Class residual pieces may be separated by rate qualification:
