FR940304-0-00003 FR940304-0-00002 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 50 RIN 3150&hyph;AE46 Notification of Spent Fuel Management and Funding Plans by Licensees of Prematurely Shut Down Power Reactors AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is amending its regulations to clarify the timing of notification to the NRC of spent fuel management and funding plans by licensees of those nuclear power reactors that have been shut down before the expected end of their operating lives. The final rule requires that a licensee submit such notification either within 2 years after permanently ceasing operation of its licensed power reactor or no later than 5 years before the reactor operating license expires, whichever event occurs first. Licensees of nuclear power reactors that have already permanently ceased operation by the effective date of this rule are required to submit such notification within 2 years after the effective date of this rule. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Wood, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 504&hyph;1255. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On June 30, 1993, the NRC published in the Federal Register a notice of proposed rulemaking to clarify the timing of notification to the NRC of spent fuel management and funding plans by licensees of those nuclear power reactors that have been shut down prematurely (58 FR 34947). 1. Comments Received The NRC received four comments on the proposed rule. Three of the four comments came from licensees or their representatives and supported the rule as proposed. These commenters agreed with the NRC assessment that the proposed rule is administrative in nature and would produce consistency with the decommissioning rule. However, each of the three recommended that the rule amendments should apply only prospectively; that is, the rule should not apply to licensees whose power reactors have already permanently ceased operating. The commenters requested that the NRC allow licensees of these plants to submit spent fuel management funding plans on a case-by-case schedule. One commenter recommended that the NRC add a statement to this effect to the final rule. A fourth commenter supported the concept of requiring the submittal of spent fuel management and funding plans soon after permanent shutdown, but recommended that licensees be required to submit these plans within 60 days after permanent shutdown. The three commenters representing licensees also supported the NRC intent to initiate rulemaking on including spent fuel costs as part of decommissioning costs only after careful consideration of the database that the NRC is developing in this area. In a related area, one of these commenters noted that the NRC currently has regulations in place in 10 CFR part 72 to ensure a licensee's financial qualifications for the safe construction, operation, and decommissioning of an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI). The fourth commenter supported rulemaking on funding assurance for spent fuel storage costs that would be similar to, but separate from, decommissioning costs. 2. NRC Response to Comments The NRC responds as follows to the issues raised by the commenters:
