FR941230-0-00053 FR941230-0-00010 The Coast Guard believes these restrictions will not unduly restrict vessel passage through the bridge, as vessel operators and the marine industry have agreed to and can plan transits around the interim schedule. Due to the unexpected closure of the Jordan Bridge to highway traffic, the Coast Guard believes it is in the public interest to regulate the Gilmerton Bridge; therefore, good cause exists for publishing this rule without prior notice and opportunity for comment, and making it effective in less than the 30 days after publication normally required. This rule should be effective immediately because it is in the overall public interest to do so, and the Coast Guard is not aware of any reasons not to. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the U.S. Coast Guard must consider whether the economic impact on small entities of a rule for which a general notice of proposed rulemaking is required. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). This rule does not require a general notice of proposed rulemaking and, therefore, is exempt from the regulatory flexibility requirements. Although exempt, the Coast Guard has reviewed this rule for potential impact on small entities. Because it expects the impact of this rule to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. If, however, you think that your business qualifies as a small entity and that this rule will have a significant economic impact on your business, please submit a comment (see ADDRESSES ) explaining why you think your business qualifies and in what way and to what degree this rule will affect your business economically. Collection of Information This rule contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principals and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that the proposed rulemaking does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Environment The Coast Guard considered the environmental impact of this rule and concluded that under section 2.B.2.e(32)(e) of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, this rule is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. A Categorical Exclusion Determination statement has been prepared and placed in the rulemaking docket. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 117 Bridges. Regulations In consideration of the foregoing, the Coast Guard is amending Part 117 of Title 33, Code of Federal Regulations to read as follows: PART 117_DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS 1. The authority citation for Part 117 continues to read as follows: Authority: 33 U.S.C. 499; 49 CFR 1.46; 33 CFR 1.05&hyph;1(g). 2. In Section 117.997, paragraphs (c), (d), (e), and (f) are redesignated as (d), (e), (f), and (g) and a new paragraph (c) is added to read as follows:
