FR940513-2-00174 FR940513-2-00085 3. Shares of Trust I (other than Standby Reserve Fund, which has no sales charge) are offered at net asset value plus a front-end sales charge at a rate of up to 5.75% of the offering price. Each Series of Trust I (other than Standby Reserve Fund) also imposes a rule 12b&hyph;1 distribution fee at an annual rate of up to .25% of its average daily net assets. No front-end sales charge is payable with respect to purchases of $1,000,000 or more of shares of Trust I. Shares of Trust II are offered without an initial sales charge, but are subject to rule 12b&hyph;1 distribution and shareholder services fees at an annual rate of up to 1% of each Series' average daily net assets. Applicants now propose to allow the Trusts to impose a CDSC on certain redemptions of shares and to waive the CDSC under certain circumstances. 4. Under the proposed CDSC arrangement, applicants generally will impose a CDSC of 1% on redemptions of shares of Trust I which have been acquired without a sales charge through a purchase of $1,000,000 or more and are redeemed within one year of their purchase. Applicants also propose to impose a CDSC of 1% on redemption of shares of Trust II made within one year of their date of purchase. Applicants in the future may decide to increase or reduce the CDSC percentage, shorten the applicable holding period, or create a scheduled range of CDSC percentages. Any future changes or variations will be disclosed in each affected prospectus and will not affect any shares of the Trusts that were issued prior to the disclosure thereof. 5. The CDSC will be equal to a percentage of the lesser of (a) the net asset value of the shares at the time of purchase, or (b) the net asset value of the shares at the time of redemption. No CDSC will be imposed on amounts derived from capital appreciation, shares purchased through the reinvestment of dividends or capital gains distributions. In determining whether a CDSC is applicable, it will be assumed that shares not subject to the CDSC are redeemed first and that other shares are then redeemed in the order purchased. 6. No CDSC will be imposed on exchanges or Trust shares in compliance with rule 11a&hyph;3. If, however, the shares acquired in an exchange are redeemed within one year following the original investment, the CDSC will be assessed. No CDSC will be imposed on shares purchased prior to the date the SEC grants the requested order. 7. The Distributor will provide a pro rata refund, out of its own assets, of any CDSC paid in connection with a redemption of shares of a Trust (by crediting such refunded CDSC to the shareholder's account) if, within 90 days of such redemption, all or any portion of the redemption proceeds are reinvested in shares of the Trusts. The reinvested amount will be subject to the CDSC applicable prior to the redemption, and the CDSC time period will run from the original investment date but will be extended by the number of days between the redemption and reinvestment date. 8. The CDSC will be waived or reduced in the following instances: (a) In connection with distributions from qualified retirement plans and other employee benefit plans qualified under section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the ``Code''); (b) distributions from a custodial account under section 403(b)(7) of the Code or an individual retirement account (an ``IRA'') due to death, disability, or attainment of age 591/2; (c) a tax-free return of an excess contribution to an IRA; (d) for any partial or complete redemptions following death or disability (as defined in section 72(m)(7) of the Code) of a shareholder from an account in which the deceased or disabled is named, provided the redemption is made within one year of death or initial determination of disability; (e) involuntary redemptions as described in each prospectus; and (f) redemptions by (i) current or retired directors, trustees, partners, officers, and employees of Trust I, Trust II, the Portfolio Trust, the Distributor, the Advisor, family members of these persons, and trusts or plans primarily for such persons, (ii) trustees or other fiduciaries purchasing shares for certain retirement plans; and (iii) participants in pension, profit-sharing or employee benefit plans that are sponsored by the Distributor and its affiliates. Applicants' Legal Conclusion Applicants submit that the proposal to impose a CDSC is fair, in the public interest and the interest of the Trust's shareholders, and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and the provisions of the Act. Consequently, applicants request an order of the Commission pursuant to section 6(c) of the Act for an exemption from sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 22(c), and 22(d) of the Act and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder to the extent necessary to permit the proposed CDSC arrangement. Applicants' Condition Applicants agree that any order granting the requested relief will be subject to the following condition: Applicants will comply with the provisions of proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act, Investment Company Act Release No. 16169 (Nov. 2, 1988), as such rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted, or amended. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11704 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
