FR940920-2-00009 FR940920-2-00006 The Department's two-tiered methodology for assigning BIA has been upheld by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ( See Allied-Signal Aerospace Co. v. United States, 996 F.2d 1185 (Fed. Cir. 1993); See also Krupp Stahl AG v. United States, 822 F. Supp. 789 (CIT 1993)). For Agricola Benilda, Grupo Intercontinental and Grupo Prisma, we have determined that these respondents' original and deficiency questionnaire responses were unusable for the preliminary determination because they contained significant deficiencies ( See the September 12, 1994, memorandum from David L. Binder to Barbara R. Stafford). In addition, Agricola Benilda submitted substantial revisions to its sales and cost information on September 8, 1994. However, because Agricola Benilda, Grupo Andes, Grupo Intercontinental and Grupo Prisma responded to our requests for information, we find that these respondents have been substantially cooperative for purposes of this preliminary determination. Accordingly, we used as second-tier BIA for these respondents the average of the margins contained in the petition, which is 55.94 percent. This margin is higher than the highest margin calculated for any respondent in this investigation. Furthermore, we have issued supplemental deficiency letters to Agricola Benilda, Grupo Intercontinental and Grupo Prisma. If these respondents submit adequate and timely responses to these letters, we will conduct verification for these respondents and will consider their information for purposes of the final determination. For Grupo Andes, we have determined that this respondent has failed to respond adequately to the Department's deficiency questionnaire and failed to inform the Department in a timely manner that it had sufficient sales of export-quality roses in the home market to deem the home market viable. While Grupo Andes stated that its home market was not viable, analysis of its deficiency response has indicated that its home market is, in fact, viable. Grupo Andes' failure to correctly indicate that its home market was, in fact, viable constitutes a material error: the determination of what basis in which to make price comparisons is central to the entire dumping analysis. While Andes has substantially cooperated in this investigation, the history of its responses indicates that the information reported was highly unreliable, and its failure to report home market sales was a fundamental error. Because of the serious errors in Andes' reporting, we would have needed a materially new response. We find that there is insufficient time prior to verification in which to analyze such a response and any possible supplemental responses. For these reasons we will not be conducting verification for this respondent and will also base the margin for Grupo Andes in the final determination on cooperative BIA ( See the September 9, 1994, memorandum from David L. Binder to Barbara R. Stafford). Such or Similar Comparisons We have determined that all roses covered by this investigation comprise two categories of ``such or similar'' merchandise: culls and export-quality roses. None of the respondents reported sales of culls in the United States. Therefore, no comparisons in this such or similar category were made. Regarding export quality roses, where possible, we made comparisons of identical merchandise. Where there were no sales of identical merchandise in the home market or third country market to compare to U.S. sales, we made similar merchandise comparisons on the basis of: (1) Form ( e.g., as part of a bouquet, an individual stem, etc.); (2) type ( e.g., hybrid tea, sweetheart, etc.); (3) color; (4) stem length; and (5) variety. We did not make any adjustments for differences in the physical characteristics of the merchandise because respondents reported no cost differences between the products. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether sales of roses from Colombia to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the FMV for all non-BIA respondents, as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. United States Price For sales by all non-BIA respondents except Floramerica, we based USP on purchase price, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, when the subject merchandise was sold to unrelated purchasers in the United States prior to importation and when exporter's sales price (ESP) methodology was not otherwise indicated. In addition, for all non-BIA respondents, where sales to the first unrelated purchaser took place after importation into the United States, we based USP on ESP, in accordance with section 772(c) of the Act. For all U.S. prices, we used weighted-average monthly U.S. prices ( See the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum). During the POI, some of the respondents paid commissions to related parties in the United States. We determined that these commissions were directly related to the sales under consideration. We also tested these commissions for these respondents to determine whether they were paid at arm's length using the criteria set forth in the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Coated Groundwood Paper from Belgium (56 FR 56359, November 4, 1991). Where we found that they were paid at arm's length, we deducted them from USP. However, we found that respondents used these commissions as a mechanism for reimbursing their related parties for their actual expenses. Accordingly, in order to avoid double-counting, where the actual expenses of the related party were less than the commissions, we deducted only the commissions. Where the commissions were less than the actual expenses, we also deducted the amount by which the actual expenses exceeded the commissions ( See the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum).
