FR941007-1-00104 FR941007-1-00009 (2) Has not been reported or collected by the bank or one of its affiliates as a home mortgage loan, small business loan, small farm loan, or a consumer loan pursuant to ยง228.42 of this part, unless it is a multifamily dwelling loan (as described in Appendix A to 12 CFR Part 203); and (3) Except in the case of a wholesale or limited purpose bank, benefits the bank's service area(s) or a broader statewide or regional area that includes the bank's service area(s). (g) Consumer loan means a loan extended to one or more individuals for household, family, or other personal expenditures; provided the loan is not secured by real estate and is not used for the purpose of purchasing or carrying securities. (h) Geography means a census tract delineated by the United States Bureau of the Census in the most recent decennial census, or a block numbering area delineating a small statistical subdivision where a census tract has not been established. (i) HMDA means the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (12 U.S.C. 2801 et seq. ). (j) Home mortgage loan means a mortgage loan as defined in section 303(1) of HMDA (12 U.S.C. 2802(1)) and implementing regulations. (k) Income level _(1) Low-income means, in the case of a person, an individual income, or in the case of a geography, a median family income, that is less than 50 percent of the adjusted area median income, with adjustments to take into account family size and the prevailing levels of residential housing construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. (2) Moderate-income means, in the case of a person, an individual income, or in the case of a geography, a median family income, that is at least 50 percent and less than 80 percent of the adjusted area median income, with adjustments to take into account family size and the prevailing levels of residential housing construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. (3) Middle-income means, in the case of a person, an individual income, or in the case of a geography, a median family income, that is at least 80 percent and less than 120 percent of the adjusted area median income, with adjustments to take into account family size and the prevailing levels of residential housing construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. (4) Upper-income means, in the case of a person, an individual income or, in the case of a geography, a median family income, that is 120 percent or more of the adjusted area median income, with adjustments to take into account family size and the prevailing levels of residential housing construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. (l) Limited purpose bank means a bank that offers only a narrow product line (such as credit cards or automobile loans) to a national or regional market and has, pursuant to a written request, been designated by the Board as a limited purpose bank, as provided in ยง228.25 of this part. (m) Loan location . A loan is located in a geography as follows: (1) A consumer loan is located where the borrower resides; (2) A home mortgage loan is located where the property to which the loan relates is located; (3) A small business or small farm loan is located where the main business facility or farm is located or where the loan proceeds otherwise will be applied, as indicated by the borrower. (n) Loan production office means a staffed banking facility that is accessible to the public, and provides lending-related services such as loan information and applications, but is not a branch. (o) MSA means metropolitan statistical area or primary metropolitan statistical area, as defined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. (p) Minority means an individual who is an American Indian or Alaskan Native, an Asian or Pacific Islander, a Black, or of Hispanic origin as provided in the Office of Management and Budget's Statistical Policy Directive No. 15, Race and Ethnic Standards for Federal Statistics and Administrative Reporting. (q) Minority-owned business means a business, including a farm, that is more than 50 percent owned by one or more minority individuals, and that has not issued any securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. ) and has 100 or fewer shareholders. (r) Service area means a geographical area delineated in accordance with ยง228.41 of this part.
