FR941227-2-00064 FR941227-2-00046 The FR Y&hyph;11I report is filed by a top-tier bank holding company for each of its nonbank subsidiaries, whether directly or indirectly owned. Combined and consolidated reporting is permitted in some instances. Foreign banking organizations are not required to file the report. The report consists of ten summary financial items and two items providing consolidation information. The Federal Reserve proposes the following revisions to the FR Y&hyph;11I: (1) Expand the report to collect more detailed financial information, comparable to items proposed for the FR Y&hyph;11Q but with certain detail reported only as summary items. The proposed financial statements will include a balance sheet, income statement, off-balance sheet, and a statement on changes in equity capital. The FR Y&hyph;11I will also include a loan schedule to be submitted only by respondents engaged in credit extending activities. (2) Revise the reporting criteria to collect information on an individual basis annually from each nonbank subsidiary not required to file the proposed FR Y&hyph;11Q. Proposal to approve under OMB delegated authority the elimination of: Report Title: Combined Financial Statements of Nonbank Subsidiaries of Bank Holding Companies, by Type of Nonbank Subsidiary Agency Form Number: FR Y&hyph;11AS OMB Docket Number: 7100&hyph;0244 Frequency: Annual Reporters: Bank Holding Companies Annual Reporting Hours: 1,680 Estimated Average Hours per Response: Range from 1.0 to 17.0 hours Number of Respondents: 271 Small businesses are affected. The information collection is mandatory [12 U.S.C. 1844(b) and (c)] and 12 CFR 225.5(b). Confidential treatment is not routinely given to the data in these reports. However, confidential treatment for the report information, in whole or in part, can be requested in accordance with the instructions to the form. The FR Y&hyph;11AS is filed by all bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more, regardless of whether or not the bank holding companies own any nonbank subsidiaries and by all bank holding companies with total assets of $150 million or more but less than $1 billion that meet one or more of the following conditions: (a) The assets of the holding company's nonbank subsidiaries constitute 5 percent or more of the holding company's total consolidated assets; or (b) the net income of the holding company's nonbank subsidiaries make up 5 percent or more of the holding company's total consolidated net income; or (c) the holding company's investment in and/or loans and advances to nonbank subsidiaries exceed 5 percent of the holding company's total consolidated equity capital. The report collects the same report items as the FR Y&hyph;11Q by type of nonbank activity and consists of a balance sheet, income statement, and a memoranda section. The Federal Reserve proposes to eliminate this report. Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis The Board certifies that the above bank holding company reporting requirements are not expected to have a significant economic impact on small entities within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.). The reporting requirements for the small companies require significantly fewer items of data to be submitted than the amount of information required of large bank holding companies. The information that is collected on the reports is essential for the detection of emerging financial problems, the assessment of a holding company's financial condition and capital adequacy, the performance of pre-inspection reviews, and the evaluation of expansion activities through mergers and acquisitions. The imposition of the reporting requirements is essential for the Board's supervision of bank holding companies under the Bank Holding Company Act. By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, December 20, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31713 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
