FR940317-1-00023 FR940317-1-00008 In analyzing attempts by foreign countries at defining the term the petitioner has concluded that, although many foreign countries generally provide for rather broad, subjective tests to determine the ``reserve'' character of table wine, there is no consistent international standard for use of the term. Although not defined in the regulations, ATF has permitted the use of such terms as ``reserve,'' ``vintner's select,'' ``barrel select,'' ``premium,'' etc. on wine labels. The Bureau considers these terms to be mere ``puffery.'' It has been ATF's position that consumers recognize these terms as expressing the proprietor's subjective evaluation of the wine, rather than as terms denoting any objective standards. Wine Institute Proposal Based on the reasons mentioned above, the Wine Institute has proposed the following definition for the term ``reserve'' when used on wine labels: For U.S. appellations, any table wine which is a vintage dated grape table wine that is either varietal, or which contains multiple varieties where each of the varieties is listed by percentage of total content, may be designated ``reserve'' wine. However, a state, county, or viticultural area may establish more stringent regulations governing the designation of ``reserve'' under rules and regulations to be established by individual states or local agencies. Although the Wine Institute's proposed definition applies to domestic wines only, ATF notes that any amendment of the regulations to provide for a definition of the term ``reserve'' would apply to domestic wine, as well as to foreign wine imported into the U.S. ATF believes that for purposes of consistency a uniform meaning of the term is necessary. ATF would also point out that the proposed definition applies to grape table wine only, i.e., grape wine having an alcoholic content of between 7 and 14 percent by volume. Consequently, if the petitioner's proposed definition is adopted into the regulations the term could not be used on labels of any other type of wine, such as sparkling wine (e.g., champagne). Discussion ATF is requesting information from consumers and industry members on the desirability of amending the regulations to provide for a definition of the term ``reserve'' when used on wine labels. While ATF has traditionally taken the position that the use of subjective puffery on the label does not result in consumer confusion, ATF wishes to solicit comments from both consumers and industry members on whether the term ``reserve'' is being used in a confusing or misleading fashion on labels. Although ATF is soliciting comments on the following specific questions, the Bureau is also requesting any relevant information on the subject. 1. What does the term ``reserve'' mean to consumers? 2. What does the term mean to members of the wine industry? 3. Should the term be defined in the wine regulations? If so, should there be a different standard for still wines and sparkling wines? 4. Do other similar terms such as ``vintner's select,'' ``barrel select,'' ``premium,'' etc., mean anything to consumers? What about to members of the industry? 5. Should these terms be defined in the regulations? 6. The term ``reserve'' also appears on labels of malt beverages and distilled spirits. What does it mean to consumers when it appears on these products? What does it mean to members of the malt beverage and distilled spirits industries who label their products with this term? 7. Should the term be defined in the regulations for malt beverages and distilled spirits? 8. How much American wine labeled with the ``reserve'' designation is exported into EC member nations? Have exporters of American wine encountered problems in Germany or any other EC member nations concerning wine which is labeled with the term ``reserve?'' 9. ATF has observed that the term ``reserve'' often appears on labels of foreign wines imported into the U.S. Do the countries where these wines originate have any laws or regulations governing the use of this term? Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this advance notice is not a significant regulatory action as defined by Executive Order 12866. Accordingly, this advance notice is not subject to the analysis required by this Executive Order. Public Participation ATF requests comments from all interested persons. Comments received on or before the closing date will be carefully considered. Comments received after that date will be given the same consideration if it is practical to do so, but assurance of consideration cannot be given except as to comments received on or before the closing date. ATF will not recognize any material in comments as confidential. Comments may be disclosed to the public. Any material which the commenter considers to be confidential or inappropriate for disclosure to the public should not be included in the comment. The name of the person submitting a comment is not exempt from disclosure. Drafting Information The principal author of this document is James P. Ficaretta, Wine and Beer Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. Disclosure Copies of the petition, this notice, and the written comments will be available for public inspection during normal business hours at: ATF Public Reading Room, room 6480, 650 Massachusetts Avenue, NW., Washington, DC. List of Subjects in 27 CFR Part 4 Advertising, Consumer protection, Customs duties and inspection, Imports, Labeling, Packaging and containers, and Wine. Authority and Issuance This advance notice of proposed rulemaking is issued under the authority in 27 U.S.C. 205. Dated: January 21, 1994. Daniel R. Black, Acting Director. Dated: February 9, 1994. John P. Simpson, Deputy Assistant Secretary, (Regulatory, Tariff and Trade Enforcement). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6159 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;31&hyph;U
