FR940727-2-00074 FR940727-2-00039 Fish and Wildlife Service Notice of Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Texas Trailing Phlox for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the Texas trailing phlox ( Phlox nivalis spp. texensis ) which the Service listed as an endangered species on September 30, 1991 (56 FR 49639). The plant, Texas trailing phlox, is known from two sites, one each in Tyler and Hardin counties, Texas. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before September 26, 1994 to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 17629 El Camino Real, Suite 211, Houston, Texas 77058. Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the Field Supervisor at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Edith Erfling, U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service Biologist, telephone (713) 286&hyph;8282 or at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened plant or animal to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe site specific management actions considered necessary for conservation and survival of the species, establish objective, measurable criteria for recovery levels for downlisting or delisting species, and estimate time and cost for implementing recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), requires development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988 requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The Texas trailing phlox is an endangered species known from one site on private land in Tyler County and one population in Hardin County located mostly on land owned by The Nature Conservancy, with a few plants occurring on adjoining roadside rights-of-way and private property. The plant is restricted to sandy soils in open pine woodlands. Texas trailing phlox is threatened primarily by habitat loss due to canopy closure, encroachment of hardwood trees, and soil disturbance associated with human activities. The Texas trailing phlox recovery plan has been reviewed by the appropriate Service staff in Region 2. The plan will be finalized and approved following incorporation of comments and materials received during this comment period. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to the approval of the plan. Authority The Authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533 (f). Dated: July 21, 1994. Joseph P. Mazzoni, Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18277 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
