FR940621-2-00011 FR940621-2-00006 International Trade Administration Export Trade Certificate of Review ACTION: Notice of Issuance of an Export Trade Certificate of Review, Application No. 94&hyph;0003. SUMMARY: The Department of Commerce has issued an Export Trade Certificate of Review to James W. Smith (D.B.A. Premier International). This notice summarizes the conduct for which certification has been granted. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, 202&hyph;482&hyph;5131. This is not a toll-free number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title III of the Export Trading Company Act of 1982 (15 U.S.C. 4001&hyph;21) authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to issue Export Trade Certificates of Review. The regulations implementing Title III are found at 15 CFR part 325 (1993). The Office of Export Trading Company Affairs (``OETCA'') is issuing this notice pursuant to 15 CFR 325.6(b), which requires the Department of Commerce to publish a summary of a Certificate in the Federal Register . Under Section 305(a) of the Act and 15 CFR 325.11(a), any person aggrieved by the Secretary's determination may, within 30 days of the date of this notice, bring an action in any appropriate district court of the United States to set aside the determination on the ground that the determination is erroneous. Description of Certified Conduct Export Trade 1. Products All products. 2. Services All services. 3. Export Trade Facilitation Services (as they relate to the Export of Products and Services) All export trade facilitation services including, but not limited to, consulting; foreign market research; marketing and trade promotion; financing; insurance; licensing; services related to compliance with customs documentation and procedures; transportation and shipping; warehousing and other services to facilitate the transfer of ownership and/or distribution; and communication and processing of export orders. Export Markets The export markets include all parts of the world except the United States (the fifty states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.) Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation James W. Smith (D.B.A. Premier International), acting as an Export Intermediary, may: 1. Provide and/or arrange for the provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services; 2. Engage in promotional and marketing activities as they relate to exporting Products and/or Services to the Export Markets; 3. Enter into exclusive sales agreements with Suppliers regarding sales of Products and/or Services in the Export Markets; such agreement may prohibit suppliers from exporting independently of James W. Smith (D.B.A. Premier International); 4. Enter into exclusive sales and/or territorial agreements with distributors in the Export Markets; 5. Establish the price of Products and/or Services for sale in the Export Markets; 6. Allocate export orders among his Suppliers; and, 7. Exchange information on a one-on-one basis with individual Suppliers regarding inventories and near-term production schedules for the purpose of determining the availability of Products for export and coordinating export with distributors. Terms and Conditions of Certificate 1. In engaging in the above Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation, James W. Smith (D.B.A. Premier International) will not intentionally disclose directly or indirectly, to any Supplier any information about any other Supplier's costs, production, capacity, inventories, domestic prices, domestic sales, or U.S. business plans, strategies, or methods that is not already generally available to the trade or public. 2. James W. Smith (D.B.A. Premier International) will comply with requests made by the Secretary of Commerce on behalf of the Secretary of Commerce or the Attorney General for information or documents relevant to conduct under the Certificate. The Secretary of Commerce will request such information or documents when either the Attorney General or the Secretary of Commerce believes that the information or documents are required to determine that the Export Trade, Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation of a person protected by this Certificate of Review continue to comply with the standards of Section 303(a) of the Act. Definitions 1. ``Export Intermediary'' means a person who acts as a distributor, sales representative, sales or marketing agent, or broker, or who performs similar functions, including providing or arranging for the provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services. 2. ``Supplier'' means a person who produces, provides, or sells a Product and/or Service. Protection Provided by the Certificate This Certificate protects James W. Smith (D.B.A. Premier International) and his employees acting on his behalf from private treble damage actions and government criminal and civil suits under U.S. federal and state antitrust laws for the export conduct specified in the Certificate and carried out during its effective period in compliance with its terms and conditions. Effective Period of Certificate This Certificate continues in effect from the effective date indicated below until it is relinquished, modified, or revoked as provided in the Act and the Regulations. Other Conduct Nothing in this Certificate prohibits James W. Smith (D.B.A. Premier International) from engaging in conduct not specified in this Certificate, but such conduct is subject to the normal application of the antitrust laws. Disclaimer The issuance of this Certificate of Review to James W. Smith (D.B.A. Premier International) by the Secretary of Commerce with the concurrence of the Attorney General under the provisions of the Act does not constitute, explicitly or implicitly, an endorsement or opinion by the Secretary or by the Attorney General concerning either (a) the viability or quality of the business plans of James W. Smith (D.B.A. Premier International) or (b) the legality of such business plans of James W. Smith (D.B.A. Premier International) under the laws of the United States (other than as provided in the Act) or under the laws of any foreign country. The application of this Certificate to conduct in export trade where the United States Government is the buyer or where the United States Government bears more than half the cost of the transaction is subject to the limitations set forth in Section V. (D.) of the ``Guidelines for the Issuance of Export Trade Certificates of Review (Second Edition)'', 50 Fed. Reg. 1786 (January 11, 1985). A copy of this certificate will be kept in the International Trade Administration's Freedom of Information Records Inspection Facility Room 4102, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Dated: June 10, 1994. W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15063 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DR&hyph;P
