FR941028-2-00126 FR941028-2-00089 •In November 1993, the SEC conducted a voluntary telephone consumer survey of up to 1,000 households to obtain background information regarding the public's understanding of the risks involved with purchasing mutual funds sold through banks. The survey found that 28% of those surveyed believed that all mutual funds sold through banks are insured, and of people who have bought funds through banks, 66% believed that money market mutual funds are federally insured. •Between January and March 1994, the SEC arranged four focus groups of 10 to 20 investors each to obtain more detailed information from individual investors of mutual funds. The first two groups addressed the SEC's concern that consumers do not adequately understand the risks involved with investing in mutual funds sold through banks. The other two sessions provided the SEC insight on investor's understanding of mutual fund prospectuses and the information they derive from the prospectuses. Education •On March 10, 1994 the SEC, along with other securities regulators, released a brochure, Invest Wisely, which provides basic information to help investors select a brokerage firm and salesperson, identify decisions to be made before making an initial investment decision and address a problem that may arise. This brochure also helps investors identify questions they should ask, provides background information about the securities industry, and describes practices that may signal a problem. Consumer Affairs Advisory Committee •On March 10, 1994, Chairman Levitt announced the creation of the Consumer Affairs Advisory Committee. The purpose of this committee is to open a channel through which the SEC can receive advice and information to help it better address the needs of investors in their role as consumers of financial products and services. Made up of members with diverse backgrounds and expertise, the committee will continue to explore broad, fundamental issues of concern to investors, especially disclosure and communication of information from corporations, brokerage firms, investment companies and investment advisers to their investors/clients. The committee also will address regulatory simplification and examine how the SEC can be more responsive to consumer needs and effective in helping to resolve consumer problems. Streamline Action on Rule Filings •Since taking office in July 1993, Chairman Levitt has taken significant steps to virtually eliminate the backlog of overdue rule filings by the stock exchanges and the self-regulatory organizations (SRO). The Commission has proposed rule amendments that would increase the number of SRO rule filings that may become effective immediately, and instituted procedures to ensure that the Commission will take final action on other filings within a six-month period. Reorganize the SEC's Enforcement Efforts •The SEC's ability to hunt down securities violations has been enhanced by placing all regional SEC offices under the supervision of the Enforcement Division and relocating certain operations. This has streamlined the organization and provided more efficient allocation of resources. The SEC plans to take further action this fall regarding education of investors and improvement of customer service, including: •The SEC will publish and distribute a second brochure, entitled Invest Wisely: Mutual Funds, to provide investors with basic information on mutual funds. The SEC plans to create a series of brochures to help investors become better educated consumers. •The SEC will conduct additional surveys and focus groups to develop other meaningful and useful solutions for better education of investors. •The SEC will disseminate information to investors via an electronic bulletin board on Internet. Such information will include Investor Alerts, descriptions of new or emerging types of securities fraud; Information for Investors, articles on a variety of specific topics; and SEC publications that presently are available only in hardcopy. •The SEC will establish a toll-free consumer hotline to provide investors and the general public with useful information regarding common consumer inquiries. The topics will include how to file investor complaints; what the SEC can and cannot do for investors; how to obtain information from public companies, brokerage firms and other investment representatives; and how to order certain publications from the SEC. •The SEC will install a new and improved Information Line in the headquarters Public Reference Room to provide callers with access to general information about the SEC, a means to request facsimiles of the recorded general information and the ability to transfer within the SEC to specific offices for detailed information. •The SEC is providing enhanced training to its consumer affairs specialists at headquarters and in the field offices. A special review of the consumer affairs function is underway and several recommendations have been implemented to improve the agency's responsiveness to consumers. SEC's Commitment to Customers The SEC makes a commitment to its customers to do the following: 1. Provide courteous, timely and responsive answers to all customers. 2. Suggest alternatives or options to customers when the SEC is unable to provide direct assistance. 3. Obtain comments and suggestions from customers on how to improve or modify the SEC's consumer affairs program. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26762 Filed 10&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;P
