FR940802-0-00092 FR940802-0-00019 The proposed rule had a 60-day public comment period and public hearings were held in Anchorage and Fairbanks, Alaska. Summary of Public Comments Twenty-four persons presented oral comments at public hearings in Anchorage and Fairbanks, Alaska. The Service also received approximately 2100 letters and cards from the public commenting specifically on the proposed rule. The Service also received several hundred letters that do not specifically address the proposed rule, but express concerns related to same-day-airborne or land and shoot taking of wolves. The Service also considered comments received from the Subsistence Regional Advisory Councils and the administrative record of those Council meetings where the issue of same-day-airborne taking of wolves was addressed. After considering all public comments, the Service has decided to proceed with this final rule and found no compelling reason to change the regulatory language from that provided in the proposed rule. Analysis of Public Comments (a) Opinions of the Alaska Public not Seriously Considered Several commenters, who objected to the proposed regulation, expressed their belief that the Service ignores opinions of Alaska residents and inappropriately relies on ``Lower 48'' opinions. The Service considered all public opinions and views on the proposed rule and did not disregard opinions of Alaskan residents. In fact, the Service provided special attention to comments and concerns received from Alaskans. Comments from Alaskan residents were mixed, but the majority of Alaskans apparently do not support same-day-airborne shooting of wolves. A 1992 public opinion survey of Alaskans (by Dittman Research Corporation) indicated that 66 percent of the survey participants felt that the public should not be allowed to shoot wolves that are located with use of aircraft. The proposed rule received strong support from several individuals and organizations associated with the Alaska tourism industry who objected to allowing same-day-airborne shooting of wolves and noted that it portrays a bad image of Alaskans. (b) Support of the Proposed Regulations or Stronger or Broader Provisions to Extend Prohibition to Other Areas or Other Species The Service received over 2100 public comments in direct response to the proposed rule. The Service and the Department of Interior also received, and continue to receive, several hundred other letters expressing opposition to same-day-airborne taking of wolves and requesting action to prohibit such activities. The overwhelming majority of the comments supported the proposed regulation. Numerous commenters also stated their preference for stronger or broader regulations against same-day-airborne methods of taking wildlife. Many people advocated elimination of all hunting and trapping of wolves and many others advocated extending the applicability of same-day-airborne shooting prohibitions to other species and/or other areas. Adoption of this final rule does not foreclose additional regulatory measures by the Service to address same-day-airborne shooting of wildlife in areas outside the National Wildlife Refuge System. The Service has the authority to take such action pursuant to the Airborne Hunting Act if warranted. The Service acknowledges some of the justification or rationale for prohibiting same-day-airborne take of wolves and wolverines would apply to other wildlife species as well. In fact, the Service strongly considered extending the same-day-airborne prohibitions to other game and furbearer species. However, in order to minimize the preemptive effect of this regulation on traditional State management authorities and responsibilities, the Service limited applicability to the species most subjected or most vulnerable to the problems associated with same-day-airborne take. Wolves and wolverines receive relatively high interest and demand by hunters and trappers who use airplanes in Alaska, from both a recreational standpoint as a game species and from an economic standpoint as furbearers that generally bring a good price for their furs. Other species not already protected by State same-day-airborne regulations are far less vulnerable to abuse of same-day-airborne methods and/or less desirable to hunters and trappers who use airplanes. Therefore, the Service decided that there was not sufficient justification to include other species. Several commenters who supported the proposed rule requested emergency closure actions to immediately eliminate such activities on refuges. Emergency closure authority is generally limited to more immediate threats or problems. The same-day-airborne shooting of wolves involves long-term and chronic problems, but poses no immediate threat to wolf populations or other Alaska refuge resources. (c) Non-Compliance With Access Provisions of Section 1110 of ANILCA Several commenters expressed concern that the proposed rule violates access provisions in Section 1110 of ANILCA and applicable regulations (43 CFR 36.11) and that the Service did not comply with administrative procedures for restricting access. Section 1110 of ANILCA permits use of airplanes on Alaska refuges for traditional activities (subject to reasonable regulations to protect natural and other values) and provides that such access may only be closed by the Service following a determination that such access is detrimental to refuge resource values.
