FR940505-1-00364 FR940505-1-00012 (vi) General prohibitions. (A) On and after January 1, 1996, a person shall not atomize any solvent into open air. (B) On and after January 1, 1996, a person shall not specify or require any person to use solvent or equipment subject to the provisions of this section that do not meet the requirements of this section. (4) Exemptions. (i) The following solvent cleaning operations are not subject to any provision of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. (A) Cleaning performed in batch-loaded cold cleaners, open-top vapor degreasers, conveyorized degreasers, or film cleaning machines which are regulated under an equivalent (i.e., equally stringent) source-specific section contained in the Federal or federally approved State Implementation Plan. (B) Cleaning operations performed at solvent dry cleaners and perchloroethylene dry cleaning systems which are regulated under an equivalent (i.e., equally stringent) source-specific section contained in the Federal or federally approved State Implementation Plan. (C) Cleaning operations performed at semiconductor manufacturing facilities which are regulated under an equivalent (i.e., equally stringent) source-specific section contained in the Federal or federally approved State Implementation Plan. (D) Cleaning operations performed at aerospace assembly and component manufacturing facilities which are regulated under an equivalent (i.e., equally stringent) source-specific section contained in the Federal or federally approved State Implementation Plan, except coating application equipment cleaning, and storage and disposal of VOC-containing materials used in solvent cleaning operations. (E) Cleaning operations performed at remote reservoir cold cleaners which are regulated under an equivalent (i.e., equally stringent) source-specific section contained in the Federal or federally approved State Implementation Plan. (F) Janitorial cleaning. (G) Stripping of cured coatings, cured adhesives, and cured inks. (H) Cleaning operations using solvents with a water content of 98% or more by weight. (I) Cleaning operations using solvents for clean up of polyester resin application equipment provided they do not exceed 4 gallons a day. (ii) Wipe cleaning is not subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section when carried out for any of the following applications. (A) Cleaning of solar cells, laser hardware, and high-precision optics. (B) Cleaning for conducting performance laboratory tests on coatings, adhesives, or inks; research and development programs; and laboratory tests in quality assurance laboratories. (C) Cleaning of polycarbonate plastics. (iii) Internal cleaning of the tips of automated spray equipment systems, except for robotic systems, and cleaning with spray bottles or containers described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, are not subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(vi)(A) of this section. (iv) Cleaning with aerosol products shall not be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (a)(3)(v)(A) of this section if 160 fluid ounces or less per day per facility of aerosol products are used. (v) Cleaning of cotton swabs to remove cottonseed oil before cleaning of high-precision optics shall not be subject to paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. (vi) A facility which uses non-compliant solvents in quantities less than 1 gallon a week shall not be subject to paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section for those solvents. (vii) Maintenance cleaning conducted at institutions and residential dwellings shall not be subject to paragraph (a)(3)(i)(B) of this section. (5) Reporting and Recordkeeping. (i) Records shall be maintained pursuant to paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section for all applications subject to this section, including those exempted under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, except for cleaning operations performed with a solvent which has a water content of 98% or more, by weight, or a VOC composite partial pressure of 0.1 mm Hg or less at 20 ○C (68 ○F). (ii) Any source within the affected area that uses greater than 20 gallons per year of VOC-containing materials used in solvent cleaning operations shall comply with the following requirements: (A) Maintain a current file of each VOC-containing material in use and in storage for solvent cleaning operations. The file shall provide all of the data necessary to evaluate compliance and shall include, but not be limited to, the following information, as applicable: (1 ) A data sheet or material list giving material name, manufacturer identification and material application; ( 2 ) Any thinners or other components used and the mix ratio; and ( 3 ) The VOC content limit or vapor pressure limit from paragraph (a)(3) of this section and the actual VOC content, as applied, or vapor pressure of the solvent used for cleaning operations. (B) Maintain records of the monthly volume of each solvent used. (C) When compliance is achieved through the use of add-on control equipment pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section, maintain records on a daily basis of key operating parameters for the emission control equipment, including, but not limited to: ( 1 ) Hours of operation; ( 2 ) Routine and nonroutine maintenance;
