FR941213-0-00011 FR941213-0-00003 Seasonal adjustments were not made for the studies referenced in the NPRM because they were not considered to be necessary. Seasonal adjustments are not considered to be necessary, for example, for studies in which data is to be collected during a brief period of time involving no seasonal changes or for studies in which data is to be collected during comparable time periods. Data was collected for the South Carolina study during the same four months in 1990 and 1991. Data was collected for the St. Louis effort during a brief period of time before and during the kickoff of Operation Gateway, so seasonal changes were not a factor in that study. Most of the commenters agreed with the conclusion in the NPRM that Speed Control Programs appear to be among the most effective in reducing crashes, injuries, and fatalities, and they provided examples demonstrating the effectiveness of speed control countermeasures. IIHS indicated that, in South Carolina, police issued 41 tickets per 1,000 vehicles using lasers, as compared with 33 per 1,000 using conventional radar. New York State reported that it experienced the lowest fatality rate on record in 1992 (1.65 deaths per hundred million vehicle miles traveled), ``due in large part to the Division's strict [comprehensive speed] enforcement program.'' According to New York, the fatality rate of 1.65 was 29 percent lower than 2.33 in 1987 (when the State started its program) and equates to 520 fewer lives lost on the highways of that State. The program included a saturation strategy that not only led to the apprehension of specific motorists, but also established a visible presence and generated publicity which raised the perception of risk among all motorists within the State. Based on available information and the comments received in response to the NPRM, the agencies continue to conclude that Speed Control Programs are among the most effective in reducing crashes, injuries, and fatalities. Other Comments Received About Speed Control The State of Illinois agreed that Speed Control should be designated a priority program, but commented that there should be no earmarking of funds for Speed Control (or any other program) and monetary sanctions should not be imposed on States for failing to meet compliance levels. Congress enacted the National Maximum Speed Limit law, which established monetary sanctions for noncompliance and has, from time to time, imposed earmarking or set-aside requirements in appropriations legislation. NHTSA and FHWA are bound to implement these congressional requirements. However, the designation of Speed Control as a priority program under section 402 in this final rule will not create any additional earmarking requirements or monetary sanctions. Most comments strongly supported the designation of Speed Control as a National Priority program area, particularly at this time. New Mexico, for example, expressed its view that: Speed control is ready to mature as a significant injury prevention tool, following the cycle of public attitude change, institutional preparation, and coordinated operational programming that has worked well in *␣*␣* other areas. *␣*␣* [S]tate programs in the coming *␣*␣* years for speed control could be among the most productive injury control measures available to the safety world. Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety stated: Speeding and excessive highway speeds have reached epidemic proportions and must be treated as a national public health problem. *␣*␣* It is incumbent on the agencies to develop a high profile national program against speeding that provides a greater level of public information and awareness regarding the safety dangers associated with speeding. NAGHSR concurred with the designation of Speed Control as a National Priority, but expressed concern about the ``proliferation of 402 priorities'' and the ``possible overlap and duplication'' between the Speed Control and Police Traffic Services (PTS) programs. NAGHSR suggested that the agencies consider instead combining these two programs in a way that emphasizes the importance of speed compliance activities. Three other commenters also recommended that Speed Control be included under PTS, but for different reasons. California OTS expressed concern that a separate Speed Control program area could ``result in the redirection of efforts into `speed only' projects and dilute the accomplishments made in highlighting speed as a major problem in all traffic safety ventures.'' CHP stated that Speed Control already receives considerable attention, and argued that including Speed Control under PTS would allow individual States to better balance their overall approach to traffic safety. West Virginia expressed its opinion that ``public acceptance is likely to be higher if the Speed Control function is part of a well-reasoned and balanced enforcement program rather than as a stand-alone effort which can be interpreted as a revenue enhancement measure.'' The agencies agree with the commenters that Speed Control programs should continue to be included as part of broader traffic safety programs. However, the designation of Speed Control as a priority program does not require that States establish ``stand-alone'' efforts. States have the ability and, in fact, are encouraged by the agencies to continue to include Speed Control messages in their other traffic safety programs. It is the agencies' hope that the program's designation as a National Priority program area will result in the inclusion of Speed Control messages in more traffic safety programs than before. NHTSA and FHWA have considered the comments cited above, and decided not to include Speed Control as part of PTS. The agencies recognize that there will be some overlap between the areas of Speed Control and PTS, since law enforcement activity is an important component in any Speed Control program. (There is a similar level of overlap between the areas of PTS and other priority programs, such as Alcohol Countermeasures and Occupant Protection, to the extent that police agencies enforce laws designed to address these issues.) However, the agencies believe it is important to list the Speed Control program (as well as Alcohol Countermeasures and Occupant Protection) separately, to reflect non-law enforcement activities that are equally important components of these programs. In the area of Speed Control, these components include, for example, the development and enactment of speed-related laws, the use of new technologies, public information and education activities, and the reexamination of speed zoning criteria to ensure that posted speed limits are appropriate for conditions.
