FR940725-0-00008 FR940725-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;07&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8976; AD 94&hyph;15&hyph;05] Airworthiness Directives; Boeing Model 747&hyph;400 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to all Boeing Model 747&hyph;400 series airplanes, that requires various inspections and functional tests of the thrust reverser control and indication system, and correction of any discrepancy found. This amendment is prompted by an investigation to determine the controllability of Model 747 series airplanes following an in-flight thrust reverser deployment, which has revealed that, in the event of thrust reverser deployment during high-speed climb or during cruise, these airplanes could experience control problems. The actions specified by this AD are intended to ensure the integrity of the fail safe features of the thrust reverser system by preventing possible failure modes in the thrust reverser control system that can result in inadvertent deployment of a thrust reverser during flight. DATES: Effective August 24, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of August 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Boeing Commercial Airplane Group, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Washington 98124&hyph;2207. This information may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jon Regimbal, Aerospace Engineer, Propulsion Branch, ANM&hyph;140S, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Seattle Aircraft Certification Office, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2687; fax (206) 227&hyph;1181. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) to include an airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to all Boeing Model 747&hyph;400 series airplanes was published in the Federal Register on March 4, 1994 (59 FR 10336). That action proposed to require various inspections and functional tests of the thrust reverser control and indication system, and correction of any discrepancy found. Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received. One commenter supports the proposed rule. The Air Transport Association (ATA) of America, on behalf of one of its members, requests that the proposed repetitive inspections and tests be withdrawn since those actions will be added to the revised Maintenance Planning Document. The ATA acknowledges that the proposed repetitive actions may not be incorporated uniformly into every operator's maintenance program unless an AD is issued. Therefore, the ATA asks that another provision be added to the proposal as follows: Within 3 months after the effective date of the AD, revise the FAA-approved maintenance inspection program to include a functional test of the thrust reverser control and indication system at an initial 15-month interval. Inspections for damage to the bullnose seal would be conducted at an initial 1,500 flight hour interval. The AD would no longer be applicable for operators that have acceptably revised the maintenance program. Operators complying with this paragraph could use an alternative recordkeeping method in lieu of that required by section 91.417 or 121.380 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 91.417 or 121.380). The FAA would be defined as the cognizant Principal Maintenance Inspector (PMI) for operators electing this alternative. The ATA believes that its suggestion should be adopted because the proposed repetitive actions will likely continue for as long as Model 747&hyph;400 series airplanes are operated. The ATA acknowledges that, while numerous AD's that require repetitive inspections continue for the life of the aircraft, it has either been shown that a satisfactory terminating action has not been developed or that service experience has shown that control of the inspections cannot be administered safely through an operator's maintenance program. The ATA states that its proposal is intended to minimize the impact of the AD process on an operator's maintenance program and cites other AD's that contain provisions similar to its proposal. The FAA recognizes the ATA's concerns regarding the requirement for repetitive inspections and tests of the thrust reverser control and indication systems. However, the FAA finds that this requirement is necessary in order to provide an adequate level of safety by addressing the specified unsafe condition. Further, the FAA determined the required repetitive intervals based on the service history of similar components and on an analysis of the system design to predict the reliability of the system during the service life of the aircraft. Lengthening these intervals would only be appropriate when a sufficient sample of systems is allowed to operate through an entire system overhaul cycle; adjustments made prior to that time may not account for the effects of age and wear. The FAA finds that addressing inspections and tests of the thrust reverser control and indication systems in a document that is not FAA-approved, such as a Maintenance Planning Document, will not ensure an acceptable level of safety with regard to the thrust reverser system. The ATA's suggested provision for accomplishment of the inspections and tests would permit each operator to determine whether and how often these actions should be conducted. In light of the severity of the unsafe condition, however, the FAA has determined that allowing this degree of operator discretion is not appropriate at this time. Therefore, this AD is necessary to ensure that operators accomplish the repetitive actions in a common manner and at common intervals. One commenter requests that the proposed compliance time for the initial inspections and functional tests of the thrust reverser control and indication systems be extended from 6 to 12 months. This commenter offers no justification for the request. A second commenter indicates a false impression that a 12-month compliance time was proposed for these inspections and functional tests, and requests that the compliance time be expressed in terms of maintenance checks (specifically, ``C'' checks) or 15 months to coincide with regularly scheduled maintenance. (The FAA notes that no 12-month compliance time is specified for any requirement contained in the proposal.) Another commenter requests that the compliance times be specified in terms of maintenance check intervals (``A'' checks, ``C'' checks, etc.). The commenter provides no justification for this request.
