FR941013-1-00076 FR941013-1-00010 Regulatory Alternative 5 lowers the organic HAP vapor pressure level for tanks required to be vented to a control device. The control requirements for the other emission points remain the same as for Regulatory Alterative 4. Tanks in which the organic HAP vapor pressure of the waste or recoverable material in the tank is equal to or greater than 0.7 kPa (approximately 0.1 psi) use a cover and are vented to a control device that reduces organic HAP emissions by 95 percent. Tanks in which the organic HAP vapor pressure of the waste or recoverable material in the tank is less than 0.7 kPa use a cover without additional controls. 2. Regulatory Alternatives for New Sources Based on current waste management trends, the EPA expects very few, if any, new off-site waste and recovery operations facilities to be built in the foreseeable future. A more likely scenario is construction of new units (such as tanks or treatment units) at existing off-site waste and recovery operations facilities to expand facility capacity, replace existing surface impoundments, or add new treatment capability or expand treatment capacity. However, the available information to the EPA is insufficient to make projections of the numbers or types of new sources to be built during the next 5 years. A regulatory alternative representing the MACT floor for new sources at off-site waste and recovery operations facilities was defined by combining the MACT floor determinations for new sources. No regulatory alternatives beyond the MACT floor were identified for new sources. The regulatory alternative for new sources requires application of air emission controls on tanks, containers, and treatment processes managing waste or recoverable material with a VOHAP concentration equal to or greater than 100 ppmw as determined at the point where the material first enters the facility. For tank emission points, tanks in which the organic HAP vapor pressure of the waste or recoverable material in the tank is equal to or greater than 0.7 kPa are required to use a cover and be vented to a control device that reduces organic HAP emissions by 95 percent (or equivalent floating roof technology). Tanks in which the organic HAP vapor pressure of the waste or recoverable material in the tank is less than 0.7 kPa use a cover without additional controls (i.e., a cover only without being vented to a control device). For container emission points, the regulatory alternative requires use of a cover on each unit and use of submerged fill when wastes or recoverable materials are transferred into containers by pumping. For process vent emission points, the regulatory alternative requires connecting the process vent to a control device that reduces organic HAP emissions by 95 percent. For land disposal unit emission points, the regulatory alternative requires treatment of the wastes prior to disposal to reduce the waste VOHAP concentration to less than 100 ppmw. For equipment leak emission points, the regulatory alternative requires a implementation of a LDAR program and certain equipment modifications specified under the existing for ancillary equipment handling waste or recoverable material streams with a total organic HAP concentration equal to or greater than 10 percent. The equipment leak requirements are consistent with the existing NSPS process equipment leak standards. G. Regulatory Alternative Impacts The EPA developed estimates of the impacts associated with each of the regulatory alternatives for existing sources. As explained in the preceding section, no impacts were estimated for the regulatory alternatives for new sources because of difficulty in projecting the numbers and types of new sources likely to be built over the next 5 years. 1. Overview of Impacts Estimation Methodology In developing NESHAP and other air standards, the EPA frequently uses a model plant approach for comparing alternative control options. However, for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category, it is difficult to adequately characterize the source category using a selection of several representative model plants because, for many of the facilities in the source category, the quantities and characteristics of wastes and recoverable materials received at the facility are highly variable and can change often (as frequently as on a day-to-day basis). In addition, many different waste management unit and recoverable material reprocessing unit configurations are used at off-site waste and recovery operations facilities to manage these ever changing materials. Consequently, the EPA decided a model plant approach is not appropriate for estimating control option impacts for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category.
