FR941006-2-00009 FR941006-2-00003 The Agency invites written comments and suggestions on the scope and substance of the analysis and the environmental impact statement. In addition, the agency gives notice that the environmental impact statement preparation process will be conducted so that interested and affected people are aware of how they may participate in and contribute to the final decision. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be submitted in writing and postmarked by October 31, 1994, to ensure timely consideration. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Powerline Vegetation Management Analysis, Allegheny National Forest, 222 Liberty Street, P.O. Box 847, Warren PA 16365. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bob White, Allegheny National Forest Silviculturist at 814/723&hyph;5150 about the Environmental Impact Statement. For information about vegetation management under power lines, contact Charles Olenik, Forestry Manager, Pennsylvania Electric Company at 814/533&hyph;8868. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Allegheny National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan completed in 1986, provides for management of electric power transmission and distribution corridors on parts of the Forest. Management of vegetation that can interfere with reliable and efficient transmission and distribution of electric power is needed for approximately 776 acres of land under approximately 120 miles of power lines on the Allegheny National Forest. The purpose of this vegetation management is to produce a plant community that is generally low growing, will stabilize the site against erosion, will provide a diversity of wildlife habitat, and will minimize power outages and costs of management. A range of alternatives will be considered, including herbicide application, mechanical clearing and manual cutting alone, and a combination of these techniques. The ``no action alternative'' is the method of vegetation management currently in use on a site-specific basis. Activities carried out on the ground under this alternative vary from site to site, but will be described and analyzed in the draft and the final environmental impact statements. The decision that will be made in the EIS is a site specific determination of the treatments the power companies may use on each site. The decision is appealable under 36 CFR part 217. Federal, state and local agencies, and other individuals and organizations who may be interested or affected by the decision are invited to participate in the scoping process. This process will include (1) identification of potential issues; (2) identification of issues to be analyzed in depth; and (3) elimination of insignificant issues or those which have been covered by a previous environmental review. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments should be as specific as possible. Please include your name, address, and telephone number (organization represented and your title, if applicable). Preliminary issues that have been identified are: (1) What is the fate of herbicides, carriers and inert ingredients in the environment; (2) what are the effects of herbicides, carriers and inert ingredients on human health; (3) what are the effects on fish and wildlife; (3) what are the impacts on water quality; and, (4) what are the costs and effectiveness of various vegetation management strategies that will ensure the reliability of electric power service. The analysis is expected to take about 10 months. The draft environmental impact statement will be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and will be available for public review in early July 1995. At that time EPA will publish a notice of availability of the draft environmental impact statement in the Federal Register . The comment period on the draft will be 45 days from the date the EPA notice appears in the Federal Register . It is very important that those interested in the management of the Allegheny National Forest participate at that time. To be most helpful, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible, and may address the adequacy of the statement or the merits of the alternatives discussed (see the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations (CEQ) for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3). The Forest Service believes it is important to give reviewers notice at this early stage of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposals so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewers position and contentions, Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 45 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage may be waived if not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement, City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1988) , and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F.supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980) . Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. Comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement (Reviewers may wish to refer to CEQ Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 is addressing these points). After the comment period ends on the draft environmental impact statement, the comments received will be analyzed and considered by the Forest Service in preparing the final environmental impact statement. The final environmental impact statement is scheduled to be completed in December 1995. In the final EIS the Forest Service is required to respond to the comments received (40 CFR 1503.4). The responsible official will consider the comments, responses, environmental consequences discussed in the environmental impact statement, and applicable laws, regulations and policies in making a decision regarding this proposal. The responsible official will document the decision and reasons for the decision in a Record of Decision. That decision will be subject to appeal under 36 CFR part 217. The responsible official is John E. Palmer, Forest Supervisor, Allegheny National Forest, 222 Liberty Street, P.O. Box 847, Warren PA 16365. Dated: September 21, 1994. John E. Palmer, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24757 Filed 10&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
