FR940505-1-00263 FR940505-1-00012 (B) The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section because of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section to perform tests using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to demonstrate that the facility is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (2) VOC Emissions Associated with the Manufacturing of Products. (i) Definitions. (A) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the general definitions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section apply. (B) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the following definitions also apply: Facility which manufactures products containing VOCs means any facility where VOCs are emitted from processes which are used to manufacture or fabricate products. These products include, but are not limited to, the products specified in paragraphs ( 1 ) through ( 7 ) of this definition. This definition does not include facilities which are subject to any of the requirements of paragraph (b)(1), (b)(4), or (b)(5) of this section. ( 1 ) Industrial and agricultural organic chemicals and gases. Industrial organic chemicals include, but are not limited to, gum and wood chemicals, cyclic organic crudes and intermediates, organic dyes and pigments, and the chemicals listed in 40 CFR 52.741, appendix A. Agricultural organic chemicals include, but are not limited to, pesticides, livestock dips, soil conditioners, and fertilizers. ( 2 ) Plastic materials, synthetic resins, synthetic rubber, elastomizers, and cellulosic and manmade fibers. ( 3 ) Drugs which include, but are not limited to, medicinal chemicals and botanical products, pharmaceutical preparations, in vitro and in vivo diagnostic substances, and biological products. ( 4 ) Soaps; detergents; cleaning, polishing, and sanitizing preparations; surface active agents, finishing agents, sulfonated oils, and assistants; and perfumes and cosmetics. ( 5 ) Food additives and sweeteners. ( 6 ) Paints, varnishes, lacquers, enamels, inks, primers, paint removers, thinners, stains, shellacs, cleaners, putty, coatings, adhesives, fillers, sealants, explosives, and carbon black. ( 7 ) Fabricated rubber and miscellaneous plastics products including, but not limited to, tires and inner tubes; rubber and plastics footware, hose, belting, gasket, packing, and sealing devices; and molded, extruded, and lathe-cut mechanical rubber goods. Manufacture means to produce or combine any ingredients contained in any product. Manufacturing process means a process or a series of processes used to convert raw materials, feed stocks, subassemblies, or other components into a product which will be sold, offered for sale, supplied, or distributed or will be used as a component in a subsequent manufacturing process. This definition includes the storage and handling of organic compounds or gases which are used in a manufacturing process and the handling of organic compounds or gases used to clean-up a manufacturing process. (ii) Applicability. (A) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) (iii)(A), (iii)(B), (iv)(A), (v)(A), and (vi)(A) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of a facility which manufactures products containing VOCs located in the control area as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at which total VOC emissions are greater than or equal to 4.5 kg (10 lbs) during any one day. (B) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) (iv)(B), (v)(B), and (vi)(B) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of a facility which manufactures products containing VOCs located in the applicable area specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section at which total VOC emissions from all emissions sources are always less than 4.5 kg (10 lbs) during any one day. If uncontrolled VOC emissions from a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section ever exceed 4.5 kg (10 lbs) during any one day on or after January 1, 2000, the facility will lose its exempt status, and the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) (iii)(B), (iv)(A), (v)(A), and (vi)(A) of this section beginning January 1 of the calendar year following the date of the exceedance. (iii) Specific Provisions. (A) Each owner or operator of a source subject to the FIP VOC emissions cap program as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall submit a VOC emissions reduction compliance plan to the Administrator by January 1, 1999. The plan shall be prepared for the years 2001 through 2005 and shall include all of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) (1) through (5) of this section. Each owner or operator shall submit a revised plan to the Administrator within 30 calendar days of receipt of comments from the Administrator. Each owner or operator shall comply at all times with the provisions of the most recent plan approved by the Administrator. (1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the owner or operator of the facility, and of each person responsible for preparing the information required under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A)( 2 ) of this section. (2) Baseline VOC emissions shall be calculated for each facility. Baseline emissions for each facility shall equal the sum of VOC emissions from all emissions sources at the facility including emissions associated with the use of architectural coatings and clean-up solvents. Baseline emissions shall be calculated as specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(xii) and (a)(4)(xiii) of this section.
