FR940628-1-00044 FR940628-1-00010 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Public Health Service 42 CFR Part 50 Office of the Secretary 45 CFR Part 94 RIN 0905&hyph;AE01 Objectivity in Research AGENCY: Public Health Service and Office of the Secretary, HHS. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Public Health Service (PHS) proposes to issue rules requiring Institutions that apply for research funding from the PHS to assume responsibility for ensuring that the financial interests of the employees of the Institution do not compromise the objectivity with which such research is designed, conducted, or reported. Under the proposed rules, investigators are required to disclose to an official(s) designated by the Institution a listing of Significant Financial Interests. The institutional official(s) will review these disclosures in accordance with an administrative process to be established by each institution. Following this review, the institutional official(s) will determine the acceptability of the reported financial interests and act to protect PHS-funded research from any bias that is reasonably expected to arise from those interests. DATES: To ensure consideration, comments must be received at the address below on or before August 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please address comments to: Dr. George J. Galasso, Associate Director for Extramural Affairs, National Institutes of Health, Shannon Building, Room 152, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Maryland, 20892. The PHS encourages persons with disabilities to use auxiliary devices and services to submit comments. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. George J. Galasso, Associate Director for Extramural Affairs, National Institutes of Health at the address above. The telephone number is (301)-496&hyph;5356 (this is not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Technology Transfer and Conflict of Interest Effective interaction between PHS-funded Institutions conducting research and industry is essential to ensure the rapid application of scientific discoveries to the health needs of the Nation and to maintain the international competitiveness of domestic industry. Nonetheless, prudent stewardship of public funds includes protecting Federally funded research from being compromised by the conflicting financial interests of any Investigator responsible for the design, conduct, or reporting of PHS-funded research. Numerous statutes and programs demonstrate the Federal interest in the promotion of interactions among Government, academia and industry. For example, the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (Public Law (P.L.) 96&hyph;480) encourages technology transfer, particularly through industrial-academic collaborations. The Patent and Trademark Act Amendments of 1980 (P.L. 96&hyph;517) allow universities and other funding recipients to apply for patents developed with Federal funding, and expressly promote collaboration between commercial concerns and nonprofit organizations. The Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 (P.L. 97&hyph;34) is aimed at fostering research and development by small companies and associated university partners. The Federal Technology Transfer Act of 1986 (P.L. 99&hyph;502), which amended P.L. 96&hyph;480, and Executive Order 12592 provide similar patent and licensing authority to Federal laboratories, and encourage them to participate in cooperative research and development agreements with the private sector and nonprofit organizations, including universities. These legal authorities facilitate the movement of intellectual capital between the Federal Government, academic institutions, and the private sector. This kind of cross-fertilization is critical to the development of the U.S. biotechnology industry. However, these and other inducements for collaboration, as well as the rapid growth of the biotechnology industry, have created a climate in which the stewardship of public funding for biomedical and behavioral research is increasingly complex and challenging. The value of the results of PHS-funded research to the health and the economy of the Nation must not be compromised by any financial interest that will, or may be reasonably expected to, bias the design, conduct or reporting of the research. The proposed regulations seek to maintain a reasonable balance between these competing interests, give applicants for PHS research funding responsibility and discretion to identify and manage financial interests that may bias the research, and minimize reporting and other burdens on the applicants. Background The proposed regulations are the result of a lengthy process of consideration. Throughout that process, the PHS has carefully considered and changed its approach in response to public comments. On June 27 and 28, 1989, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration (ADAMHA) sponsored an open meeting to discuss issues related to financial conflict of interest. At that meeting there was general agreement that an Institution that receives research funds from a PHS Awarding Component should develop policies to identify and manage any financial conflict of interest in the funded research. On September 15, 1989, the NIH and ADAMHA published a Request for Comment on Proposed Guidelines for Policies on Conflict of Interest in the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts (Volume 18, Number 32). Seven hundred fifty-one responses were received from individuals associated with medical schools, other academic and research institutions, biotechnology companies, local governments, and non-profit organizations; venture capitalists; attorneys; biomedical journal editors; Federal employees and contractors at Government facilities; and others. In general, those submitting comments were concerned that the proposed guidelines imposed undue burdens on funded institutions and would impede mutually beneficial research collaboration between universities and industry. In response to these comments, the Secretary determined that regulations should be developed that would address those concerns. A public meeting was held at NIH on November 30, 1990, to discuss further the regulation of financial conflict of interest by the PHS. The 18 written comments received at that time reflected views similar to those received earlier.
