FR940902-0-00148 FR940902-0-00010 (3) Each SDA shall develop an appropriate mechanism to ensure suitability screening for eligible applicants or to apply the provisions of ยง628.530 for participants referred by service providers and describe such mechanism in its SDA job training plan. (f)(1) ``Most in need.'' SDA's that satisfy the requirements of sections 203(b) and 263 (b) and (d) pertaining to hard to serve individuals shall be deemed to meet the ``most in need'' criteria at section 141(a) of the Act. (2) The requirements referred to in paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall be calculated on the basis of new participants for whom services or training have been provided subsequent to the objective assessment. (g) The SDA's method of meeting the requirements of sections 203(b) and 263(b) pertaining to hard to serve individuals shall be implemented consistent with the equal opportunity provisions of 29 CFR part 34. ยง628.515 Objective assessment. (a) General. The requirements of this section shall apply to programs conducted under title I (i.e., sections 121 and 123) and title II, parts A, B, and C. (b) Definition. (1) For purposes of this part, an objective assessment means an examination of the capabilities, needs, and vocational potential of a participant and is to be used to develop an individual service strategy and employment goal. Such assessment is customer-centered and a diagnostic evaluation of a participant's employment barriers taking into account the participant's family situation, work history, education, basic and occupational skills, interests, aptitudes (including interests and aptitudes for nontraditional occupations), attitude towards work, motivation, behavior patterns affecting employment potential, financial resources and needs, supportive service needs, and personal employment information as it relates to the local labor market. (2) For the program under title II&hyph;B, the objective assessment shall include an examination of the basic skills and supportive service needs of each participant and may include the other areas listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (sections 204(a)(1)(A), 253(c)(1) and 264(b)(1)(A)). (c) Methods of objective assessment. (1) The SDA shall choose the most appropriate means to measure skills, abilities, attitudes, and interests of the participants. The methods used in conducting the objective assessment may include, but are not limited to, structured interviews, paper and pencil tests, performance tests (e.g., skills, and/or work samples, including those that measure interest and capability to train in nontraditional employment), behavioral observations, interest and/or attitude inventories, career guidance instruments, aptitude tests, and basic skills tests. (2) Instruments used for objective assessment may be developed at the local level; however, any formalized instruments nationally available should be used only for the specific populations for which they are normed. (d) Updating of assessments. Objective assessment should be treated as an ongoing process. As additional relevant information relating to a participant becomes available, it should be reviewed and considered for inclusion in the individual service strategy. (e) Other sources of objective assessment. Other non-JTPA assessments (e.g., through the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills (JOBS) program under title IV of the Social Security Act, or through schools) which have been completed within one year of application for services, and which meet the requirements of this section, may be used to comply with the requirement to assess each participant. ยง628.520 Individual service strategy. (a) General. The requirements of this section shall apply to programs conducted under title I (i.e., sections 121 and 123) and title II, parts A, B and C. (b) Definition._ (1) Individual service strategy (ISS) means an individual plan for a participant, which shall include an employment goal (including, for women, consideration of nontraditional employment), appropriate achievement objectives, and the appropriate combination of services for the participant based on the objective assessment conducted pursuant to ยง628.515 of this part, Objective assessment. In developing the ISS, the participant shall be counseled regarding required loan repayments if the participant chooses to incur personal indebtedness to participate in an education program. The participant shall also be apprised of the requirements for self-sufficiency and the occupational demands within the labor market. (2) Decisions concerning appropriate services shall be customer-centered, and ensure that the participant is not excluded from training or career options consistent with the provisions of 29 CFR part 34 concerning nondiscrimination and equal opportunity. (3) For the title II&hyph;B program, the ISS may include the components specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (sections 204(a)(1)(B), 253(c)(2) and 264(b)(1)(B)). For purposes of titles II&hyph;B and II&hyph;C, the employment goal may be interpreted broadly and based on long-term career guidance. (c) Joint Development of ISS. The ISS shall be developed in partnership with the participant and reflect the needs indicated by the objective assessment and the expressed interests and desires of the participant. It is not a formal contract and signatures are not a requirement.
