FR941007-1-00017 FR941007-1-00001 The literature on this subject identifies five main avenues through which energy security externalities can be generated. Authors generally reach widely varying conclusions about their significance. DOE intends to study each of these five areas and invites comments on their significance. The importance of several of the pathways listed below depends partially or wholly on the amount oil prices rise in response to an oil supply disruption. Thus, as a part of its study of energy security externality values, DOE will consider the likelihood of a disruption, its size, excess production capacity in other regions of the world, and how the price shock associated with the disruption might be mitigated by drawing down strategic petroleum stockpiles. DOE invites comments on the best approach to study these issues. With the exception of externalities # 3 and perhaps # 5 listed below, the external effects of oil consumption are more closely associated with the total amount of oil consumed in the U.S. economy, and not oil imports. (1) Gross Domestic Product losses resulting from oil price shocks: Increased world oil prices caused by supply disruptions may cause macroeconomic shocks to the economy that result in unemployment and Gross Domestic Product losses. Different studies reach different conclusions regarding the significance of oil price shocks on macroeconomic performance. For example, a DOE study (1987) cites macroeconomic stabilization as one justification for energy security policy. In contrast, a study by Bohi (1991) finds little, if any, link between oil price shocks and macroeconomic performance. (2) Inflationary losses that accompany oil price rises: If oil prices rise, then the rate of inflation in the economy increases. Policies to fight inflation can cause increased unemployment and heighten Gross Domestic Product losses. Further, because many government payments are indexed to inflation, oil price shocks can increase the size of the budget deficit. DOE intends to treat these inflationary losses as part of the Gross Domestic Product loss component cited previously. (3) Monopsony price effects: Some economists argue that decreased domestic oil consumption will lower world oil prices and reduce payments for imported oil. The reduced U.S. payments for imported oil benefit U.S. and foreign consumers, but they hurt domestic and foreign producers. From a U.S.-centric accounting stance, this outcome would be beneficial because the U.S. consumes more oil than it produces. Adopting a U.S.-centric stance might be problematic in light of continuing U.S. policies to encourage free trade. For example, U.S. exports of products other than oil to both oil exporting countries and other countries could be reduced as the effects of a reduction in the value of oil imports work through the trading system. Recognizing that monopsony-like arguments could be raised to justify externality values for many types of imported goods, DOE intends to consider whether there is anything special about oil that justifies an externality for it, while excluding one for other products.
