FR940106-0-00101 FR940106-0-00021 ( 2 ) Step Two: ``Providing career development programs and other methods of facilitating health care workers to become registered nurses.'' This may include programs leading directly to a degree in nursing, or career ladder/career path programs which could ultimately lead to a degree in nursing. A facility choosing this step shall maintain as documentation a description of the content and eligibility requirements for both types of programs and an explanation of how the requirements of this paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A)( 2 ) are satisfied by each program. Any such degree program shall be, at a minimum, either through an accredited community college (leading to an associate's degree), 4-year college (a bachelor's degree), or diploma school, and the course of study shall be one accredited by a State Board of Nursing (or its equivalent). For career ladder or career path programs, the facility shall maintain documentation that the programs are normally part of a course of study or training which prepares a U.S. worker for enrolling in formal direct training leading to a degree in nursing, either through an accredited community college, a 4-year college, or a diploma school. See ยง XXX .350(b) of this part. Financing by the facility, either directly or arranged through a third party, shall cover the total costs of such programs. U.S. workers participating in such programs shall be working or have worked in health care occupations or health care facilities. The number of U.S. workers for whom such training is provided shall be equal to no less than half the average number of vacancies for nurses during the 12-month period prior to the submission of the attestation. ( 3 ) Step Three: ``Paying registered nurses wages at a rate higher than currently being paid to registered nurses similarly employed in the geographic area.'' A facility choosing this step shall maintain documentation showing that its entire schedule of wages for nurses is at least 5 percent higher than the prevailing wages as determined by the SESA pursuant to paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, and it shall attest that such differentials shall be maintained throughout the period of the attestation's effectiveness. ( 4 ) Step Four: ``Providing adequate support services to free registered nurses from administrative and other non-nursing duties.'' Non-nursing duties include such activities as housekeeping duties; food preparation and delivery; transporting patients; providing occupational and respiratory therapy; answering telephones; running errands for patients; and clerical tasks. A facility choosing this step shall not require nurses at the facility to perform non-nursing duties. However, it is understood that on an infrequent non-recurring basis, nurses at the facility may perform one or more of the tasks encompassed by the duties listed above in this paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A)( 4 ) or other non-nursing duties. Facilities choosing this step shall maintain documentation showing what steps they have taken to ensure that nursing jobs do not include any of these duties and that such activity by nurses at the facility occurs without regularity and infrequently. Such a facility also shall maintain documentation with respect to any other steps being taken to relieve nurses from non-nursing duties, or to enhance the nursing function, such as computerizing certain writing and routine functions performed by nurses. ( 5 ) Step Five: ``Providing reasonable opportunities for meaningful salary advancement by registered nurses.'' Documentation for this step shall include documentation of systems for salary advancement based on factors such as merit, education, and specialty, and/or salary advancement based on length of service with other bases for wage differentials remaining constant. ( i ) Merit, education, and specialty. For salary advancement based on factors such as merit, education, and specialty, the facility shall maintain and make available for inspection documentation that it provides opportunities for professional development of its nurses which lead to salary advancement, e.g. , opportunities for continuing education; in-house educational instruction; special committees, task forces, or projects considered of a professional development nature; participation in professional organizations; and writing for professional publications. Such opportunities shall be available to all the facility's nurses. ( ii ) Length of service. For salary advancement based on length of service, the facility shall maintain and make available for inspection documentation that it has clinical ladders in place which provide, annually, salary increases of 3 percent or more for a period of no less than 10 years, over and above the costs of living and merit, education, and specialty increases and differentials.
