FR940822-0-00050 FR940822-0-00016 The Foundation invites each finalist to an interview with a regional review panel. Panels evaluate Truman Finalists primarily on: (a) Leadership potential including vision, sensitivity, and communications skills; (b) Commitment to a career in government or elsewhere in public service; and (c) Intellectual strength, analytical abilities, and prospects of performing well in graduate school. §1801.23 Recommendation by panel. (a) Each Panel is asked to recommend to the Board of Trustees the name of one candidate from each state in the region to be appointed as a Truman Scholar. The Foundation may authorize each region review panel to recommend additional Scholars from the States in its region. (b) The recommendations are based on the material required under §1801.17 and, as determined in the interview, the panel's assessment of each finalist in terms of criteria presented in §1801.22. §1801.24 Nomination of seniors. (a) In the event that a regional review panel determines that none of the finalists from a state meet all the requirements expected of a Truman Scholar, it does not have to provide a recommendation. The Foundation will carry over the Scholarship for that state making two Scholarships available the succeeding year. Seniors will be eligible to participate the succeeding year as well as juniors. Institutions may nominate up to three seniors for this extra Scholarship in addition to three juniors. (b) If additional nominations are made under paragraph (a) of this section, the applications must meet the requirements of Subpart B of this part, and are considered under the procedures of this subpart. §1801.25 Selection of Truman Scholars by the Foundation. The Foundation names Truman Scholars after receiving recommendations from the regional review panels. Subpart D_Graduate Study and the Work Experience Program §1801.30 Continuation into graduate study. (a) The Foundation will not conduct a new and separate competition for graduate scholarships, nor will it add new Truman Scholars at the graduate level. (b) Only Scholars who satisfactorily complete their undergraduate education and who comply with §1801.31 shall be eligible for continued Foundation support for an approved program of graduate study. §1801.31 Approval of graduate study programs by the Foundation. (a) By December 1, Scholars desiring Foundation support for graduate study the following academic year must submit a proposed program of graduate study to the Foundation for approval. The graduate study program proposed for approval may differ from that proposed by the Scholar when nominated for a Truman Scholarship. Factors to be used by the Foundation in considering approval include being consistent with: (1) Field of study initially proposed in the Scholar's Nomination and Supporting Information Form; (2) Graduate school programs given priority in the current Bulletin of Information; (3) Undergraduate educational program and work experience of the Scholar; and (4) Preparation specifically for a career in public service. (b) Foundation approval in writing of the Scholar's proposal is required before financial support is granted for graduate work. (c) Scholars must include in their submission to the Foundation a statement of interest in a career in public service that specifies in detail how their graduate program and their overall educational and work experience plans will realistically prepare them for their chosen career goal in government or elsewhere in the public service. The Foundation issues guidelines to help Scholars prepare their proposals. (d) After completing his or her undergraduate studies, a Scholar may request in writing each year a deferral of support for graduate studies. Deferrals must be requested no later than June 15 for the succeeding academic year. Scholars failing to request a year's deferral and to receive written approval from the Foundation will lose one year of funding support for each year for which they fail to request and receive deferrals. Total deferrals may not exceed four years unless an extension is approved by the Foundation. Extensions are generally granted only for Scholars attending graduate or professional school and supported by other scholarships or private resources or for Scholars with commitments to the uniformed services. §1801.32 Eligible colleges and degree programs. (a) Truman Scholars at the graduate level may use Foundation support to study at any accredited institution that offers graduate study appropriate and relevant to their public service career goals. (b) They may enroll in any relevant graduate program for a career in public service. A wide variety of fields of study can lead to careers in public service including_but not limited to_agriculture, biology and environmental sciences, engineering, mathematics, physical and social sciences as well as traditional fields such as economics, education, government, history, international relations, law, medicine and public health, political science, and public administration and public policy. (c) Foundation support for graduate study is restricted to three years of full-time study for Scholars selected in 1991 and subsequent years from four year institutions and to two years for all other Scholars. §1801.33 Public service internships and employment prior to graduate study. The Foundation encourages all Scholars to consider participating in paid internships, regular employment, or in voluntary programs of work experience in the government or in other public service organizations before attending graduate school. The Foundation may give preference in its selection process to nominees planning such internships and employment. Subpart E_Payments to Finalists and Scholars §1801.40 Travel expenses of finalists. The Foundation will provide support for intercity round trip transportation from the finalist's place of study to the interview site. The Foundation does not reimburse finalists for lodging, meals, local transportation, or other expenses. The Foundation announces the terms and conditions of support in the annual Bulletin of Information. §1801.41 Scholarship stipends. The award covers eligible expenses in the following categories: tuition, fees, books, and room and board. Payments from the Foundation may be received to supplement, but not to duplicate, benefits received by the Scholar from the educational institution or from other foundations or organizations. The benefits received from all sources combined may not exceed the costs of tuition, fees, books, and room and board as determined by the Foundation. (a) Scholars selected in 1990 and prior years are eligible to receive annually up to $7,000. (b) Scholars selected in 1991 and in subsequent years are eligible to receive a total of no more than $30,000. Each Scholar is eligible to receive up to $3000 for the senior year of undergraduate education. Scholars in graduate programs planning to receive degrees in one to two years are eligible to receive up to $13,500 per year or $10,000 (adjusted annually from January 1985 to reflect increases, if any, in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics), whichever is less. Scholars in graduate programs requiring three or more years of academic study are eligible to receive up to $9000 per year for a maximum of three years. §1801.42 Definition of ``fee''. Fee , in this part, means a typical and usual non-refundable charge by the institution of higher education for a service, a privilege, or the use of property which is required for a Scholars' enrollment and registration. §1801.43 Allowance of books.
