FR940413-0-00080 FR940413-0-00026 This section, however, imposes an affirmative duty on a PHA to fund at least the same level of supportive services needed and requested by non-elderly disabled families that the PHA funds for elderly families in the designated project. Revision to Requirement Concerning Accessible Units The proposed rule required the PHA to describe the steps to be taken to replace any accessible units that will be unavailable as a result of the designation. A few commenters noted that PHAs are already mandated by section 504 to assess and provide for accessibility needs, and recommended this provision refer to the PHA's obligations under section 504 obligations. The Department agrees, and final rule requires the PHA to describe the steps taken by the PHA to affirmatively meet its obligations under 24 CFR part 8 to respond to any need for accessible units that will no longer be available to applicants who need these units. Removal of Requirement To Provide Information on Existing Occupancy Policy and Procedures The final rule also removes the requirement for the PHA to provide information on the PHA's existing occupancy policies and procedures, and to include a description of the PHA's HUD-approved Tenant Selection and Assignment Plan. With respect to the PHA's admission policies and procedures, the final rule requires the PHA to describe any changes the PHA intends to make in its admission policies to accommodate the proposed designation. Allocation Plan Approval or Disapproval Approval of Plan Because of HUD Failure To Respond Within Timeframes The final rule clarifies that if HUD fails to approve or disapprove an allocation plan within the timeframes imposed by statute, and set forth in this regulation, an allocation plan will be considered approved. Time Limits on Resubmission of Disapproved Allocation Plans The proposed rule provided that if the Department disapproves an initial allocation plan, a PHA shall have a period of not less than 45 days following notification of disapproval to submit amendments to the plan, or to submit a revised plan. ``A period of not less than 45 days'' is the language used in the statute. A few commenters read this provision to mean that only 45 days would be permitted. Other commenters requested that there be no time limitation imposed on the resubmission of an allocation plan. The final rule continues to provide PHAs, consistent with the statute, with a period of at least 45 days to submit amendments to the plan or to submit a revised plan. The Department, however, declines to adopt the suggestion of some commenters that there be no time limitation on submission of a revised plan. In fact, on further consideration, the Department has decided to impose a maximum time limit on when a disapproved plan may be resubmitted. The Department believes that the passage of a substantial period of time may affect the data originally reported in the allocation plan, and may make it necessary for the PHA to hold another public meeting. Accordingly, the final rule provides that PHAs will have a period of no less than 45 days, and no more than 90 to resubmit an initial allocation plan originally disapproved. The Department believes that 90 days represents a reasonable maximum period within which to submit a revised plan. An allocation plan that may require more than 90 days to make it an approvable plan, in all likelihood, indicates serious underlying problems with the plan. Accordingly, the PHA and the families that it houses are better served by restarting the allocation plan development process. The Department declines to apply, as one commenter suggested, one time limit to all revised plans. Some revisions required of allocation plans may take minimal time on the part of the PHA, and therefore 45 days will be sufficient, while other revisions may require use of the longer 90-day period. Designated Housing for Disabled Families The final rule makes several changes to ยง945.205 that addresses the supportive service plan component for obtaining approval to designate projects for disabled families. To obtain approval to designate a project for disabled families, section 622 requires submission of an allocation plan and a supportive service plan. Supportive Service Plan Is Statutory Requirement Many commenters objected to the requirement to submit a supportive service plan in order to obtain approval for designated housing for disabled families. The commenters stated that it is not only unfair to disabled families, it is unfair to PHAs. Several commenters stated that this requirement reinforces the stereotype that persons with disabilities have special needs and are incapable of living independently. Other commenters stated that if the supportive service plan is going to be required for housing for disabled families, it also should be required for housing for elderly families. The requirement to submit a supportive service plan for designated housing for disabled families is a statutory requirement, not a regulatory one. However, the Department has made changes to this provision of the final rule with the intention of minimizing the administrative burden, and with the intention of clarifying when this type of housing should be considered as an alternative housing for persons with disabilities. Demonstrated Need and Demand for This Housing The final rule provides that HUD will approve designation of a project for disabled families only where there is a clear demonstration of both a need and demand for such designation, and in the absence of such demonstrated need and demand, PHAs should provide for the housing needs of disabled families in the most integrated setting possible. The inclusion of a demonstration or evidence that there is a clear need and demand for housing that is limited to persons with disabilities is in response to commenters from the disability community who stressed that this type of housing should not be the automatic alternative to designated housing for elderly families.
