FR940428-2-00087 FR940428-2-00052 3. A significant reduction in a margin of safety is not involved. The above change in surveillance interval resulting from an increased operating cycle will not result in a channel statistical allowance which exceeds the margin which exists between the current Technical Specification and the licensing basis Safety Analysis. This margin, which is equivalent to the existing margin, is necessary to assure that protective safety functions will occur so that Safety Analysis limits are not exceeded. [(7) Loss of Power Undervoltage and Degraded Voltage Relays:] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. There is no significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident. The Technical Specifications specify that the Loss of Power (undervoltage and degraded voltage) relays be calibrated and tested at a refueling interval; that the undervoltage alarm be calibrated at a refueling interval, and that the undervoltage (station blackout) input to Auxiliary Feedwater be calibrated at refueling intervals. It is proposed that the surveillance frequency be revised from 18 months (+25%) to 24 months (+25%). All of the undervoltage and station blackout relays were found to be within specification at each of the refueling outage calibration periods. Since the old relays have been replaced with relays from a different manufacturer whose drift characteristics are expected to be superior, extending the surveillance interval by several months will not significantly increase the probability or consequences of an accident. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed has not been created. Past test results provide reasonable assurance that the relays will perform in an acceptable manner for an extended operating cycle. With the installation of the new relays, whose performance will surpass the old relays, it is concluded that the plant will perform within its design basis for an extended operating cycle. Therefore, the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed has not been created. 3. There has been no significant reduction in the margin of safety. Since the new relays will surpass the performance of the old relays, there is reasonable assurance that a significant reduction in the margin of safety has not resulted from an extended operating cycle. [(8) Over-pressurization Protection System (OPS) and Control Rod Protection System (for use with Low Parasite (LOPAR) fuel) Trip:] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. A significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated will not occur. It is proposed that the channel calibration frequency for the Over-pressurization protection system and the LOPAR trip system be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). This necessitates a change in the LOPAR Technical Specification trip setpoint from 350 ○F to 381 ○F. A statistical analysis of channel uncertainty for a 30 month operating cycle has been performed based upon historical test data. Based on this analysis, a change to the Technical Specifications is required. Sufficient margin exists between the Safety Analysis limit and the proposed Technical Specification limit to accommodate projected channel uncertainty over a 30 month operating cycle. A statistical basis exists to assure that protective action will occur to prevent Safety Analysis limits from being exceeded. Thus, there will not be a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident previously evaluated has not been created. Based upon a statistical analysis of past historical test data it has been demonstrated that reasonable assurance exists to conclude that Safety Analysis limits will not be exceeded over a 30 month operating cycle. The proposed Technical Specification limits provide margin with respect to the Safety Analysis limits and confidence that appropriate plant protective response will be provided to prevent the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from that previously evaluated from being created. 3. A significant reduction in a margin of safety is not involved. The proposed changes to the Technical Specification limits are being made to assure that the previously established margin remains the same between plant protective function set points and Safety Analysis limits. This margin is based upon an evaluation of past historical test data and analytical methods for projecting instrument channel uncertainty over a 30 month operating cycle. It is therefore concluded that the existing margin of safety has been preserved. [(9) Condenser Evacuation System Activity Monitor (R&hyph;45):] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. There is no significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident. It is proposed that the channel calibration frequency for the Condenser Evacuation System Noble Gas Activity Monitor (R&hyph;45) be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). Since this radiation monitor is relatively new a degree of uncertainty is introduced by extending the surveillance interval by several months. However, the setpoint for automatic diversion is set some what conservatively. It is established sufficiently high to avoid spurious actuations and yet sufficiently low so that diversion and alarm can occur should a step increase in radioactivity level occur. Under these circumstances considerable departure from the setpoint can be accommodated and the monitor will still perform its intended safety function. Continued monitor operability is important and malfunction would be detected by monthly checks during the extended operating cycle. Thus, despite the introduction of a new monitor, the capability of R&hyph;45 to tolerate drift in addition to monthly operator checks, leads to the conclusion that an extended operating cycle will not result in a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed has not been created. Monthly checks would identify abnormal operating characteristics, should the instrument fail to perform its intended function. In the event of tube rupture with a reactor coolant system radioactivity concentration corresponding to 1% defective fuel, the resultant site boundary dose would be within 10 CFR [part] 20 limits should the monitor fail to perform its function (as discussed in FSAR [Final Safety Analysis Report]). In addition, alternate means of alarms to indicate a tube rupture event are available. Thus, the possibility of a new or different kind of accident has not been created. 3. There has been no reduction in the margin of safety. Although this monitor is not necessary to mitigate releases below regulatory limits, it does provide the earliest of a steam generator tube leak. In this regard, continued instrument operation is important. Continued instrument operability would be verified by the monthly checks in an extended operating cycle. [(10) Service Water Inlet Temperature Monitoring Instrumentation:]
