FR940831-2-00040 FR940831-2-00030 Office of Procurement and Assistance Management Contractor Litigation Costs Policies; Policies, Terms of Law Firm Engagement, and Allowability of Costs AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of interim policy statement. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy today publishes an interim Acquisition Letter for public comment that has been issued to contracting officers who are responsible for the administration of management and operating contracts. The letter sets forth interim policies regarding two contract clauses that are prescribed by the Department of Energy Acquisition Regulation. The letter sets forth a statement of policy with regard to the terms of engagement that should be a condition of any authorization to a current or former management and operating contractor to engage a law firm to defend a lawsuit. The letter also sets forth policies for a contracting officer's consideration in determining whether particular litigation costs are reasonable and therefore allowable. DATES: The effective dates are set forth in the interim Acquisition Letter. Comments are due on or before September 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted to Marc Johnston, Deputy General Counsel for Judicial Litigation, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marc Johnston, Deputy General Counsel for Judicial Litigation, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585 (202) 586&hyph;2909. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of Energy (Department) owns facilities in various locations in the United States which have been operated by former and current management and operating contractors. In connection with these facilities, there is a substantial amount of litigation against which the Department may elect to defend itself or authorize the contractor to defend. The standard provisions of management and operating contracts allow contracting officers to authorize contractors to engage lawyers to defend lawsuits, subject to such conditions as the contracting officers deem appropriate. See 48 CFR 970.5204&hyph;31. The standard provisions of management and operating contracts also authorize contracting officers to determine whether the costs charged are reasonable and therefore allowable when allocable to contract work. See 48 CFR 970.5204&hyph;13. Recently, the Department has experienced unacceptably high litigation costs from management and operating contractors in connection with the defense of lawsuits where the Department has elected to have the contractor engage lawyers to conduct the litigation. Moreover, contracting officers dealing with these costs have differed in their approaches to determining whether a litigation cost is reasonable. The Department has an urgent need to provide for a more uniform approach by contracting officers to such costs and to stem payment of unreasonable expenses. This need is particularly compelling in light of the substantial dollar amounts at stake and the Department's budgetary situation. In view of the foregoing, the Department has issued the Acquisition Letter set forth below as an interim policy, the effective dates of which are set forth below. The Department will receive and consider public comment prior to issuing a final version of this Acquisition Letter. The provisions of the policy are largely self-explanatory. They are based on past experience of the contractors, the Department of Energy, and other federal agencies (including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Resolution Trust Corporation) in managing and controlling litigation costs throughout the Nation, and should provide a reasonable decisionmaking framework for contracting officers without being unnecessarily constraining. If any of the provisions of the policy would be unreasonable as applied, contracting officers have discretion to depart from the policy based upon particular facts and circumstances. The Department is seeking public comment on the interim Acquisition Letter in order to give the public, including those persons who are affected by the policies, an opportunity to comment on the interim Letter before it is finalized. Issued in Washington, DC, on August 26, 1994. Richard H. Hopf, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Office of Procurement and Assistance Management. Acquisition Letter 94&hyph;13, August 25, 1994. Authority: This Acquisition Letter (AL) is issued by the Procurement Executive pursuant to a delegation from the Secretary and under authority of the Department of Energy Acquisition Regulation (DEAR) Subpart 901.301&hyph;70. Contents ␣ 1Citation 1Title 970.5204&hyph;13 Allowable costs and fixed-fee (Management and Operating Contracts) 970.5204&hyph;31 Litigation and claims I. Purpose The purpose of this AL is to establish interim policies on the reasonableness of Management and Operating (``M&O'') contractor litigation costs. II. Background Under the allowable costs clause of the Department's M&O contracts, attorneys' fees and other litigation costs are allowable only if reasonable and incurred in accordance with the Litigation and claims clause. The policies set forth below are a prospective reference to aid in Contracting Officers' determinations as to whether contractor litigation costs under M&O contracts are reasonable.
