FR941012-2-00124 FR941012-2-00080 14. The conditions pursuant to which the exemptive order is granted and the duties and responsibilities of the Trustees of the Funds with respect to the Multiple Class System will be set forth in guidelines which will be furnished to the Trustees. 15. Each Fund will disclose the respective expenses, performance data, distribution arrangements, services, fees, sales loads, deferred sales loads, and exchange privileges applicable to each class of shares in every prospectus regardless of whether all classes of shares are offered through each prospectus. Each Fund will disclose the respective expenses and performance data applicable to all classes of shares in every shareholder report. The shareholder reports will contain, in the statement of assets and liabilities and statement of operations, information related to the Fund as a whole generally and not on a per class basis. Each Fund's per share data, however, will be prepared on a per class basis with respect to all classes of shares of such Fund. To the extent any advertisement or sales literature describes the expenses or performance data applicable to any class of shares, it will also disclose the respective expenses and/or performance data applicable to all classes of shares. The information provided by applicants for publication in any newspaper or similar listing of the Fund's net asset values and public offering prices will present each class of shares separately. 16. Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the requested exemptive order will not imply Commission approval or authorization of or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that the Funds may make pursuant to rule 12b&hyph;1 plans or shareholder services plans in reliance on the order. 17. Applicants will comply with the provisions of proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act, Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (November 2, 1988), as the rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted, or amended. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25190 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
