FR940513-2-00197 FR940513-2-00092 Budget Competition for USIA funding is keen. The selection of a grantee institution will depend on program substance, cross-cultural sensitivity and ability to carry out the program successfully. Since USIA cooperative assistance constitutes only a portion of total project funding, proposals should list and provide evidence of other anticipated sources of financial and in-kind support. A proposal's cost-effectiveness, including in-kind contributions and ability to keep administrative costs low, is a major consideration in the review process. Funding for this grant is limited to $250,000. Preference will be given to the most competitive budget proposals. Qualified organizations with less than four years of successful experience in managing international exchange programs are limited to grants of $60,000. A comprehensive line item budget should be submitted with the proposal by the application deadline. Specific guidelines for budget preparation are available in the application packet. Application Requirements Proposals must be submitted within the deadline and conform to the program design. The proposal package should include one original and 14 complete copies and all required documentation. Proposal should be presented as follows: 1. An executive summary (abstract), not to exceed two double-spaced pages. 2. A narrative, not to exceed 20 double-spaced pages, showing the intellectual rationale and goal of the program, how the program will accomplish its goals and how it relates to USIA's mission to increase mutual understanding between people of the United States and of other societies. This section should include a concise description of the project's work plan, spelling out program schedules, thematic agenda and proposed itineraries. Participant selection should be discussed in detail. This section should conclude with a discussion of any follow-up activities planned; how the organization intends to evaluate the project; and what groups, beyond the direct participants, will benefit from the project. 3. A comprehensive line item budget. See application package. 4. Resumes (not to exceed two pages each) for key personnel. 5. Confirmation letters from foreign co-sponsors noting their intention to participate in the program. 6. USIA compliance forms, furnished with the application package. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the appropriate geographic area office, and the budget and contracts offices. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Agency's Office of General Counsel. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's contracting officer. Review Criteria
