FR940516-1-00049 FR940516-1-00003 Corrosion protection will be necessary for valve operators and control lines. Question _Should SDV's be manufactured, maintained, and repaired in accordance with a certification process similar to the process used with surface and subsurface safety valves? Response _API Spec 6D, Specification for Pipeline Valves, is a sufficient standard for valves, so certification is not necessary. Pipeline SDV's are not critical to permanent containment of hydrocarbons. However, proper maintenance of subsea valves may be a bigger issue. Question _Would the use of flexible piping impose difficulties to subsea valve? Response _Not so long as the pipeline is properly anchored at the valve location. High seas could pose a difficult problem (keeping the pipe still). Also, special support may be necessary for the SDV. Question _If an SDV is placed at an alternate seafloor location, should an ADV also be placed on the platform? Response _An SDV installed on a platform has a different function than a subsea SDV. The platform SDV mitigates consequences of a hydrocarbon release from the process equipment by isolating the pipeline from those facilities. Subsea SDV's mitigate the consequences of a hydrocarbon release from the pipeline which may occur as a primary or secondary event. In general, redundancy is always safer. However, redundancy costs more for equipment and increases the chance for malfunction and platform downtime. Placement of a surface SDV should not be required but considered an option. In general, SDV's should not be placed on the seafloor except in unusual circumstances. If an SDV is installed above the splash zone, there is no need for another one on the seafloor. Question _Current regulations require SDV's on certain incoming pipelines. What, if any, SDV's should be required on outgoing and crossing pipelines? Response _There is no need to place SDV's on all outgoing or crossing pipelines. Adding more valves is not necessary; however, present valves may need to be relocated to safer locations. The SDV's should be placed on new outgoing and crossing pipelines. A risk assessment should be performed on existing lines before making such modifications. Flow safety valves are adequate and less likely to fail, due to their simplistic design. Unmanned platforms that contain no production facilities, no compression, and no power source should not require SDV's. Question _What options are available to allow rapid reduction of pipeline pressure in an emergency, and what are the benefits and drawbacks of the techniques? Response _Rapid reduction of pipeline pressure is a formidable problem. Flaring at the platform can be a very slow method of reducing pipeline pressure. Strategically located SDV's along the pipeline may offer an alternative to depressurization. An outlying subsea vent is probably safest since it distances the gas from the platform. However, in most cases, rapid pressure reduction is expensive and of limited use. There is the damage of the formation of hydrate plugs and liquid plug flow as well as the need to prevent expanding vapor explosions. Blowdown on the seafloor or a platform could cause considerable pollution due to entrained liquids and could feed a fire in some instances.
