FR940516-1-00029 FR940516-1-00001 (4) Which of the foregoing persons will make trading decisions for the pool; and (5) If known, the futures commission merchant through which the pool will execute its trades. (f) Business background . (1) The business background, for the five years preceding the date of the disclosure document, of: (i) The commodity pool operator, the pool's trading manager, if any, each major commodity trading advisor and the operator of each major investee pool; and (ii) Each principal of the foregoing persons who participates in making trading or operational decisions for the pool or supervises persons so engaged. (2) The pool operator must include in the description of the business background of each such person the name and main business of that person's employers, business associations or business ventures and the nature of the duties performed by such person for the employers or in connection with the associations or ventures. (g) Principal risk factors. As applicable, a discussion of the principal risk factors of this investment. This discussion must include, without limita tion, risks relating to volatility, leverage, and counterparty creditworthiness. (h) Use of proceeds . The pool operator must disclose: (1) The types of commodity interests or other interests the commodity pool operator intends that the pool will hold or trade, with a description of the trading program that will be followed and any restrictions or limitations on such interests or trading required by the pool's organizational documents or otherwise. (2)(i) The manner in which the pool will fulfill its margin requirements and the approximate percentage of the pool's property that will be segregated pursuant to the Act and the Commission's regulations thereunder. (ii) If property deposited as margin generates income, to whom that income will be paid. (iii) If the pool will fulfill its margin requirements with other than cash deposits, the nature of such deposits. (3) With respect to pool property not deposited as margin, paid as premiums or held in cash or cash equivalents: (i) The nature of such property ( e.g. , securities listed on a national securities exchange, interests in commodity pools or other funds, bonds, commercial paper) including whether such property is subject to state or federal regulation or to regulation by a foreign government, and any investment rating thereof; and (ii) The custodian or other entity, e.g. , bank or brokerdealer, which will hold pool property not deposited as margin or paid as premiums, and, if such property will be held or invested outside of the United States, its territories or possessions, the jurisdiction in which it will be held; (i) Fees and expenses. (1) A complete description of each fee, expense and commission which the commodity pool operator knows or should know has been incurred by the pool for its preceding fiscal year and is expected to be incurred by the pool in its current fiscal year, including fees and expenses occurring within investee pools. (2) This description shall include, but not be limited to: (i) Management fees; (ii) Brokerage fees and commissions, including interest income paid to futures commission merchants; (iii) Fees and commissions paid in connection with trading advice provided to the pool; (iv) Fees and expenses incurred within investments in investee pools and other collective investment vehicles, disclosed separately for each investment tier; (v) Incentive fees and any disproportionate share of profits allocated to the commodity pool operator, i.e. , any right of the commodity pool operator to receive a greater than pro rata share of the pool's profits, based on the percentage of capital contributions made by the commodity pool operator. (vi) Commissions or other benefits, including trailing commissions paid or that may be paid or accrue, directly or indirectly, to any person in connection with the solicitation of participations in the pool; and
