FR940202-0-00079 FR940202-0-00006 Example 8. Variable rate based on the cost of borrowed funds in a foreign currency. Y issues a 5-year dollar denominated debt instrument that provides for annual interest payments at a rate equal to the value of 1-year French franc LIBOR as of the payment date. Variations in the value of French franc LIBOR do not measure contemporaneous changes in the cost of newly borrowed funds in dollars. As a result, the rate is not a qualified floating rate for an instrument denominated in dollars. However, because French franc LIBOR is a qualified floating rate for a debt instrument denominated in French francs, the rate is an objective rate. Example 9. Qualified inverse floating rate. X issues a debt instrument that provides for annual interest payments at the end of each year at a rate equal to 12 percent minus the value of 1-year LIBOR as of the payment date. On the issue date, the value of 1-year LIBOR is 6 percent. Because the rate can reasonably be expected to inversely reflect contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds, it is a qualified inverse floating rate. However, if the value of 1-year LIBOR on the issue date was 11 percent rather than 6 percent, the rate would not be a qualified inverse floating rate because the rate could not reasonably be expected to inversely reflect contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds. (e) Qualified stated interest and OID with respect to a variable rate debt instrument_ (1) In general. This paragraph (e) provides rules to determine the amount and accrual of OID and qualified stated interest on a variable rate debt instrument. In general, the rules convert the debt instrument into a fixed rate debt instrument and then apply the general OID rules to the debt instrument. The issue price of a variable rate debt instrument, however, is not determined under this paragraph (e). See §§1.1273&hyph;2 and 1.1274&hyph;2 to determine the issue price of a variable rate debt instrument. (2) Variable rate debt instrument that provides for annual payments of interest at a single variable rate. If a variable rate debt instrument provides for stated interest at a single qualified floating rate or objective rate that is unconditionally payable in cash or in property (other than debt instruments of the issuer), or that will be constructively received under section 451, at least annually_ (i) All stated interest with respect to the debt instrument is qualified stated interest; and (ii) The amount of OID, if any, is determined under the rules applicable to fixed rate debt instruments by assuming that the variable rate is a fixed rate equal to_ (A) In the case of a qualified floating rate or qualified inverse floating rate, the value, as of the issue date, of the qualified floating rate or qualified inverse floating rate; or (B) In the case of an objective rate (other than a qualified inverse floating rate), a fixed rate that reflects the yield that is reasonably expected for the debt instrument. (3) All other variable rate debt instruments except for those that provide for a fixed rate. If a variable rate debt instrument is not described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section and does not provide for interest payable at a fixed rate (other than an initial fixed rate described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section), the amount of interest and OID accruals for the instrument are determined under this paragraph (e)(3). (i) Step one: Determine the fixed rate substitute for each variable rate provided under the debt instrument_ (A) Qualified floating rate. The fixed rate substitute for each qualified floating rate provided for in the debt instrument is the value of each rate as of the issue date. If, however, a variable rate debt instrument provides for two or more qualified floating rates with different intervals between interest adjustment dates, the fixed rate substitutes for the rates must be based on intervals that are equal in length. For example, if a 4-year debt instrument provides for 24 monthly interest payments based on the value of the 30-day commercial paper rate on each payment date followed by 8 quarterly interest payments based on the value of quarterly LIBOR on each payment date, the fixed rate substitutes may be based on the values, as of the issue date, of the 90-day commercial paper rate and quarterly LIBOR. Alternatively, the fixed rate substitutes may be based on the values, as of the issue date, of the 30-day commercial paper rate and monthly LIBOR. (B) Qualified inverse floating rate. The fixed rate substitute for a qualified inverse floating rate is the value of the qualified inverse floating rate as of the issue date. (C) Objective rate. The fixed rate substitute for an objective rate (other than a qualified inverse floating rate) is a fixed rate that reflects the yield that is reasonably expected for the debt instrument. (ii) Step two: Construct the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument. The equivalent fixed rate debt instrument has terms that are identical to those provided under the variable rate debt instrument, except that the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument provides for the fixed rate substitutes (determined in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section) in lieu of the qualified floating rates or objective rate provided under the variable rate debt instrument. (iii) Step three: Determine the amount of qualified stated interest and OID with respect to the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument. The amount of qualified stated interest and OID, if any, are determined for the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument under the rules applicable to fixed rate debt instruments and are taken into account as if the holder held the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument. (iv) Step four: Make appropriate adjustments for actual variable rates. Qualified stated interest or OID allocable to an accrual period must be increased (or decreased) if the interest actually accrued or paid during an accrual period exceeds (or is less than) the interest assumed to be accrued or paid during the accrual period under the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument. This increase or decrease is an adjustment to qualified stated interest for the accrual period if the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument (as determined under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section) provides for qualified stated interest and the increase or decrease is reflected in the amount actually paid during the accrual period. Otherwise, this increase or decrease is an adjustment to OID for the accrual period.
