FR940721-0-00047 FR940721-0-00014 The label is also required to include a statement below this information reading as follows: Note: Parts content does not include final assembly, distribution, or other non-parts costs. Manufacturers are permitted, but not required, to provide at the end of the note the following additional statement for carlines assembled in the U.S. and/or Canada, and another country: This carline is assembled in the U.S. and/or Canada, and in [insert name of each other country]. The U.S./Canadian parts content for the portion of the carline assembled in [insert name of country, treating the U.S. and Canada together, i.e., U.S./Canada] is [ XX ]% . The information for items (1) and (2) of the label is calculated, prior to the beginning of the model year, for each carline. The information for items (3), (4) and (5) is determined for each individual vehicle. However, the country of origin for groups of engines and transmissions is determined once a model year. Vehicle manufacturers are to calculate the information for the label by using information provided to them by suppliers. Under the final rule, manufacturers and allied suppliers are required to request their suppliers to provide the relevant content information specified in Part 583, and the suppliers are required to provide the specified information in response to such requests. The vehicle manufacturers are required to maintain records of the information used to determine the information provided on the labels. B. Suppliers of Motor Vehicle Equipment For any equipment that an outside supplier (a supplier not wholly owned by the vehicle manufacturer) supplies to a vehicle manufacturer or to a supplier wholly owned by the vehicle manufacturer (an allied supplier), the outside supplier is required to provide, at the request of that manufacturer or allied supplier, the following information: (1) The price of the equipment to the manufacturer or allied supplier; (2) Whether the equipment has, or does not have, at least 70 percent of its value added in the U.S. and Canada; (3) For any equipment for which the U.S./Canadian content is less than 70 percent, the country of origin of the equipment (treating the U.S. and Canada together); (4) For equipment that may be used in an engine or transmission, the country of origin of the equipment (separating the U.S. and Canada). For any equipment that an allied supplier supplies to a vehicle manufacturer, the supplier is required to provide, at the request of the manufacturer, the following information: (1) The price of the equipment to the manufacturer; (2) The percentage U.S./Canadian content of the equipment;
