FR940722-1-00010 FR940722-1-00005 The Commission believes that these clarifications with respect to representations that may be made as to the effect of providing ethics training, whether pursuant to self-executing provisions of the rule or to inclusion on a list maintained by a registered futures association, are appropriate, particularly in light of existing limitations upon the representations that may be made by registered commodity trading advisors (CTAs), commodity pool operators (CPOs) or associated persons (APs) of CTAs and CPOs as to the effect of registration under the Act, which encompasses a greater level of review than pertains to ethics providers. 18 18 See Section 4 o (2) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 6 o (2) (1988). The Commission similarly believes that it is appropriate to limit the use an ethics training provider may make of that fact in certain adjudicatory proceedings. An ethics training provider should not be able to use that fact to qualify as an expert witness or to present expert testimony in an adjudicatory proceeding before the Commission under Sections 6(c), 6(d), 8a or 14 of the Act 19 or Commission Rules 3.55, 3.56 or 3.60. 20 Nor should an ethics training provider proffer evidence of that fact in order to demonstrate experience, competence or knowledge that would qualify the provider as an expert witness in any adjudicatory proceeding to which the Commission is a party, for example, a civil injunctive action brought by the Commission under Section 6c of the Act (7 U.S.C. 13c (Supp. IV 1992)). The Commission is therefore proposing new paragraphs (b)(5)(ii) and (b)(5)(iii) to so provide. The Commission believes that because the rule amendments proposed herein provide for a person to be included on a list of ethics providers based on a self-certification process, it would be inappropriate for any person included on such a list to use that fact to demonstrate credentials as an expert witness. The Commission would not consider evidence of a person's status as an ethics provider in any administrative proceeding before it, and would object to any such proffer in any adjudicatory proceeding to which it is a party. 19 7 U.S.C. 9, 13b, 12a or 18 (1988 & Supp. IV 1992). 20 17 CFR 3.55, 3.56 or 3.60 (1993). C. Videotape or Electronic Presentation When the Commission adopted Rule 3.34, it provided in paragraph (b)(3) that a program of ethics training could include a videotape or electronic presentation. The Commission stated that such training would be acceptable if the provider could substantiate the registrant's completion of the program. The Commission further stated that such substantiation contemplates, for example, an interactive computerized training program that requires and records the registrant's participation and return of such computer disk to the ethics training provider for verification of such participation and the provider's issuance of a certificate to that effect to the registrant. 21 21 58 FR 19575, 19586&hyph;19587. The Commission had originally proposed allowing the use of videotape or electronic presentation in recognition of the fact that it could be difficult for registrants located substantial distances from major metropolitan areas to attend in-person training sessions without incurring significant expense or business disruption. 22 One contract market commenter on the Commission's proposal stated that all registrants should have the opportunity to use an interactive computer program. Since all of the contract markets are located in major metropolitan areas, the Commission responded by expressing its belief that FTs and FBs will generally attend in-person training sessions sponsored by a contract market. The Commission also indicated, however, that it ``may consider in its review of proposed ethics training courses whether a particular proposal that includes an interactive computer program would be appropriate for those whom attendance at an in-person session would not be unduly burdensome.'' 23 22 58 FR 6748, 6756 (February 2, 1993). 23 58 FR 19575, 19587. Most of the persons authorized to provide ethics training to date currently do so by means of in-person presentation. Originally, a firm authorized to provide such training by means of videotape or electronic presentation was required to represent that videotape or electronic training would be limited to registrants who live in locations outside those metropolitan areas where in-person training will be given and for those registrants that can provide a valid excuse for their inability to attend sessions in those cities. The firm was further required to represent that it would review all excuses given by registrants for being unable to attend an in-person program in their metropolitan areas and would assure that each such registrant is unable to attend due to illness, vacation, business trips or other commitments that genuinely precluded his presence. Subsequently, the Commission's staff received several inquiries, both from existing ethics training providers and potential new providers, concerning the offering of interactive training in lieu of in-person training where locational or other factors rendering in-person training less feasible did not exist. The Commission has reviewed this issue and believes that the previously required representations may be difficult to interpret and may prevent the most economic means of compliance for firms with multiple, dispersed branches. Given the numbers of registrants, it may also be more efficient and cost-effective to permit greater use of videotaped and interactive training, without sacrificing the usefulness of such training, subject to the verification procedures described below. Accordingly, the Commission is now of the view that any registrant may meet his ethics training requirement through in-person or through videotaped or electronic presentations.
