FR940722-2-00108 FR940722-2-00067 An applicant should note that the U.S. Postal Service does not uniformly provide a dated postmark. Before relying on this method, an applicant should check with the local post office. An applicant is encouraged to use registered or at least first class mail. Late applications will not be considered and will be returned to the applicant. Applications Delivered by Hand An application that is hand-delivered must be taken to Kenneth E. Roberts, Executive Director, Advisory Committee for Studies of Eastern Europe and the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union, INR/RES, room 6841, 2201 C Street NW., Washington, DC. The Advisory Committee staff will accept hand-delivered applications between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. (EDT) daily, except Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays. An application that is hand-delivered will not be accepted after 4:00 p.m. on the closing date. Part II Program Information In the Soviet-Eastern European Research and Training Act of 1983 the Congress declared that independently verified factual knowledge about the countries of that area is ``of utmost importance for the national security of the United States, for the furtherance of our national interests in the conduct of foreign relations, and for the prudent management of our domestic affairs.'' Congress also declared that the development and maintenance of such knowledge and expertise ``depends upon the national capability for advanced research by highly trained and experienced specialists, available for service in and out of Government.'' The program provides financial support for advanced research, training and other related functions on the countries of the region. By strengthening and sustaining in the United States a cadre of experts on Eastern Europe and the independent states of the former Soviet Union, the program contributes to the overall objectives of the FREEDOM Support and SEED programs. The full purpose of the Act and the eligibility requirements are set forth in Pub. L. 98&hyph;164, 97 Stat. 1047&hyph;50, as amended. The countries include Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldava, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Montenergro, and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. (No funds may actually be spent in Serbia.) The Act establishes an Advisory Committee to recommend grant policies and recipients. The Secretary of State, after consultation with the Advisory Committee, approves policies and makes final determinations on awards. Applications for funding under the Act are invited from US organizations prepared to conduct competitive programs on the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the countries of Eastern Europe and related fields. Applying organizations or institutions should have the capability to conduct competitive award programs that are national in scope. Programs of this nature are those that make awards which are based upon an open, nationwide competition, incorporating peer group review mechanisms. Individual end-users of these funds_those to whom the applicant organizations or institutions propose to make awards_must be at the graduate or post-doctoral levels, and must have demonstrated a likely career commitment to the study of Eastern Europe and/or the independent states of the former Soviet Union.
