FR940419-2-00153 FR940419-2-00086 (C) Outstanding HUD findings of HA noncompliance with civil rights statutes and executive orders under ยง968.110(a) or ยง905.115, or implementing regulations, as a result of formal administrative proceedings, unless the HA is implementing a HUD-approved resident selection and assignment plan or compliance agreement designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance; (D) A deferral of the processing of applications from the HA imposed by HUD under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Attorney General's Guidelines (28 CFR 50.3) and the HUD Title VI regulations (24 CFR 1.8) and procedures (HUD Handbook 8040.1), or under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and HUD implementing regulations (24 CFR 8.57); or (E) An adjudication of a violation under any of the authorities under ยง968.110(a) or ยง905.115 in a civil action filed against the HA by a private individual, unless the HA is implementing a HUD-approved resident selection and assignment plan or compliance agreement designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance. (iii) Section 504 Compliance . Where the Section 504 needs assessment identified a need for accessible units, the HA was required to make structural changes to meet that need by July 11, 1992. Where the HA has not completed all required structural changes or obtained an extension from HUD, the HA is eligible for processing only for Emergency Modernization or physical work needed to complete the structural changes. Refer to PIH Notice 92&hyph;65 (PHA), dated December 14, 1992. (iv) LBP Testing Compliance. Where the HA will not comply with the statutory requirement to complete LBP testing on all pre-1978 family units by December 6, 1994, the HA is eligible for processing only for Emergency Modernization or work needed to complete LBP testing. (c) Selection Criteria and Ranking Factors . After all CIAP Applications are reviewed for eligibility, the Field Office shall categorize the eligible HAs and their developments into two processing groups, as defined in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph: Group 1 for Emergency Modernization; and Group 2 for Other Modernization. HA developments may be included in both groups and the same development may be in each group. However, the HA is only required to submit one CIAP Application, which the Field Office will process under either Group 1 or Group 2. (1) Grouping Modernization Types (i) Group 1, emergency modernization . Developments having physical conditions of an emergency nature, posing an immediate threat to the health or safety of residents or related to fire safety, and which must be corrected within one year of CIAP funding approval. Funding is limited to physical work items and may not be used for management improvements. Emergency Modernization includes all LBP testing and abatement of units housing children under seven years old with elevated blood lead levels (EBLs) and all LBP testing and abatement of HA-owned day care facilities used by children under seven years old with EBLs. Group 1 developments are not subject to the technical review rating and ranking in subparagraphs (5) and (6) of this paragraph or the long-term viability and reasonable cost determination in section V(e). (ii) Group 2, other modernization . Developments not having physical conditions of an emergency nature and located in HAs which have demonstrated a capability of carrying out the proposed modernization activities. Other Modernization includes: one or more physical work items, where the Field Office determines that the physical improvements are necessary and sufficient to extend the useful life of the development; and/or one or more development specific or HA-wide management work items (including planning costs); and/or testing, professional risk assessments, interim containment, and abatement of LBP. Therefore, eligibility of work under Other Modernization ranges from a single work item to the complete rehabilitation of a development. Refer to section I(c)(1)(i) regarding modest amenities and improved design. Group 2 developments are subject to the technical review rating and ranking in subparagraphs (5) and (6) of this paragraph and the long-term viability and reasonable cost determination in section V(e).
