FR940826-2-00014 FR940826-2-00010 COMMITTEE FOR PURCHASE FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE BLIND OR SEVERELY DISABLED Procurement List; Proposed Addition and Deletions AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Proposed Addition to and Deletions from Procurement List. SUMMARY: The Committee has received a proposal to add to the Procurement List a service to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities, and to delete services previously furnished by such agencies. COMMENTS MUST BE RECEIVED ON OR BEFORE: September 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, Suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman (703) 603&hyph;7740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice is published pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 47(a)(2) and 41 CFR 51&hyph;2&hyph;3. Its purpose is to provide interested persons an opportunity to submit comments on the possible impact of the proposed actions. Addition If the Committee approves the proposed addition, all entities of the Federal Government (except as otherwise indicated) will be required to procure the service listed below from nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. I certify that the following action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The major factors considered for this certification were: 1. The action will not result in any additional reporting, recordkeeping or other compliance requirements for small entities other than the small organizations that will furnish the service to the Government. 2. The action does not appear to have a severe economic impact on current contractors for the service. 3. The action will result in authorizing small entities to furnish the service to the Government. 4. There are no known regulatory alternatives which would accomplish the objectives of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c) in connection with the service proposed for addition to the Procurement List. Comments on this certification are invited. Commenters should identify the statement(s) underlying the certification on which they are providing additional information. The following service has been proposed for addition to Procurement List for production by the nonprofit agency listed: Administrative Services Waterways Experiment Station, Vicksburg, Mississippi NPA: Warren County Association for Retarded Citizens, Inc., Vicksburg, Mississippi Deletions The following services have been proposed for deletion from the Procurement List: Janitorial/Custodial Lloyd Group Buildings, Portland, Oregon Microfilm Reproduction Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Vallejo, California Repacking Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Vallejo, California Tape Cleaning Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio E.R. Alley, Jr., Deputy Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21056 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;33&hyph;P
