FR940506-1-00030 FR940506-1-00011 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR 571 [Docket No. 94&hyph;31; Notice 01] RIN 2127&hyph;AF29 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Fuel System Integrity of Compressed Natural Gas Vehicles Over 4536 Kilograms Gross Vehicle Weight Rating AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation (DOT). ACTION: Request for comments. SUMMARY: The purpose of this notice is to assess the need to regulate the fuel system integrity of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of greater than 4536 kilograms that are fueled with compressed natural gas (CNG). Comments are requested regarding the need for fuel system integrity standards for CNG-powered vehicles with a GVWR of greater than 4536 kilograms, including transit buses, intercity buses, trucks, and other heavy vehicles. DATES: Comments must be received by July 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to the docket and notice numbers set forth above and be submitted to the Docket Section, NHTSA, room 5109, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590 (Docket hours are from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Gary Woodford, General Engineer, Special Projects Staff, Office of Rulemaking, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 366&hyph;4931. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) anticipates a significant increase in the number of alternatively fueled motor vehicles in the United States. This expectation stems from initiatives by the President, Congress, State and local governments, and private interest, since these vehicles will help reduce air pollution and conserve petroleum fuel. NHTSA has undertaken a comprehensive program to address the safe performance of these vehicles on the road and in crashes. Further, because the Clean Air Act specifies that vehicle fleets in non-attainment areas (mostly large cities) must be converted to clean burning fuels, many city transit bus fleets are being converted to run on fuels such as compressed natural gas (CNG). As NHTSA has become more aware of these fleets of heavy vehicles powered by CNG, the agency believes that their safe performance merits examination. On January 21, 1993, NHTSA published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) which proposed requirements for CNG fuel system and fuel container integrity (58 FR 5323). The vehicle fuel system requirements were proposed to apply to vehicles with a GVWR of 4536 kilograms or less, and all school buses. The container requirements were proposed to apply to CNG fuel containers for any vehicle. On April 25, 1994, the agency published a final rule (59 FR 19648), which addresses the fuel system integrity of CNG vehicles. The new regulation, Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) No. 303, applies to all passenger cars, trucks, buses, and multipurpose passenger vehicles with a GVWR of 4536 kilograms of less, and all school buses regardless of weight. FMVSS No. 303 sets allowable leakage limits for the vehicle fuel system after a barrier crash test. With regard to the fuel container requirements, NHTSA anticipates issuing another final rule that will specify performance requirements addressing the strength, durability, and pressure relief of CNG fuel containers. In addition, as a result of public comments on the January 1993 NPRM, the agency anticipates issuing a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking for CNG fuel containers addressing internal corrosion, brittle fracture under low temperatures, environmental degradation, external damage, and fragmentation. The January 1993 NPRM briefly discussed the issue of whether vehicles with a GVWR of over 4536 kilograms, other than school buses, should be included in the vehicle requirements. The agency believes that an opportunity should be provided for a more focused view on this issue. This request for comment will serve that purpose. A total of 58 comments were received on the NPRM, of which six addressed CNG safety for vehicles over 4536 kilograms GVWR other than school buses. Four of the six commenters, Navistar, Chrysler, Flexible, and Amoco, believed that federal safety requirements should not apply to CNG-powered heavy vehicles. The main reason given by the commenters was that the vehicle applicability of the CNG fuel system integrity standard should be the same as that for NHTSA's liquid fuel system integrity standard, FMVSS No. 301, ``Fuel System Integrity.'' The latter only applies to vehicles with a GVWR of 4536 kilograms or less, and school buses. However, two commenters believed that the requirements should apply to heavier vehicles. The Transportation Manufacturing Company, a bus manufacturer, believed that heavy vehicles should have requirements that are comparable to those for smaller vehicles. No rationale was provided. The Washington Superintendent for Public Instruction (WSPI), also believed that these vehicles should be regulated. WSPI stated that the agency should consider including these vehicles in the proposed rule, but did not offer a rationale. Because of the lack of accident data indicating a fuel system integrity problem for CNG-powered heavy vehicles, and the lack of rationale from the two supporters, the agency concluded that FMVSS No. 303 should not apply to heavy vehicles. However, because of the increasing number of CNG-powered transit buses, the agency seeks information by which to consider whether federal safety action is desirable, for both transit buses and or other heavy vehicles. It may be that action is merited with regard to buses, which carry many occupants and can have high traffic exposure, but not other heavy vehicles with only one or two occupants.
