FR940811-0-00030 FR940811-0-00014 Office of the Attorney General 28 CFR Part 0 A.G. Order No. 1906&hyph;94 Redelegation of Authority of Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, to Act as Central Authority or Competent Authority Under Treaties and Executive Agreements on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters AGENCY: Department of Justice. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: Section 0.64&hyph;1 of Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, authorizes the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division to act as the Central or Competent Authority under treaties and executive agreements between the United States and other countries on mutual assistance in criminal matters. Section 0.64&hyph;1 also authorizes the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division to redelegate her authority to her Deputy Assistant Attorneys General and to the Director of the Office of International Affairs. This final rule amends §0.64&hyph;1 to include Deputy Directors of the Office of International Affairs among those in the Criminal Division to whom such authority of the Assistant Attorney General may be redelegated. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 11, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: George W. Proctor, Director, Office of International Affairs, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C. 20530; 202&hyph;514&hyph;0000. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Over the past several years, the United States has entered into an increasing number of treaties and executive agreements regarding mutual assistance in criminal matters. Examples of agreements which have come into force recently are mutual legal assistance treaties with Spain, Thailand, Uruguay and Mexico, and narcotics-related executive agreements with the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. The expansion of international cooperation in criminal matters has led to a significant increase in the number of formal requests either made or received by the United States under treaties or executive agreements. These requests are often time sensitive, and are forwarded to foreign Central Authorities in aid of federal, state and local law enforcement authorities. Under the current rule, when the Director of the Office of International Affairs is unavailable to act as Central Authority, a request must be forwarded for action by a Criminal Division Deputy Assistant Attorney General or by the Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division. Including Deputy Directors of the Office of International Affairs among the Criminal Division officials to whom the authority of the Assistant Attorney General may be redelegated will promote more effective and efficient processing of requests for assistance made pursuant to such treaties and agreements. This rule is a matter of internal Department management. It has been drafted and reviewed in accordance with section 1(b) of Executive Order 12866. It has been determined that this rule is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and accordingly this rule has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. In accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), the Attorney General has reviewed this rule and by approving it certifies that it will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This rule will not have a substantial direct impact upon the states, on the relationship between the national government and the states, or on distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. List of Subjects in 28 CFR Part 0 Authority delegations (Government agencies), Government employees, International agreements, Organization and functions (Government agencies), Treaties, Whistleblowing. For the reasons stated in the preamble, Title 28, Chapter I, Part 0, of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as set forth below. PART 0_ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 1. The authority citation for Part 0 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, 515&hyph;519. 2. In section 0.64&hyph;1, the second sentence is revised to read as follows: §0.64&hyph;1 Central or Competent Authority under treaties and executive agreements on mutual assistance in criminal matters. *␣*␣* The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, is authorized to redelegate this authority to the Deputy Assistant Attorneys General, Criminal Division, and to the Director and Deputy Directors of the Office of International Affairs, Criminal Division. Dated: August 2, 1994. Janet Reno, Attorney General. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19575 Filed 8&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
