FR941220-0-00091 FR941220-0-00014 In the NPRM of October 6, 1993, the Department indicated that, in the context of the proposed reduction in the validity period from six to three years, the 24-month update would be unduly burdensome on an employer. With a three year application validity and a 24-month prevailing wage update requirement, an employer could be required to obtain current prevailing wage information twice in a short time frame: once, 24 months from the filing of the initial application and again upon the filing of the new application prior to the 3-year deadline. Consequently, in the NPRM the Department proposed to adopt an 18-month prevailing wage update requirement. In response to the NPRM, the Department received 60 comments on this issue of which all but five were opposed to the proposal. Commenters' major objections to the NPRM's approach were as follows: the Department does not have the statutory authority to require any prevailing wage update; the 18-month update proposal is burdensome on employers and will not substantively increase protections for U.S. workers; the proposal is inconsistent with normal hiring and compensation cycles which operate on an annual basis; the proposal will place an undue burden on the SESA's; and wages change very little in an 18-month period (especially in today's economy). Five commenters expressed concern that requiring infrequent prevailing wage updates will allow an employer to use ``stale'' data and will undermine wage protections for U.S. workers. The Department is cognizant of these concerns. However, the ``actual wage rate'' has been and will continue to be a ``safety net'' for the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant. Assuming the actual wage is higher than the prevailing wage and thus is the required wage rate, if an employer normally gives its employees a raise at year's end, or the employer's system provides for other adjustments, H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants must also be given the raise (consistent with employer-established criteria such as level of performance, attendance, etc. ) After careful consideration of all the comments received on this issue, the Department has determined that the proposal suggested by the majority of commenters is the most prudent approach. Under the Final Rule, employers are required to obtain current prevailing wage information every time a new labor condition application is filed ( i.e. , every three years or sooner, if specified). As noted by commenters, this requirement will ensure maximum consistency. Unless a lesser period is specified by the employer, a new labor condition application, prevailing wage update, and I&hyph;129 petition will all be required at the end of a 3-year period. b. Documentation of the wage statement. After careful review the Department believes that it is essential to require the employer to maintain documentation regarding wage rates for all that employer's employees in the specific employment in question at the place of employment. This information is ordinarily maintained by the employer for purposes of showing compliance with other applicable statutes ( e.g. , the Fair Labor Standards Act) and will permit the Department to determine whether in fact the required wage has been paid. Consequently, the language limiting the documentation to individuals with experience and qualifications similar to the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant has been deleted. 4. Other Matters a. Regulation re-numbering (See §§ XXXX .731 through .734.) Based on experience in administering and enforcing the H&hyph;1B program, the Department recognized that § XXXX .730 of the Interim Final Rule, which contains general information on filing LCA's as well as the four elements of the LCA, is too lengthy and unwieldy. Therefore, for the sake of clarity, the Department, in this Final Rule, is redesignating § XXXX .730 into five sections. The new § XXXX .730 will retain the general information contained in paragraphs (a) through (d) of the Interim Final's § XXXX .730, regarding the filing of LCA's. However, paragraphs (e) through (h) of the Interim Final's § XXXX .730, which correspond to requirements relative to wages, working conditions, notice, and strike/lockout, respectively, have each been redesignated as a new section: former paragraph (e), The first labor condition statement: wages. is now § XXXX .731; former paragraph (f), The second labor condition statement: working conditions. is now § XXXX .732; former paragraph (g), The third labor condition statement: no strike or lockout. is now § XXXX .733; and former paragraph (h), The fourth labor condition statement; notice. is now § XXXX .734. Citations throughout the rule to paragraphs (e) through (h) have been amended to reflect the redesignation. In addition, the Department has also corrected various technical and typographical errors throughout the rule. An example of a technical error is the replacement in § XXXX .855(c), of the word ``suspend'' with the word ``invalidate'' to conform with § XXXX .750(c); an example of a typographical error is the replacement of the word ``proceding'' with the word ``preceding'' in former § XXXX .730(e)(2)(iii)(C)(2), now § XXXX .731(b)(3)(iii)(B). b. Clarification of the definition of ``area of intended employment'' (See § XXXX .715.) As a clarification, the Department is deleting the last sentence in the definition of ``area of intended employment'' which was published in the Interim Final Rule. That sentence which states that ``(i)f there is no MSA then the area of intended employment is the area with normal commuting distance of the place of employment,'' does not appear in the definition of ``area of intended employment'' at 20 CFR 656.3 quoted above. Since this concept is already included in the first sentence of the definition, the sentence in question is being deleted to avoid confusion. c. Validity period of a SESA prevailing wage (See § XXXX .731(a)(2)(iii)(A)( 1 ).) Through administration and enforcement of the program, the Department has become aware of confusion and potential adverse effects on wages in situations in which employers, in filing their LCA's, rely on SESA prevailing wage determinations which were obtained on dates considerably in advance of the time of the filing ( e.g. , six months prior to LCA date). Data used in prevailing wage rate determinations may be up to four years old. Employers were obtaining prevailing wage rates and holding them indefinitely before using them in conjunction with filing an LCA. The Department concluded that a practicable limit should be set on the use of prevailing wage rates. The Department concludes that 90 days is a reasonable practicable limit. In order to alleviate confusion and to better assure the achievement of the Congressional purposes of protecting the wages of U.S. workers, the Department is clarifying the regulation to set a deadline for an employer's reliance on a SESA prevailing wage determination. An employer that obtains a SESA prevailing wage determination must file the labor condition application under which that rate will be paid within 90 days from the date of the SESA's determination.
