FR940207-2-00191 FR940207-2-00084 10. Applicants have adequate facilities in place to ensure implementation of the methodology and procedures for calculating the net asset value and dividends/distributions among the several classes of shares and the proper allocation of expenses among the several classes of shares and this representation will be concurred with by the Independent Examiner in the initial report referred to in condition (9) above and will be concurred with by the Independent Examiner, or an appropriate substitute Independent Examiner, on an ongoing basis at least annually in the ongoing reports referred to in condition (9) above. Applicants agree to take immediate corrective measures if the Independent Examiner or appropriate substitute Independent Examiner, does not so concur in the ongoing reports. 11. The prospectuses of the Funds will include a statement to the effect that a financial consultant and any other person entitled to receive compensation for selling or servicing shares of the Funds may receive different levels of compensation for selling one particular class of shares over another in a Fund. 12. The Distributors will adopt compliance standards as to when shares of a particular class may appropriately be sold to particular investors. Applicants will require all persons selling shares of the Funds to agree to conform to these standards. Applicants' compliance standards will require all investors eligible to purchase Class C shares of a Fund offering such shares to invest in Class C, rather than in shares of any other class of the Fund. 13. The conditions pursuant to which the exemptive order is granted and the duties and responsibilities of the members of the governing boards of the Funds with respect to the Amended Variable Pricing System will be set forth in guidelines which will be furnished to the members of the governing boards as part of the materials setting forth the duties and responsibilities of the members of the governing boards. 14. Each Fund will disclose the respective expenses, performance data, distribution arrangements, services, fees, sales loads, deferred sales loads, and exchange privileges applicable to each class of shares other than Class C shares in every prospectus, regardless of whether all classes of shares are offered through each prospectus. Class C shares will be offered solely pursuant to a separate prospectus. The prospectus for Class C shares will disclose the existence of the Fund's other classes, and the prospectus for the Fund's other classes will disclose the existence of Class C shares and will identify the persons eligible to purchase shares of such class. Each Fund will disclose the respective expense and performance data applicable to all classes of shares in each shareholder report. The shareholder reports will contain, in the statement of assets and liabilities and statement of operations, information related to the Fund as a whole generally and not on a per class basis. Each Fund's per share data, however, will be prepared on a per class basis with respect to all classes of shares of such Fund. To the extent any advertisement or sales literature describes the expenses or performance data applicable to any class of shares, it will also disclose the respective expenses and/or performance data applicable to all classes of shares, except Class C. Advertising materials reflecting the expenses or performance data for Class C will be available only to those persons eligible to purchase Class C shares. The information provided by applicants for publication in any newspaper or similar listing of the Funds' net asset values and public offering prices will present each class of shares, except Class C shares, separately. 15. Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the exemptive order requested by the application will not imply Commission approval, authorization, or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that the Funds may make pursuant to Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plans or non-rule 12b&hyph;1 shareholder services plans in reliance on the exemptive order. 16. Purchase Class shares will convert to Target Class shares on the basis of the relative net asset value of the two classes without the imposition of any sales load, fee, or other charge. After conversion, the converted shares will be subject to an asset-based sales charge and/or service fee (as those terms are defined in Article III, Section 26 of the NASD's Rules of Fair Practice), if any, that in the aggregate are lower than the asset-based sales charge and service fee to which they were subject prior to conversion. B. The CDSC 1. Applicants will comply with the provisions of proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act, Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (Nov. 2, 1988), as the rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted or amended. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2645 Filed 2&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
