FR940721-2-00053 FR940721-2-00035 09&hyph;70&hyph;0501 System name: Carrier Medicare Claim Records, HHS/HCFA/BPO. Security classification: None. System location: Carriers under contract to the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) and the Social Security Administration. Direct any inquiries regarding carrier locations to HCFA, Bureau of Program Operations, Office of Contracting and Financial Management, Division of Acquisition and Contracts, Contractor Operations Branch, Meadows East Building, Room 332, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21207&hyph;5187. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Beneficiaries who have submitted claims for Supplementary Medical Insurance (Medicare Part B), or individuals whose enrollment in an employer group health benefits plan covers the beneficiary. Categories of records in the system: Request for Payment: Provider Billing for Patient services by Physician; Prepayment Plan for Group Medicare Practice dealing through a Carrier, Health Insurance Claim Form, Request for Medical Payment, Patient's Request for Medicare Payment, Request for Medicare Payment-Ambulance, Explanation of Benefits, Summary Payment Voucher, Request for Claim Number Verification; Payment Record Transmittal; Statement of Person Regarding Medicare Payment for Medical Services Furnished Deceased Patient; Report of Prior Period of Entitlement; itemized bills and other similar documents from beneficiaries required to support payments to beneficiaries and to physicians and other suppliers of Part B Medicare services; Medicare secondary payer records containing other party liability insurance information necessary for appropriate Medicare claim payment. Authority for Maintenance of the system: Sections 1842, 1862(b) and 1874 of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395u, 1395y(b) and 1395kk). Purpose(s): To properly pay medical insurance benefits to or on behalf of entitled beneficiaries. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Disclosure may be made to: (1) Claimants, their authorized representative or representative's payees to the extent necessary to pursue claims made under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare). (2) Third-party contacts (without the consent of the individuals to whom the information pertains) in situations where the party to be contacted has, or is expected to have information relating to the individual's capability to manage his or her affairs or to his or her eligibility for or entitlement to benefits under the Medicare program when: (a) The individual is unable to provide the information being sought (an individual is considered to be unable to provide certain types of information when any of the following conditions exist: Individual is incapable or of questionable mental capability, cannot read or write, cannot afford the cost of obtaining the information, a language barrier exists, or the custodian of the information will not, as a matter of policy, provide it to the individual), or
