FR940412-2-00017 FR940412-2-00009 7. Related Documents. a. Federal Information Resources Management Regulations (FIRMR) subpart 201.20.303, Standards, and subpart 201.39.1002, Federal Standards. b. Federal ADP and Telecommunications Standards Index, U.S. General Services Administration, Information Resources Management Service, April 1993 (updated periodically). c. NIST, Validated Products List, NISTIR 5354 (republished quarterly). Available by subscription from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS). d. FIPS PUB 29&hyph;2, Interpretation Procedures for FIPS Software, 14 September 1987. 8. Objectives. Federal standards for high level digital design information and documentation languages permit Federal departments and agencies to exercise more effective control over the design, production, management, and maintenance of digital electronic systems. The primary objectives of this Federal hardware description language standard are: _To encourage more effective utilization of design personnel by ensuring that design skills acquired under one job are transportable to other jobs, thereby reducing the cost of programmer retraining; _To reduce the cost of design by achieving increased designer productivity and design accuracy through the use of formal languages; _To reduce the overall life cycle cost for digital systems by establishing a common documentation language for the transfer of digital design information across organizational boundaries; _To protect the immense investment of digital hardware from obsolescence by insuring to the maximal feasible extent that Federal hardware description language standards are technically sound and that subsequent revisions are compatible with the installed base. _To reduce Federal inventory of electronic digital replacement parts. _To increase the sources of supplies which can satisfy government requirements for mission specific electronic digital components. Government-wide attainment of the above objectives depends upon the widespread availability and use of comprehensive and precise standard language specifications. 9. Applicability. a. Federal standards for hardware description languages are applicable for the design and documentation of digital systems developed for government use. This standard is suitable for use in the following digital system applications: _Primary design and documentation of digital systems, subsystems, assemblies, hybrid components, and components; _Formal specifications of digital systems throughout the procurement, contracting and development process; _Test generation for digital systems, subsystems, assemblies, hybrid components, and components; _Re-procurement and redesign of digital systems, subsystems, assemblies, hybrid components, and components. b. The use of FIPS hardware description languages applies when one or more of the following situations exist: _When using a formal language for specifying a formal design specification for a complex digital system. _The digital system is under constant revision during the development process. _It is desired to have the design understood by multiple groups, or organizations. _The system under development is to be designed by multiple groups, or organizations. _Accurate unambiguous specifications are required in the bid and contracting process. 10. Specifications. The specifications for this standard are the language specifications contained in ANSI/IEEE 1076&hyph;1993, IEEE Standard VHDL Language Reference Manual. This FIPS does not allow conforming implementations to extend the language. A conforming implementation is one that does not allow inclusion of substitute or additional language elements in order to accomplish a feature of the language as specified in the language standard. A conforming implementation is one which adheres to and implements all of the language specifications contained in ANSI/IEEE 1076&hyph;1993 except where the language standard permits deviations and which specifies conspicuously in a separate section in the conforming implementation documentation all such permitted variations. Also, such conformance shall be with default language processor system option settings. The ANSI/IEEE 1076&hyph;1993 document does not specify limits on the size or complexity of programs, the results when the rules of the standard fail to establish an interpretation, the means of supervisory control programs, or the means of transforming programs for processing.
