FR941221-2-00118 FR941221-2-00078 Absolute Priority 1_Center to Support the Achievement of World Class Outcomes for Students With Disabilities Background: The enactment of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act (Pub. L. 103&hyph;227, March 31, 1994) will stimulate standards-based assessment and reform in schools across the Nation. Most States already conduct assessments of student achievement. However, surveys of States conducted by the Office of Special Education Programs (OSEP) funded National Center for Educational Outcomes (NCEO) have revealed that most States exclude large numbers of students with disabilities from assessments. Typically, no accommodations have been provided to enable students with disabilities to participate. In many States no policies or guidelines exist to facilitate or encourage participation of students with disabilities. NCEO has also observed that the development of national and State content standards often do not explicitly consider the needs of student with disabilities. The new Federal law requires that students with disabilities be included in the Goals 2000 reform efforts. Because so few students with disabilities are currently included in assessments, States will need considerable assistance to permit these students to participate. States will need help developing accommodations for assessments and for designing policies to cover the implementation of these accommodations. States will also need assistance analyzing and reporting results of these assessments. In addition, it is essential to document the progress of the States in including students with disabilities in assessments and other reform initiatives. Priority: The Assistant Secretary establishes an absolute priority for a center to assist States in implementing activities to improve outcomes for students with disabilities and to assist in the implementation of the requirements of Goals 2000 for students with disabilities, and to document States' efforts in doing so. The Center must_ (a) Work with Regional Resource Centers (RRCs), other technical assistance providers, and directly with States; (b) Develop and facilitate the use of appropriate accommodations and adaptations of assessments in the States for students with disabilities and advance and support the use of outcome related data for these students; (c) Document the extent to which students with disabilities are included in State activities; (d) Provide assistance in analyzing and reporting outcome data for students with disabilities; (e) Work with the Department to develop and report national level data on the status of outcomes for students with disabilities and the degree to which these students are achieving the National Education Goals; (f) Synthesize and report on technical advances in the accommodation and participation of students with disabilities in State activities, especially those related to Goals 2000, and ensure that States are assisted in using such advances; (g) Work with researchers and developers who are conducting related work and facilitate the exchange of information among such projects, including projects funded under the priority ``Examining Alternatives for Outcome Assessment for Children with Disabilities'', and projects funded under Goals 2000 authority; (h) Assist States and the Department to ensure that standards-setting and assessment processes and documents, as well as any other Goals 2000 related activities, include the perspectives of the disability community; and (i) Conduct periodic examinations of the status of standards-setting activities at the State and national level. The center must budget for two trips annually to Washington, D.C., for (1) a two-day Research Project Directors' meeting; and (2) another meeting, to meet with the project officer of the Office of Special Education Programs to plan and review project activities and progress. For Further Information Contact: David Malouf, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Switzer Building, Room 3529, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2641. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8111. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday.
