FR940825-2-00109 FR940825-2-00073 United States of America, Plaintiff, v. S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G., Defendants. Civil No. 94C50249. Final Judgment Plaintiff, the United States of America, having filed its Complaint on August 4, 1994, and plaintiff and defendants, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G., by their respective attorneys, having consented to the entry of this Final Judgment without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and without this Final Judgment constituting evidence against or admission by any party with respect to any issue of fact or law; Now, therefore, before the taking of any testimony and without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, it is hereby Ordered, Adjudged and Decreed: I Jurisdiction This Court has jurisdiction of the subject matter and each of the parties to this action. The Complaint states a claim upon which relief may be granted against S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. ยง1. II Definitions As used in this Final Judgment: (A) ``Active ingredient'' means any chemical compound or substance used or contemplated for use in the United States as a knock-down, debilitating, or killing agent in a household insecticide, regardless of whether that compound or substance has been approved by federal or state regulatory authorities. (B) ``Exclusive license'' means any agreement for the license or supply of an active ingredient that directly or indirectly, implicitly or explicitly, limits access to S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. or to S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and the licensor. III Applicability This Final Judgment applies to S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc.'s and to Bayer A.G.'s officers, directors, subsidiaries, agents, employees, successors, and assigns, and to all other persons in active concert of participation with any of them who receive actual notice of this Final Judgment pursuant to F.R.C.P. 65(d). IV Injunctive Relief (A) S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. are each enjoined and restrained from entering into or carrying out any agreement or understanding, the purpose or effect of which would be to allocate or divide territories or markets for the distribution or sale of household insecticides, unless any such agreement or understanding relates exclusively to markets other than the United States and has no effect on United States commerce. (B) S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. are each enjoined and restrained from entering into any exclusive license between them for any active ingredient, the patent rights to which are beneficially owned by Bayer A.G., if such license has been disapproved by the U.S. Department of Justice as provided herein. S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. each must provide the U.S. Department of Justice at least 90 days' written notice of their intent to enter into any exclusive license between them. If requested by the Department of Justice within 30 days after its receipt of such notice, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. must supply, within 30 days of such request, all information in their possession reasonably necessary to enable the Department to determine the competitive effect of their exclusive license. The Department must exercise its unconditional right to disapprove an exclusive license between S.C. Johnson & Co., Inc. and Bayer A.G. by so notifying them in writing within 90 days after receiving defendants' notice of intent. (C) S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and Bayer A.G. are each enjoined and restrained from entering into, carrying out, or operating under any exclusive license to make, use or sell Cyfluthring in the United States. Bayer A.G. must offer, to any person who requests it, a license to use or sell Cyfluthrin in the United States, upon reasonable and mutually agreeable terms and conditions, but no minimum royalty payment shall be required under such license. Nothing herein, however, shall prohibit Bayer A.G. from reserving exclusively for itself Cyfluthrin or any other active ingredient, or from discontinuing the manufacture, sale or use in the United States of Cyfluthrin or any other active ingredient. (D) No more than 180 days and not less than 90 days before entering into any exclusive license with any person other than Bayer A.G., for any active ingredient other than Cyfluthrin, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. must provide the U.S. Department of Justice written notice of such license agreement. If requested by the Department of Justice within 30 days after its receipt of such notice, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. must supply within 30 days after such request, all information in its possession reasonably necessary to determine the competitive effect of such license agreement. V Compliance Program: S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. shall maintain an antitrust compliance program, which shall include: (A) distributing within 60 days from the entry of this Final Judgment, a copy of the Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement to all officers with responsibility for research and development, manufacturing, sales or marketing of household insecticides in the United States; (B) distributing in a timely manner a copy of the Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Settlement to any person who succeeds to a position described in Paragraph V(A); (C) briefing annually those persons designated in Paragraph V(A) and (B) on the meaning and requirements of this Final Judgment and the antitrust laws, including potential antitrust concerns raised by patent licensing agreement; (D) obtaining from each person designated in Paragraph V(A) and (B) an annual written certification that he or she: (1) Has read, understands and agrees to abide by this Final Judgment; (2) has been advised and understands that noncompliance with this Final Judgement may result in his or her conviction for criminal contempt of court and/or fine; and (3) is not aware of any violation of this Final Judgment; and (E) maintaining for inspection by plaintiff a record of recipients to whom this Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement have been distributed and from whom the certification required by Paragraph V(D) has been obtained.
