FR940412-2-00018 FR940412-2-00009 11. Implementation. The implementation of this standard involves three areas of consideration: acquisition of VHDL processors, interpretation of FIPS VHDL, and validation of VHDL processors. 11.1. Effective Date. This revised standard becomes effective three (3) months after the publication in the Federal Register announcing approval by the Secretary of Commerce. Prior to that date the requirements of FIPS PUB 172 apply to Federal VHDL procurements. This delayed effective date is intended to provide sufficient time for implementors of FIPS PUB 172 to make enhancements necessary for conformance of products to FIPS PUB 172&hyph;1. No further transitional period is necessary. 11.2. Acquisition of Ada Processors. Conformance to FIPS VHDL should be considered whether VHDL processors are developed internally, acquired as part of an ADP system procurement, acquired by separate procurement, used under an ADP leasing arrangement, or specified for use in contracts for hardware description services. Recommended terminology for procurement of FIPS Ada is contained in the U.S. General Services Administration publication Federal ADP & Telecommunications Standards Index, chapter 4 part 1. 11.3. Interpretation of FIPS VHDL. The National Institute of Standards and Technology provides for the resolution of questions regarding the specifications and requirements, and issues official interpretations as needed. All questions about the interpretation of this standard should be addressed to: Director, Computer Systems Laboratory, ATTN: FIPS VHDL Interpretation, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, Voice: 301&hyph;975&hyph;2490, FAX: 301&hyph;948&hyph;6213. 11.4. Validation of VHDL Processors: The validation of VHDL processors for conformance to this standard applies when NIST VHDL validation procedures are available. At the present time NIST does not have procedures for validating VHDL processors. NIST is currently investigating methods which may be considered for validating processors for conformance to this standard. For further information contact: Director, Computer Systems Laboratory, Attn: FIPS VHDL Validation, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, (301) 975&hyph;2490. 12. Waivers. Under certain exceptional circumstances, the heads of Federal departments and agencies may approve waivers to Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). The head of such agency may redelegate such authority only to a senior official designated pursuant to section 3506(b) of Title 44, U.S. Code. Waivers shall be granted only when: a. Compliance with a standard would adversely affect the accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal computer system, or b. Cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator which is not offset by Government wide savings. Agency heads may act upon a written waiver request containing the information detailed above. Agency heads may also act without a written waiver request when they determine that conditions for meeting the standard cannot be met. Agency heads may approve waivers only by a written decision which explains the basis on which the agency head made the required finding(s). A copy of each such decision, with procurement sensitive classified portions clearly identified, shall be sent to: National Institute of Standards and Technology, ATTN: FIPS Waiver Decisions, Technology Building, room B&hyph;154, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. In addition, notice of each waiver granted and each delegation of authority to approve waivers shall be sent promptly to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be published promptly in the Federal Register . When the determination on a waiver applies to the procurement of equipment and/or services, a notice of the waiver determination must be published in the Commerce Business Daily as a part of the notice of solicitation for offers of an acquisition or, if the waiver determination is made after that notice is published, by amendment to such notice. A copy of the waiver, any supporting documents, the document approving the waiver and any supporting and accompanying documents, with such deletions as the agency is authorized and decides to make under 5 U.S.C. 552(b), shall be part of the procurement documentation and retained by the agency. 13.␣Where to Obtain Copies. Copies of this publication are for sale by the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22161, telephone (703) 487&hyph;4650. (Sale of the included specifications document is by arrangement with the American National Standards Institute.) When ordering, refer to Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 172&hyph;1 (FIPSPUB172&hyph;1), and title. Payment may be made by check, money order, or deposit account. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8688 Filed 4&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;CN&hyph;M
