FR940426-1-00047 FR940426-1-00006 The tie-in sale described in the regulations is a form of quota sale covered by the Act. Moreover, ATF feels that §6.71 and §6.72 are distinct from one another and should be kept separate to insure clarity and foster understanding of the regulations. The fact that another Federal law may apply to such a practice is not relevant to whether such a practice is covered by the FAA Act. Additionally, ATF proposes revising §6.72 to cover expressly a particular type of transaction as a tie-in sale. Subpart D_Exceptions Many changes discussed in the first section of the Supplementary Information on Exclusion affect this subpart. The discussion which follows is limited to specific requests by the industry or findings of ATF's own internal review which were not discussed in that earlier section. Section 6.81, General The petitioners propose amending §6.81(a) by deleting the second sentence which prohibits an industry member from conditioning the providing of items or services allowed under subpart D on the purchase of distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages. ATF agrees this prohibition is not necessary for most items, and will remove the prohibition from the general section and place it in the specific sections where such conditioning has been a concern, for instance, §6.83 on product displays. Section 6.81(b), Recordkeeping requirements, requires industry members to maintain certain records which can be used to substantiate claims that items provided to retailers are within the subpart D exceptions to the tied-house prohibitions. The petitioners propose deleting §6.81(b) in its entirety, thereby eliminating all recordkeeping requirements. The petitioners state that ``(t)his change should be adopted because the FAA Act neither provides nor suggests that any such requirements can be imposed.'' The petitioners further state that if it is decided not to delete §6.81(b) in its entirety, they recommend the addition of language to this paragraph to make it clear that no separate violation of the FAA Act shall arise from the failure of an industry member to maintain records in accordance with the requirements of §6.81(b). The petitioners believe that the FAA Act neither creates nor supports the existence of any such violation of the FAA Act. The proposal to eliminate the requirement to keep records which substantiate industry members' claims that items provided retailers are within the exceptions would negate ATF's capability to verify compliance with the dollar limitations and any other requirements of subpart D. The limitations in each exception section of the regulations would be unenforceable if ATF had no way to verify compliance with the requirements of such exceptions. Where the industry member fails to keep the required records, the industry member is not eligible for the regulatory exception in that particular transaction. No separate recordkeeping violation would be charged. Section 6.82, Cost Adjustment Factor While the petitioners do not request a specific change to this section, they request that ATF explore alternate methods which would be cost effective for ATF to convey this information in a manner that continues to ensure that all permittees are apprised of the annual dollar adjustments. Instead, ATF proposes to delete this section and periodically review the amounts if necessary. Section 6.83, Product Displays The petitioners recommended amending the definition of product display to substitute ``*␣*␣* and similar items the primary function of which is to hold, display or shelve consumer products.'' for ``*␣*␣* and the like,'' which appears in the current regulation. ATF is incorporating this change in its proposed revision, but proposes the phrase ``hold and display'' for clarity. The petitioners also requested that ATF amend the dollar limitation in the regulation to reflect the current adjusted rate. Instead, ATF proposes a $500 per brand at any one time per retail establishment limitation for the current limitation of $100 (as adjusted) per year per brand per retail establishment. As noted earlier, ATF proposes narrowing the definition of the term ``brand'' and requests comments on the definition.
