FR941021-0-00105 FR941021-0-00020 There is no obligation to issue a proposed rule with respect to those provisions of today's regulations that are procedural, interpretative, or non-substantive clarifications. With respect to the provisions of today's rule that exercise the options that are allowable under OMB Circular A&hyph;110, DOE has reached a similar conclusion because those substantive policies represent the most permissive option permitted under the circular. Finally, to the extent that existing policies are being continued, DOE also relies on its discretion to reissue existing regulations, with minor technical editing, without proposing them for public comment. IV. Review Under Executive Order 12612 Executive Order 12612 requires that regulations, rules, legislation, and any other policy actions be reviewed for any substantial direct effects on States, on the relationship between the Federal Government and the States, or in the distribution of power and responsibilities among various levels of Government. If there are sufficient substantial direct effects, then the Executive Order requires preparation of a federalism assessment to be used in all decisions involved in promulgating and implementing a policy action. Today's interim final rule will revise certain policy and procedural requirements. However, DOE has determined that this rulemaking will not have a substantial direct effect on the institutional interests or traditional functions of States. V. Regulatory Review Today's regulatory action has been determined not to be a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review,'' (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993). Accordingly, today's action was not subject to review under the Executive Order by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. VI. Review Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act This interim final rule was reviewed under the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96&hyph;354, 94 Stat. 1164, which requires preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis for any regulation that will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities; i.e., small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions. DOE has concluded that the interim final rule would only affect small entities as they apply for and receive financial assistance, and does not create additional economic impact on small entities as a whole. DOE certifies that this interim final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities and, therefore, no regulatory flexibility analysis has been prepared. VII. Review Under the Paperwork Reduction Act No information collection or recordkeeping requirements are imposed upon the public by this interim final rulemaking. Accordingly, no OMB clearance is required under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 USC 3501, et seq., or OMB implementing regulations at 5 CFR Part 1320. VIII. Review Under the National Environmental Policy Act DOE has concluded that this rule falls into a class of actions (categorical exclusion A5) that are categorically excluded from NEPA review because they would not individually or cumulatively have significant impact on the human environment, as determined by the Department's regulations (10 CFR Part 1021, Subpart D) implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321, 4331&hyph;4335, 4341&hyph;4347 (1976)). Therefore, this rule does not require an environmental impact statement or an environmental assessment pursuant to NEPA. IX. Review Under Executive Order 12778 Section 2 of Executive Order 12778 instructs each agency to adhere to certain requirements in promulgating new regulations and reviewing existing regulations. These requirements, set forth in sections 2(a) and (b)(2), include eliminating drafting errors and needless ambiguity, drafting the regulations to minimize litigation, providing clear and certain legal standards for affected conduct, and promoting simplification and burden reduction. Agencies are also instructed to make every reasonable effort to ensure that the regulation specifies clearly any preemptive effect, effect on existing Federal law or regulation, and retroactive effect; describes any administrative proceedings to be available prior to judicial review and any provisions for the exhaustion of such administrative proceedings; and defines key terms. DOE certifies that today's interim final rule meets the requirements of sections 2 (a) and (b) of Executive Order 12778. X. Public Comments Interested persons are invited to participate in this rulemaking by submitting data, views, or arguments with respect to the changes set forth in this notice. Three copies of written comments should be submitted to the address indicated in the ADDRESSES section of this notice. All comments received will be available for public inspection in the DOE Reading Room, Room 1E&hyph;190, Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, D.C. 20585, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. All written comments received by the date given in the DATES section will be fully considered. Any information considered to be confidential must be so identified and submitted in writing, one copy only. The DOE reserves the right to determine the confidential status of the information and to treat it according to our determination. The Department has concluded that this interim final rule does not involve a substantial issue of fact or law and that the interim final rule should not have substantial impact on the nation's economy or a large number of individuals or businesses. Therefore, pursuant to Pub. L. 95&hyph;91, the DOE Organization Act, and the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553), the Department does not plan to hold a public hearing on this interim final rule.
