FR940505-1-00340 FR940505-1-00012 (i) The Administrator shall exempt a consumer product from the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section if a manufacturer demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that, due to some characteristic of the product formulation, design, delivery systems or other factors, the use of the product will result in less VOC emissions as compared to: (A) The VOC emissions from a representative consumer product which complies with the VOC standards specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, or (B) The calculated VOC emissions from a noncomplying representative product, if the product had been reformulated to comply with the VOC standards specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. VOC emissions shall be calculated using the following equation: E R = E NC × VOC STD VOC NC Where: E R =the VOC emissions from the noncomplying representative product, had it been reformulated. E NC =the VOC emissions from the noncomplying representative product in its current formulation. VOC STD =the VOC standard specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. VOC NC =the VOC content of the noncomplying product in its current formulation. If a manufacturer demonstrates that this equation yields inaccurate results due to some characteristic of the product formulation or other factors, an alternative method which accurately calculates emissions may be used upon approval of the Administrator. (ii) For the purposes of this section, representative consumer product means a consumer product which meets all of the following criteria: (A) The representative product shall be subject to the same VOC limit in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section as the innovative product. (B) The representative product shall be of the same product form as the innovative product, unless the innovative product uses a new form which does not exist in the product category at the time the application is made. (C) The representative product shall have at least similar efficacy as other consumer products in the same product category based on tests generally accepted for that product category by the consumer products industry. (iii) A manufacturer shall apply in writing to the Administrator for any exemption claimed under paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section. The application shall include the supporting documentation that demonstrates the emissions from the innovative product, including the actual physical test methods used to generate the data and, if necessary, the consumer testing undertaken to document product usage. In addition, the applicant must provide any information necessary to enable the Administrator to establish enforceable conditions for granting the exemption including the VOC content for the innovative product and test methods for determining the VOC content. (iv) Within 30 days of receipt of the exemption application the Administrator shall determine whether an application is complete. (v) Within 90 days after an application has been deemed complete, the Administrator shall determine whether, under what conditions, and to what extent, an exemption from the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section will be permitted. The applicant and the Administrator may mutually agree to a longer time period for reaching a decision, and additional supporting documentation may be submitted by the applicant before a decision has been reached. The Administrator shall notify the applicant of the decision in writing and specify such terms and conditions that are necessary to insure that emissions from the product will meet the emissions reductions specified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, and that such emissions reductions can be enforced. (vi) In granting an exemption for a product the Administrator shall establish conditions that are enforceable. These conditions shall include the VOC content of the innovative product, dispensing rates, application rates and any other parameters determined by the Administrator to be necessary. The Administrator shall also specify the test methods for determining conformance to the conditions established. The test methods shall include criteria for reproducibility, accuracy, sampling and laboratory procedures. (vii) For any product for which an exemption has been granted pursuant to this section, the manufacturer shall notify the Administrator in writing within 30 days of any change in the product formulation or recommended product usage directions, and shall also notify the Administrator within 30 days if the manufacturer learns of any information which would alter the emissions estimates submitted to the Administrator in support of the exemption application. (viii) If VOC standards are lowered for a product category through any subsequent rulemaking, all innovative product exemptions granted for products in the product category, except as provided in this paragraph, shall have no force and effect as of the effective date of the modified VOC standard. This paragraph shall not apply to those innovative products which have VOC emissions less than the appropriate lowered VOC standard and for which a written notification of the product's emissions status versus the lowered VOC standard has been submitted to and approved by the Administrator at least 60 days before the effective date of such standard. (ix) If the Administrator believes that a consumer product for which an exemption has been granted no longer meets the criteria for an innovative product specified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, the Administrator may modify or revoke the exemption as necessary to assure that the product will meet these criteria.
