FR941011-2-00012 FR941011-2-00002 Notification procedure: Inquiries and requests should be addressed to Director, Information Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2309. Record access procedures: To request access to information in this system, write to Director, Information Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2309. Contesting record procedures: To contest information in this system, send request to Assistant Inspector General for Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2310. Record source categories: Identities of complainants and subjects are provided by individual complainants. Additional information may be provided by individual complainants, subjects, and/or third parties. Systems exempt from certain provisions of the act: Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), this system of records has been exempted from all provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended, except subsection (b), (c)(1) and (2), (e)(4)(A) through (F), (e)(6), (7), (9), (10) and (11), and (i). Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(k)(2) and (k)(5), this system has been exempted from the following provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a: subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f). USDA/OIG&hyph;5 System name: Consolidated Assignments Personnel Tracking Administrative Information Network (CAPTAIN), USDA/OIG. System location: U.S. Department of Agriculture, National Computer Center, 8930 Ward Parkway, Kansas City, Missouri 64114. Categories of Individuals covered by the system: OIG professional employees who participate in either audit or investigative assignments. Subjects of investigations. Categories of records in the system: CAPTAIN provides OIG management officials with a wide range of information of Audit and Investigations operations. The system identifies individual assignments of employees and provides information on their use of direct and indirect time, significant dates relating to each assignments, reported dollar deficiencies, recoveries, penalties, the number of investigative prosecutions, convictions, other legal and administrative actions, the identify of all professionals who participated in the assignment, and subjects of investigation. The system is used to manage audit and investigative assignments and to facilitate reporting of OIG activities to Congress and other Governmental entities. Authority for maintenance of the system Pub. L. 95&hyph;452, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App.; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 2270. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Routine uses (1) through (12) listed in the system of records designated USDA/OIG&hyph;1. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are maintained on computer discs, magnetic tape, and in file folders and notebooks. Retrievability: Information in the system generally can be retrieved by OIG personnel in headquarters and the regions. Information is generally retrieved by assignment number or geographic location. However, information can be retrieved by any field in the system, including subject name, employee name, and employee social security number. Safeguards: Normal computer security is maintained including password protection. Printouts and source documents are kept in limited-access areas during duty hours and in locked offices during nonduty hours. Retention and disposal: Computer files and other records are cleared, retired, or destroyed, when no longer useful, in accordance with National Archives and Records Administration and USDA record retention and/or destruction schedules.
