FR940426-0-00059 FR940426-0-00012 2. Sponsors The proposed amendments defined the term ``sponsor'' broadly to include an adviser that sponsors or organizes a wrap fee program or that provides advice to clients regarding the selection of portfolio managers in the program. 10 The Commission recognized that such a broad definition might result in a single program's having more than one sponsor, and therefore proposed to permit the sponsors to choose among themselves the sponsor that would deliver the wrap fee brochure to clients. 11 Some comments suggested that the definition of sponsor unintentionally included advisers who recommend wrap fee program portfolio managers to clients, but who are not involved with or compensated under the wrap fee program. In addition, commenters suggested that the definition of ``sponsor'' be made consistent with the North American Securities Administrators Association's proposed amendments to their Uniform Rules under the Uniform Securities Act. 12 10 The sponsor of a wrap fee program is generally required to register as an adviser under the Advisers Act. See National Regulatory Services, Inc. (pub. avail. Dec. 2, 1992). 11 As adopted, amended rule 204&hyph;3 permits the sponsors of a wrap fee program to allocate brochure obligations. The rule does not, however, relieve a sponsor from liability for violating the rule if another sponsor fails to deliver the brochure. 12 Uniform Rule 203(b)&hyph;2, NASAA Reports (CCH) ¶4104 (Oct. 1993). Based on these comments, the Commission is revising the definition of sponsor to include only those advisers that ``are compensated under a wrap fee program for sponsoring, organizing, or administering the program, or for selecting, or providing advice to clients regarding the selection of, other investment advisers in the program.'' 13 A registered adviser that has an advisory relationship or prospective advisory relationship with a wrap fee client, but is not compensated under the wrap fee program, is not a sponsor and must provide the client with the brochure that the adviser is otherwise required to provide its clients pursuant to rule 204&hyph;3 under Advisers Act (the ``general brochure''). 14 A sponsor of a wrap fee program that is a registered investment adviser must deliver the wrap fee brochure (unless another sponsor has assumed that obligation) to a prospective client of the program even if that sponsor will not have an advisory relationship with the prospective client (because, for example, that sponsor provides only administrative services under the program). 15 13 New paragraph (f)(1) of rule 204&hyph;3; Instruction 1 of Schedule H. A person that is paid to solicit clients for a wrap fee program is not a sponsor of the program merely because of the solicitation activities. A person that is paid to solicit clients for a program, but that does not provide any services under the program, generally will be subject to rule 206(4)&hyph;3 under the Advisers Act [17 CFR 275.206(4)&hyph;3]. 14 Paragraph (a) of rule 204&hyph;3. A firm that provides services enumerated in the definition of sponsor, but that is not a registered investment adviser ( e.g., a bank), is not required to provide any brochure. Paragraph (f)(1) of rule 204&hyph;3. 15 As adopted, paragraph (f) of rule 204&hyph;3 requires advisers that are registered or required to be registered to deliver a brochure to prospective clients ``of the wrap fee program.'' Compare paragraph (a) of rule 204&hyph;3. This provision is intended to increase the likelihood that at least one registered investment adviser is obligated to provide the wrap fee brochure to a client participating in a wrap fee program. B. The Separate Brochure 1. In General As noted above, the Commission proposed a narrative wrap fee brochure that would be separate from, and would be provided to wrap fee clients in lieu of, the sponsor's general brochure. Commenters generally supported requiring a narrative disclosure document in connection with wrap fee programs. Commenters were divided, however, over whether a separate wrap fee brochure should be required. Nine commenters supported requiring a separate brochure, six of whom asserted that a separate document should be required for each program. 16 Nine other commenters opposed the separate brochure requirement, arguing that a brochure describing all of the sponsor's advisory services would provide relevant information about the client's investment alternatives. 16 The proposed amendments would give a sponsor the option of using a single brochure for all of its wrap fee programs or creating separate brochures for each program. The Commission has decided to retain a separate brochure requirement. 17 The Commission has observed that brochures containing disclosure about wrap fee programs often also describe other programs that are not available to most wrap fee clients because they do not meet the minimum account or other eligibility requirements of those other programs. Thus, these combined brochures may not in fact provide information about available investment alternatives, as argued by commenters opposing the separate brochure proposal. Moreover, brochures describing multiple programs are often lengthy and cumbersome and may discourage prospective clients from reading them. 18 17 New paragraph (f)(1) of rule 204&hyph;3. As noted below, more than one wrap fee program may be described in the same brochure. See Section I.B.2 infra. 18 For instance, the Commission staff found that one sponsor delivered a fifty-nine page Part II (exclusive of financial statements) to wrap fee program clients, while another delivered a fifty-two page Part II. Some commenters suggested requiring a table of contents in brochures as an alternative to a separate brochure. A table of contents requirement would not serve as an effective substitute for a separate brochure because all of the information relevant to a wrap fee client typically is not located in one section of the brochure. Commenters opposed to a separate brochure requirement also argued that such a requirement would impose substantial additional costs on sponsors. The Commission believes, however, that the cost burden of a separate brochure requirement will be small in relation to its benefits. 19 19 See the Cost/Benefit Analysis in Section II of this Release infra. The Commission does not expect that sponsors will need to deliver both their general brochure and their wrap fee brochure to significant numbers of prospective advisory clients. Many prospective wrap fee program clients will likely not be interested in or eligible for other programs. Furthermore, a client being offered a program with a choice of fee arrangements need only be offered the wrap fee brochure. 20 20 See note 9 supra. 2. Multiple Wrap Fee Programs The proposed amendments would give sponsors the option to prepare either a single brochure describing all their wrap fee programs or separate brochures describing different programs. The Proposing Release requested comment whether separate brochures should be required for each of a sponsor's wrap fee programs, or whether a single brochure describing all programs should be required. Some commenters believed that separate brochures for each program should be required, while others believed that sponsors should have the flexibility to use either separate or combined brochures. The Commission is retaining the provision in the proposal giving sponsors the option to prepare either a single brochure describing all of their wrap fee programs or separate brochures for each program. A sponsor that uses separate brochures for different wrap fee programs must note the existence of the other programs in each brochure, and state how brochures for the other programs can be obtained. 21 This disclosure will inform clients that alternative programs may be available to them. 21 Item 5 of Schedule H. C. Contents of the Brochure The requirements for the contents of the wrap fee brochure are set forth in a new schedule to Form ADV, Schedule H. 22 The requirements of Schedule H are substantially similar to the requirements set forth in the proposed amendments. 22 Wrap fee brochures must be filed with the Commission attached to a completed Schedule H.
