FR940303-2-00089 FR940303-2-00055 For use in the Section 202, Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811, Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program February 18, 1994. Exhibit A To Opinion of Owner's Counsel Certification of Owner This Certification of Owner is made the XXXX day of XXXX , 19 XXX , by XXXXXXXX , (the ``Owner'') for reliance upon by XXXXXXXX (the ``Owner's Counsel'') in connection with the issuance of an opinion letter dated of even date herewith (the ``Opinion Letter'') by (``Owner's Counsel'') as a condition for the making of a capital advance by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (``HUD'') in the amount of $ XXXXXX (the ``Capital Advance'') to the Owner. In connection with the Opinion Letter, the Owner hereby certifies to Owner's Counsel for its reliance, the truth, accuracy and completeness of the following matters: 1. The Organizational Documents are the only documents creating the Owner or authorizing the Capital Advance, and the Organizational Documents have not been amended or modified except as stated in the Opinion Letter. 2. The terms and conditions of the Capital Advance as reflected in the Capital Advance Documents have not been amended, modified or supplemented, directly or indirectly, by any other agreement or understanding of the parties or waiver of any of the material provisions of the Capital Advance Documents. 3. All tangible personal property of the Owner in which a security interest is granted under the Capital Advance Documents [other than off-site construction materials and/or accounts or goods of a type normally used in more than one jurisdiction and/or additional collateral personalty] is located at the Property (as defined in the Opinion Letter) and the Owner's [Chief Executive Office] [only place of business] [residence] is located in 4. The execution and delivery of the Capital Advance Documents will not (i) cause the Owner to be in violation of, or constitute a default under the provisions of any agreement to which the Owner is a party or by which the Owner is bound, (ii) conflict with, or result in the breach of, any court judgment, decree or order of any governmental body to which the Owner is subject, and (iii) result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge, or encumbrance of any nature whatsoever upon any of the property or assets of the Owner, except as specifically contemplated by the Capital Advance Documents. 5. There is no litigation or other claim pending before any court or administrative or other governmental body or threatened against the Owner, the Property, or any other properties of the Owner [except as identified on Exhibit XX , List of Litigation, in the Opinion Letter.] 6. There is no default under the Public Entity Agreement (as defined in the Opinion Letter) nor have events occurred which with the passage of time will result in a default under the Regulatory Agreement. Note: All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Opinion Letter. In witness whereof, the Owner has executed this Certification of Owner effective as of the date set forth above. Owner:
