FR941230-2-00006 FR941230-2-00003 The Forest Service will consider a range of alternatives. One of these will be the ``no action'' alternative, in which none of the proposed treatment activities would be implemented. Additional alternatives represent the range of control methods currently available for treatment of noxious weeds. Some of the action alternatives will involve only non-chemical methods of control. Public participation is an important part of the analysis, commencing with the initial scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7), which will occur during November and December of 1994. In addition, the public is encouraged to visit with Forest Service officials at any time during the analysis and prior to the decision. The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed actions. Public meetings will be held, but have not been scheduled at this time. Comments from the public and other agencies will be used in preparation of the Draft EIS. The scoping process will be used to: 1. Identify potential issues. 2. Identify major issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Eliminate minor issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis, such as the Idaho Panhandle Forest Plan EIS or Idaho Panhandle Weed Pest Management EIS. 4. Identify alternatives to the proposed action. 5. Identify potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e., cumulative effects). 6. Determine potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. Some public comments have already been identified from initial interdisciplinary review of the weed control proposal. The following significant issues have been identified so far: 1. Current and potential impacts of noxious weeds (and their spread) on ecosystem communities and processes; threatened, endangered, and sensitive plants and animals; soils; water quality; aesthetics; wildlife and fish; and recreational opportunities. 2. Potential impacts of weed control. 3. Potential affects upon human health from the application of herbicides. This list will be verified, expanded, or modified based on public scoping interdisciplinary review of this proposal. The Draft EIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and available for public review in May of 1995. At that time, the EPA will publish a Notice of Availability of the Draft EIS in the Federal Register . The comment period on the Draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the EPA's notice of availability appears in the Federal Register . It is very important that those interested in noxious weed management participate at that time. To be most helpful, comments on the Draft EIS should be as site-specific as possible. The Final EIS is scheduled to be completed by August of 1995. The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016 1022 (9th Cir. 1986 and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day scoping comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in developing issues and alternatives. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues on the proposed action, comments should be as specific as possible. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. I am the responsible official for this environmental impact statement. My address is Bonners Ferry Ranger District, Route 4, Box 4860, Bonners Ferry, ID 83805&hyph;9764. Dated: December 16, 1994. Allen B. Chrisman, Acting District Ranger. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;32148 Filed 12&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
