FR940613-2-00075 FR940613-2-00044 (4) Whether any single party has, or is perceived to have, the ability to dominate negotiations, thereby making a compromise solution unlikely; (5) Whether there are clear and identifiable issues that are agreed to be ripe for a negotiated solution; (6) Whether a negotiated solution would require one or more parties to compromise a fundamental value; (7) Whether the use of negotiated rulemaking is reasonably likely to result in an agreement or course of action satisfactory to all parties; and (8) Whether there are legal deadlines or other legal issues that either mitigate against negotiation or provide incentives to reach a negotiated solution. If a bureau has decided to enter into a negotiated rulemaking, it will prepare a brief report describing the goals, objectives, anticipated parties, and projected timetables of the negotiation. Throughout the negotiation, the bureau will prepare brief periodic reports discussing the progress toward achieving the goals, objectives, and timetables of the negotiation, and highlighting any successes and unanticipated events or issues encountered during the negotiation. These reports shall be submitted to ORA and the IDRC. At the end of the two-year interim policy, ORA, the DRS, and IDRC shall prepare a report to the Secretary evaluating the Department's experiences with negotiated rulemaking. This report will focus upon the types of policies, categories of rulemakings, and methods of negotiation that were most successful in achieving customer satisfaction and the cost-effective implementation of mutually agreeable rulemakings. This report will be based upon evaluations conducted by the bureaus and submitted to ORA, IDRC, and the DRS for review and assimilation into the report to the Secretary. IV. Executive Order 12866 This interim policy was not subject to Office of Management and Budget review under Executive Order 12866. Dated: June 2, 1994. Bonnie R. Cohen, Assistant Secretary, Policy, Management and Budgets. Appendix I_Glossary of ADR Terms Appendix II_Examples of ADR Initiatives Appendix I_Glossary of ADR Terms The following terms are commonly associated with ADR and negotiated rulemaking and contain many recognized forms of ADR. They are provided for the reader's convenience and have been adapted from the ADR Act, the Negotiated Rulemaking Act, and other sources. Alternative means of dispute resolution _An inclusive term used to describe a variety of problem-solving processes that are used in lieu of litigation or administrative adjudication to resolve issues in controversy, including but not limited to, settlement negotiations, conciliation, facilitation, mediation, fact-finding, minitrials, and arbitration, or any combination thereof. Arbitration _A process, quasi-judicial in nature, whereby a dispute is submitted to an impartial and neutral third party who considers the facts and merits of a case and decides the matter. To be revised consistent with 5 U.S.C. 588, et. seq. Conciliation _Procedures intended to help establish trust and openness between the parties to a dispute. Dispute _An issue which is material to a decision concerning an administrative or mission-related program of an agency and with which there is disagreement between the agency and a person or persons who would be substantially affected by the decision.
