FR941207-2-00007 FR941207-2-00002 8. Describe the affected environment. 9. Identify the potential environmental effects of the alternatives. 10. Select monitoring requirements. Steps 2, 3, and 4 will be completed through the scoping process. Steps 5 will consider a range of alternatives developed from the key issues. One of these will be the ``No Action'' alternative, in which the existing management direction would be maintained. Other alternatives will consider various combinations of indicators, standards, management zones and management prescriptions in response to issues. Step 8 will describe the physical, biological and social attributes of the area to be affected by this proposal, with special attention to the environmental factors that could be adversely affected. Step 9 will analyze the environmental effects of each alternative. This analysis will provide the rationale for amending the Land and Resource Management (Forest) Plans and will be consistent with National Forest Management Act requirements. The direct, indirect, and cumulative effects of each alternative will be analyzed and documented. In addition, management prescription or management zone specific mitigation measures will be identified and the effectiveness of these mitigation measures will be disclosed. The approximate boundary of the area used for this analysis is the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness which includes almost the entire Middle Fork Salmon River drainage, the Main Salmon River drainage from Wheat Creek downstream to the South Fork Salmon River, excluding Little Mallard and Robertson Creeks and that portion of the Main Salmon River downstream from the South Fork Salmon River to Huntz Gulch on the South side of the river, the Big Creek drainage downstream from Smith Creek, and the South Fork Salmon River downstream from Knob Creek. A total of 2,361,767 acres in four counties (Custer, Idaho, Lemhi and Valley) is included in this Wilderness area. For a map, please refer to the ``Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness (North Half, South Half), available from the USDA, Forest Service, Intermountain Region, Ogden Utah 84401. The proposed management activities would be administered by the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness Headquarters in Lemhi County, Idaho. Agency representatives and other interested people are invited to visit with Forest Service officials at any time during the EIS process. Three specific time periods are identified for the receipt of formal comments on the analysis. The three comment periods are, (1) during the scoping process, (2) during the draft indicators and standards identification and management prescriptions development phase, and (3) during the formal review period of the Draft EIS. The Draft EIS is estimated to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and available for public review in October 1995. At that time, the EPA will publish an availability notice of the Draft EIS in the Federal Register. The comment period on the Draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency's notice of availability appears in the Federal Register. It is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate at that time. To be most helpful, comments on the Draft EIS should be as specific as possible and may address the adequacy of the statement of merits of the alternatives discussed (see The Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3). In addition, Federal court decisions have established that reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewers' positions and contentions. ``Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDDC'', 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Environmental objections that could have been raised at the draft stage may be waived if not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement. ``City of Angoon v. Hodel,'' (9th Circuit,m 1986 and ``Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris,'' 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). The reason for this is to ensure that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns related to the proposed action, comments on the Draft EIS should be as specific as possible. Referring to specific pages or chapters of the Draft EIS is most helpful. Comments may also address the adequacy of the Draft EIS or the merits of the alternative formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act, 40 CFR 1503.3, in addressing these points. The final EIS is expected to be released December 1, 1995. The Lead Forest Supervisory for the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness, who is the Responsible Official for the EIS, will then make a decision regarding this proposal after considering the comments, responses, and environmental consequences discussed in the Final Environmental Impact Statement, and applicable laws, regulations, and policies. The reasons for the decision will be documented in a Record of Decision. Dated: November 15, 1994. Charles C. Wildes, Lead Forest Supervisor, FC&hyph;RONR Wilderness. [94&hyph;30047&hyph;Filed 12&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
