FR940728-1-00005 FR940728-1-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Rural Electrification Administration 7 CFR Part 1703 Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program AGENCY: Rural Electrification Administration, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Rural Electrification Administration (REA) is proposing to amend its recently published rule for the Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program by adding a new provision to the selection of projects to be funded under the existing rule. The new provision will enhance the potential of funding for applications from areas that: Were recently designated by the President as natural disaster areas; have experienced severe economic dislocation due to the loss, removal, or closing of a major source of employment; have experienced long-term and severe economic deterioration, demonstrated by severe unemployment or a high percentage of population out-migration; and have been designated as a Rural Empowerment Zone or Rural Enterprise Community. DATES: Written comments must be received by REA or carry a postmark or equivalent no later than August 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit an original and three copies of all written comments to Blaine D. Stockton, Jr., Assistant Administrator, Economic Development and Technical Services, Rural Electrification Administration, Room 4025, South Building, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 14th and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250&hyph;1500 (7 CFR part 1700). The public may inspect written comments on this proposed rule in room 4025 of the South Building between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. on official workdays (7 CFR 1.27(b)). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Blaine D. Stockton, Jr., Assistant Administrator, Economic Development and Technical Services, Rural Electrification Administration, telephone number (202) 720&hyph;9552. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposed rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This proposed rule: (1) Will not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies; (2) Will not have any retroactive effect; and (3) Will not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit challenging the provisions of this rule. In compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Administrator certifies that this action would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities as defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.). Based on current and historical funding levels for this program and a projected average size loan and/or grant in the range of $300,000 to $400,000, it is estimated that 50 to 60 loans and/or grants will be made nationwide each year under the existing rule. Applicants whose rural development projects are enhanced by this action are projected to be less numerous, and therefore, the proposed rule will have a limited impact upon small businesses. Since credit will be channeled to areas which are generally underdeveloped and financially depressed, job creation and economic development resulting from newly emerging businesses and community facilities funded by REA will not pose undue competition or other adverse effects upon existing businesses. Therefore, this proposed rule will have no effect upon businesses or entities other than those to be funded through this program. In compliance with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) regulations (5 CFR part 1320) implementing the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;511) and section 3504 of that Act, the information collection and recordkeeping requirements contained in this proposed rule have been approved by OMB under control number 0572&hyph;0090. Comments concerning these requirements should be directed to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of OMB, Attention: Desk Officer for USDA, room 3201, NEOB, Washington, DC 20503. The Administrator has determined that this proposed rule will not significantly affect the quality of the human environment as defined by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq). Therefore, this action does not require an environmental impact statement or assessment. The program is subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials, with the exception of applications for Project Feasibility Studies. This program is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.854, Rural Economic Development Loans and Grants. This catalog is available on a subscription basis from the Superintendent of Documents, United States Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;9325. Background REA published a final rule amending the Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program on March 14, 1994, (59 FR 11702) establishing procedures to approve and administer grants and grants in conjunction with zero-interest loans. REA is proposing this action to enhance the funding potential of Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant applications from economically devastated areas. REA intends to encourage applications from those rural communities where an acute need for economic development assistance is shown. The Administrator will have the discretion to designate special economic status under the Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program selection factors, adding up to 25 points to an applicant's score if at least one of the four following conditions exists in one or more county(ies) to be served by the proposed project. The first condition involves the designation of an area by the President of the United States as a natural disaster area. REA recognizes the crucial role of economic development organizations in rebuilding communities devastated by natural disasters. This proposed amendment would increase the possibility of selection of loans and grants from areas so designated by the President.
