FR941128-2-00101 FR941128-2-00052 Notice of Computer Matching Programs, States' Income Eligibility Verification System Records with the Social Security Administration (SSA) A. Participating Agencies SSA and the States. B. Purpose of the Matching Programs Section 1137 of the Social Security Act (the Act) requires States to have in effect an income and eligibility verification system to administer certain State benefit programs including the exchange of information to verify eligibility or benefit amounts of State beneficiaries. The purpose of these matching programs is to enable SSA to implement this provision. The agreements with the States will describe the conditions under which SSA and the States agree to disclose information to each other relating to the eligibility for, and payment of, Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits and State-administered income, food assistance, and medical assistance programs, described in section 1137 (b). C. Authority for Conducting the Matching Programs Section 1137 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-7). D. Categories of Records and Individuals Covered by the Matching Programs States will submit names and other identifying information of beneficiaries/recipients from their benefit rolls. This information from the States will be matched with the SSA master file of Social Security number holders which contains the SSNs and identifying information for all SSN holders and the SSA Master Beneficiary Record and Supplemental Security Income Record which contain beneficiary and payment information. E. Inclusive Dates of the Match The matching programs shall become effective 40 days after a copy of the agreement, as approved by the Data Integrity Board, is sent to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) (or later if OMB objects to some or all of the agreement), or 30 days after publication of this notice in the Federal Register , whichever date is later. The matching programs will continue for 18 months from the effective date and may be extended for an additional 12 months thereafter, if certain conditions are met. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29192 Filed 11&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;P
