FR940429-0-00131 FR940429-0-00013 Changes: None. Other Comments Comments: A few commenters warned that the distribution of campus security policies could be dangerous because criminal elements might use the information provided to evade detection and plan further crimes. Discussion: The Secretary expects institutions to consider the needs of the campus community for which they are providing a statement of campus security policies and to be judicious in the selection of information to be provided. The Secretary does not believe the required disclosures will aid crime. Rather, the disclosures will serve to discourage crime on campus. Changes: None. Comments: A few commenters said the statistics disclosed of campus crimes should represent only verifiable crimes or convictions. Discussion: The occurrence of a crime on campus need not be disclosed to students and staff under these regulations unless the appropriate law enforcement officials conclude that the crime did occur with the same degree of certainty they would require for purposes of reporting under the FBI's Uniform Crime Reporting System. Convictions, however, are not required, because an acquittal means only that a specific defendant did not commit the crime charged, not that a crime did not occur. For information concerning ``Unfounded Complaints'' an institution should refer to the UCR Handbook. The Secretary provided this clarification as a guide to disclosure requirements. It is in no way to be interpreted as discouraging the reporting of crime to the proper law enforcement agencies. Changes: None. Executive Order 12866 These final regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the final regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements were identified and explained in the NPRM. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1840&hyph;0537) In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal government in the exercise of their governmental functions. Assessment of Educational Impact In the notice of proposed rulemaking, the Secretary requested comments on whether the proposed regulations would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. Based on the response to the proposed rules and on its own review, the Department has determined that the regulations in this document do not require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 668 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and universities, Consumer protection, Education, Grant programs- education, Loan programs-education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers: 84.007 Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program; 84.032 Federal Stafford Loan Program; 84.032 Federal PLUS Program; 84.032 Federal Supplemental Loans for Students Program; 84.032 Federal Consolidation Program; 84.033 Federal Work-Study Program; 84.038 Federal Perkins Loan Program; 84.063 Federal Pell Grant Program; 84.069 State Student Incentive Grant Program; 84.226 Income Contingent Loan Program; 84.268 Federal Direct Student Loan Program; and 84.27 National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership Program. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number for the Presidential Access Scholarship Program has not been assigned.) Dated: April 22, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education.
