FR941004-0-00007 FR941004-0-00003 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Internal Revenue Service 26 CFR Part 1 [TD 8565] RIN 1545&hyph;AM88 Limitation on Passive Activity Losses and Credits_Definition of Activity AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Final regulations. SUMMARY: This document contains final regulations defining the term ``activity'' for purposes of applying the limitations on passive activity losses and passive activity credits. The final regulations affect taxpayers subject to the limitations on passive activity losses and passive activity credits and provide them with the guidance necessary to comply with the law. DATES: These regulations are effective May 11, 1992. For dates of applicability of these regulations, see ยง1.469&hyph;11 of these regulations. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William M. Kostak at (202) 622&hyph;3080 (not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background This document amends 26 CFR part 1 to provide additional rules under section 469. Section 469 limits the use of passive activity losses and passive activity credits. Section 469(l)(1) provides that the Treasury Department will prescribe regulations that may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the provisions of section 469, including regulations that specify what constitutes an activity for purposes of that section. On May 15, 1992, the IRS published in the Federal Register a notice of proposed rulemaking (57 FR 20802) to replace certain temporary regulations defining the term ``activity.'' A number of public comments were received concerning the proposed regulations, and a public hearing was held on September 3, 1992. After consideration of the comments received, the proposed regulations are adopted as revised by this Treasury decision. Explanation of Provisions I. General Background Section 469 disallows losses from passive activities to the extent they exceed income from passive activities and similarly disallows credits from passive activities to the extent they exceed tax liability allocable to passive activities. Passive activities are defined, generally, as rental activities and activities in which the taxpayer does not materially participate, but the statute does not define the term ``activity.'' Except for modifications in response to comments received on the proposed regulations, the final regulations generally adopt the same definition of activity as contained in the proposed regulations. II. Public Comments One comment suggested that the regulations make explicit that the same facts and circumstances may result in more than one permissible grouping of activities. In response to this comment, the final regulations clarify that there may be more than one reasonable method for grouping a taxpayer's activities after taking into account all the relevant facts and circumstances. Another comment concerned an example in the proposed regulations that illustrates the grouping of two activities, both conducted through partnerships, where one activity involves the sale of non-food items to grocery stores and the other activity involves the warehousing of goods predominantly for the first activity. The comment suggested clarifying whether the warehousing activity is a rental activity or a trade or business activity. To clarify this point, the final regulations use the example of a trucking activity rather than a warehousing activity. Several comments requested clarification of the rule that trade or business activities may be grouped together with rental activities only if one is insubstantial in relation to the other. Some comments suggested specifying that the term ``insubstantial'' refers to factors other than gross income. Other comments suggested adopting a bright-line or safe-harbor gross revenue test. Because the regulations already adopt a facts-and-circumstances test that looks at all of the pertinent factors, it is not necessary to specify that the term insubstantial refers to factors other than gross income. In addition, to avoid complex and mechanical rules, the final regulations do not adopt a bright-line or safe-harbor gross revenue test. Another comment suggested that the insubstantial requirement should not apply when a taxpayer is renting property to the taxpayer's trade or business. In response to this comment, the final regulations provide that the portion of a rental activity that involves the rental of items of property to a trade or business activity may be grouped with the trade or business activity, regardless of whether one activity is insubstantial in relation to the other, provided each owner of the trade or business activity has the same proportionate ownership interest in the rental activity. As under the proposed regulations, the Commissioner is authorized to issue guidance identifying activities that may not be grouped with other activities. The final regulations clarify that this authority is not restricted to activities owned by limited partners or limited entrepreneurs. A commentator requested clarification on whether activities conducted through a C corporation may be grouped with activities not conducted through the C corporation. The final regulations clarify that in determining whether a taxpayer materially or significantly participates in an activity, a taxpayer may group that activity with activities conducted through C corporations that are subject to section 469 (that is, personal service and closely held C corporations).
