FR941012-0-00025 FR941012-0-00005 (2) Mission Bay. The following regulations are in effect between the hours of 10 a.m. to 12 noon and 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. on October 28 and 29 November 1, 2 and 4, 1994, and as otherwise ordered by the Patrol Commander by Broadcast Notice to Mariners: (i) Spectator and participant vessels shall not exceed five knots. (ii) Spectator and participant sail vessels shall not operate exclusively under sail without the prior express permission of the Patrol Commander. (iii) When transiting through the regulated area is necessary, spectator vessels shall make expeditious transit and shall not impede or obstruct the orderly flow of vessel traffic. (iv) All vessels shall follow instructions of Coast Guard and Coast Guard Auxiliary vessels. (3) IACC offshore race venue. The following regulations are in effect from 12 noon to 5:30 p.m. on October 28 and 29 and November 1, 2 and 4, 1994, and as otherwise ordered by the Patrol Commander by Broadcast Notice to Mariners, within the IACC offshore race venue which falls within the navigable waters of the United States, i.e., those waters within three nautical miles (3nm) of the baseline from which the territorial sea is measured: (i) Spectator vessels shall remain outside the course perimeter, as marked by the AC'95 Vessels and Official Vessels. (ii) All vessels shall follow the instructions of Coast Guard and Coast Guard Auxiliary vessels. Note: The regulations specified in this paragraph apply only within the navigable waters of the United States. In all waters within the IACC offshore race venue which fall outside the navigable waters of the United States, during the specified dates and times, the following nonobligatory guidelines apply: (A) All spectator vessels should remain clear of the race venue and avoid interfering with any participant, AC'95 Vessels or Official Vessels. Interference with race activities may constitute a safety hazard warranting cancellation or termination of all or part of the World Championship race activities by the Patrol Commander. (B) Any unauthorized entry within the race course perimeter, as marked by the AC'95 Vessels and Official Vessels, by spectator vessels constitutes a risk to the safety of marine traffic. Such entry will constitute a factor to be considered in determining whether a person has operated a vessel in a negligent manner in violation of 46 U.S.C. 2302. (4) One way traffic and five knot speed limit. The Patrol Commander may implement one-way traffic patterns and a five knot speed limit in the regulated areas or portions thereof if the Patrol Commander deems it necessary to ensure safe navigation. Notice of one-way traffic and a five knot speed limit shall be made by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. If one-way traffic patterns are implemented, spectator and participant vessels are required to transit the applicable regulated area(s) in either an inbound direction (proceeding into port) or an outbound direction (proceeding to sea). No traffic in any direction other than inbound or outbound (i.e., cross traffic) will be permitted in the area of implementation. If a five knot speed limit or one-way traffic is implemented, all participant and spectator vessels shall also abide by all other nonconflicting provisions contained within these special local regulations associated with the regulated area. If a five knot speed limit is implemented in San Diego Bay, all traffic entering or exiting the harbors will be required to make a speed of no more than five knots through the water. (d) Effective Dates. This section is effective 10 a.m. PDT on October 28, 1994 through 5:30 p.m. PST on November 6, 1994, inclusive, unless cancelled earlier by the District Commander. Dated: September 22, 1994. R.A. Applebaum, Rear Admiral, Coast Guard, Commander, Eleventh Coast Guard District. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25155 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
