FR940426-2-00119 FR940426-2-00075 Any other multifamily project, including those to be occupied by homeless persons or homeless families as defined in section 103 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act. High rise elevator projects for families with children are not eligible for this demonstration unless HUD determines there is no practical alternative. (G) Project Selection Criteria Pension funds may establish their own criteria for selecting project-specific proposals but such criteria must, in the aggregate, reflect the following public purposes to the satisfaction of the Secretary: _Achieving economic mix; _Increasing housing choices and fostering neighborhood diversity; _Providing affordable housing for large, low-income families and providing access to necessary supportive facilities and services; _Involving other state and local and public and private resources to achieve these objectives and to limit Section 8 assistance to less than 50% of the units (except in HUD-owned properties or properties with mortgages held by HUD and under limited special circumstances, such as assistance for homeless, disabled, or displaced approved by HUD); _Facilitating maximum use of available Section 8 budget authority by limiting gross rents to less than the Fair Market Rent Limitations and contract terms to less than 15 years; _Facilitating geographic/locality diversity of project sites and complying with any applicable court orders; _Using HUD owned properties and properties with mortgages held by HUD in a variety of geographic locations; and _Meeting special needs of homeless, disabled, or displaced etc. More detailed information with respect to these criteria and methods of selection is contained in HUD Notice 94&hyph;19. Pension funds should be aware that certain projects are not eligible for participation in this demonstration. These include projects that are subject to mortgage prepayment restrictions, including projects meeting the definition of ``eligible low income housing'' under the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990 (LIHPRHA) and projects that are subject to Section 250(a) of the National Housing Act. A list of HUD-owned properties is available from HUD Headquarters, Office of Preservation and Property Disposition, telephone (202) 708&hyph;3343. Information on properties with mortgages held by HUD is available from the Office of Multifamily Housing Management in HUD Headquarters, telephone (202) 708&hyph;3730. HUD Notice 94&hyph;19 sets forth the format and specific information needed in order for pension funds to meet the requirements of this subpart (G). (H) Section 8 Project-Specific Contract Award A Category A pension fund will have 120 days from the date of its selection to participate in the demonstration to submit project-specific proposals utilizing the total amount of its Section 8 set-aside. It will have 10 months from the date of selection to commit (i.e., closing of construction financing) its Section 8 set-aside to specific projects. A Category B pension fund will have 12 months to reach closing of construction financing. It must submit project-specific proposals sufficient to use its Section 8 set-aside no later than 120 days before the end of the 12 month period. Any amount of set-aside not committed to specific projects by the end of the time periods indicated above may be withdrawn by HUD and reallocated to other pension funds based on the performance of the receiving pension fund in utilizing it previous allocation(s) or to pension funds not previously selected by HUD due to the lack of available set-aside authority. HUD may extend these deadlines. Project-specific proposals must include the information and certifications, and be submitted in the format, identified in HUD Notice 94&hyph;19. (I) Processing of Project-Specific Proposals After receipt of a project-specific proposal, HUD, in accordance with HUD Notice 94&hyph;19, will perform certain HUD-retained reviews for compliance with: _Site acceptability criteria for this Demonstration; _Environmental requirements except HUD may accept and adopt an environmental review in accordance with 24 CFR Part 58 conducted by a CDBG or HOME grantee; _Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing requirements; _Previous participation of project principals in HUD programs; _Obtain and issue appropriate Davis-Bacon wage rate determinations; and _Subsidy layering guidelines, unless the Housing Credit Agency has agreed to perform subsidy layering reviews for projects receiving Low Income Housing Tax Credits. Upon completion of the HUD reviews, Headquarters will notify the pension fund whether or not the proposal is acceptable, the amount of Section 8 that will be reserved for the project when the HAP Agreement is signed and the steps requisite to execution of the HAP Agreement.
