FR940527-2-00133 FR940527-2-00112 Columbia River Basin Fish and Wildlife Program; Power Plan Amendments May 11, 1994. AGENCY: Pacific Northwest Electric Power and Conservation Planning Council (Northwest Power Planning Council). ACTION: Request for recommendations for amendments to the Columbia River Basin Fish and Wildlife Program (measures for anadromous fish). SUMMARY: Pursuant to the Pacific Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act (the Northwest Power Act, 16 U.S.C. section 839, et seq.) the Pacific Northwest Electric Power and Conservation Planning Council (Council) invites recommendations for amendments to the anadromous fish provisions of the Columbia River Basin Fish and Wildlife Program (program). BACKGROUND: The Strategy for Salmon, which the Northwest Power Planning Council adopted in December, 1992 and later incorporated into the 1994 Columbia River Basin Fish and Wildlife Program, called for reports to be prepared on a variety of measures to improve passage of anadromous fish in their mainstem migration, including: reservoir drawdowns; potential new Snake River Basin storage facilities; water efficiencies, transactions or other nonstructural measures to secure more Snake River Basin water for anadromous fish; biological rule curves to protect resident fish and wildlife populations associated with Libby and Hungry Horse reservoirs in Montana; and other matters. Reports on these matters are now or soon will be available, and the Council plans to conduct a rulemaking process this summer to consider these reports. Since the Strategy for Salmon was adopted, a number of other issues have arisen in connection with the National Marine Fisheries Service's 1993 and 1994 biological opinions, the National Marine Fisheries Service Recovery Team's recommendations, the federal court settlement discussions in Idaho Department of Fish and Game v. National Marine Fisheries Service , and other matters. To ensure that the Council takes these matters fully into account in its rulemaking process, the Council is requesting recommendations regarding all measures for anadromous fish. REQUEST FOR RECOMMENDATIONS: The Council invites the federal and the region's state fish and wildlife agencies, the region's Indian tribes, and others to submit recommendations for measures to protect, mitigate and enhance anadromous fish affected by hydroelectric facilities located on the Columbia River and its tributaries. While any such recommendation will be considered, the Council intends to focus the amendment process in the following areas: •Measures to improve the survival of anadromous fish at and between hydroelectric facilities located on the Columbia River system; •Harvest, hatchery and habitat issues raised by the National Marine Fisheries Service's biological opinions, related litigation, or the National Marine Fisheries Service recovery planning program. Recommendations must be submitted by 5 p.m. Pacific time on August 15, 1994, to Rick Applegate, Director, Fish and Wildlife Division, Northwest Power Planning Council 851 S.W. Sixth Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97204&hyph;1348. The Council has prepared application forms specifying the Council's requirements for information for recommendations to amend the program. Interested parties may use these forms, or may submit recommendations in letter form. In either case, amendment recommendations should contain the information specified in the ``Amendment Process'' chapter of the Columbia River Basin Fish and Wildlife Program. The Council will make the recommendations available to interested parties for comment, and will hold hearings in Idaho, Montana, Oregon and Washington before taking final action. The Council expects to make decisions on these matters before the end of 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Contact the Council's Public Affairs Division, 851 SW. Sixth Avenue, Suite 1100, Portland, Oregon 97204 or (503) 222&hyph;5161, toll free 1&hyph;800&hyph;222&hyph;3355. Edward W. Sheets, Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13100 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 0000&hyph;00&hyph;M
