FR940413-0-00089 FR940413-0-00026 (c) Designated housing for elderly families and disabled families. (1) A PHA that provides or intends to provide a mixed population project (a project for both elderly families and disabled families) is not required to meet the requirements of this part. The PHA is required to meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 960, subpart D. (2) A PHA that intends to provide designated housing for elderly families or for disabled families must identify any existing or planned mixed population projects, reserved under 24 CFR part 960, subpart B, as additional housing resources, in its allocation plan, in accordance with ยง945.203(c)(6). ยง945.203 Allocation plan. (a) Applicable terminology. (1) As used in this section, the terms ``initial allocation plan'' refers to the PHA's first submission of an allocation plan, and ``updated allocation plan'' refers to the biennial update (once every two years) of this plan, which is described in paragraph (f) of this section. (2) As provided in ยง945.105, the term ``project'' includes the plural (``projects'') and includes a portion of a project. (b) Consultation in plan development. These consultation requirements apply to the development of an initial allocation plan as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, or any update of the allocation plan as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. (1) In preparing the draft plan, the PHA shall consult with: (i) The State or unit of general local government where the project is located; (ii) Public and private service providers; (iii) Representative advocacy groups for each of these family types: disabled families, elderly families, and families with children, where such advocacy groups exist; (iv) Representatives of the residents of the PHA's projects proposed for designation, including representatives from resident councils or resident management corporations where they exist; and (v) Other parties that the PHA determines would be interested in the plan, or other parties that have contacted the PHA and expressed an interest in the plan. (2) Following the completion of the draft plan, the PHA shall: (i) Issue public notices regarding its intention to designate housing and the availability of the draft plan for review; (ii) Contact directly those individuals, agencies and other interested parties specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and advise of the availability of the draft plan for review; (iii) Allow not less than 30 days for public comment on the draft allocation plan; (iv) Make free copies of the draft plan available upon request, and in accessible format, when appropriate; (v) Conduct at least one public meeting on the draft allocation plan; (vi) Give fair consideration to all comments received; and (vii) Retain any records of public meetings held on the allocation plan (or updated plan) and any written comments received on the plan for a period of five years commencing from the date of submission of the allocation plan to HUD. These records must be available for review by HUD. (c) Contents of initial plan. The initial allocation plan shall contain, at a minimum, the information set forth in this paragraph (c). (1) Identification of the project to be designated and type of designation to be made. The PHA must: (i) Identify the type of designation to be made (i.e., housing for disabled families or housing for elderly families);
