FR940503-1-00036 FR940503-1-00010 In addition, EPA is considering limiting appeals from the presiding officer to the EAB. Appeals from the initial decision on a field citation would not be of right, but would be at the discretion of the EAB. For example, a party seeking an appeal from the initial decision would file a motion with the EAB seeking leave to appeal. There would only be an appeal to the EAB if they granted such motion, or reviewed the initial decision sua sponte . Absent such review by the EAB, the initial decision of the presiding officer would become the final order of the Agency. EPA expects that in the typical situation the EAB would not hear an appeal from either party given the expected nature of the minor violations. Appeals typically would be limited to cases with unique factual or legal circumstances. This would conserve the Agency's resources for hearing and deciding administrative appeals, and allow their use for APA cases and more complex cases. At the same time, where appropriate the EAB could hear an appeal. This would minimize the chance of an erroneous deprivation of an individual interest, and at the same time maximize the efficient use of scarce Agency resources. 2. Modified 40 CFR Part 28_Consolidated Rules of Practice Governing the Administrative Assessment of Civil Penalties Under Various Statutes Under the second option considered and proposed by the Agency, the hearings on field citations would be conducted pursuant to the procedures in EPA s proposed non-APA, consolidated rules of practice for the administrative assessment of penalties, with appropriate revisions to conform with the Clean Air Act. (See proposed 40 CFR part 28, 56 FR 29996 (July 1, 1991)). In a separate rulemaking, the Agency would propose to amend Part 28, where appropriate, to make that regulation applicable to field citations. Basis for Hearing Procedures The rules of procedure proposed as 40 CFR Part 28 are intended to consolidate under uniform rules of practice the following non-APA administrative penalty programs that are currently administered by the Agency: Class I administrative penalties under sections 309(g) and 311(b)(6) of the Clean Water Act, section 109(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), and section 325(b) of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-toKnow Act (EPCRA); and administrative penalties under section 1423(c) of the Safe Drinking Water Act and sections 325 (c) and (d) of EPCRA. Part 28 was proposed to consolidate and harmonize certain EPA procedural rules and guidance for the administrative assessment of civil penalties under various statutes, where Congress gave EPA authority to conduct non-APA hearings. In line with this Congressional intent, proposed part 28 is designed to provide streamlined administrative penalty procedures that are designed to assure the protection of basic constitutional rights. Section 113(d)(3) of the Act explicitly states that hearings on field citations are not subject to the APA provisions for hearings (5 U.S.C. 554), and that recipients of a field citation must be provided a reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present evidence. The basic hearing requirements of the field citation program are therefore similar in structure to those programs proposed for inclusion under 40 CFR part 28. Inclusion of hearings on CAA field citations in part 28 would be consistent with the goals stated by EPA when it proposed these consolidated rules for non-APA hearing procedures under various statutes_reduction of confusion by Agency decision makers and enforcement staffs, provision for the regulated community of an essentially uniform set of procedural rules, and conformity with Congress' and EPA's desire to employ expedited penalty assessment procedures. At the same time, the proposed part 28 procedures are designed to provide non-APA hearing procedures under a wide range of statutory provisions, involving civil penalties ranging from $5,000 for each day of violation to $25,000 per violation. This contrasts with the field citation program, involving no more than $5,000 per day of violation for minor violations of the Act or its implementing regulations. In addition, adoption of part 28 procedures for the field citation program would also involve two separate procedures for administrative assessment of civil penalties under the CAA, parts 28 and 22. Adding the field citation program to part 28, however, would promote a greater potential for non-APA multimedia enforcement actions by providing a common administrative forum. As with the part 22 option, the currently proposed part 28 procedures would be modified in certain ways to account for certain aspects of the field citation program. These are discussed later. Proposed Hearing Procedures Under the modified part 28, the field citation would be issued as an administrative complaint. Unlike proposed part 28, however, the field citation complaints would not require certification by an Agency attorney. Within thirty days after service of the citation, the Respondent must file a response requesting a hearing. A 90-day extension of time to respond may be granted by the complainant. As in part 22 practice, the Respondent may simultaneously pursue informal settlement and a hearing. During settlement negotiations, the parties may informally exchange information, if appropriate. For example, the Agency may supply copies of the documentation used to support its case and the Respondent might provide any evidence that would tend to disprove the allegations or to mitigate the requested penalty.
