FR940713-2-00161 FR940713-2-00095 ``Life skills'' includes self-development, communication skills, job development, and education. ``Literacy'' means an individual's ability to read, write, and speak in English and compute and solve problems, at levels of proficiency necessary to function on the job and in society, to achieve one's goals, and to develop one's knowledge and potential. Criteria for Evaluating Applications For the FY 1995 grant competition under the Cooperative Demonstration program (Correctional Education) only, the Secretary uses the selection criteria and assigned points in 34 CFR 426.21 with the exception of 34 CFR 426.21(a) and (b), which are replaced with the following: (a) Program factors. (25 points) The Secretary reviews the application to assess the quality of the proposed project, including the extent to which the proposed project will provide_ (1) Integrated academic and vocational activities that reflect current and projected labor market trends and are based upon the Secretary of Labor's Commission on Achievement of Necessary Skills (SCANS) report recommendations; (2) Transition from correctional education programs to productive employment including one or more of the following: (i) Work experience or apprenticeship projects. (ii) Transitional worksite job training for vocational education students that is related to their occupational goals and closely linked to classroom and laboratory instruction provided by an eligible recipient. (iii) Placement services in occupations that the students are preparing to enter. (iv) If practical, projects that will benefit the public, such as the rehabilitation of public schools or housing in inner cities or economically depressed rural areas. (v) Employment-based learning programs. (3) Post-sentence transitional services and follow-up assistance; (4) Interdisciplinary staff in-service education that includes security personnel; (5) Inmate assessment that addresses academic, vocational and special learning needs; (6) Ongoing occupational counseling to assist with the development of an individual vocational plan; (7) Coordination with community agencies that furnish transitional supportive services to criminal offenders such as individual and family counseling, housing assistance, transportation, and social and cultural activities; (8) Coordination with the State Occupational Information Coordinating Committee or State Labor Market Information Unit in determining State and local labor shortages; and (9) Adequate and appropriate involvement and cooperation of the public and private sectors in the projects, including_ (i) A clear identification of the public and private sector involvement in the planning of the project; (ii) A description of public and private sector involvement in the planning of the project including letters of commitment; and (iii) A description of public and private sector involvement in the operation of the project. (b) Educational significance. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the applicant proposes_ (1) Project objectives that contribute to the improvement of education for criminal offenders; (2) To use unique and innovative techniques to produce benefits that address educational problems and needs that are of national significance; and (3) To base the proposed project on successfully designed, established, and operated model vocational education programs that include components similar to the components required by this program, as evidenced by empirical data that demonstrate impact from those programs in factors such as_ (i) Student performance and achievement; (ii) GED completion; and (iii) Post-sentence employment or enrollment in education or training programs or both. Other Requirements Purchase of Equipment The projects funded under this competition may expend up to 10 percent of Federal funds for equipment as defined in 34 CFR 74.132 and 80.3. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Applicable Program Regulations: 34 CFR Parts 400 and 426. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 2420a. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.199D Cooperative Demonstration Program) Dated: July 6, 1994. Augusta Souza Kappner, Assistant Secretary, Office of Vocational and Adult Education. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16902 Filed 7&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
