FR941025-1-00002 FR941025-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 7 CFR Parts 300 and 319 [Docket No. 94&hyph;036&hyph;1] Importation of Fruits and Vegetables AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: We are proposing to allow a number of previously prohibited fruits and vegetables to be imported into the United States from certain parts of the world. All of the fruits and vegetables, as a condition of entry, would be subject to inspection, disinfection, or both, at the port of first arrival as may be required by a U.S. Department of Agriculture inspector. In addition, some of the fruits and vegetables would be required to undergo prescribed treatments for fruit flies or other injurious insects as a condition of entry, or to meet other special conditions. This proposed action would provide the United States with additional kinds and sources of fruits and vegetables while continuing to provide protection against the introduction and dissemination of injurious plant pests by imported fruits and vegetables. DATES: Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before November 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 94&hyph;036&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Frank E. Cooper or Mr. Peter Grosser, Senior Operations Officers, Port Operations, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 635, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;8645. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 7 CFR 319.56 through 319.56&hyph;8 (referred to below as the regulations) prohibit or restrict the importation of fruits and vegetables into the United States from certain parts of the world to prevent the introduction and dissemination of injurious insects that are new to or not widely distributed within and throughout the United States. We are proposing to amend the regulations to allow additional fruits and vegetables to be imported into the United States from certain parts of the world under specified conditions. The importation of these fruits and vegetables has been prohibited because of the risk that the fruits and vegetables could introduce injurious insects into the United States. We are proposing to allow these importations at the request of various importers and foreign ministries of agriculture, and after conducting pest risk analyses 1 that indicate the fruits or vegetables can be imported under certain conditions without significant pest risk. 1 Information on these pest risk analyses and any other pest risk analysis referred to in this document may be obtained by writing to the persons listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. All of the fruits and vegetables included in this document would be subject to the requirements in ยง319.56&hyph;6 of the regulations. Section 319.56&hyph;6 provides, among other things, that all imported fruits and vegetables, as a condition of entry, shall be subject to inspection, disinfection, or both, at the port of first arrival, as may be required by a U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) inspector to detect and eliminate plant pests. Section 319.56&hyph;6 also provides that any shipment of fruits and vegetables may be refused entry if the shipment is infested with fruit flies or other dangerous plant pests and an inspector determines that it cannot be cleaned by disinfection or treatment. Some of the fruits and vegetables proposed for importation also would be required to undergo prescribed treatments for fruit flies or other insect pests as a condition of entry, or to meet other special conditions. The proposed conditions of entry, which are discussed in greater detail below, appear adequate to prevent the introduction and dissemination of injurious plant pests by the importation of fruits and vegetables from certain foreign countries and localities into the United States. Subject to Inspection and Treatment Upon Arrival We are proposing to allow the following fruits and vegetables to be imported into the United States from the country or locality indicated in accordance with ยง319.56&hyph;6 and all other applicable requirements of the regulations:
