FR940627-0-00107 FR940627-0-00018 According to the Florida DEP, the closure of the EEZ north of Florida's Dade/Broward County line to live rock collecting may affect approximately 12 individuals who reported live rock landings in 1993; however, the ex-vessel value of these landings was only about $800 per Florida Saltwater Products License (SPL). In Dade and Monroe Counties, Florida, live rock landings in 1993 were reported by 96 SPL holders. These fishermen will be required to confine their harvest to loose rubble rock, which may have a marginal effect on the total value of their catch. A 485,000-lb (219,992-kg) quota will probably reduce potential 1994 landings by at least 15 percent or about $1,000 per SPL holder. Amendment 2 is expected to be submitted by the Gulf and South Atlantic Councils in July 1994 for review and, if approved, for implementation by the Secretary of Commerce. Amendment 2 would implement the measures in this emergency interim rule on a permanent basis and include a phase out schedule for live rock harvests in other areas. Compliance With NMFS Guidelines for Emergency Rules The South Atlantic Council and NMFS have concluded that the present situation constitutes biological and conservation emergencies, which are properly addressed by this emergency interim rule, and that the situation meets NMFS's policy guidelines for the use of emergency rules, published on January 6, 1992 (57 FR 375). The situation: (1) Results from recent, unforeseen events or recently discovered circumstances; (2) presents a serious management problem; and (3) realizes immediate benefits from the emergency interim rule that outweigh the value of advance notice, public comment, and deliberative consideration expected under the normal rulemaking process. The basis for the conclusions regarding emergency guidelines (1) and (2) is summarized above. Regarding the realization of immediate benefits, the South Atlantic Council has determined that an emergency rule under section 305(c) of the Magnuson Act is the only means for immediately addressing the biological emergency involving the live rock resources of the Florida Keys and the remainder of the areas off the southern Atlantic states. Going through the formal FMP amendment process without the emergency rule would delay implementation of the required measures and would result in substantial damage to live rock resources and fishery habitats off the southern Atlantic states. The immediate benefit of this emergency interim rule is that it will prevent expansion of live rock collection in the area north of Florida's Dade County, protect the Florida reef tract from chipping, and limit the rate of harvesting that causes serious damage to habitat in the area of the Florida Keys until a phase out can be implemented under Amendment 2 through the normal FMP amendment and rulemaking process. NMFS concurs with the South Atlantic Council's findings about the biological emergency and the need for immediate regulatory action. Accordingly, NMFS publishes this emergency interim rule, effective initially for 90 days, as authorized by section 305(c) of the Magnuson Act. By agreement of NMFS and the South Atlantic Council, this emergency interim rule may be extended for an additional period of 90 days. Classification The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA), has determined that this rule is necessary to respond to an emergency situation and is consistent with the Magnuson Act and other applicable law. This emergency interim rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. The AA finds that the immediate need to prevent environmental damage to the Florida reef tract and serious loss of fishery habitat in the EEZ off the southern Atlantic states constitutes good cause to waive the requirement to provide prior notice and an opportunity for public comment, pursuant to authority set forth at 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B), as such procedures would be contrary to the public interest. Similarly, the need to implement these measures in a timely manner to address the conservation and biological emergencies described above, constitutes good cause under authority contained in 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(3), to waive the 30 day delay in effective date. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 638 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: June 21, 1994. Henry R. Beasley, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service.
