FR941012-0-00085 FR941012-0-00011 Backcuts should be made on the same level as the point of the notch of the undercut. The hinge is what keeps the tree from kicking back, not the fact that the backcut is higher than the undercut. High backcuts run the risk of cutting off the hinge, actually increasing the danger of kickback (Ex. 5&hyph;52). Other commenters said that backcuts above the horizontal cut were not as critical when using the Humboldt undercutting method (Ex. 5&hyph;42, 9&hyph;15). They said that when the slanting cut of the undercut is angled downward, the tree is more likely to fall in the intended direction without kicking back. However, one of these commenters admitted that placing the backcut at the same level as the horizontal cut when using the Humboldt undercut method sacrificed safety for quality control: Quality control concerns with several companies dictate that only Humboldt undercuts are permissible with sawlog grade timber, so that wood loss is minimized by taking the notch wood out of the stump. Quality control often dictates that there must be a flush surface on the end of the log. To avoid having to make another cut to square up a log butt, fallers will attempt to make their backcuts meet the horizontal face cut as closely as possible. By doing this, they sacrifice the safety of the step that would have been left on the stump to catch a possible backwards-moving tree butt, and depend only on the downward-slanting face on the stump to hold the tree (Ex. 9&hyph;15). Two commenters said the backcut requirement should be limited to those situations when tree kickback is a problem, which they contended was only on steep terrain, when felling uphill or through trees (Ex. 9&hyph;1, 9&hyph;4). Other commenters said that believed that the standard should provide more flexibility because variations frequently found on logging sites, such as lean of the tree and type of terrain, would make strict adherence to the regulation difficult (Ex. 5&hyph;19, 9&hyph;9, 9&hyph;22; Tr. OR 206&hyph;7, 395&hyph;96). These commenters said that the cutting decisions should be left to the judgment of the experienced feller. After reviewing the evidence in the record, OSHA has decided that the proposed backcut provisions are necessary to protect fellers from being hit or crushed by the tree they are felling. As discussed above, the record shows that injuries and fatalities have occurred because of improper cutting methods. The purpose of undercutting and backcutting trees is to prevent the tree from splitting, felling an unintended direction or kicking back into the feller. OSHA agrees with ANSI and the various State plan States that the proposed backcut provisions are necessary to protect employees against these hazards. OSHA does not agree that backcutting should be limited only to those situations when tree kickback can occur. The record shows that hazards other than tree kickback necessitate the backcut requirement. Without appropriately- placed backcuts, trees are more likely to split and/or fall in an unintended direction. While OSHA agrees that it is more likely that this could happen when trees are felled uphill, OSHA also believes the record shows that the possibility exists regardless of the terrain. According to the WIR survey, the single largest cause of injuries reported was being hit by a falling tree (Ex. 2&hyph;1). Almost one-half of all injuries reported were due to employees being hit or crushed by a falling tree. In the final rule OSHA has provided an exception to the backcut requirement. The final rule allows the backcut to be placed at or below the horizontal cut in tree pulling operations. Various State logging standards also provide this exception to the backcut requirement (e.g., Ex. 38K). OSHA believes this exception covers those situations in which a special cutting technique may be required, such as by Federal agencies.
