FR940825-1-00147 FR940825-1-00010 International Trade Impact Assessment This proposed rule would not have an effect on the sale of foreign aviation products or services in the United States, nor would not have an effect on the sale of U.S. products or services in foreign countries. This proposed rule would neither impose costs on aircraft operators nor aircraft manufacturers (U.S. or foreign) that would result in a competitive disadvantage to either. The proposed rule may impose insignificant costs on FBO's in the United States. However, FBO's in the U.S. do not compete directly with FBO's in foreign countries. Therefore, no competitive trade disadvantage is expected to impact FBO's. Federalism Determination This proposed rule would not have substantial direct effects on the states, on the relationship between the national government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612 (52 FR 41685; October 30, 1987), it is determined that this proposed rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Conclusion For the reasons discussed in the preamble, and based on the findings in the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Determination and the International Trade Impact Assessment, the FAA has determined that this proposed regulation is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866. In addition the FAA certifies that this proposed regulation, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. This proposal is not considered significant under DOT Order 2100.5, Policies and Procedures for Simplication, Analysis, and Review of Regulations. An initial Regulatory Flexibility Determination and International Trade Impact Assessment, has been placed in the docket. A copy may be obtained by contacting the person identified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 91 Agriculture, Air traffic control, Aircraft, Airmen, Airports, Aviation safety, Canada, Cuba, Federal Aviation Administration, Freight, Mexico, Noise control, Political candidates, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. The Proposed Amendment In consideration of the foregoing, the Federal Aviation Administration proposes to amend part 91 of the Federal Aviation Regulation (14 CFR part 91) as follows:
