FR940922-1-00079 FR940922-1-00009 (2) If the certification covers less than all covered clinical data in the application, the applicant shall include in the certification a list of the studies covered by this certification. (3) Disclosure statement. For any application containing a covered clinical study for which the sponsor does not submit the certification described in ยง54.4(a)(1), the application shall contain a statement disclosing, completely and accurately, the following information: (i) Any financial arrangement entered into between the applicant and any clinical investigator involved in the conduct of a covered clinical trial, whereby the value of the compensation to the clinical investigator to conduct the study could be influenced by the outcome of the study; (ii) Any significant payments of other sorts, such as a grant to fund ongoing research, compensation in the form of equipment, retainer for ongoing consultation, or honoraria; (iii) Any proprietary interest in the tested product held by any clinical investigator involved in a study; and (iv) Any significant equity interest in the applicant held by any clinical investigator involved in a covered study relied on in the application and the steps taken to minimize the potential for bias. (b) The clinical investigator shall provide to the sponsor sufficient accurate financial information to allow the sponsor to submit complete and accurate certification or disclosure statements as required in paragraph (a) of this section. The investigator shall promptly update this information if any relevant changes occur in the course of the investigation. (c) Refusal to file application. FDA will refuse to file any marketing application described in paragraph (a) of this section that does not contain the information required by this section. ยง54.5 Agency evaluation of financial interests. (a) Evaluation of disclosure statement. FDA will evaluate the information disclosed under ยง54.4(a)(2) about each covered clinical study in an application to determine the impact of any disclosed financial interests on the reliability of the study. FDA may consider both the size and nature of a disclosed financial interest (including the potential increase in the value of the interest if the product is approved) and steps that have been taken to minimize the potential for bias. (b) Effect of study design. In assessing the potential of an investigator's financial interests to bias a study, FDA will take into account the design and purpose of the study. Study designs that utilize multiple investigators (most of whom do not have a disclosable interest), blinding, objective endpoints, or measurement of endpoints by someone other than the investigator may adequately protect against any bias created by a disclosable financial interest. (c) Agency actions to assure reliability of data. If FDA determines that the financial interests of any clinical investigator raise a serious question about the integrity of the data, FDA will take any action it deems necessary to assure the reliability of the data including:
