FR940516-1-00045 FR940516-1-00003 Responses to the Questions in the July 23, 1990, Federal Register Notice The following represents a summary of the responses received and does not necessarily reflect the opinion of MMS. Question _If the SDV was located on the seafloor or just above the splash zone, how would the following parameters be affected? (a) Maintenance. Response _Subsea maintenance poses a major problem, especially for deep water which would be difficult during rough seas and winter months. This jeopardizes the operation of the pipeline during those periods. Preventative subsea maintenance would be impractical while maintenance by divers would pose an additional safety risk. Minor and major repairs of a valve would most likely require removal from the pipe which is dangerous in itself and would require shutting down the pipeline system for extended periods. The splash zone is the most corrosive offshore environment. The cyclical wetting and drying of surface materials accelerate the corrosion process and degrades protective coatings. At the splash zone, increased maintenance would be required and most platforms have limited access in this area. Splash zone maintenance could not be performed during rough seas or winter months, thus jeopardizing the operation of the pipeline during those periods. Control lines would also be exposed to the corrosive wet/dry environment. Requiring SDV's to be located subsea or at the splash zone increases the safety risk to personnel and reduces the pipeline system's reliability. The diving cost alone to repair a subsea SDV in 180 feet of water would run between $15,000 and $18,000 per day. (b) Inspection. Response _Subsea SDV inspection by a diver would be of minimal value. Control systems for subsea valves are more complex than for surface valves. The ability of divers to inspect and perform repairs underwater is questionable and cannot be verified. Inspection and repair operations would be limited by weather conditions. Inspection of an SDV above the splash zone is reliable since it can be performed by an engineer or company representative. All inspection information is first hand. A typical subsea SDV inspection in 300 feet of water could cost between $20,000 and $30,000 per day. (c) Testing. Response _Testing subsea valves from a remote station is not reliable and may indicate problems that may or may not exist. Dealing with a malfunction during testing could have serious implications due to limited accessibility. The higher the SDV is located above the water, the greater its accessibility, maintenance, and performance. Frequency of subsea SDV testing should be kept to a minimum in order to maintain valve reliability. Testing would be complex. Remote monitoring or divers would be necessary to confirm test results. (d) Reliability. Response _Reliability is dependent on the individual reliability of all the components that make up the SDV and control system. Subsea valve reliability statistics are not presently available and need to be established. It is assumed that the reliability of an SDV functioning on the seafloor would be less than at any other location. Access to the SDV and control lines would be limited and equipment and personnel would be exposed to adverse conditions. The reliability of an SDV functioning in the splash zone would be slightly higher. Accessibility would be improved but the valve itself and control lines would be exposed to more adverse conditions. (e) Pressure venting. Response _Subsurface SDV's would be limited by the static back pressure of the seawater, or vent lines to the surface would be required. This may cause a delay in response time. A splash zone SDV would not have back pressure, but gas exhaust would need to be routed to the platform vent system. Underwater venting of pipelines is not recommended due to environmental considerations. The volume of hydrocarbons vented through the platform flare system would be greater for a subsea SDV than a platform SDV. This is a serious safety consideration.
