FR940106-2-00079 FR940106-2-00038 Program Announcement for Grants for Interdisciplinary Training for Health Care for Rural Areas for FY 1994 The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) announces that applications are being accepted for fiscal year (FY) 1994, Grants for Interdisciplinary Training for Health Care for Rural Areas under the authority of section 778, title VII of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, as amended by the Health Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;408, dated October 13, 1992. Approximately $4,017,000 will be available in FY 1994 for this program. Total continuation support recommended is approximately $1,600,000. It is anticipated that $2,417,000 will be available to support 12 competing awards averaging approximately $180,000. Funding for this program is designed to test innovative training approaches that may be replicated in similar settings. Previous Funding Experience Previous funding experience is provided to assist potential applicants to make better informed decisions regarding submission of an application for this program. In FY 1993, HRSA reviewed 29 applications for Grants for Interdisciplinary Training for Health Care for Rural Areas. Of those applications, 45 percent were approved and 55 percent were disapproved. Eight projects, or 28 percent of the applications received, were funded. There was no competitive cycle for FY 1992. Purposes Section 778 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, authorizes the Secretary to award grants for interdisciplinary training projects designed to provide or improve access to health care in rural areas. Specifically, projects funded under this authority shall be designed to: (a) Use new and innovative methods to train health care practitioners to provide services in rural areas; (b) Demonstrate and evaluate innovative interdisciplinary methods and models designed to provide access to cost-effective comprehensive health care; (c) Deliver health care services to individuals residing in rural areas; (d) Enhance the amount of relevant research conducted concerning health care issues in rural areas; and (e) Increase the recruitment and retention of health care practitioners in rural areas and make rural practice a more attractive career choice for health care practitioners. A recipient of funds may use various methods in carrying out the projects described above. The legislation cites the following methods as examples: (a) The distribution of stipends to students of eligible applicants; (b) The establishment of a postdoctoral fellowship program; (c) The training of faculty in the economic and logistical problems confronting rural health care delivery systems; or (d) The purchase or rental of transportation and telecommunication equipment where the need for such equipment due to unique characteristics of the rural area is demonstrated by the recipient. Eligibility To be eligible for a Grant for Interdisciplinary Training for Health Care for Rural Areas, each applicant must be located in a State and be: 1. A local health department, or 2. A nonprofit organization, or 3. A public or nonprofit college, university or school of, or program that specializes in nursing, mental health practice, optometry, public health, dentistry, osteopathic medicine, physician assistants, pharmacy, podiatric medicine, allopathic medicine, chiropractic, or allied health professions. Applicants eligible to obtain funds under this grant program shall not include for-profit entities, either directly or through a subcontract or subgrant. Each application must be jointly submitted by at least two eligible applicants. One of the applicants must be an academic institution. Each application must demonstrate the need and demand for health care services, knowledge of available resources and the most significant service and educational gaps within its targeted geographic area. One applicant must be designated the principal organization responsible and accountable for the conduct of the proposed project. Support may be requested for this grant program for a project period of not more than three years.
