FR940906-2-00130 FR940906-2-00083 Additionally, DOC may provide support to HHS at its request, through the National Marine Fisheries Service, in order to avoid human consumption of contaminated commercial fishery products (marine area only). The National Institute of Standards and Technology can assist in calibrating radiological instruments by comparison with national standards or by providing standard reference materials for calibration, as well as making extensive data on the physical properties of materials available. The National Institute of Standards and Technology can also supply temporary radiation shielding materials. 3. DOC References National Plan for Radiological Emergencies at Commercial Nuclear Power Plants. Federal Coordinator for Meteorological Services and Supporting Research, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, November 1982. 4. DOC Specific Authorities Department of Commerce Organization Order 25&hyph;5B, as amended, June 18, 1987. C. Department of Defense 1. Summary of Response Mission The Department of Defense (DOD) is charged with the safe handling, storage, maintenance, assembly, and transportation of nuclear weapons and other radioactive materials in DOD custody, and with the safe operation of DOD nuclear facilities. Inherent in this responsibility is the requirement to protect life and property from any health or safety hazards that could ensue from an accident or significant incident associated with these materials or activities. The DOD role in a Federal response will depend on the circumstances of the emergency. DOD will be the LFA if the emergency involves one of its facilities or a nuclear weapon in its custody. Within DOD, the military service or agency responsible for the facility, ship, or area is responsible for the onsite response. The military service or agency having custody of the material outside an installation boundary is responsible for the onsite response. For emergencies occurring under circumstances for which DOD is not responsible, DOD will not be the LFA, but will support and assist in the Federal response. 2. Capabilities and Resources Offsite authority and responsibility at a nuclear accident rest with State and local officials. It is important to recognize that for nuclear weapons or weapon component accidents, land may be temporarily placed under effective Federal control by the establishment of a National Defense Area or National Security Area to protect U.S. Government classified materials. These lands will revert back to State control upon disestablishment of the National Defense Area or National Security Area. DOD has a trained and equipped nuclear response organization to deal with accidents at its facilities or involving materials in its custody. Radiological resources include trained response personnel, specialized radiation instruments, and mobile instrument calibration and repair capabilities. DOD also may perform special sampling of airborne contamination on request. Descriptions of the capabilities and assets of DOD response teams can be found in DOD 5100.52M. DOD may provide assistance in the form of personnel, logistics and telecommunications, assistance and expertise in site restoration, including airlift services, when available, upon the request of the LFA or FEMA. Requests for assistance must be directed to the National Military Command Center or through channels established by prior agreements.
