FR940526-1-00020 FR940526-1-00011 Under Amendment 9, persons wishing to participate in a limited access system must submit their landings data for consideration at this time. These landings data submitted to NMFS will cover all vessel owners, operators whose earned income qualified for the vessel permit, and historical captains who may qualify under a red snapper effort management system. Collection of landings information for the 1990&hyph;1992 period, for which data are readily available, will provide the Council with a complete data base and should obviate the need for collecting these data for that time period under proposed Amendment 8. In its final decisions on Amendment 9, the Council recognized that it would be unnecessarily burdensome for historical captains to submit data that duplicate those provided by the vessel owners/operators. Accordingly, the collection of landings data from fishery participants under this rule is designed to avoid duplication of information available to NMFS. Extension of Reef Fish Permit Moratorium and Red Snapper Endorsement The reef fish permit moratorium was implemented on May 8, 1992, for 3 years ending May 8, 1995, to prevent speculative entry, as had previously occurred, while the Council considers other reef fish management alternatives. The red snapper endorsement and trip limit provisions were established by emergency action, and continued through December 31, 1994, under Amendment 6 to the FMP. The purpose of the action was to prevent an extremely short season and a ``derby'' fishery, such as occurred in 1992. The problems in the fishery that led to implementation of the permit moratorium and the red snapper endorsement system are expected to persist until a more comprehensive program to limit access to the red snapper fishery is in place. The Council anticipates that the reef fish fishery, particularly for red snapper, would be unnecessarily disrupted if the moratorium and red snapper endorsement provisions were to expire before implementation of a limited access system; but the Council believes the moratorium should not be continued indefinitely. The Council's target date for implementing a limited access system, if one of the current management options under consideration is adopted, is January 1, 1996. Accordingly, the Council determined that the permit moratorium and red snapper endorsement system should be extended through December 31, 1995, or until such limited access system is implemented, whichever is earlier. Additional Changes Proposed by NMFS In addition to the measures contained in Amendment 9, NMFS proposes the following changes to clarify the regulations. In Amendment 4 to the FMP, which contained the moratorium on additional permits in the reef fish fishery, and in Amendment 5 to the FMP, which contained the moratorium on additional participants in the fish trap segment of the reef fish fishery, the Council specified that a permit or fish trap endorsement that is not renewed will not be reissued. A permit/endorsement is considered to have been ``not renewed'' when a complete application for renewal is not received within one year after the expiration date of the permit. This criterion is based on the fact that permits are generally issued for a period of one year. NMFS considers this criterion to be consistent with the Council's intent, and it has been consistently applied. For clarity, NMFS proposes to include this criterion in the regulations at ยง641.4(m)(4) and (p)(5). Regulations implementing Amendment 7 to the FMP allow the transfer of a fish trap endorsement when ownership of a vessel with a fish trap endorsement is transferred to certain relatives of the owner (see 50 CFR 641.4 as amended on February 7, 1994 (59 FR 6588, February 11, 1994)). In accordance with the Council's intent, NMFS proposes to amend the regulations at ยง641.4(p)(4) to clarify that such new owner may renew the fish trap endorsement without having to meet the requirements applicable to the initial issuance of the endorsement, that is, a history of reef fish landings from traps. In the restrictions applicable in the longline and buoy gear restricted area and in the special management zone (SMZ), at ยง641.23(b)(1) and (d)(2), respectively, the specification of what constitutes ``fishing for reef fish'' may be interpreted as a change in the definition of ``fishing,'' so that possession of reef fish, or certain quantities of reef fish, aboard a vessel while in transit of the restricted area or SMZ would be prohibited. The intent of the measures is to restrict harvesting in these areas, and not possession of reef fish while in transit. To achieve the intended result, NMFS proposes revised language to clarify that the definition of ``fishing'' is not changed. Classification This proposed rule is exempt from prepublication review for purposes of E.O. 12866. The General Counsel of the Department of Commerce certified to the Small Business Administration that this proposed rule, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, because no reduction in gross revenues is expected and capital costs of compliance are not expected to be significant. As a result, a regulatory flexibility analysis was not prepared. Section 641.10 of this proposed rule, concerning the collection of data on red snapper, contains two collection-of-information requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act_ specifically, information on landings of red snapper and documentation of status as a historical captain in the red snapper fishery. Requests to collect this information have been submitted to OMB for approval. The public reporting burdens for these collections of information are estimated to average 2 and 5 hours per response, respectively, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collections of information. Send comments regarding these reporting burden estimates or any other aspects of the collections of information, including suggestions for reducing the burdens, to NMFS and OMB (see ADDRESSES ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 641 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: May 20, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 641 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 641_REEF FISH FISHERY OF THE GULF OF MEXICO 1. The authority citation for part 641 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. 2. In ยง641.4, paragraph (m) introductory text, paragraph (m)(4), paragraph (o) introductory text, and paragraphs (p)(4) and (p)(5) are revised, and introductory text for paragraph (n) is added to read as follows:
