FR940110-1-00061 FR940110-1-00006 (7) A disclosure of whether or not the applicant has a direct or indirect interest in the property or project. If the applicant has an interest in the property and the application is approved, then prior to the transfer of AHP funds to the project, an independent current appraisal of the fair market value of such property must be provided, unless the applicant demonstrates that the property is being sold or otherwise transferred to the sponsor at a price substantially below the fair market value; (8) A statement of the project's costs; and (9) A certification from the applicant's, the sponsor's and the loan fund's or loan consortium's board of directors, or president or senior officer if so delegated by the board of directors, that the applicant, the sponsor and the loan fund or loan consortium will comply with all requirements of this part and all obligations committed to in the AHP application. Section 960.4(c) of the Board's existing AHP regulation also generally requires an applicant to include in its AHP application the information identified in paragraphs (3) through (6) above, as well as any other information the Bank may require. See 12 CFR 960.4(c). Section 960.4(c)(6) of the Board's existing AHP regulation also requires an applicant to disclose in its AHP application any direct or indirect interest of the applicant in the property or project. See 12 CFR 960.4(c)(6). Under §960.7(a)(7) of the proposed rule, if such an interest exists and the application is approved, then prior to the transfer of AHP funds to the project, the applicant generally is required to provide an appraisal of the property or project. This is to ensure that the sales price of such property or project owned by the applicant has not been inflated and that the applicant is not receiving the benefit of the AHP subsidy. Section 960.4(c)(7) of the Board's existing AHP regulation requires the applicant to include in its AHP application an explanation of how the applicant intends to monitor the use of any funds received under the AHP, including an explanation of how the structure of the project ensures that a preponderance of the subsidy is ultimately received by the targeted beneficiaries. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(9)(D); 12 CFR 960.4(c)(7). As discussed in greater detail in the monitoring section below, as long as adequate monitoring is otherwise provided for, the proposed rule does not require the applicant in all instances to monitor the AHP-assisted project for compliance with the long-term requirement of the proposed rule. Accordingly, this provision of the existing regulation is deleted in the proposed rule. Section 960.4(c)(8) of the Board's existing AHP regulation requires the applicant to certify that the maximum subsidy limitation requirements of the AHP rule will not be violated. See 12 CFR 960.4(c)(8). However, since the maximum subsidy limitation requirements are threshold requirements that all AHP applications must satisfy (see discussion below of the 20 percent requirement), this requirement is incorporated into proposed §960.7(a)(9), which provides generally that the applicant and sponsor must certify that all requirements of the AHP regulation will be satisfied. Section 960.4(c)(8) of the Board's existing AHP regulation also requires the applicant to explain in its AHP application how any AHP subsidy that exceeds the maximum subsidy requirements will be recaptured. See 12 CFR 960.4(c)(8). Since AHP applications must satisfy the threshold maximum subsidy limitation requirements at the outset in order to be scored and approved for AHP funding, this issue does not arise and therefore has been deleted in the proposed rule. As discussed above, the requirement in §960.4(c)(9) of the Board's existing AHP regulation that the applicant's managing officer must certify that the AHP subsidy shall be only for authorized uses is expanded in proposed §960.7(a)(9) to require a certification by the applicant, the sponsor and the loan fund or loan consortium not only that funds received under the AHP will be used for authorized uses, but also a certification of compliance with all requirements of the AHP regulation and all obligations committed to in the AHP application. See 12 CFR 960.4(c)(9). In addition, the proposed rule requires the applicant, the sponsor and the loan fund or loan consortium, not just the applicant, as in the Board's existing AHP regulation, to make the certification in the AHP application. This change is proposed because the applicant, the sponsor and the loan fund or loan consortium are all subject to specific requirements under the AHP and therefore should be required to certify that they will comply with such requirements. 2. Action on Applications As discussed above, the proposed rule makes a major change in the Board's existing AHP regulation by taking the Board out of the approval process for AHP applications. Section 960.7(b)(1) of the proposed rule provides that each Bank shall review, score and take action on an AHP application pursuant to the requirements contained in proposed §§960.8, 960.9 and 960.10, and shall notify the applicant of such action no later than 60 calendar days after the application due date for the AHP funding cycle. Section 960.5(f)(1) of the existing regulation requires the Banks to forward to the Board their recommended applications no later than 30 days after each offering deadline. See 12 CFR 960.5(f)(1). Since the Banks would have greater responsibilities in the approval process under the proposed rule, the 30-day period is proposed to be extended to 60 calendar days. Section 960.7(b)(2) of the proposed rule provides specifically that the board of directors of each Bank shall have the authority to approve or disapprove AHP applications received, and may delegate such authority to the president or other senior officers of the Bank.
