FR941116-2-00017 FR941116-2-00009 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Corps of Engineers Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for Columbia River Channel Deepening Feasibility Study, Oregon-Washington AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Portland District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of Intent. SUMMARY: The proposed action is to determine the feasibility of improving navigation in the existing Columbia and Lower Willamette Rivers Federal navigation project by potential modifications, including the potential deepening of up to 3 feet. This feasibility study has been authorized by Congress pursuant to appeals by local port authorities for navigation assistance. The existing navigation channel depth does not allow some of the deeper draft vessels using the channel to fully load. Prospective traffic and potential economies of scale are such that the lower Columbia River ports could operate more safely, effectively and economically with a deeper channel. The EIS is being prepared to address the comparative impacts for alternative actions related to navigation channel modifications. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Portland District, Environmental Resources Branch, P.O. Box 2946, Portland, Oregon 97208&hyph;2946. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions about the proposed action and EIS can be answered by Steven J. Stevens, (503) 326&hyph;6094. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposed study, authorized under House Document 452, Eighty-Seventh Congress, Second Session, is being conducted to determine the feasibility for improvements to the existing Columbia and Lower Willamette Rivers deep-draft navigation project. The study was modified by the Energy and Water Appropriations Act of 1994 which specified that no alternatives deeper than 43 feet would be considered and that a concurrent Dredged Material Management Study of the existing project be conducted. Alternatives identified in the reconnaissance phase study, public and agency comments and port authority input include: (1) Channel deepening ranging from 1 to 3 feet; (2) One-way channel; (3) Deepening selected reaches by increments ranging from 1 to 3 feet; (4) Tiered channel with an outbound land deeper than the inbound lane; (5) Development of a regional port closer to the mouth of the Columbia River; (6) No action. Existing upland and inwater disposal sites would be used for disposal of a large portion of material dredged for channel deepening. New upland and inwater sites would be investigated for disposal of deepening and future maintenance dredging material. The feasibility study and EIS will also address the long term effects of additional channel maintenance dredging. EIS scoping will formally commence in November 1994 with the issuance of a scoping letter. Federal, state and local agencies, Indian tribes and interested organizations and individuals will be asked to comment on the significant issues related to the potential effects of the alternatives. Potentially significant issues to be addressed in the EIS which are currently identified include: fisheries impacts (particularly anadromous species); wildlife impacts at upland disposal sites; water quality impacts in the vicinity of port docks; salinity intrusion; indirect effects from increased port dredging and modified shipping activity. Additional environmental review and consultation requirements to be addressed in conjunction with the EIS include: (1) Clean Water Act of 1977; (2) Fish and Wildlife; (3) Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended; (4) Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended; (5) Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended; (6) Cultural Resources Acts; (7) Executive Order 11988, Flood Plain Management, 24 May 1977; (8) Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands, 24 May 1977; (9) Analysis of Impacts on Prime and Unique Farmlands. Formal public meetings have been scheduled to obtain input from the general public. Comments received at these meetings will be considered during preparation of the Feasibility Study/EIS. As previously stated, a scoping letter will be issued in November 1994, providing additional opportunity for comment. The Draft EIS is scheduled for public review in October 1997. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28218 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;AR&hyph;M
