FR940603-1-00072 FR940603-1-00009 c. No payments shall be due while the Bidder is in default in respect of any of the provisions of this Proposal and the Owner may withhold from the Bidder the amount of any claim by a third party against either the Bidder or the Owner based upon an alleged failure of the Bidder to perform the work hereunder in accordance with the provisions of this Proposal. Section 2. Release of Liens and Certificate of Contractor. (See Sample REA Form 224, Waiver and Release of Lien, and sample REA Form 231, Certificate of Contractor.) Upon the completion by the Bidder of the construction of the Project but prior to the payment to the Bidder of any amount in excess of ninety percent (90%) of the total cost of construction, the Bidder shall deliver to the Owner, in duplicate, releases of all liens and of rights to claim any lien, in the form attached hereto, from all manufacturers, materialmen, and subcontractors furnishing services or materials for the Project and a certificate in the form attached hereto to the effect that all labor used on or for the project has been paid and that all such releases have been submitted to the Owner for approval. Section 3. Payments to Materialmen and Subcontractors. The Bidder shall pay each materialman, and each subcontractor, if any, within five (5) days after receipt of any payment from the Owner, the amount thereof allowed the Bidder for and on account of materials furnished or construction performed by each materialman or each subcontractor. ARTICLE IV_PARTICULAR UNDERTAKINGS OF THE BIDDER Section 1. Protection to Persons and Property. The Bidder shall at all times exercise reasonable precautions for the safety of employees on the work and of the public, and shall comply with all applicable provisions of Federal, State and Municipal safety laws and building and construction codes. All machinery and equipment and other physical hazards shall be guarded in accordance with the ``Manual of Accident Prevention in Construction'' of the Associated General Contractors of America, unless such instructions are incompatible with Federal, State or Municipal laws or regulations. The following provisions shall not limit the generality of the above requirements: (a) The Bidder shall at all times keep the premises free from accumulations of waste materials or rubbish caused by his employees or work, and at the completion of the work he shall remove all rubbish from and about the Project and all his tools, scaffolding and surplus materials and shall leave his work ``broom clean''. The Bidder shall dispose of waste material by burying it on the work site or in a manner approved by local authorities, but shall not dispose of any waste materials or rubbish by open burning. The Bidder shall provide chemical sanitary facilities which may be required in compliance with applicable local, State and Federal laws or regulations. (b) The Bidder will perform the work in such a manner as to maximize preservation of aesthetics and conservation of natural resources, and minimize marring and scarring of the landscape, erosion of soils and oil spillage. There will be no depositing of trash in streams or waterways. Herbicides, other chemicals or their containers will not be deposited in or near streams or waterways.
