FR940111-2-00093 FR940111-2-00059 The Index value, for purposes of setting outstanding Index options contracts upon expiration, will be calculated based upon the regular way opening sale prices for each of the Index's component stocks on the last trading day prior to expiration. 5 Once all of the component stocks have opened, the value of the Index will be determined and that value will be used as the final settlement value for expiring Index options contracts. If any of the component stocks do not open for trading on the last trading day before expiration, then the last reported sale price of such security will be used in any case where that security does not trade on that day. 6 5 See CBEO Rule 24.9(a)(4). 6 Id. E. Contract Specifications The proposed options on the Index will be cash-settled, European-style options. 7 Standard options trading hours (9:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. New York time) will apply to the contracts. The Index multiplier will be 100. The strike price interval will be $5.00 for full-value Index options with a duration of one year or less to expiration. 8 The Exchange intends to list up to three near-term calendar months and three additional calendar months at three month intervals. 9 As described in more detail below, the Exchange also intends to list Index LEAPS that will expire twelve to thirty-six months from the date of their issuance. 7 A European-style option can be exercised only during a specified period before the option expires. 8 For a description of the strike price intervals for full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS, See, Section F, infra . 9 See CBOE Rule 24.9(a)(2). Index options (including full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS) will expire on the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month (``Expiration Friday''). Since options on the Index will settle based upon the opening prices of the component stocks on the last trading day before expiration (normally a Friday), the last trading day for an expiring Index option series will normally be the second to the last business day before expiration (normally a Thursday). 10 10 See notes 5 and 6, supra . F. Listing of Long-Term Options on the Full-Value or Reduced-Value Nasdaq Index The Exchange may list LEAPS that expire 12 to 36 months from date of issuance on the full-value Nasdaq Index or a reduced-value Nasdaq Index that will be computed on one-tenth the value of the full-value Index. 11 The current and closing Index value for reduced-value Nasdaq LEAPS will be computed by dividing the value of the full-value Index by 10 and rounding the resulting figure to the nearest one-hundredth. For example, a Index value of 185.46 would be 18.55 for the Index LEAPS and 185.43 would become 18.54. The reduced-value LEAPS will have a European-style exercise and will be subject to the same rules that govern the trading of all the Exchange's index options, including sales practice rules, margin requirements and floor trading procedures. The strike price interval for the reduced-value Index LEAPS will be no less than $2.50 instead of $5.00. 11 See CBOE Rule 24.9(b). The same Exchange rules which are applicable to the trading of full-value LEAPS will be applicable to the trading of reduced-value Index LEAPS. For example, both full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS may expire from 12 to 36 months from the date of issuance, and there may be up to six expiration months beyond one year to expiration. Moreover, either full-value or reduced-value Index LEAPS may be issued at six month intervals and new strike prices will either be near or bracketing the current Index value. Strike price interval, bid/ask differential, and continuity rules will not apply to the trading of the full-value or reduced-value Index LEAPS until their time to expiration is less than 12 months. The strike price interval for reduced-value Index LEAPS will be no less than $2.50, instead of $5.00 for full-value Index LEAPS. Lastly, additional LEAPS series may be added when the value of the underlying Index increases or decreases by ten to fifteen percent. G. Position and Exercise Limits, Margin Requirements, and Trading Halts Position limits for the Index options Index LEAPS will be set at no more than 25,000 contracts on the same side of the market, provided that no more than 15,000 of such contracts are in series in the nearest expiration month. 12 Exercise limits will be set at the same level as position limits. 13 CBOE hedge exemption provisions will apply to Index options and Index LEAPS. 14 Also, for purposes of determining whether a given position in reduced-value Index options complies with applicable position and exercise limits, positions in reduced-value Index options will be aggregated with positions in the full-value Index options. For these purposes, ten reduced-value contracts will equal one full-value contract for purposes of aggregating these positions. 12 See CBOE 24.4. 13 See CBOE Rule 24.5. 14 See CBOE Rule 24.4(a) and Interpretation .01 to Rule 24.4. Exchange rules applicable to the Nasdaq Index options will be identical to the rules applicable to other broad-based index options for purposes of trading rotations, halts, and suspensions, 15 and margin treatment. 16 15 See CBOE Rule 24.7. 16 See CBOE Rule 24.11.
