FR940223-2-00048 FR940223-2-00035 ``Person'' means any individual, partnership, association, company, or corporation, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, lessee, or personal representative of any person herein defined. II It is further ordered, That respondent, directly or indirectly, or through any person, corporation, or other device, in or in connection with its activities in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, cease and desist from: A. Creating, formulating, compiling, distributing, publishing, recommending, suggesting, encouraging adherence to, endorsing, publishing letters or articles supporting, or authorizing any list or schedule of fees for interpretation, translation, or any other language service, including but not limited to fee reports, fee guidelines, suggested fees, proposed fees, fee sheets, standards fees, or recommended fees; B. Entering into, adhering to, or maintaining any contract, agreement, understanding, plan, program, combination, or conspiracy to construct, fix, stabilize, raise, maintain, or otherwise interfere with or restrict the fees for interpretation, translation, or other language services; C. Suggesting urging, encouraging, recommending, or attempting to persuade in any way interpreters, translators, or other language specialists to charge, pay, file, or adhere to any existing or proposed fee, or otherwise to charge or refrain from charging any particular fee; D. For a period of ten (10) years after the date this order becomes final, continuing a meeting of interpreters, translators, or other language specialists, after (1) any person makes a statement, addressed to or audible to the body of the meeting, concerning the fees charged or proposed to be charged for interpretation, translation, or any other language service and ASI fails to declare such statement to be out of order, (2) any person makes two such statements and ASI fails to eject him or her from the meeting, or (3) two people make such statements; E. Prohibiting, restricting, regulating, impeding, declaring unethical, interfering with, or advising against any form of price competition, including but not limited to offering to do work for less remuneration that a specific competitor, undercutting a competitor's actual fee, offering to work for less than a customer's announced fee, advertising discounted rates, or accepting any particular lodging or travel arrangements; F. Discouraging, restricting, or prohibiting interpreters, translators, or other language specialists from accepting hourly fees, half-day fees, weekly fees, or fees calculated on other than a full-day basis; and G. Discouraging, restricting, or prohibiting interpreters, translators, or other language specialists from performing services free of charge or at a discount, or from paying their own travel, lodging, meals, or other expenses. Provided That, nothing contained in this Paragraph II shall prohibit respondent from: 1. Compliance or distributing accurate aggregate historical market information concerning past fees actually charged in transactions completed no earlier than three (3) years after the date this order becomes final, provided that such information is complied and presented in an unbiased and nondeceptive manner that maintains the anonymity of the parties to the transactions; 2. Collecting or publishing accurate and otherwise publicly available fees paid by governmental and intergovernmental agencies, if such publication states the qualifications and requirements to be eligible to receive such fees; or 3. Continuing a meeting following statements concerning historical, governmental, or intergovernmental fees that are made in order to undertake the activities permitted in Paragraph II.1 and II.2. of this order. III It is further ordered That, respondent shall clearly and conspicuously state the following in any publication of fees made pursuant to Paragraphs II.1 and II.2 of this order: By order of the Federal Trade Commission, ASI is prohibited from recommending, suggesting, or enforcing fees. Under United States Law, interpreters and other language specialists must unilaterally and independently determine their own fees. IV It is further ordered, That respondent, directly or indirectly, or through any person, corporation, or other device, in or in connection with its activities in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, cease and desist from entering into, adhering to, or maintaining any contract, agreement, understanding, plan, program, combination, or conspiracy to: A. Limit, restrict, or mandate the length of time that interpreters, translators, or other language specialists work in a given period, or for which they are paid for preparation or study; or B. Limit, restrict, or mandate the number of interpreters, translators, or other language specialists used for a given job or type of job. Provided That, nothing contained in Paragraph IV of this order shall prohibit respondent from providing information or its nonbinding and non-coercive views concerning the hours of work or preparation or the number of language specialists used for types of jobs. V It is further ordered , That respondent shall, within thirty (30) days after the date this order becomes final, amend its Code of Professional Standards and all Professional Guidelines, including those found in the annual Membership List of ASI, and all appendices to conform to the requirements of Paragraphs II and IV of this order and amend its bylaws to require each member, chapter, or other subdivision, to observe the provisions of Paragraphs II and IV of this order. VI It is further ordered , That respondent shall: A. Within thirty (30) days after the date this order becomes final, distribute to each ASI member, affiliate, chapter, organizational subdivision, or other entity associated directly or indirectly with ASI, copies of: (1) This order, (2) the accompanying complaint, (3) appendix A to this order, (4) and any document that ASI revises pursuant to this order, with the exception of the annual Membership List; and
