FR940819-0-00062 FR940819-0-00017 EPA believes that any impact that this amendment will have on the regulated community will serve only to provide relief from otherwise applicable regulations, and will therefore limit the negative economic impact associated with the regulations previously promulgated under Section 608. An examination of the impacts on small entities was discussed in the final rule (58 FR 28660). That final rule assessed the impact the rule may have on small entities. A separate regulatory impact analysis accompanied the final rule and is contained in Docket A&hyph;92&hyph;01. I certify that this amendment to the refrigerant recycling rule will not have any additional negative economic impacts on any small entities. C. Paperwork Reduction Act Any information collection requirements in a rule must be submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. Because no additional informational collection requirements are required by this amendment, EPA has determined that the Paperwork Reduction Act does not apply to this rulemaking and no new Information Collection Request document has been prepared. V. Judicial Review Because these regulations are nationally applicable under section 307(b)(1) of the Act, judicial review of this action is available only by the filing of a petition for review in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit within sixty days of publication of this action in the Federal Register . List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 82 Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution control, Chemicals, Chlorofluorocarbons, Exports, Hydrochlorofluorocarbons, Imports, Interstate commerce, Nonessential products, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Stratospheric ozone layer. Dated: August 5, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. Part 82, Chapter I, title 40 of the code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 82_PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE 1. The authority citation for part 82 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7414, 7601, 7671&hyph;7671q. 2. Section 82.152 is amended by revising paragraphs (q) and (x) to read as follows: ยง82.152 Definitions. * * * * * (q) Reclaim refrigerant means to reprocess refrigerant to at least the purity specified in appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F (based on ARI Standard 700&hyph;1993, Specifications for Fluorocarbon and Other Refrigerants) and to verify this purity using the analytical methodology prescribed in appendix A. In general, reclamation involves the use of processes or procedures available only at a reprocessing or manufacturing facility. * * * * * (x) Technician means any person who performs maintenance, service, or repair that could reasonably be expected to release class I or class II substances from appliances into the atmosphere, including, but not limited to, installers, contractor employees, in-house service personnel, and in some cases, owners. Technician also means any person disposing of appliances except for small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like equipment. * * * * *
