FR941020-1-00016 FR941020-1-00003 (1) Name, address, and telephone number of the importer, (2) Commodity and the class of such commodity being imported, (3) Intended use of the commodity, including resale, (4) Quantity imported, in net metric tons, rounded to the nearest hundredth of a metric ton, (5) Storage location of the commodity, (6) Name, address, and telephone number of the end-user, if known, (7) Mode of transportation and name of the transportation company used to import the commodity, and (8) A certification. In addition to the information provided by the importer, the Commissioner of Customs would assist ASCS in administering an end-use certificate program by informing KCCO when Canadian wheat and barley is imported into the U.S. This proposed rule would make the importer responsible for ensuring that all applicable end-users and subsequent buyers are informed that the commodity being purchased originated in Canada. The importer must inform end-users, in writing, that the imported commodity must not be used for any purpose other than the use specified on the end-use certificate. The importer must provide the end-user with a photocopy of the end-use certificate. If the commodity is intended for resale, any sales contracts entered into between the importer and a subsequent buyer must contain terms that notify the subsequent buyer that: (1) The commodity being purchased originated in Canada; (2) The commodity being purchased is deemed ineligible for use under CCC and U.S. Department of Agriculture-assisted export programs; (3) The subsequent buyer shall preserve, on an origin-basis, the identity of the commodity being purchased; (4) The commodity may not be commingled or blended with U.S.-produced commodities until such time as the commodity is delivered to an end-user; (5) The end-user or subsequent buyer must file quarterly reports as described below; and (6) Any sales contracts entered into between any subsequent buyers must contain the same terms specified herewith. The importer must provide the subsequent buyer with a copy of the end-use certificate. This proposed rule would also require the importer to submit to KCCO, within 10 workdays after delivery of the commodity to the end-user, a copy of the bill of lading acknowledging receipt of the commodity by the end-user and the date the commodity was received at the end-user's facility. If the commodity is imported for purposes of resale, the importer must submit to KCCO, within 10 workdays from date of sale, its subsequent buyer's name, address, and telephone number, and the quantity sold. This proposed rule would require end-users to report to KCCO the status of the imported grain on form ASCS&hyph;751, End-Use Certificate for Grain Quarterly Report, until the commodity is fully used. Subsequent buyers would be required to report to KCCO the status of the imported grain on form ASCS&hyph;751, End-Use Certificate for Grain Quarterly Report, until the commodity is resold. Information called for on the quarterly report would include: (1) The name, address, and telephone number of the end-user or subsequent buyer, (2) The name and address of the importer, (3) The End-Use Certificate for Grain serial number, (4) The commodity and class of such commodity, (5) The storage location of the commodity, (6) The date the commodity was received at the end-user's or subsequent buyer's facility, (7) The quantity of the commodity received, in net metric tons, rounded to the nearest hundredth of a metric ton, (8) The quantity of the commodity used by the end-user or sold to a subsequent buyer, (9) The quantity remaining, and (10) A certification. Quarterly reports must be received in KCCO within 15 workdays following full consumption or resale of the commodity. For partial resales or partial consumption, submit form ASCS&hyph;751 to KCCO within 15 workdays following: (1) March 31, (2) June 30, (3) September 30, and (4) December 31. Forms ASCS&hyph;750, End-Use Certificate for Grain, and ASCS&hyph;751, End-Use Certificate for Grain Quarterly Report, may be obtained from KCCO. This proposed rule also incorporates the statutory requirement that it is a violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001 for an entity to engage in fraud with respect to or knowingly violate the provisions set forth in the regulations. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 782 Administrative practice and procedure, Barley, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Wheat. It is proposed that subchapter D, chapter VII of title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations be amended by adding part 782 to read as follows: PART 782_END-USE CERTIFICATE PROGRAM Subpart A_General Sec. 782.1␣Basis and purpose. 782.2␣Definitions. 782.3␣Administration.
