FR940930-2-00166 FR940930-2-00059 Job Training Partnership Act: Indian and Native American Programs; Final Designation Procedures for Program Years 1995&hyph;96 Table of Contents Introduction: Scope and Purpose of Notice I. General Designation Principles II. Waiver Provision III. Advance Notice of Intent IV. Notice of Intent V. Preferential Hierarchy for Determining Designations VI. Use of Panel Review Procedure VII. Notification of Designation/Nondesignation VIII. Special Designation Situations IX. Designation Process Glossary Introduction: Scope and Purpose of Notice Section 401 of the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) authorizes programs to serve the employment and training needs of Indians and Native Americans. Requirements for these programs are set forth in the JTPA and in the regulations at 20 CFR Part 632. The specific organization eligibility and application requirements for designation are set forth at 20 CFR 632.10 and 632.11. Pursuant to these requirements, the Department of Labor (DOL) selects entities for funding under section 401. It designates such entities as potential Native American section 401 grantees which will be awarded grant funds contingent upon all other grant award requirements being met. This notice describes how DOL will designate potential grantees who may apply for grants for Program Years 1995 and 1996. A designated entity may apply for grant funds for PY 1995 and PY 1996 without further competition. The designation process has two parts. The Advance Notice of Intent (see Part III, below) is optional although strongly recommended. The final Notice of Intent (see Part IV, below) is mandatory for all applicants. Any organization interested in being designated as a Native American section 401 grantee should be aware of and comply with the procedures in these parts. The amount of JTPA section 401 funds to be awarded to designated Native American section 401 grantees is determined under procedures described at 20 CFR 632.171 and not through this designation process. The grant application process is described at 20 CFR 632.18 through 632.20. I. General Designation Principles Based on JTPA and applicable regulations, the following general principles are intrinsic to the designation process: (1) All applicants for designation shall comply with the requirements found at 20 CFR Part 632, Subpart B, regardless of their apparent standing in the preferential hierarchy (see Part V, Preferential Hierarchy For Determining Designations, below). The basic eligibility, application and designation requirements are found in 20 CFR Part 632, Subpart B. (2) The nature of this program is such that Indians and Native Americans in an area are entitled to program services and are best served by a responsible organization directly representing them and designated pursuant to the applicable regulations. The JTPA and the governing regulations give clear preference to Native American-controlled organizations. That preference is the basis for the steps which will be followed in designating grantees. (3) A State or federally recognized tribe, band or group on its reservation is given absolute preference over any other organization if it has the capability to administer the program and meets all regulatory requirements. This preference applies only to the area within the reservation boundaries. Such ``reservation'' organization which may have its service area given to another organization will be given a future opportunity to reestablish itself as the ``preference'' grantee. In the event that such a tribe, band or group (including an Alaskan Native entity) is not designated to serve its reservation or geographic service area, the DOL will consult with the governing body of such entities when designating alternative service deliverers, as provided at 20 CFR 632.10(e). Such consultation may be accomplished in writing, in person, or by telephone, as time and circumstances permit. When it is necessary to select alternative service deliveries, the Grant Officer will continue to utilize input and recommendations from the Division of Indian and Native American Programs (DINAP). (4) In designating Native American section 401 grantees for off-reservation areas, DOL will provide preference to Indian and Native American-controlled organizations as described in 20 CFR 632.10(f) and as further clarified in Part IX (1) Indian or Native American-Controlled Organization of this notice. As noted in (3) above, when vacancies occur, the Grant Officer will continue to utilize input and recommendations from DINAP when designating alternative service deliverers. (5) Incumbent and non-incumbent applicants not granted waivers or seeking additional areas must submit evidence of significant support from other Native American-controlled organizations within the communities (geographic service areas) which they are currently serving or requesting to serve. See Part IV, Notice of Intent, below, for more details. (6) The Grant Officer will make the designations using a two-part process:
