FR941110-0-00113 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We are not accepting this suggestion because we believe that the Statement of Deficiencies and Plan of Correction Form (HCFA&hyph;2567) provide facilities with the specific information necessary to formulate an acceptable plan of correction. To include such detailed information regarding deficiencies in the notice of noncompliance would be duplicative and administratively burdensome. We also are not accepting the suggestion to replace ``nature of noncompliance'' with ``basis for the determination'' because we believe there is virtually no substantive difference. Comment: A few commenters suggested that the notice of a certification of noncompliance should include all of the specified items in ยง488.330(d) and not only some of them. Response: We agree with the commenters and are amending ยง488.330(d) to require that all of the information included in proposed paragraph (d) must be included in the notice. Comment: Many commenters supported our proposal to impose remedies prior to the hearing, and noted that from the perspective of the residents and their families this proposal is a strength of the proposed rules. These commenters approved of applying remedies once the violations are found. Consumer groups emphasized that imposing remedies prior to appeals is essential to carrying out the statutory requirement to ``minimize the time between identification of violations and the final imposition of remedies''. They also commented that the IoM report expressed a similar view, stating that HCFA ``should develop regulations that would allow states to implement sanctions prior to hearings and appeals.'' Many commenters stressed that delays in enforcement could harm the residents, and that remedies should not be delayed pending a hearing. One consumer group noted that immediately imposing a restriction on admissions while a hearing is pending is particularly effective. Many commenters also indicated that facilities should initiate a plan of correction immediately. Response: We agree with the above comments, and are adopting procedures that allow for the swift imposition of remedies prior to a hearing. We believe that the intent of the Act was that remedies be imposed as soon as possible in order to protect the residents. Comment: Several commenters were concerned that providing hearings only after imposition of remedies denied providers their rights to due process. Many commenters recognized that in cases of immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety, pre-hearings were not necessary, but in cases in which there is no immediate jeopardy, they favored a hearing prior to imposition of any sanctions. Some commenters wanted HCFA to require the States to give an informal hearing prior to imposition of alternative remedies if the deficiencies do not pose immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety. A few commenters recognized that the majority of courts that have addressed the issue have found that providers are not constitutionally entitled to pre-hearing relief, but that a minority of courts have found that hardships are imposed on providers and residents when no pre-termination process is afforded. These minority-view courts have found facilities entitled to a pre-termination hearing on due process grounds when no pre-termination procedures are available. A few commenters challenged HCFA's reliance on the court cases which have upheld post-termination hearings on the grounds that these cases involved deficiencies analogous to immediate jeopardy situations. These commenters concede that in immediate jeopardy situations, the residents' interests are compelling enough to permit post-termination relief to providers, but not otherwise.
