FR940727-0-00052 FR940727-0-00024 Response : For purposes of attributing halibut bycatch, NMFS assigns a target fishery based on maximum retained amounts (except midwater pollock, for which pollock must comprise 95 percent or more of the total catch) and estimates halibut bycatch for each unique combination of processor, gear type, and reporting area, on a weekly basis. Halibut bycatch is attributed to one of the two fishery categories for which a trawl halibut bycatch allowance is made. Bycatch from the bottom pollock, Pacific cod, shallow-water flatfish, flathead sole, Atka mackerel, or ``other species'' fisheries is attributed to the shallow-water species complex. Bycatch from the sablefish, rockfish, deep-water flatfish, and arrowtooth flounder fisheries is attributed to the deep-water species complex. NMFS does not have the ability to assign target fisheries based on vessel hauls or individual vessel deliveries. Given this procedure, NMFS does monitor bycatch consistent with the intent of the regulations and based on the best available scientific information. Comment 3 : The NMFS Alaska Fisheries Science Center should review this rule and concur that it will provide the best available scientific data to monitor the halibut bycatch limit. Response : Regulations that are drafted by the NMFS Alaska Regional Office are developed in consultation with the Alaska Fisheries Science Center. Changes in the Final Rule From the Proposed Rule This final rule includes one editorial change in ยง672.20(f)(3)(i) to clarify an inconsistency with respect to paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of the same section. Section (f)(1)(iv) provides the authority to establish a separate halibut PSC allowance by regulatory area and district; however, ยง672.20(f)(3)(i) does not provide the authority for closures based on regulatory area or district once an allowance is reached. Language has been added to paragraph ยง672.20(f)(3)(i) to indicate that, upon attainment of a bycatch allowance for the entire Gulf of Alaska or the applicable regulatory area or district, a closure would be made. Upon reviewing the reasons for, and the comments on, this action, NMFS has determined that this rule is necessary for fishery conservation and management. Classification The General Counsel of the Department of Commerce certified to the Small Business Administration that this rule, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The reasons were published in the preamble to the proposed rule (59 FR 24965, May 5, 1994). As a result, a regulatory flexibility analysis was not prepared. NMFS prepared an analysis of the economic impact on small entities as part of the EA/RIR. A copy of the EA/RIR is available from NMFS (see ADDRESSES ). This final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. NMFS has determined that delaying the effectiveness of this final rule for the entire 30 days under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(d), is contrary to the public interest in orderly conduct of the fisheries in the EEZ. This rule supersedes the original emergency rule implementing these measures which expires August 9, 1994. The fishery has been operating under the emergency rule with a benefit to the fishery. To avoid an interruption in the fishery as it is currently being conducted under the emergency rule, NMFS is waiving a portion of the 30-day delayed effectiveness period for this rule to correspond with the expiration of the emergency rule. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Parts 672 and 675 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: July 21, 1994. Henry R. Beasley, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR parts 672 and 675 are amended as follows: PART 672_GROUNDFISH FISHERY OF THE GULF OF ALASKA 1. The authority citation for part 672 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.
