FR941117-0-00161 FR941117-0-00011 (5) Applicant intending to rely upon financing obtained through a parent corporation must submit the information required by paragraph (g)(4) of this section, as the information pertains to the parent corporation. (6) As an alternative to relying upon a firm financial commitment, an irrevocable letter of credit, or a performance bond from a financial institution as described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, an applicant may state that it has placed in an escrow account sufficient cash to meet its construction and first-year operating expenses. Such a statement must specify the amount of cash, the escrow account number and the financial institution where the escrow account is located. (7) Any competing application filed against the renewal application of an incumbent cellular licensee that does not demonstrate, at the time it is initially filed, that the competing applicant has sufficient funds to construct and operate for one year its proposed cellular system will be dismissed. (h) Exemptions. Any licensee applying for an unserved area adjacent to its existing cellular system, to integrate such area into the existing system, is exempt from the financial demonstration requirements of this section. In addition, modification applications and pro forma assignment and transfer of control applications are exempt from the financial demonstration requirements of this section. ยง22.939 Site availability requirements for applications competing with cellular renewal applications. In addition to the other requirements set forth in this part for initial cellular applications, any application competing against a cellular renewal application must contain, when initially filed, appropriate documentation demonstrating that its proposed antenna site(s) will be available. Competing applications that do not include such documentation will be dismissed. If the competing applicant does not own a particular site, it must, at a minimum demonstrate that the site is available to it by providing a letter from the owner of the proposed antenna site expressing the owner's intent to sell or lease the proposed site to the applicant. If any proposed antenna site is under U.S. Government control, the applicant must submit written confirmation of the site's availability from the appropriate Government agency. Applicants which file competing applications against incumbent cellular licensees may not rely on the assumption that an incumbent licensee's antenna sites are available for their use. ยง22.940 Criteria for comparative cellular renewal proceedings. This section sets forth criteria to be used in comparative cellular renewal proceedings. The ultimate issue in comparative renewal proceedings will be to determine, in light of the evidence adduced in the proceeding, what disposition of the applications would best serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. (a) Renewal expectancies. The most important comparative factor to be considered in a comparative cellular renewal proceeding is a major preference, commonly referred to as a ``renewal expectancy.'' (1) The cellular renewal applicant involved in a comparative renewal proceeding will receive a renewal expectancy, if its past record for the relevant license period demonstrates that: (i) The renewal applicant has provided ``substantial'' service during its past license term. ``Substantial'' service is defined as service which is sound, favorable, and substantially above a level of mediocre service which just might minimally warrant renewal; and (ii) The renewal applicant has substantially compiled with applicable FCC rules, policies and the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. (2) In order to establish its right to a renewal expectancy, a cellular renewal applicant involved in a comparative renewal proceeding must submit a showing explaining why it should receive a renewal expectancy. At a minimum, this showing must include. (i) A description of its current service in terms of geographic coverage and population served, as well as the system's ability to accommodate the needs of roamers; (ii) An explanation of its record of expansion, including a timetable of the construction of new cell sites to meet changes in demand for cellular service; (iii) A description of its investments in its cellular system; and (iv) Copies of all FCC orders finding the licensee to have violated the Communications Act or any FCC rule or policy; and a list of any pending proceedings that relate to any matter described in this paragraph. (3) In making its showing of entitlement to a renewal expectancy, a renewal applicant may claim credit for any system modification applications that were pending on the date it filed its renewal application. Such credit will not be allowed if the modification application is dismissed or denied. (b) Additional comparative issues. The following additional comparative issues will be included in comparative cellular renewal proceedings, if a full comparative hearing is conducted pursuant to ยง22.935(c). (1) To determine on a comparative basis the geographic areas and population that each applicant proposes to serve; to determine and compare the relative demand for the services proposed in said areas; and to determine and compare the ability of each applicant's cellular system to accommodate the anticipated demand for both local and roamer service; (2) To determine on a comparative basis each applicant's proposal for expanding its system capacity in a coordinated manner in order to meet anticipated increasing demand for both local and roamer service; (3) To determine on a comparative basis the nature and extent of the service proposed by each applicant, including each applicant's proposed rates, charges, maintenance, personnel, practices, classifications, regulations and facilities (including switching capabilities); and (4) To determine on a comparative basis each applicant's past performance in the cellular industry or another business of comparable type and size. (c) Additional showings for competing applications. With respect to evidence introduced pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, any applicant filing a competing application against a cellular renewal application (competing applicant) who claims a preference for offering any service not currently offered by the incumbent licensee must demonstrate that there is demand for that new service and also present a business plan showing that the competing applicant can operate the system economically. Any competing applicant who proposes to replace analog technology with digital technology will receive no credit for its proposal unless it submits a business plan showing how it will operate its system economically and how it will provide more comprehensive service than does the incumbent licensee with existing and implemented cellular technology.
