FR941116-2-00085 FR941116-2-00066 All other access processes, including search function capability, would remain the same. This system would not be used for persons requiring escorted access, i.e. visitors. Based on a Sandia report entitled, ``A Performance Evaluation of Biometric Identification Devices'' (SAND91_0276 UC_906 Unlimited Release, Printed June 1991), and on the licensee's experience with the current photo-identification system, the licensee demonstrated that the false-accept rate for the hand geometry system will be better than is achieved by the current system. The biometric system has been in use for a number of years at several sensitive Department of Energy facilities. The licensee will implement a process for testing the proposed system to ensure continued overall level of performance equivalent to that specified in the regulation. The Physical Security Plans for Limerick Generating Station, Units 1 and 2 will be revised to include implementation and testing of the hand geometry access control system and to allow licensee employees and contractors to take their badges offsite. The licensee will control all points of personnel access into a protected area under the observation of security personnel through the use of a badge and verification of hand geometry. A numbered picture badge identification system will continue to be used for all individuals who are authorized unescorted access to protected areas. Badges will continue to be displayed by all individuals while inside the protected area. IV. Since both the badge and hand geometry would be necessary for access into the protected area, the proposed system would provide for a positive verification process and potential loss of a badge by an individual, as a result of taking the badge offsite, would not enable an unauthorized entry into protected areas. For the foregoing reasons, pursuant to 10 CFR 73.55, the NRC staff has determined that the proposed alternative measures for protection against radiological sabotage meet ``the same high assurance objective,'' and ``the general performance requirements'' of the regulation and that ``the overall level of system performance provides protection against radiological sabotage equivalent'' to that which would be provided by the regulation. Accordingly, the Commission has determined that, pursuant to 10 CFR 73.5, an exemption is authorized by law, will not endanger life or property or common defense and security, and is otherwise in the public interest. Therefore, the Commission hereby grants Philadelphia Electric Company an exemption from those requirements of 10 CFR 73.55(d)(5) relating to the returning of picture badges upon exit from the protected area such that individuals not employed by the licensee, i.e., contractors, who are authorized unescorted access into the protected area, can take their badges offsite. Pursuant to 10 CFR 51.32, the Commission has determined that the granting of this exemption will not result in any significant adverse environmental impact (59 FR 55863). This exemption is effective upon issuance. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 9th day of November, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Steven A. Varga, Director, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28257 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
