FR940207-2-00083 FR940207-2-00033 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM [Docket No. R-0827] Notice of Proposed New Systems of Records AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Notice of new systems of records. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (Privacy Act), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) is establishing two new systems of records to be maintained and used by the Board's Office of the Inspector General. The two systems are called OIG Investigative Records (BGFRS/OIG-1) and OIG Personnel Records (BGFRS/OIG-2). Previously, information contained in the first system was maintained as part of the Board's personnel systems of records. The second system identified above includes the OIG's database management and work assignment and tracking system and contains personal and employment information on OIG personnel. Changes to that system have caused that system to be subject to the Privacy Act. DATES: Comments on this notice must be submitted by March 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Brent L Bowen, Inspector General, Office of the Inspector General, Mail Stop 300, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20551. Comments are available for public inspection at the Board's premises at the above location in Room MP-500 between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John Harry Jorgenson, Counsel to the Inspector General (202/872-7519), Office of the Inspector General, Mail Stop 300, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Board's Office of the Inspector General (OIG) performs its duties in accordance with the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended by the Inspector General Act Amendments of 1988 (Pub. L. 95-452, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App.) (IG Act). The OIG is an independent unit within the Board which was established to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of Board programs and operations and to detect and prevent fraud, waste and abuse in such programs and operations. The Board is establishing two new systems of records, pursuant to the Privacy Act, entitled: (1) OIG Investigative Records , and (2) OIG Personnel Records . These systems of records are essential for the Board's OIG to perform the duties assigned to that Office by the IG Act. The system called OIG Investigative Records (designated BGFRS/OIG-1 below) will consist of files and records compiled by the OIG on Board employees or other persons involved with the Board's programs or operations who have been or are under investigation for criminal or civil fraud and abuse related to the Board's programs or operations. The Board's Inspector General has the authority to conduct such an investigation under the IG Act. These files and records include materials maintained in electronic and hard copy form including databases for case tracking, ``Hotline'' telephone call logs, investigator notes, case files, and memoranda or letters. The system of records called OIG Personnel Records (designated BGFRS/OIG-2 below) will consist of files and records compiled by the OIG on past, current, and prospective employees of the OIG for use in the management of the Board's OIG. These files and records include materials maintained in electronic or hard copy form, several databases including the OIG Time Entry System, and files on individual employees maintained and used by the OIG. The information in the system of records is used for making and tracking assignments and for assessing individual employee progress on assignments as well as for evaluating employees. The Board proposes to exempt certain files within these two new systems of records from disclosure to individuals who are the subject of a record in the system. The exemptions would cover only files compiled for the following purposes: (1) Investigative material compiled for law enforcement purposes; and (2) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for employment by the OIG, but only to the extent the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Board or OIG under an express promise of confidentiality. This information in these two new systems is proposed to be exempt under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5). Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), the system of records designated as OIG Investigative Records (BGFRS/OIG-1) also shall be exempt from certain parts of the Privacy Act insofar as the records are maintained by a Board component which performs as its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws and which consists of: (i) Information compiled for the purpose of identifying individual criminal offenders and alleged offenders; (ii) Information compiled for the purpose of a criminal investigation, including reports of informants and investigators, and associated with an identifiable individual; or (iii) Reports identifiable to an individual compiled at any stage of the process of enforcement of the criminal laws from arrest or indictment through release from supervision. The system is exempt from the provisions for the following reasons: notifying an individual at the individual's request of the existence of records in a criminal investigative file pertaining to such individual, or granting access to such an investigative file could: (A) Interfere with investigative and enforcement proceedings and with co-defendants' right to a fair trial; (B) Disclose the identity of confidential sources and reveal confidential information supplied by these sources; (C) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures; and (D) Be inconsistent with Federal laws and rules governing disclosure of such information in certain circumstances. In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(r), a report of these new systems of records is being filed with the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. These new systems of records will become effective on April 8, 1994, without further notice, unless the Board publishes a notice to the contrary in the Federal Register . Accordingly, the Board proposes the establishment of the following system of records. BGFRS/OIG-1 System name: OIG Investigative Records. System location: Office of Inspector General, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Suite 1070, 1850 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20006. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals covered consist of: (1) Officers or employees of the Board or other persons involved in the Board's programs or operations who are or have been under investigation by the Board's Office of Inspector General in order to determine whether such officers, employees or other persons have been or are engaging in fraud and abuse with respect to the Board's programs or operations; and (2) Complainants and witnesses where necessary for future retrieval. Categories of records in the system: The system contains files on individual investigations including investigative reports and related documents generated during the course of or subsequent to an investigation. It includes electronic and hard copy case tracking systems, databases containing investigatory information, ``Hotline'' telephone logs, and investigator workpapers and memoranda and letter referrals to management or others. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. App. 4(a)(1) and 6(a)(2). Purpose(s): These records are collected, maintained and used by the OIG in its inquiries and investigations and reports relating to the administration of the Board's programs and operations and to manage the investigatory program. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and purposes of such uses: Under normal circumstances, no individually identifiable records will be provided. However, under those unusual circumstances when release of information contained in an individually identifiable record is required, proper safeguards will be maintained to protect the information collected from unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Subject to this general limitation, the routine uses are as follows: 1. In the event the information in the system of records indicates a violation or potential violation of a criminal or civil law, rule, or regulation, the relevant records may be disclosed to the appropriate federal, state, or local agency or authority responsible for investigating or prosecuting such a violation or for enforcing or implementing a statute, rule, or regulation. 2. The information in the system of records may be disclosed to a court, magistrate, or administrative tribunal in the course of presenting evidence, including disclosures to counsel or witnesses in the course of civil discovery, litigation, or settlement negotiations or in connection with criminal proceedings. 3. The information may be disclosed to a congressional office in response to an inquiry made by that office at the request of the individual who is the subject of the records. 4. The information may be disclosed to any source, including a federal, state, or local agency maintaining civil, criminal, or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, but only to the extent necessary for the OIG to obtain information relevant to an OIG investigation. 5. The information maybe disclosed in order to respond to a federal agency's request made in connection with the hiring or retention of an individual, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an individual, the letting of a contract or issuance of a grant, license, or other benefit by the requesting agency, but only to the extent that the information disclosed is necessary and relevant to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. 6. The information may be disclosed to other federal entities, such as other federal Offices of Inspector General or the General Accounting Office, or to a private party with which the OIG or the Board has contracted for the purpose of auditing or reviewing the performance or internal management of the OIG's investigatory program, provided the record will not be transferred in a form that is individually identifiable, and provided further that the entity acknowledges in writing that it is required to maintain Privacy Act safeguards for the information. In addition to the foregoing routine uses, a record which is contained in this system and derived from another Board system of records may be disclosed as a routine use as specified in the Federal Register notice of the system of records from which the records derived. Policies and Practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining and disposing of records in the system: Storage: These records are maintained in file folders, computer disks, electronic media, and reports on each investigation. Retrievability: Records are generally indexed by name of person under investigation, investigation number, referral number, or investigative subject matter. Safeguards: File folders are maintained in lockable metal file cabinets stored in offices that are locked when not in use. Computer disks and electronic media are locked in the lockable metal file cabinets with their related file folders, and information not so lockable is kept in individual offices in locked or passworded computer hardware. Access to the information in the cabinets and individual offices is permitted only by and to specifically authorized personnel. Retention and disposal: Records in file folders are retained as long as needed and then destroyed by shredding. Computer disks are cleared, retired, or destroyed when no longer useful. Entries on electronic media are deleted or erased when no longer needed. System manager and address: Brent L Bowen, Inspector General, Mail Stop 300, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. Office location is Suite 1070, 1850 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20006. Notification procedure: A person requesting notice as to whether this system of records contains information pertaining to him or her should write to the Office of Inspector General, Mail Stop 300, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. Individuals requesting their own records must provide their name and address and a notarized statement attesting to the individual's identity. Requests submitted on behalf of other persons must include their written, notarized authorization. Such requests in the form prescribed may also be presented in person at the Office of the Inspector General, Suite 1070, 1850 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20006. Simultaneously with requesting notification of inclusion in this system of records, the individual may request record access as described in the following section on ``Record access procedures.'' Record access procedures: Specific materials in this system have been exempted from Privacy Act provisions at 5U.S.C. 552a(d), regarding access to records. The section of this notice titled ``Exemptions claimed for the system'' indicates the kinds of material exempted and the reasons for exempting them from access. Individuals wishing to request access to non-exempt records should follow the procedures described in the ``Notification procedure'' section. Requests submitted on behalf of other persons must include their written, notarized authorization. If access to such information by a subject individual is deemed consistent with the purposes for which this system of records has been established, then the individual will be notified by the OIG as to the time and place for access to the records. The OIG will also notify individuals when access is denied. Contesting record procedure: Individuals requesting amendment or contesting records in this system of records should contact the OIG at the address given above, reasonably identify the records, specify the information being contested, the rationale for the challenge, and supply the information requested to be substituted. Such individuals must also comply with the Board's Privacy Act regulations on ``Request for correction or amendment of record'' (12 CFR 261a.7). Record source categories: The OIG collects information from many sources including the subject individuals, employees of the Board and the Federal Reserve System, other government employees, witnesses and informants, and nongovernmental sources. Exemptions claimed for the system: Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), this system of records is exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1), (d)(2), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) to the extent the system of records consists of investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. (k)(5), this system of records is exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1) to the extent that it consists of investigatory material compiled for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment or federal contracts, the release of which would reveal the identity of a source who furnished confidential information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), this system of records is exempted from 5U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1), (d)(2), (e)(1), (e)(2), and (e)(3) to the extent that it consists of information compiled for the purpose of criminal investigations. BGFRS/OIG-2 System name: OIG Personnel Records. System location: Office of Inspector General, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Suite 1070, 1850 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20006. Categories of individuals covered by the system: The system contains personal and financial information, in varying amounts, on former, current, and prospective employees of the Board's OIG. Categories of records in the system: These records may contain information relating to the education, training, employment history and earnings; appraisal of past performance; convictions for offenses against the law; results of tests, appraisals of potential, honors, awards of fellowships; military service or veteran status; school transcripts; work samples; birth date; social security number; travel vouchers; offer letters and correspondence, reference checks; and home address of past, present and prospective employees of the OIG. Includes allocations of time spent on various OIG projects and tasks (OIG Time Entry System) and related documents and reports generated by the Time Entry System. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. App. 8E(g)(2); 12 U.S.C. 248(l). Purpose(s): The information in these records is used for making hiring, retention, promotion, and performance evaluation decisions. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and purposes of such uses: Under normal circumstances, no individually identifiable records will be provided. However, under those unusual circumstances when release of information contained in an individually identifiable record is required, proper safeguards will be maintained to protect the information collected from unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Subject to this general limitation, the routine uses are as follows: 1. The information may be disclosed to assist in determining the suitability for access to classified information. 2. The information may be disclosed to designated officers and employees of agencies and departments of the federal government, and the District of Columbia government, having an interest in the individual for employment purposes, in connection with performance of a service to the federal government, under a contract or other agreement, including a security clearance or access determination, and a need to evaluate qualifications, suitability, and loyalty to the United States government. 3. The information may be disclosed to the intelligence agencies of the Department of Defense, National Security Agency, Central Intelligence Agency, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for use in intelligence activities. 4. The information may be disclosed to any source from which information is requested by the Board in the course of an investigation, to the extent necessary to identify the individual, inform the source of the nature and purpose of the investigation and to identify the type of information requested. 5. In the event the information in the system of records indicates a violation or potential violation of a criminal or civil law, rule, or regulation, the relevant records may be disclosed to the appropriate federal, state, or local agency or authority responsible for investigating or prosecuting such a violation or for enforcing or implementing a statute, rule, regulation. 6. The information may be disclosed as a data source for management information for production of descriptive statistics and analytical studies in support of the function for which the records are collected and maintained, or for related personnel management functions or manpower studies; and they may also be utilized to respond to general requests for statistical information (without personal identification of individuals) under the Freedom of Information Act or to locate specific individuals for personnel research or other personnel management functions. 7. The information may be disclosed to respond to a court order. 8. The information may be disclosed to a congressional office in response to an inquiry made by the office at the request of the individual who is the subject of the records. 9. The information may be disclosed to other federal entities, such as other federal Offices of Inspector General or the General Accounting Office, or to a private party with which the OIG or the Board has contracted for the purpose of auditing or reviewing the performance or internal management of the OIG, provided the record will not be transferred in a form that is individually identifiable, and provided further that the entity acknowledges in writing that it is required to maintain Privacy Act safeguards for the information. In addition to the foregoing, a record which is contained in this system and derived from another Board system of records may be disclosed as a routine use as specified in the Federal Register notice of the system of records from which the records derived. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining and disposing of records in the system: Storage: The information is stored as written and printed information contained in file folders and on computer disks, electronic media in the form of individual reports or in electronic databases. Retrievability: The information is indexed by name but can be retrieved by a variety of personal identification means including by social security number, employee number, and room number. It can also be retrieved by project or assignment codes. Safeguards: File folders are maintained in lockable metal file cabinets stored in offices that are locked when not in use. Computer disks and electronic media are locked in the lockable metal file cabinets with their related file folders, and information not so lockable is kept in locked or passworded computer hardware. Access to the information in the cabinets and individual offices is permitted only by and to specifically authorized personnel. Retention and disposal: Records in file folders are retained as long as needed and then destroyed by shredding. Computer disks are cleared, retired, or destroyed when no longer useful. Entries on electronic media are deleted or erased when no longer needed. System manager and address: Brent L Bowen, Inspector General, Mail Stop 300, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. Office location is Suite 1070, 1850 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20006. Notification procedure: A person requesting notice as to whether this system of records contains information pertaining to him or her should write to the Office of Inspector General, Mail Stop 300, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. Individuals requesting their own records must provide their name and address and a notarized statement attesting to the individual's identity. Requests submitted on behalf of other persons must include their written, notarized authorization. Such requests in the form prescribed may also be presented in person at the Office of the Inspector General, Suite 1070, 1850 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20006. Simultaneously with requesting notification of inclusion in this system of records, the individual may request record access as described in the following section on ``Record access procedures''. Record access procedures: Specific materials in this system have been exempted from Privacy Act provisions at 5U.S.C. 552a(d), regarding access to records. The section of this notice titled ``Exemptions claimed for the system'' indicates the kinds of material exempted and the reasons for exempting them from access. Individuals wishing to request access to non-exempt records should follow the procedures described in the ``Notification procedure'' section. Requests submitted on behalf of other persons must include their written, notarized authorization. If access to such information by a subject individual is deemed consistent with the purposes for which this system of records has been established, then the individual will be notified by the OIG as to the time and place for access to the records. The OIG will also notify individuals when access is denied. Contesting record procedure: Individuals requesting amendment of contesting records in this system or records should contact the Office of Inspector General at the address given above, reasonably identify the records, specify the information being contested, the rationale for the challenge, and supply the information requested to be substituted. Such individuals must also comply with the Board's Privacy Act regulations on ``Request for correction or amendment of record'' (12 CFR 261a.7). Record source categories: Subject individuals, employees of the Board and the Federal Reserve System, other government employees, and witnesses and informants. Exemptions claimed for the system: Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. (k)(5), this system of records is exempted from 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1) to the extent that it consists of investigatory material compiled for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for federal civilian employment or federal contracts, the release of which would reveal the identity of a source who furnished confidential information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, dated February 1, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94-2666 Filed 2-4-94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
