FR940627-0-00180 FR940627-0-00019 Evaporative Emission Generator (EEG) means a fuel tank or vessel to which heat is applied to cause a portion of the fuel to evaporate at a desired rate. Evaporative emissions means chemical compounds emitted into the atmosphere by vaporization of contents of a fuel or additive/fuel mixture. Evaporative fuel means a fuel which has a Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP, pursuant to 40 CFR part 80, appendix ``E'') of 2.0 pounds per square inch or greater and is not supplied to motor vehicle engines by way of sealed containment and delivery systems. Evaporative fuel additive means a fuel additive which, when mixed with its specified base fuel, causes an increase in the RVP of the base fuel by 0.4 psi or more relative to the RVP of the base fuel alone and results in an additive/base fuel mixture whose RVP is 2.0 psi, or greater. Excluded from this definition are fuel additives used with fuels which are supplied to motor vehicle engines by way of sealed containment and delivery systems. Federal Test Procedure (FTP) means the body of exhaust and evaporative emissions test procedures described in 40 CFR 86 for the certification of new motor vehicles to Federal motor vehicle emissions standards. Fuel family means a set of fuels and fuel additives which share basic chemical and physical formulation characteristics and can be used in the same engine or vehicle. Manufacturer means a person who is a fuel manufacturer or additive manufacturer as defined in ยง79.2 (d) and (f). Nitrated polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (NPAH) means the class of compounds whose molecular structure includes two or more aromatic rings and contains one or more nitrogen substitutions. Non-catalyzed emissions means exhaust emissions not subject to an effective aftertreatment device such as a functional catalyst or particulate trap. Oxygenate compound means an oxygen-containing, ashless organic compound, such as an alcohol or ether, which may be used as a fuel or fuel additive. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) means the class of hydrocarbon compounds whose molecular structure includes two or more aromatic rings. Relabeled additive means a fuel additive which is registered by its original manufacturer with EPA and is also registered and sold, unchanged in composition, under a different label and/or by a different entity.
