FR941007-2-00120 FR941007-2-00072 Additoinally, allowing the Amex, subject to the concurrence of the staff of the Commission, to approve an issue of ELNs that either does not satisfy one of the existing requirements regarding market capitalization and trading volume, 13 or that exceeds the maximum allowable percentage of shares of the underlying security, 14 merely adds flexibility to the proposed rule change. The Commission believes that this portion of the proposal does not raise any regulatory concerns, particularly given the requirement of obtaining the concurrence of the staff of the Commission prior to listing. 15 13 See supra note 5. 14 See supra note 6. 15 If the Amex proposed an ELN that raised unique or significant regulatory concerns, the staff of the Commission would require the Amex to submit a rule filing to the Commission pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act. Finally, the Commission notes that the prior approval orders regarding ELNs 16 did not contain a prohibition against an issuer retaining the ability to satisfy its obligations at maturity of the ELN either in cash or with shares of the underlying security. Without Commission approval, a particular issuance of ELNs may not be linked to more than 5% of the outstanding shares of the underlying security. In these cases, because of the large market capitalization and trading volume requirements for the underlying security, the Commission believes that the ELN will have minimal impact on the market for the underlying security even if the issuer determines to satisfy its obligations with shares and must purchase the necessary shares prior to maturity. We note that if the Commission were to approve an ELN related to more than the maximum allowable percentages specified in Section 107B, the Commission would be able to impose restrictions and limitations, on a case-by-case basis, to minimize the potential of the ELN having an adverse impact on the market for the underlying security. The Commission also believes that it is appropriate for issuers to publish notice, no less than 10 and no more than 20 business days prior to maturity of the ELN, about the issuer's intention to satisfy its obligations to the holders of the ELNs with either cash or shares of the underlying security. 17 16 See supra note 3. 17 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 1. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change and Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice thereof in the Federal Register in order to allow the Exchange to begin listing hybrid securities (including ELNs) satisfying the revised listing standards described herein without delay. For the reasons discussed above, the Commission believes that the proposal does not raise any significant regulatory issues. The amendments to Section 107A and those allowing ELNs linked to nonconvertible preferred stock merely conform the Amex's rules to those previously approved for the NYSE, which were published and for which no comments were received by the Commission. 18 Additionally, the Commission believes that the issues raised by the remaining proposed amendments to Rule 107B were adequately addressed in the Commission's prior approval orders regarding ELNs. Moreover, in recently approving the proposal by the Amex to list and trade ELNs linked to securities (including sponsored ADRs) issued by non-U.S. companies subject to reporting requirements under the Act, the Amex represented to the Commission that no problems had been reported regarding the listing and trading of ELNs. 19 18 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33468 (January 13, 1994), 59 FR 3387 (January 21, 1994). 19 See Exchange Act Release No. 34549, supra note 3. For the above reasons, the Commission believes it is consistent with Section 19(b)(2) 20 of the Act to approve the proposed rule change and Amendment No. 1 to the proposal on an accelerated basis. 20 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(2) (1988).
