FR940913-1-00032 FR940913-1-00013 This section would require one power driven fire pump, connected to fixed piping, capable of delivering water at a minimum of 50 gallons per minute. In addition, a portable pump must be carried that has a capacity of 9500 gallons per hour and is capable of being connected to the firemain and hoses. However, if the vessel already has a portable pump satisfying the second bilge pump requirement, no additional portable pump would be required as long as it is properly equipped to handle both firefighting and flood control. Section 28.825␣Excess Fire Detection and Protection Equipment This section would cover excess fire detection and protection equipment and is in lieu of §28.155. Section 28.830␣Fire Detection System This section would grandfather existing systems and equipment within specific limits and regulations, and provides acceptance latitude. It would require that accommodation spaces to be fitted with modular smoke detectors, and require manual remote shutdown of certain machinery outside of certain spaces. Section 28.835␣Fuel Systems This section would incorporate applicable regulations of subchapter F for any replacement and or alteration to the existing grandfathered piping. It would also add the requirement for remote shutoff valves on certain fuel tanks, metal shields under filters, and limits the length of nonmetallic flexible hose used (for vibration purposes only). Note: Some of the piping aboard ex-Navy yard oilers used in the Aleutian trade was built and installed to Navy specifications and was encased in cement ballast. This arrangement would be grandfathered. In contrast, subpart D requires all fuel lines to be constructed of seamless material only, except short lengths of flex hose for vibration. Cargo vessels have the same requirements and, additionally, all valves and fittings must meet specific regulations of subchapter F. Section 28.840␣Means for Stopping Pumps, Ventilation, and Machinery This section would contain requirements for remote controls similar to those applicable to cargo vessels. Section 28.845␣General Requirements for Electrical Systems This section would adopt nearly all of the requirements of subpart D which provide for acceptance of recognized standards such as Underwriters Laboratory (UL). An added grandfathering clause would allow acceptance of existing materials and installations, on a case by case basis. For example, existing cables and wiring runs could be allowed to remain as presently constructed and routed. However, any replacement wiring or new installations would have to meet specific requirements. In comparison, the installation of all electrical systems and interior communications as to design, construction, and material acceptance for cargo vessels must be done in accordance with subchapter J. Section 28.850␣Main Source of Electrical Power This section proposes general requirements for electrical systems that are presently found on ATA vessels.
