FR940223-2-00196 FR940223-2-00099 (2) Any separate opinions rendered by individual special committee members shall be anonymous. (3) On the issuance of a final report under subrule (1), the responsible Secretary shall immediately forward copies of the report to the involved Parties. (4) Unless the involved Parties otherwise agree, (a) within 10 days after the final report is forwarded to the involved Parties, the involved Secretaries shall cause a notice that a final report has been issued by a special committee to be published in the official publications of the involved Parties, indicating that copies of the report and of any separate opinions by individual members or written views of either involved Party are available to the public at the offices of the responsible Secretariat; and (b) the responsible Secretariat shall make available to the public copies of the final report of a special committee, together with any separate opinions by individual members and any written views that either involved Party may wish to be published. Reconvening of Special Committee 30. Where a special committee has made an affirmative finding with respect to grounds specified in Article 1905.1 of the Agreement, a Responding Party may request that the special committee be reconvened by filing a request with the responsible Secretariat (a) where the Responding Party is requesting that the special committee determine whether the Responding Party has corrected a problem with respect to which the special committee has made an affirmative finding, at any time after the affirmative finding was made; or (b) where the Responding Party is requesting that the special committee determine whether a suspension of benefits by the Complaining Party under Article 1905.8 of the Agreement is manifestly excessive, at any time after the suspension was made. 31. (1) Where a request referred to in subrule 30(a) is filed before the fortieth day of the 60-day consultation period referred to in Article 1905.8 of the Agreement, the special committee shall endeavour to present a report containing its determination to the involved Parties before the sixtieth day of that period, and may for that purpose make such orders as to filing of written submissions and responses and the holding of a hearing as the special committee considers necessary under the circumstances. (2) Rules 32 to 34 apply with respect to requests referred to in subrule 30(a) that are filed on or after the fortieth day of the 60-day consultation period referred to in Article 1905.8 and to requests referred to in subrule 30(b). 32. (1) At the time of filing a request pursuant to rule 30, the Responding Party shall file a written submission in support of the request. (2) A Complaining Party shall file a written response to a submission referred to in subrule (1) within 20 days after that submission is filed. 33. (1) At the time of filing a request pursuant to rule 30 or a written response pursuant to subrule 32(2), an involved Party may request an opportunity to present oral argument in support of its request or response. (2) Where an involved Party requests an opportunity to present oral argument pursuant to subrule (1), the special committee may hold a hearing, at which both involved Parties shall be granted an equal opportunity to present oral argument. 34. The special committee shall, within 45 days of the filing of a request pursuant to rule 30, present to the involved Parties a written report containing its determination pursuant to Article 1905.10 of the Agreement. 35. Subrules 29 (2) to (4) apply, with such modifications as are necessary, to reports referred to in subrule 31(1) and rule 34. Completion of Special Committee Proceedings 36. (1) On completion of a special committee proceeding, as determined by the special committee in consultation with the involved Parties, the special committee shall request the responsible Secretary to issue a notice of completion of the proceeding.
