FR940817-2-00065 FR940817-2-00043 Ethyl analyzed the data collected using EPA's previously used statistical tests (43 FR 41424, September 18, 1978) and additional tests developed by its consultants to further characterize the data. Its analysis indicated that, on average, MMT at the requested concentration would result in a 0.018 gpm increase in HC emissions and decreases in NO x and CO emissions. The analyses further indicated that, when EPA's previously used tests are applied, the increase in HC emissions would not cause or contribute to vehicles' failure to meet the current HC emission standard. The results of Ethyl's testing for materials compatibility, driveability and catalyst durability also indicated that MMT would have no significant adverse effects on vehicles' ability to meet current emission standards under average driving conditions. On that basis, Ethyl claimed that it had made its statutorily required showing. Ethyl also submitted data on the catalyst efficiency of the vehicles which it tested. Ethyl performed back-pressure tests 26 on all its vehicle fleet except one model group after accumulation of 75,000 miles. Back-pressure tests were also performed on a pair of Ford Crown Victorias, one operated on MMT-fuel and one on clear fuel, at speeds higher than those used in Ethyl's 48-vehicle test program. 27 The results of these tests indicated that back-pressure was not significantly different in the MMT vehicles when compared to the clear fuel vehicles. Ethyl also operated two 5.7 liter Corvettes at extremely high speeds (100 mph) for 25,000 miles, one using MMT fuel and one using clear fuel. Although similar in magnitude, the back pressure for the MMT vehicle was slightly higher than that for the clear vehicle. Ethyl also presented catalyst efficiency 28 data based on engine-out emissions of its fleet and based on ``slave engine'' testing 29 for half of its fleet. Results of the slave engine testing indicated no statistically significant difference between the catalyst efficiencies for the MMT vehicle components when compared with the clear vehicle components. Finally, four Chevrolet Corsicas were operated to 100,000 miles, two utilizing MMT fuel and two with clear fuel. The purpose of this testing was to investigate MMT's effect on the catalyst for a longer mileage interval than the 75,000 miles over which most of Ethyl's fleet had been driven. Catalyst efficiencies of the MMT vehicles were not significantly different when compared to the clear fuel vehicles. 26 Back pressure tests are used to determine if significant plugging has occurred in a vehicle's catalyst. The total pressure ahead of the catalyst is back pressure. This pressure is a measure of constriction in flow through the exhaust system caused by flow of the exhaust through the emissions control system and the noise-reducing components of the vehicle. If plugging has occurred in a vehicle, the total pressure ahead of its catalyst, the back pressure, should be greater than expected (e.g., greater than a matching control vehicle). 27 In this program the maximum speed was 65 mph for the first 25,000 miles and 80 mph for an additional 10,000 miles. 28 Catalyst efficiency is a measure of what fraction of the emissions entering the catalyst are actually removed (or catalyzed) by the catalyst. 29 ``Slave engine'' testing is the testing of vehicle components on a single engine which is not in a vehicle. In this case, catalyst efficiencies between control and MMT vehicles were investigated using exhaust gases from this single engine which were routed through the removed catalysts. This would likely result in a more accurate analysis of catalyst efficiency, since one possible confounding factor, vehicle to vehicle variability, would be eliminated. Ford presented original test data which Ford said supported its contention that actual in-use MMT-induced HC emissions increases are potentially far greater than those reported by Ethyl. 30 Ford conducted testing on a more limited scale utilizing eight vehicles, representing two model groups, run for 105,000 miles. Ford chose two model groups which were representative of its newest technology vehicles at the time. One (the Explorer) represented a technology that Ford believed may be especially prone to exhibit a buildup of manganese, due to significantly higher operating temperatures and loads than those of passenger cars. The other model group, the Escorts, had close-coupled catalysts, a design which is being incorporated into many new vehicles in order to meet tighter emissions standards. Like Ethyl, Ford operated part of its test fleet on clear fuel and part on fuel containing 1/32 gpg MMT. However, Ford's test program differed from Ethyl's program in several ways. When accumulating mileage, Ford utilized a commercial gasoline which contained all of the additives (detergents, etc.) typically found in such fuels. Ethyl utilized a very high quality test fuel with tight specifications and no additives. (Although used for actual emissions testing purposes, Ethyl's fuel would not be allowed for mileage accumulation when certifying vehicles since it is not representative of in-use fuel.) When accumulating mileage, Ford utilized what it called its ``durability cycle'' which it had previously developed. Compared to the AMA cycle used by Ethyl, Ford's driving cycle had a higher average speed (54 miles per hour (mph) versus 30 mph), and a higher percentage of high speed driving. 31 (As previously mentioned, Ethyl utilized the AMA cycle used for certification purposes.) Additionally, in the Ford program, vehicles were tested for emissions at five mileage intervals (5,000, 20,000, 55,000, 85,000 32 and 105,000 miles) and six emissions tests were done at each testing interval. Ethyl, by comparison, conducted testing every 5,000 miles to 75,000 miles (15 intervals) and utilized two emissions tests at each interval. 33 Ford's test vehicles showed an elevation of HC emissions with MMT that was substantially greater than the 0.018 gpm reported by Ethyl from its test program. 30 EPA's emissions testing lab and Ford's lab routinely undergo correlation testing and the data indicate that correlation is good between the labs. (See memorandum, with attached data, from Martin E. Reineman, EPA Manager of Correlation and Engineering Services, Office of Mobile Sources, January 3, 1992, Docket A&hyph;91&hyph;46.) 31 Ford indicated that drivers who accumulated mileage in its test program were asked to follow posted speed limits. Ford indicated that the cycle consisted of 5% city driving (25 to 45 mph), 5% gravel or off road driving (25 to 45 mph), 20% rural driving (45 to 55 mph), and 70% highway driving (65 mph). Posted speed limits are shown in parentheses. By way of comparison, the AMA cycle consists of 16.1% of driving at 30 mph, 22.6 at 35 mph, 20.9 at 40 mph, 6.4 at 45 mph, 17% at variable speed and one of the three following options: 16.7% at 50 mph or 16.5% at 55 mph or 8.6% and 7.9% at 55 mph and 70 mph, respectively. 32 In fact, only two of the four Escorts were tested at 85,000 miles. 33 Although Ethyl conducted additional emissions tests at some mileage intervals when the initial two tests showed high variation, these additional tests were not used in Ethyl's analysis of its data.
