FR940317-1-00112 FR940317-1-00013 (a) This subpart implements the FCA and authorizes the administrative settlement of claims of inhabitants of a foreign country, or by a foreign country or a political subdivision thereof, against the United States for personal injury or death or property damages caused outside the United States, its territories, commonwealths, or possessions by military personnel or civilian employees of the DA, or claims which arise incident to noncombat activities of the Army. (b) Claims resulting from the activities, or caused by personnel of another military department, service, or agency of the United States may also be settled by Army foreign claims commissions as authorized by this subpart. (c) Claims arising from acts or omissions of employees of nonappropriated fund activities may also be settled by Army foreign claims commissions pursuant to this subpart if otherwise applicable, but are payable from nonappropriated funds (subpart L). §536.147 Claims cognizable under other subparts. (a) Subparts C and E. Claims within the scope of the FCA, which otherwise would be cognizable under subpart E will be considered first under this subpart. Claims by foreign inhabitants covered by the FCA may not be paid under the provisions of subpart C (see 10 U.S.C. 2733(b)(2)). (b) Subpart I. Consideration may be given to first settling under subpart I, any claim which is also within the scope of the FCA. However, if the settlement of the claim under subpart I will cause identifiable hardship to the claimant, procedures of this subpart will be used. (c) Subpart K. Claims cognizable under this chapter, which are also cognizable under subpart K, will be considered first under the latter subpart. (d) Subpart H. Claims that may be settled under chapter 8 may be settled under this chapter only when specifically authorized by the Commander, USARCS. (See §536.125(b).) §536.148 Claims provisions of treaties and agreements. When a foreign government has assumed responsibility for settling claims against the United States pursuant to Article VIII, NATO_SOFA, or other similar treaty or agreement, any claim presented to U.S. authorities will be forwarded to the appropriate United States sending State Office, or similar office, for referral to the foreign government. The investigation by U.S. authorities of claims cognizable under a SOFA will normally be limited to securing evidence from U.S. sources. §536.149 Presentation of claims. A claim may not be allowed under this subpart unless it is presented within 2 years after it accrues. Such presentation may be made to United States authorities or to a foreign government in accordance with Article VIII, NATO_SOFA or other applicable treaty or agreement. §536.150 Form of claims. (a) A claim normally will be presented in writing. A report of the incident to the authorities stated in §536.149 by the claimant or agent requesting compensation is an adequate presentation. Under unusual circumstances, a claim presented orally by the claimant to U.S. authorities may be considered acceptable. An oral claim must be reduced to writing, however, not more than 3 years after the date on which it accrues. The written claim must state the time, place, and nature of the incident; the nature and extent of damage, loss, or injury; and the amount of compensation claimed. (b) A claim will be stated in the currency of the country where the incident occurred, or the country where the claimant was an inhabitant at the time of the incident. The U.S. dollar equivalent of a foreign currency, computed at the time the claim is filed and based on the annual Foreign Currency Fluctuation Account exchange rate (where applicable), will determine whether a foreign claims commission has monetary jurisdiction to settle the claim. (See §536.149.) (c) Claims commissions and command claims service will coordinate informally with the Chief, Special Claims Branch, USARCS to determine whether it is necessary to comply with the mirror file requirements of §536.21 (c) and (d), for any claim cognizable under this subpart in which the amount claimed is greater than $50,000 and a foreign government is not responsible for adjudication under a SOFA or other agreement. §536.151 Claimants. (a) General. (1) In personal injury or property damage cases, a claimant must have been an inhabitant of a foreign country at the time of the incident and not otherwise excluded as a claimant. In a wrongful death case, the proper claimants are those who are entitled by the law of the country where the incident occurred to bring a claim for the decedent's death, and the decedent must have been an inhabitant of a foreign country at the time of the incident and not otherwise excluded as a claimant. However, it is not necessary that the claimant in personal injury and property damage cases, or the decedent in a death case, be a citizen of, or have legal domicile in the foreign country, to establish that he or she is an inhabitant thereof.
