FR941205-2-00091 FR941205-2-00050 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20738; No. 812&hyph;9206] AUSA Life Insurance Company, et al. November 28, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for an Order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: AUSA Life Insurance Company, Inc. (``AUSA Life''), AUSA Endeavor Variable Annuity Account (``Variable Account''), AEGON USA Securities, Inc. (``AEGON Securities''), and Certain Principal Underwriters (``Future Underwriters''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act granting exemptions from the provisions of Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order permitting the deduction from the assets of the Variable Account of a mortality and expense risk charge in connection with the issuance and sale of certain flexible premium variable annuity contracts (``Contracts''). FILING DATE: The application was filed on September 1, 1994. An Amended and Restated Application was filed on October 27, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on December 27, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, Craig D. Vermie, Esq., AUSA Life Insurance Company, Inc., 4333 Edgewood Road, N.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa 52499. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Yvonne M. Hunold, Senior Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products (Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application; the complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. AUSA Life is a stock life insurance company that principally sells life insurance and annuity contracts. It currently is licensed to do business in the District of Columbia and all states except Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, North Carolina, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. AUSA Life is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of AEGON USA, Inc. AEGON USA is indirectly owned by AEGON n.v., a Netherlands holding company conducting its business through subsidiary companies engaged primarily in the insurance business. 2. The Variable Account is a separate account registered with the Commission under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. The Variable Account consists of several subaccounts (``Subaccounts''), each investing solely in a corresponding portfolio of the Endeavor Series Trust (``Series Fund'' or ``Series Fund Portfolios''), or in shares of WRL Growth Portfolio (``WRL Growth Portfolio''), a portfolio within the WRL Series Fund, Inc.'s (``WRL Fund''). Both the Series Fund and the WRL Fund are registered open-end management investment companies of the series type. Shares of the Series Fund Portfolios and the WRL Growth Portfolio will be sold to the Separate Account at net asset value. Series Fund Portfolios and the WRL Growth Portfolio are responsible for all of their respective expenses, including applicable investment advisory fees. 3. AEGON Securities, an affiliate of AUSA Life, will be the distributor and principal underwriter of the Contracts. Broker-dealers other than AEGON Securities may also serve as distributors and principal underwriters of the Contracts (``Future Underwriters''). AEGON Securities is, and any Future Underwriter will be, registered as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. 4. The Contracts are individual flexible premium variable annuity contracts offered in connection with retirement plans that may qualify for favorable Federal income tax treatment (``Qualified Plans'') or on a non-tax qualified basis (``Non-Qualified Plans''). A registration statement on Form N&hyph;4 to register the Contracts under the Securities Act of 1933 has been filed with the Commission. 1 1 Applicants state that the Contracts currently are being issued by International Life Investors Insurance Company (``ILI'') through its ILI Endeavor Variable Annuity Account (``ILI Separate Account''), and that the AUSA Contracts are identical to the ILI Contracts except for the identity of the depositor and the issuing separate account. Applicants further state that ILI intends to transfer its variable annuity business to AUSA Life through an exchange offer to be made in compliance with the requirements of Rule 11a&hyph;2 of the 1940 Act. Applicants represent that their request for exemptive relief is identical in all material respects to the relief previously granted ILI and the ILI Separate Account in connection with the ILI Contracts. Both ILI and AUSA Life are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of AEGON USA, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of AEGON n.v. and, thus, affiliates of each other. 5. The Contracts provide for, among other things: (a) certain minimum initial and subsequent premium payments, which will be credited with the investment experience of the selected Subaccount(s) investing in Series Fund Portfolios or the WRL Growth Portfolio; (b) several Annuity Payment Options on both a fixed and variable basis, beginning on the Annuity Commencement Date; and (c) the payment of a death benefit, which is equal to the greater of the Contract Value or Premium Payments (net of withdrawals) plus 5.0% annual interest.
