FR940511-0-00035 FR940511-0-00015 Wednesday May 11, 1994 Part VIII Department of Commerce National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 15 CFR Part 925 Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary Regulations; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 90␣/␣Wednesday, May 11, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 15 CFR Part 925 [901064&hyph;0264] RIN 0648&hyph;AC63 Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary Regulations AGENCY: Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM), National Ocean Service (NOS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Department of Commerce (DOC). ACTION: Notice of National Marine Sanctuary Designation; final rule; and summary of final Management Plan. SUMMARY: The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), by the Designation Document contained in this document, and as required by section 205(a)(4) of Public Law No. 100&hyph;627, designates an approximately 2,500 square nautical mile area of coastal and ocean waters, and the submerged lands thereunder, off the Olympic Peninsula of Washington State, including the waters of the Strait of Juan de Fuca eastward to Koitlah Point, as the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary). This document publishes the final Management Plan detailing the goals and objectives, management responsibilities, research activities, interpretive and educational programs, and enforcement, including surveillance, activities for the Sanctuary. Further, NOAA, by this document, issues final regulations to implement the designation by regulating activities affecting the Sanctuary consistent with the provisions of the Designation Document. The intended effect of these regulations is to protect the conservational, recreational, ecological, historical, research, educational, and aesthetic resources and qualities of the Sanctuary. Effective Dates: Pursuant to section 304(b) of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. 1434(b)), the Governor of the State of Washington has 45 days of continuous session of Congress beginning on the day on which this notice is published to review the designation and regulations before they take effect. After 45 days, the designation and regulations automatically become final and take effect. However, if the Governor of the State of Washington certifies within the 45-day period to the Secretary of Commerce that the designation or any of its terms are unacceptable, the designation or the unacceptable terms cannot take effect in the area of the Sanctuary lying within the seaward boundary of the State. If the Secretary considers that such disapproval will affect the designation in a manner that the goals and objectives of the Sanctuary cannot be fulfilled, the Secretary may withdraw the designation. A document announcing the effective date will be published in the Federal Register . ADDRESSES: Copies of the Final Environmental Impact Statement and Management Plan (FEIS/MP) prepared for the designation are available upon request from the Sanctuaries and Reserves Division, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 1305 East West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910, (301) 713&hyph;3125. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Nina Garfield, (301) 713&hyph;3141. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Section 303 of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, as amended (the ``Act'' or ``MPRSA''), 16 U.S.C. 1433), provides that the Secretary may designate any discrete area of the marine environment as a National Marine Sanctuary if the Secretary determines that such designation will fulfill the purposes and policies of the Act as set forth in section 301(b) (16 U.S.C. 1431(b)) and finds that: (1) The area is of special national significance due to its resource or human-use values; (2) Existing state and Federal authorities are inadequate or should be supplemented to ensure coordinated and comprehensive conservation and management of the area, including resource protection, scientific research, and public education; (3) Designation of the area as a national marine sanctuary will facilitate the coordinated and comprehensive conservation and management of the area; and (4) The area is of a size and nature that will permit comprehensive and coordinated conservation and management.
