FR940516-1-00094 FR940516-1-00006 Engines equipped with adjustable operating parameters would have to comply with all the regulations with the parameters adjusted to any setting in the full range of adjustment. For example, this could include adjustment of the high-speed needle for alteration of the air/fuel ratio or adjustment of the speed set screw. This would ensure that changes to the adjustable operating parameters that might readily occur in use would not cause the engine to fail to comply with these regulations. EPA is proposing to require that manufacturers label each engine and that the label meet the same requirements with respect to durability and visibility as required in the current on-highway program. The engine manufacturer would be responsible for proper labeling of engines from each engine family. In addition, EPA is proposing labeling requirements for vehicle and equipment manufacturers if the engine label is obscured. EPA is also proposing that each engine must have a unique engine identification number which may be part of the engine label or engraved on the engine. Such identification is necessary for tracking individual engines. Use of engine identification numbers would facilitate setting up a tracking system and allow manufacturers to sample in-use engines for their programs. This identification would be essential for development of a long-term in-use durability program. EPA requests comment on the labeling proposal as well as on current engine identification practices within the industry. Finally, EPA also proposes to require that all engine crankcases must be closed to preclude the emissions that occur when a crankcase is vented to the atmosphere. Since most currently produced engines do have closed crankcases, EPA believes this requirement would impact relatively few manufacturers. Finally, small SI engine noise levels would not be allowed to increase as a result of this rule. EPA requests comment on these proposed certification requirements. While EPA is today proposing vehicle and equipment manufacturer labeling responsibilities, EPA is considering whether to instead make engine manufacturers responsible for ensuring that the emission control label is visible once the certified engine is incorporated into a given piece of nonroad equipment. EPA requests comment on this specific issue as well. 12. Vehicle/Equipment Manufacturer Requirements Commencing on this rule's effective date, manufacturers of small SI vehicles and equipment and importers would be prohibited from introducing into U.S. commerce any vehicle or equipment powered by a small SI engine which does not incorporate the appropriate certified handheld or nonhandheld engine. Failure to do so would make the equipment manufacturer liable for the assessment of civil penalties. EPA is proposing this requirement because it is concerned that engines certified to meet handheld engine standards may in fact be used in nonhandheld equipment. This would significantly and negatively impact air quality benefits which are to accrue as a result of this rule. Due to the potential for engines in different categories to be substituted for one another, this prohibition would ensure that the regulated engines are used in appropriate applications. As noted above, EPA is proposing to require that the original emission control engine label is visible once the certified engine is placed in the vehicle or equipment. If the engine label is obscured as a result of the vehicle or equipment manufacturer's placement of the engine in the nonroad vehicle or equipment, the vehicle or equipment manufacturer would be required to attach an identical but supplemental label, in a readily visible location on a part necessary for normal vehicle or equipment operation before it is introduced into United States commerce. Section 213 gives EPA the authority to require nonroad equipment manufacturers to use certified nonroad engines. For further discussion, see ``V.F. Nonroad Engine and Vehicle Definitions.'' 13. Certification Procedures_Application Process The engine manufacturer would be required to submit an application to EPA requesting a certificate of conformity for each engine family for every model or calendar year. Certificates would be issued to cover production for a single model year. See ``V. W. Duration of Certificates of Conformity, Definition of Model Year, Annual Production Period'' for further discussion of these issues. An application for a certificate would be submitted every model year even when the engine family does not change from the previous certificate, although representative test data could be reused in the succeeding model year's application. If the emissions from the test engine were below the applicable standards and EPA believed that all other requirements of the regulation were met, EPA would issue a certificate of conformity for that engine family. The application would need to provide EPA with sufficient information to determine the appropriate test results and emission characteristics of the engine family. It would also allow EPA to determine test engine compliance with the applicable emission standards in a timely manner. It would be important that the engine manufacturer succinctly, fully, and accurately submit all pertinent information to EPA and maintain internal records which could be easily accessed if such access is determined to be necessary by EPA.
