FR941031-2-00084 FR941031-2-00062 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Office of the Secretary Statement of Organization, Functions and Delegation of Authority Part A (Office of the Secretary), Chapter AE (Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation (OASPE)) of the Statement of Organization, Functions and Delegation of Authority for the Department of Health and Human Services (most recently amended at 58 FR 247 on December 28, 1993) is amended as follows: I. Chapter AE paragraph D. ``The Office of Family, Community and Long-Term Care,'' delete in its entirety and replace with the following: D. The Office of Disability, Aging and Long-Term Care Policy_The Office of Disability, Aging and Long-Term Care Policy is responsible for the development, coordination, research and evaluation of HHS policies and programs which support the independence, productivity, health and security of children, working age adults, and older persons with disabilities. The office is also responsible for policy coordination and research to promote the economic and social well-being of the elderly. 1. The Division of Disability and Aging Policy is responsible for coordination, policy development, research and evaluation of HHS policies and programs focusing on persons with disabilities (including the Developmental Disabilities Act) and for the aging. Aging activities related to the Older Americans Act are carried out in coordination with the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aging. This includes measuring and evaluating the impact of all programs authorized by the Older Americans Act. The division is also responsible for supporting the development and coordination of crosscutting disability and aging policies within the Department and in other Federal agencies whose actions affect the health, economic and social well-being of persons with disabilities and elderly populations. The division is responsible for assessing the interaction between health, disability, and the economic well-being of persons of all ages with disabilities including the prevalence of disability and disabling conditions, socio-demographic characteristics, service use, income, employment, and program participation patterns, and for coordinating the development of policies which are responsible to the characteristics, circumstances and needs of disabled populations. The division's responsibilities include long-range planning, budget and economic analysis, program analysis, review of regulations and reports on legislation, review and conduct of research and evaluation activities, and information dissemination. 2. The Division of Long-Term Care Policy is responsible for coordination, development, research and evaluation of HHS policies and programs which address the long-term care and personal assistance needs of people of all ages with chronic disabilities. The division is the focal point for policy development and analysis related to the long-term care services components of health care reform as well as Medicare, Medicaid, and including nursing facility services, community residential services, personal assistance services, home health and rehabilitation services, and the integration of acute, post-acute and long-term care services. The division's responsibilities include long-range planning, budget and economic analysis, program analysis, review of regulations and reports on legislation, review and conduct of research and evaluation activities, and information dissemination. Dated: October 21, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26838 Filed 10&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4150&hyph;04&hyph;M
