FR940513-2-00102 FR940513-2-00042 [Announcement Number 461] West Virginia Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research Centers Cooperative Agreements; Availability of Funds for Fiscal Year 1994 Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of funds in fiscal year (FY) 1994 for cooperative agreements with up to two Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research Centers in the State of West Virginia. One of these centers must address the special health promotion and disease prevention needs of residents of rural communities. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to priority areas in Health Promotion, Health Protection, and Preventive Services. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the Section WHERE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION .) Authority: This program is authorized under Sections 1706 (42 U.S.C. 300u-5) and 317(k)(3) (42 U.S.C. 247b(k)(3)) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Assistance will be provided only to academic health centers; defined as a school of public health, medicine, or osteopathy; located in the State of West Virginia that have: A. Multidisciplinary faculty with expertise in disease prevention and health promotion and which has working relationships with relevant groups in such fields as public health, medicine, psychology, nursing, social work, education, and business. B. Graduate training programs relevant to disease prevention. C. Core faculty in epidemiology, biostatistics, social sciences, behavioral and environmental health sciences, and health administration. D. Demonstrated curriculum in disease prevention. E. Capability for graduate training in public health or residency training in preventive medicine. Eligible applicants may enter into contracts, including consortia agreements (as described in the PHS Grants Policy Statement), as necessary to meet the essential requirements of this program and to strengthen the overall application. Congress, through Senate Report 103&hyph;143, directed CDC to ``fund three or four new Prevention Centers, with at least two concentrating on rural health.'' The report further recommended that one of those sites be in West Virginia. CDC will announce the availability of funds for the establishment of a remaining center in Program Announcement 432 separately. Availability of Funds Approximately $1,000,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund up to two new Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research Centers in West Virginia. It is expected that the average award will be $500,000 (including both direct and indirect costs), ranging from $300,000 to $600,000. It is expected that the awards will begin on or about September 30, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to four years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change.
