FR941220-0-00103 FR941220-0-00014 (b) Where and when should a labor condition application be submitted? A labor condition application shall be submitted, by U.S. mail, private carrier, or facsimile transmission, to the ETA regional office shown in § XXXX .720 of this part in whose geographic area of jurisdiction the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant will be employed no earlier than six months before the beginning date of the period of intended employment shown on the LCA. It is the employer's responsibility to ensure that a complete and accurate application is received by the appropriate regional office of ETA. Incomplete or obviously inaccurate applications will not be certified. The regional office shall process all applications sequentially upon receipt regardless of the method used by the employer to submit the application and shall make a determination to certify or not certify the labor condition application within 7 working days of the date the application is received and date-stamped by the Department. If the application is submitted by facsimile transmission, the application containing the original signature shall be maintained by the employer as set forth at § XXXX .760(a)(1) of this part. (c) What should be submitted? Form ETA 9035. (1) General. One completed and dated original Form ETA 9035 containing the labor condition statements referenced in §§ XXXX .731 through XXXX .734 of this part, bearing the employer's original signature (or that of the employer's authorized agent or representative) and one copy of the completed and dated original Form ETA 9035 shall be submitted to ETA (see paragraph (b) of this section and § XXXX .760(a)(1) of this part with respect to applications filed by facsimile transmission). Copies of Form ETA 9035 are available at the addresses listed in § XXXX .720 of this part; photocopies of the form (obtained from any source) also are permitted. Each application shall identify the occupational classification for which the labor condition application is being submitted and shall state: (i) The occupation, by Dictionary of Occupational Titles (DOT) Three-Digit Occupational Groups code and by the employer's own title for the job; (ii) The number of H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants sought; (iii) The gross wage rate to be paid to each H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant, expressed on an hourly, weekly, biweekly, monthly or annual basis; (iv) The starting and ending dates of the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants' employment; (v) The place(s) of intended employment; and (vi) The prevailing wage for the occupation in the area of intended employment and the specific source ( e.g., name of published survey) relied upon by the employer to determine the wage. If the wage is obtained from a SESA, the appropriate box must be checked and the wage provided; wages obtained from a source other than a SESA must be identified along with the wage; (2) Mutiple positions or places of employment. The employer shall file a separate LCA for each occupation in which the employer intends to employ one or more H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants. All places of employment covered by the application must be located within the jurisdiction of a single ETA regional office, or, if the nonimmigrant(s) is(are) to be employed sequentially in various places of employment, the application is to be submitted to the regional office having jurisdiction over the initial place of employment; and (3) Full-time and part-time jobs. The position(s) covered by the LCA may be full-time or part-time or a mix of both. (d) Content of the labor condition application. An employer's labor condition application shall contain the labor condition statements referenced in §§ XXXX .731 through XXXX .734 of this part, which provide that no individual may be admitted or provided status as an H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant in an occupational classification unless the employer has filed with the Secretary an application stating that: (1) The employer is offering and will offer during the period of authorized employment to H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants no less than the greater of the following: (i) The actual wage paid to the employer's other employees at the worksite with similar experience and qualifications for the specific employment in question; or (ii) The prevailing wage level for the occupational classification in the area or intended employment; (2) The employer will provide working conditions for such nonimmigrants that will not adversely affect the working conditions of workers similarly employed; (3) There is not a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute in the occupational classification at the place of employment; (4) The employer has provided and will provide notice of the filing of the labor condition application to: (i)(A) The bargaining representative of the employer's employees in the occupational classification in the area of intended employment for which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants are sought, in the manner described in § XXXX .734(a)(1)(i); or (B) If there is no such bargaining representative, posts notice of the filing of the labor condition application in conspicuous locations in the employer's establishment(s) in the area of intended employment, in the manner described in § XXXX .734(a)(1)(ii) of this subpart and, in the manner described in § XXXX .734(a)(2) of this subpart; and (ii) H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants at the time that such nonimmigrants actually report to work; and
