FR940919-2-00003 FR940919-2-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service [Docket No. 94&hyph;090&hyph;1] Availability of List of U.S. Veterinary Biological Product and Establishment Licenses and U.S. Veterinary Biological Product Permits Issued, Suspended, Revoked, or Terminated AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice pertains to veterinary biological product and establishment licenses and veterinary biological product permits that were issued, suspended, revoked, or terminated by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service during the month of July 1994. These actions have been taken in accordance with the regulations issued pursuant to the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act. The purpose of this notice is to inform interested persons of the availability of a list of these actions and advise interested persons that they may request to be placed on a mailing list to receive the list. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Maxine Kitto, Program Assistant, Veterinary Biologics, BBEP, APHIS, USDA, room 838, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;8245. For a copy of this month's list, or to be placed on the mailing list, write to Ms. Kitto at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The regulations in 9 CFR part 102, ``Licenses For Biological Products,'' require that every person who prepares certain biological products that are subject to the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151 et seq .) shall hold an unexpired, unsuspended, and unrevoked U.S. Veterinary Biological Product License. The regulations set forth the procedures for applying for a license, the criteria for determining whether a license shall be issued, and the form of the license. The regulations in 9 CFR part 102 also require that each person who prepares biological products that are subject to the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act (21 U.S.C. 151 et seq .) shall hold a U.S. Veterinary Biologics Establishment License. The regulations set forth the procedures for applying for a license, the criteria for determining whether a license shall be issued, and the form of the license. The regulations in 9 CFR part 104, ``Permits for Biological Products,'' require that each person importing biological products shall hold an unexpired, unsuspended, and unrevoked U.S. Veterinary Biological Product Permit. The regulations set forth the procedures for applying for a permit, the criteria for determining whether a permit shall be issued, and the form of the permit. The regulations in 9 CFR parts 102 and 105 also contain provisions concerning the suspension, revocation, and termination of U.S. Veterinary Biological Product Licenses, U.S. Veterinary Biologics Establishment Licenses, and U.S. Veterinary Biological Product Permits. Each month, the Veterinary Biologics section of Biotechnology, Biologics, and Environmental Protection prepares a list of licenses and permits that have been issued, suspended, revoked, or terminated. This notice announces the availability of the list for the month of July 1994. The monthly list is also mailed on a regular basis to interested persons. To be placed on the mailing list you may call or write the person designated under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. Done in Washington, DC, this 13th day of September 1994. Terry E. Medley, Acting Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23118 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;34&hyph;P
