FR940902-0-00169 FR940902-0-00010 Subpart H_[Reserved] Subpart I_Disaster Relief Employment Assistance §631.80 Scope and purpose. This subpart establishes a Disaster Relief Employment Assistance program under title IV, part J of JTPA which shall be administered in conjunction with the title III National Reserve Grants Programs. §631.81 Availability of funds. Funds appropriated to carry out this subpart may be made available by grant to the Governor of any State within which is located an area that has suffered an emergency or a major disaster as defined in paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively, of section 102 of the Disaster Relief Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5122(1) and (2)) (referred to in this subpart as the ``disaster area''). The Secretary shall prescribe procedures for applying for funds. §631.82 Substate allocation. (a) Not less than 80 percent of the grant funds available to any Governor under §631.81 of this part shall be allocated by the Governor to units of general local government located, in whole or in part, within such disaster areas. The remainder of such funds may be reserved by the Governor for use, in concert with State agencies, in cleanup, rescue, repair, renovation, and rebuilding activities associated with such major disaster. (b) The JTPA title III program substate grantee for the disaster area shall be the designated local entity for administration of the grant funds under this subpart. §631.83 Coordination. Funds made available under this subpart to Governors and units of general local government shall be expended in consultation with_ (a) Agencies administering programs for disaster relief provided under the Disaster Relief Act of 1974; and (b) The JTPA title II administrative entity and the private industry council in each service delivery area within which disaster employment programs will be conducted under this subpart. §631.84 Allowable projects. Funds made available under this subpart to any unit of general local government in a disaster area_ (a) Shall be used exclusively to provide employment on projects that provide food, clothing, shelter and other humanitarian assistance for disaster victims; and on projects involving demolition, cleanup, repair, renovation, and reconstruction of damaged and destroyed structures, facilities, and lands located within the disaster area; and (b) May be expended through public and private non-profit agencies and organizations engaged in such projects. §631.85 Participant eligibility. An individual shall be eligible for disaster employment under this subpart if such individual is_ (a)(1) Eligible to participate or enroll, or is a participant or enrolled, under Title III of the Act, other than an individual who is actively engaged in a training program; or (2) Eligible to participate in programs or activities assisted under Native American and Migrant Programs; and (3) Unemployed as a consequence of the disaster. (b) [Reserved]. §631.86 Limitations on disaster relief employment. No individual shall be employed under this subpart for more than 6 months for work related to recovery from a single natural disaster (described in §631.3(f) of this part). §631.87 Definitions. As used in this subpart, the term unit of general local government includes:
