FR940405-0-00023 FR940405-0-00003 * * * * * 3. Section 916.356 is revised to read as follows: ยง916.356 California Nectarine Grade and Size Regulation. (a) During the period beginning April 1 and ending October 31, no handler shall ship: (1) Any lot or package or container of any variety of nectarines unless such nectarines meet the requirements of U.S. No. 1 grade: Provided , That nectarines 2 inches in diameter or smaller, shall not have fairly light colored, fairly smooth scars which exceed an aggregate area of a circle 3/8 inch in diameter, and nectarines larger than 2 inches in diameter shall not have fairly light colored, fairly smooth scars which exceed an aggregate area of a circle 1/2 inch in diameter: Provided further , That an additional tolerance of 25 percent shall be permitted for fruit that is not well formed but not badly misshapen. The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service shall make final determinations on maturity through the use of color guides or such other tests as determined appropriate by the inspection agency. (i) The Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service will use the maturity guides listed in Table 1 in making maturity determinations for the specified varieties when inspecting to the ``well matured'' level of maturity. For these varieties, not less than 90 percent of any lot shall meet the color guide established for the variety, and an aggregate area of not less than 90 percent of the fruit surface shall meet the color guide established for the variety, except that for the Fairlane, Tom Grand, and 61&hyph;61 varieties of nectarines, not less than an aggregate area of 80 percent of the fruit surface shall meet the color guide established for the variety. For varieties not listed, the Federal or Federal-State Inspection Service will use such tests as it deems proper. A variance for any variety from the application of the maturity guides specified in Table I may be granted during the season to reflect changes in crop, weather, or other conditions that would make the specified guides an inappropriate measure of ``well matured.''
