FR940805-1-00071 FR940805-1-00013 (7) Health protection. Food service facilities and equipment shall meet health and safety standards. Food service personnel and inmates working in the food service area shall comply with applicable health regulations. The administrator or designee shall document compliance with health and safety regulations, including but not limited to, a pre-assignment medical examination. (8) Inspections of food products. The appropriate government agency shall inspect and approve food products that are grown or produced within the system. The administrator or designee shall implement a distribution system that ensures prompt delivery of foodstuffs. (9) Inspection of food service area. The administrator or designee shall conduct a weekly inspection of all food service areas and equipment to ensure that they are sanitary, that all food storage areas are temperature controlled, and that food service personnel have made daily checks of refrigerator and water temperatures. (10) Meal service. The facility shall serve meals under the direct supervision of staff. The facility shall provide at least three meals, of which two shall be hot, served at regular meal times during each twenty-four hour period, with no more than fourteen hours between the evening meal and breakfast. Provided that basic nutritional goals are met, variations may be allowed based on weekend and holiday food service demands. (i) Sanitation and hygiene_ (1) Water supply. The administrator shall maintain documentation that the entity which provides the facility's water source, supply, storage and distribution system meets the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 300g&hyph;6 (the Safe Drinking Water Act). (2) Sewage system. The administrator shall maintain documentation that entity which provides the facility's sewage system complies with 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq . (the Clean Water Act of 1977. (3) Sanitation plan. The administrator or designee, in cooperation with the BIA or tribal maintenance program, shall develop a written housekeeping plan for all areas of the physical plant. The administrator or designee shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. The plan shall provide for daily housekeeping and regular maintenance by assigning specific duties to staff, inmates and BIA or tribal Facility Maintenance. The plan shall require that: (i) facility floors be kept clean, dry and free of hazardous substances; (ii) a qualified person conduct monthly inspections to control vermin and pests; (iii) solid and liquid wastes be disposed of properly; (iv) clean, suitable and presentable clothing, bedding, linens and towels be issued to new inmates and exchanged on at least a weekly basis; (v) necessary cleaning and storage of inmate personal clothing be provided; (vi) articles needed for personal hygiene be furnished; and (vii) sufficient facilities in the housing areas to permit inmates to shower or bathe on admission to the facility and daily thereafter. (4) Special clothing issue. The facility shall provide for the issue of special, and where appropriate, protective clothing and equipment to inmates participating in special work assignments. Such clothing shall be available in quantities that permit exchange as frequently as the work assignment requires. (5) Hair care. The administrator or designee shall allow inmates to arrange for hair cutting services. (j) Health care _(1) Written health care plan. A written plan shall provide for the delivery of health care services, including medical, dental, mental health and substance abuse treatment, under the control of a designated health authority. The plan shall include the participation of the Indian Health Service (IHS), social services and tribal health care providers. A Memorandum of Agreement between the administrator and the Director of the appropriate Indian IHS Service Unit or IHS contract health care provider shall document the health care plan. When this authority is other than a physician, final medical judgment shall rest with a single responsible physician, designated by the appropriate health authority, who shall meet the applicable licensure requirements. (2) Health program coordinator. In facilities without full-time, qualified health personnel, a health-trained staff member shall coordinate the health care delivery system in the facility under the joint supervision of the responsible health authority and the administrator. (3) Annual review. The administrator and the health authority shall update the plan as needed, review it annually to determine program needs including staffing, equipment and supplies and document its review by signature and date. (4) Medical/mental health judgment. Medical, dental and mental health matters involving clinical judgements shall be the sole province of the responsible physician, dentist and/or psychiatrist or qualified psychologist. (5) Security regulations. Security regulations applicable to facility personnel shall apply to health personnel. (6) Meetings with provider . The health authority shall meet with the administrator or designee at least quarterly to review and evaluate the health care delivery system. The health authority shall provide an annual statistical report which documents the level and amount of health care services provided. (7) Review of health care policies. The health authority and the administrator shall review and approve all policies and procedures relative to the health care plan prior to submission of these policies to the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement. Policies and procedures shall be reviewed at least annually and documented by signature and date. (8) Health training program. The responsible health authority, in cooperation with the administrator, shall establish a health training program. The program shall provide instruction in the following areas: (i) appropriate procedures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases; (ii) the ability to respond to health-related situations within four minutes; (iii) recognition of signs, symptoms and actions required in potential emergency situations; (iv) recognition of chronic illness; (v) administration of first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); (vi) methods of obtaining assistance from the health care provider; (vii) recognition of signs and symptoms of and management of inmates with mental illness, retardation, emotional disturbance, chemical dependency and suicidal behavior; and (viii) procedures for patient transfers to appropriate medical facilities or health care providers. (9) Sick call. The administrator or designee shall provide for the collection and referral of inmate requests for health care.The facility shall have a system of sick call in-house or at the health care facility. The system shall provide for referral of inmates by staff for medical or other behavioral health evaluation, i.e, mental health, substance abuse, suicide. Sick call shall be held no less than once per week. (10) Twenty-four-hour emergency care. The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan for the provision of twenty-four hour emergency medical, dental and mental health care. The administrator and the health authority shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. At a minimum, the plan shall include: (i) emergency evacuation of the inmate from the facility; (ii) emergency evaluation of the inmate for medical or mental health problems; (iii) use of an emergency medical vehicle; (iv) use of one or more designated hospital, clinic, emergency on-call physician, dentist, psychiatrist, qualified psychologist or otherwise qualified clinician; and (v) security procedures that provide for the immediate transfer of inmates when appropriate. (11) Health care treatment. Health care staff or health-trained detention staff shall perform treatment pursuant to written direct orders by personnel authorized by law to give such orders. (12) Medical/mental health management of inmates. Qualified health care personnel, in conjunction with detention staff, shall develop a written plan for the management of inmates with medical, mental health and substance abuse problems, including suicide risks. (13) Licensure requirements. The health authority shall comply with all applicable federal law, licensure requirements, rules, regulations and medical protocols in the delivery of health care services to the inmate population.
