FR940817-2-00119 FR940817-2-00066 Bids must be made by the principal or his duly qualified agent. Each sealed bid must be written or typed and accompanied by postal money order, bank draft, or cashier's check made payable to the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, for not less than 10 percent or more than 30 percent of the amount of the bid. The sealed bid envelope containing the bid and the required amount must be marked in the lower left-hand corner as follows: Public Sale Bid Parcel No. Serial No. Sale Held ␣␣␣␣(Date) Each successful oral bidder will be required to pay not less than 20 percent of the amount of the bid immediately following the close of the sale. Payment must be by cash, personal check, bank draft, money order, or any combination of these. Successful bidders, whether such bid is oral or sealed, will be required to pay the remainder of the full bid price prior to the expiration of 180 days from the date of the sale. Failure to submit the full bid price within the above specified time limit will result in cancellation of the sale of the specific parcel and the deposit will be forfeited and disposed of as other receipts of sale. All sealed bids will be either returned, accepted, or rejected within 30 days of the sale date. Competitive and Modified Sale Parcels not sold on the day of the sale, will be reoffered for sale every first Tuesday of each month, same time and place, by the same procedures described above until sold or until February 10, 1995 at close of business. On parcels 2, 4, 5, and 6, should any of the listed parties decline to purchase an offered parcel within the time allotted, the unsold parcel will then be reoffered by open competitive bidding procedures described above every first Tuesday of each month, same time and place, until sold or until February 10, 1995 at close of business. In the event that the Authorized Officers rejects the highest qualified bid for any of the above parcels, or releases the Bidder from it, the Authorized Officer shall determine whether the public land shall be withdrawn from the market or reoffered. Terms and Conditions The patents, when and if issued, will contain the following reservations to the United States: 1. A right-of-way thereon for ditches or canals constructed by the United States pursuant to the Act of August 30, 1890 (43 U.S.C. 945). 2. All minerals will be reserved to the United States together with the right to prospect for, mine, and remove the minerals. A more detailed description of this reservation, which will be incorporated in the patent document, is available for review at this office. 3. All patents will be issued subject to existing rights-of-way and easements. The purchaser of parcel 7 acquires the property realizing that public access to the property is lacking. DATES: Interested parties may submit comments regarding the proposed action to the Rio Puerco Resource Area Manager by October 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to the Bureau of Land Management, Rio Puerco Resource Area Office, 435 Montano Rd., NE., Albuquerque, New Mexico 87107. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Additional information concerning the land, terms and conditions of sale, and bidding instructions may be obtained from Rio Puerco Resource Area Office at the above address. Telephone calls may be directed to Joseph Maramillo at (505) 761&hyph;8779. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments must reference specific parcel numbers. Adverse comments received on specific parcels will not affect the sale of any other parcel. Objections will be reviewed by the State Director who may sustain, vacate or modify this realty action. In the absence of any objections, this realty action will become the final determination of the Department of Interior. Upon publication in the Federal Register , the lands described above will be segregated from appropriation under the public land laws, including the mining laws. The segregative effect of this Notice of Realty Action shall terminate upon issuance of patent or other document of conveyance to such land, upon publication in the Federal Register of a termination of the segregation or 270 days from the date of publication, whichever occurs first. The BLM may accept or reject any offer to purchase or withdraw any tract from sale if the Authorized Officer determines that consummation of the sale would not be fully consistent with FLPMA or another applicable law. Dated: August 9, 1994. Sue E. Richardson, Acting District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20213 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;FB&hyph;M
