FR941006-1-00145 FR941006-1-00016 The agency does not have data or other information specific to the question of how a candy-like appearance may contribute to the potential for an iron-containing supplement product to constitute a hazard to a young child. FDA's tentative view, however, is that it may not be possible to objectively measure the candy-like appearance of iron-containing products. Therefore, FDA requests comments on the use of ``candy'' and ``colorful'' coatings on iron-containing drugs and dietary supplements and information on whether these types of coatings make iron-containing products hazardous to infants and young children because of their apparent attractiveness. If the information received presents an objective basis for additional steps that FDA could take to limit the appeal of iron-containing products to young children, FDA will consider action in this regard. B. Forms of Iron That May Be Less Toxic NAS has reported that, during the period from 1970 to 1987, food manufacturers increased their use of elemental iron (i.e., finely divided metallic iron) by 120-fold and decreased their use of ferrous sulfate by 30 percent (Ref. 30). The increase in the use of elemental iron in conventional food may be attributed to its low cost and minimal reactivity in food. FDA is not aware of any reports of accidental ingestions or adverse reactions associated with the few commercially available iron-containing dietary supplements and drug products that incorporate elemental iron instead of an iron salt. Three basic types of elemental iron powders are marketed for use in foods. The three types are reduced iron, electrolytic iron, and carbonyl iron. The term ``carbonyl'' refers to the production process, not the composition of the product. The bioavailability of these various elemental iron sources is dependent primarily on their physical characteristics, which in turn depend on the manufacturing method. For example, higher relative bioavailabilities of elemental iron are obtained with smaller particle sizes. Some evidence suggests that carbonyl iron may be a useful substitute for the more commonly used chemical compounds of iron in reducing risk of accidental iron poisonings. Data from studies in animals suggest that carbonyl iron may be only 1/100th as toxic as ferrous sulfate in single doses, i.e., the LD 50 (lethal dose for 50 percent of the test group) of ferrous sulfate is approximately 0.30 g Fe/kg (Ref. 32) and the LD 50 for carbonyl iron is approximately 30.0 g Fe/kg body weight (Ref. 31). Thus, carbonyl iron, in comparison with ferrous sulfate, appears to have a much larger margin of safety between the level that would provide adequate iron nutrition and the level that causes acute toxicity. Consequently, carbonyl iron may be inherently safer to use. At the same time, data from human subjects indicates that the overall bioavailability of carbonyl iron in supporting the nutritional functions of iron is about 70 percent that of ferrous sulfate (Ref. 31). Thus carbonyl iron is reasonably as effective in providing iron in the amounts needed to achieve the nutritive effects of iron. Its use may help to reduce the risk of iron poisoning in children. FDA specifically requests comments on the appropriateness of elemental iron as a source of iron in drugs and dietary supplements, focusing on whether its use in iron-containing products would decrease the risk of pediatric poisonings while providing desirable iron nutrition to those who need iron supplementation. The agency is interested in receiving data on the potential of elemental iron for acute toxicity in humans and particularly in children. FDA will carefully consider any information it receives on this subject. If the information is persuasive in establishing that the use of elemental iron would substantially decrease the risk of pediatric poisoning while allowing for effective dietary iron supplementation, FDA will consider exempting iron-containing products that incorporate elemental iron from any regulations that result from this rulemaking.
