FR940916-1-00027 FR940916-1-00009 EPA Evaluation and Proposed Action In determining the approvability of a VOC rule, EPA must evaluate the rule for consistency with the requirements of the CAA and EPA regulations, as found in section 110 and part D of the CAA and 40 CFR part 51 (Requirements for Preparation, Adoption, and Submittal of Implementation Plans). The EPA interpretation of these requirements, which forms the basis for today's action, appears in the various EPA policy guidance documents listed in footnote 3. Among those provisions is the requirement that a VOC rule must, at a minimum, provide for the implementation of RACT for Stationary sources of VOC emissions. This requirement was carried forth from the pre-amended Act. For the purpose of assisting state and local agencies in developing RACT rules, EPA prepared a series of Control Technique Guideline (CTG) documents. The CTGs are based on the underlying requirements of the Act and specify the presumptive norms for what is RACT for specific source categories. Under the CAA, Congress ratified EPA's use of these documents, as well as other Agency policy, for requiring States to ``fix-up'' their RACT rules. See section 182(a)(2)(A). The CTG applicable to Rules 4603 and 410.4 is entitled, Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources_Volume VI: Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products. , EPA document # EPA-450/2&hyph;78&hyph;015. Further interpretations of EPA policy are found in the Blue Book, referred to in footnote 3. In general, these guidance documents have been set forth to ensure that VOC rules are fully enforceable and strengthen or maintain the SIP. SJVUAPCD's submitted Rule 4603 will replace the existing surface coating of metal parts and products rules of the eight APCDs of the SJVUAPCD and KCAPCD's submitted Rule 410.4 will replace the existing rule for the southeast desert portion of Kern County. Both rules were adopted to control emissions from surface coating of metal parts and products through regulation of VOC content in coatings, storage and cleanup requirements, and other administrative procedures. SJVUAPCD Rule 4603 includes the following revisions from the current SIP rules: •Reduction of VOC limits for specialty coatings to 420 grams per liter for consistency with the CTG; Revision downward to 15 pounds per day or less (existing rules allow up to 50 pounds per day) of VOC emissions that a facility may emit and be exempt from this rule; •Addition of VOC standards for specialty coatings; •Revision of the calculation of grams of VOC per liter of coating applied and grams of VOC per liter of material to include subtraction of exempt compounds and water; •Addition of and requirements; •Specification of test methods to be used for compliance determination; •Addition of surface preparation and cleanup provisions; •Deletion of provision allowing alternative emission control requirements as approved by the executive officer; •Deletion of transfer efficiency requirement. KCAPCD Rule 410.4 includes the following revisions from the current SIP rule: •Revision of several definitions for consistency with EPA requirements; •Reduction of VOC limits for specialty coatings to 420 grams of VOC per liter of coating; •Labelling requirements have been amended to incorporate language suggested by EPA; •The language in the and section has been revised to clarify and requirements and to include and for add-on control equipment; •The compliance schedule was updated. EPA has evaluated the two submitted rules and has determined that they are consistent with the CAA, EPA, regulations, and EPA policy. Therefore, SJVUAPCD Rule 4603 and KCAPCD Rule 410.4 are being proposed for approval under section 110(k)(3) of the CAA as meeting the requirements of section 110(a) and Part D. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any further request for revision to any state implementation plan. Each request for revision to the state implementation plan shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Regulatory Process Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. SIP approvals under sections 110 and 301 and part D of the CAA do not create any new requirements, but simply approve requirements that the State is already imposing. Therefore, because the federal SIP-approval does not impose any new requirements, it does not have a significant impact on any small entities affected. Moreover, due to the nature of the federal-state relationship under the CAA, preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis would constitute Federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of state action. The CAA forbids EPA to base its actions concerning SIPs on such grounds. Unions Electric Co. v. U.S. E.P.A. , 427 U.S. 246, 256&hyph;66 (S.Ct. 1976); 42 U.S.C. 7410(a)(2). The OMB has exempted this action from review under Executive order 12866. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Hydrocarbons, Intergovernmental relations, Ozone, Reporting and requirements. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: September 6, 1994. John C. Wise, Acting Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23024 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
