FR940404-2-00164 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the 51st Plenary Session (April 19&hyph;20), Working Group on Statistics, 20th Session (April 21), and Group of Governmental Experts on Insurance Solvency, 1st Session (April 22&hyph;23), Insurance Committee, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris, April 19&hyph;23, 1993 Representative M. Bruce McAdam, Industry Specialist, Office of Finance, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce Adviser Kathleen Reddy, United States Mission to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Paris Private Sector Advisers Gordon J. Cloney, President, International Insurance Council, Washington, DC Kevin T. Cronin, Washington Counsel, National Association of Insurance Commissioners, Washington, DC Hans Miller, Vice President for International Development, Hartford Fire International, Hartford, Connecticut David Walsh, Director, Insurance Division, Department of Commerce, State of Alaska, Anchorage, Alaska Michael D. White, Professor, The American College, Radnor, Pennsylvania United States Delegation to the Subcommittee on Flag State Implementation (FSI), First Session, International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, April 19&hyph;23, 1993 Representative Robert C. North, Captain, United States Coast Guard, Deputy Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Larry Gibson, Captain, United States Coast Guard, Chief, Marine Investigation Division, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers James K. Dabney, Lieutenant Commander, United States Coast Guard, Chief, Stability and Subdivision Section, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation John M. Holmes, Lieutenant Commander, United States Coast Guard, Chief, Compliance and Enforcement Branch, Merchant Vessel Inspection and Documentation Division, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Private Sector Adviser Gregory Shark, American Bureau of Shipping, New York, New York United States Delegation to the Commission on Plant Genetic Resources, Fifth Plenary Session, Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Rome, April 19&hyph;23, 1993 Representative Henry L. Shands, Associate Deputy Administrator for Genetic Resources, Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture Alternate Representative E. Wayne Denney, International Relations Adviser, International Organizations Division, Office of International Cooperation and Development, Department of Agriculture Adviser Harry C. Mussman, Agricultural Attache, United States Mission to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture, Rome Private Sector Adviser Donald N. Duvick, American Seed Trade Association, Johnston, Iowa
