FR941207-0-00138 FR941207-0-00022 115. After considering SBPCS' concerns, we will retain the existing limit, which prevents any single entity from acquiring more than 10 percent of the entrepreneurs' block licenses. We believe that changing the limit to 10 percent of the population or 25 million ``pops'' rule would be overly restrictive. We note, for example, that successful entrepreneurs will need to form coherent regional ``cluster'' strategies to compete against large communications companies, such as dominant cellular providers, and that such regional clusters may come together into a national alliance with common technology and marketing strategies, including a common brand name. A 25 million ``pops'' per entity limit would severely restrict entrepreneurs that win the New York BTA (with 18 million ``pops'') and the Los Angeles BTA (with 15 million ``pops'') from any meaningful regional cluster strategy, given the size of adjoining markets. In light of this concern, we want to be careful not to impose a restriction that would unfairly disadvantage C and F block new entrants in the new PCS marketplace. We are satisfied that the present limit achieves the proper balance between promoting fair distribution of benefits and ensuring that entrepreneur block winners have enough flexibility to develop competitive systems on a regional and nationwide basis. Restrictions on Transfer or Assignment 116. In the Fifth Report and Order, restrictions on the transfer or assignment of licenses were adopted to ensure that designated entities do not take advantage of special entrepreneurs' block provisions by immediately assigning or transferring control of their licenses to non-designated entities. We indicated that the ``trafficking'' of licenses in this manner would unjustly enrich the auction winners and would undermine the congressional objective of giving designated entities the opportunity to provide spectrum-based services. Thus, our rules prohibit licensees in the entrepreneurs' blocks from voluntarily assigning or transferring control of their licenses during the three years after the date of the license grant. 61 For the subsequent two years (or the fourth and fifth years of the term), the licensee is permitted to assign or transfer control of its authorization only to an entity that satisfies the entrepreneurs' blocks entry criteria. 61 See 47 CFR 24.839(d). We indicated that we would consider exceptions to the three-year holding period on a case-by-case basis in the event of a judicial order decreeing bankruptcy or a judicial foreclosure if the licensee proposes to assign or transfer its authorization to an entity that meets the financial thresholds for bidding in the entrepreneurs' blocks. See Fifth Report and Order , FCC 94&hyph;178 at ¶128 n. 101. 117. We also provided that during the five-year period licensees cannot assign an attributable interest in the license that would cause them to exceed the financial eligibility requirements. 62 Additionally, we stated that a transferee or assignee who receives a C or F block license during the five-year holding period will remain subject to the transfer restrictions for the balance of the holding period. Thus, if a C-block authorization is assigned to an eligible business in year four of the license term, it will be required to hold that license until the original five-year period expires, subject to the same exceptions that applied to the original licensee. Moreover, we stated that we will conduct random pre- and post-auction audits to ensure that applicants receiving preferences are in compliance with the Commission's rules. 63 62 See 47 CFR 24.709(a)(3). 63 See 47 CFR 24.709(d). 118. In the Fifth Report and Order , we also adopted rules to prevent entrepreneur block license holders from realizing any unjust enrichment that is gained through a transfer or assignment that occurs during the original license term. 64 Specifically, we provided that if, within the original license term, a licensee applies to assign or transfer control of a license to an entity that is not eligible for as high a level of bidding credit, then the difference between the bidding credit obtained by the assigning party and the bidding credit for which the acquiring party would qualify, must be paid to the U.S. Treasury as a condition of approval of the transfer or assignment. 65 64 While we indicated that the five-year holding and limited transfer requirements in the entrepreneurs' blocks limit the applicability of unjust enrichment provisions generally during the first five-years of the license term ( i.e. , in cases where the license-holder has engaged in a permissible transfer or assignment where the buyer is eligible for comparable bidding credits or is qualified for installment payments), we indicated that such provisions were still useful, particularly since they are applicable for the full ten-year license term. See Fifth Report and Order , FCC 94&hyph;178 at ¶141 n. 119. 65 See 47 CFR 24.712(d). 119. We adopted similar requirements with respect to repayment of installment payments. Specifically, if a licensee that was awarded installment payments seeks to assign or transfer control of its license during the term of a license to an entity not meeting the applicable eligibility standards, we require payment of the remaining principal and any interest accrued through the date of assignment as a condition of approval of the transfer or assignment. Accordingly, we explained that if an entity seeks to assign or transfer control of a license to an entity that does not quality for as favorable an installment payment plan, the installment payment plan, if any, for which the acquiring entity qualifies will become effective immediately upon transfer or assignment of the license. Thus, a higher interest rate and earlier payment of principal may begin to be applied. 66 66 See 47 CFR 24.711(s). 120. Two petitioners discussed the holding period and limited transfer restrictions imposed on entrepreneurs' block licenses. Specifically, AIDE requests the Commission repeal the five-year holding period, contending that the unjust enrichment provisions (to the extent they promote recovery of bidding credits and installment payments) eliminate the need for such a restriction. AIDE also argues that once a designated entity receives a spectrum-based license, the mandate of Congress to provide these entities with a fair opportunity to provide spectrum-based services is satisfied, and that there is no justification for any further restrictions beyond that point in time. AIDE also wants clarification of how our unjust enrichment provisions will apply if a transfer or assignment does occur during the five-year holding period. 121. Additionally, CTIA requests that the Commission amend its transfer restrictions to allow all PCS licensees (including entrepreneurs' blocks and designated entities) to transfer 5 MHz of spectrum immediately after license grant. Alternatively, CTIA asks that transfer be permitted within one year after service is initiated by a new PCS entrant in the relevant PCS service area. CTIA contends that this change is needed to provide cellular carriers with reasonable flexibility to reach the 40 MHz PCS spectrum cap (especially in secondary market transactions), and may increase the value of spectrum at auction ( i.e. , by providing designated entities with an added source of funding and ensuring that market forces place the spectrum in the hands of those who value it most highly). 122. We will not modify our five-year holding period and limit transfer restrictions. While AIDE and CTIA ask us to eliminate or significantly relax our restrictions, many commenters generally support the idea of a holding and limited transfer period for entrepreneurs' block licenses. BET, for example, contends that without a holding requirement, the opportunities for circumventing the Commission's rules are increased as non-designated entities weigh the benefits of sacrificing certain preferences ( e.g. , bidding credits) in exchange for control of a valuable PCS license. Contrary to AIDE's point of view, we believe that unjust enrichment provisions alone do not provide adequate safeguards for ensuring that designated entities retain de jure and de facto control over their licenses. We are satisfied that the five-year holding period and limited transfer restrictions adopted in the Fifth Report and Order are justified for our purposes in meeting our congressional mandate.
