FR940606-2-00116 FR940606-2-00078 MSHA will also accept for the record additional written comments and other appropriate data from any interested party, including those not presenting oral statements. Written comments and data submitted to MSHA will be included in the rulemaking record. To allow for the submission of any post-hearing comments, the record will remain open until August 5, 1994. Issues To date MSHA has received comments from the mining industry on two major issues. The first major issue reflects differing interpretations of section 202(b) of the Mine Act. Some commenters assume the respirable coal mine dust standard applies to a long-term average concentration of coal dust. Consequently, they concluded that noncompliance determinations must take shift-to-shift variability into account. Other commenters maintain that the respirable coal dust standard applies to the coal dust concentration averaged over a single shift. They concluded, therefore, that MSHA is authorized to issue a citation whenever the dust standard is exceeded on a single shift, with no allowance made for any shift-to-shift variability. The second major issue involves use of the Values Table, specified in the February 18, 1994, notice, for making noncompliance determinations with respect to the respirable coal mine dust standard. Several commenters objected to the principle of citing for noncompliance only when noncompliance is indicated at a high confidence level, claiming that doing so would effectively result in an increase in the permissible exposure. Other commenters contended that the proposed values at which a citation would be issued do not sufficiently account for all sources of measurement uncertainty. MSHA specifically solicits additional comments and data from the mining community on the appropriate values at which a citation should be issued. MSHA also requests comments and data from the mining community concerning the following: 1. The impact on mine environmental respirable dust levels of using the proposed values for noncompliance determinations; 2. Whether the proposed citation criteria, involving use of both single samples and the average of multiple samples, will reduce the incidence of overexposures on individual shifts; and 3. Other approaches that could be utilized to detect when the average concentration of respirable dust in the mine environment is not being maintained below the applicable standard during each shift. Dated: May 27, 1994. J. Davitt McAteer, Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13663 Filed 6&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;43&hyph;P
