FR940505-1-00106 FR940505-1-00012 (a) Locomotives. Today's proposal has three parts: a program for freshly manufactured locomotives which will be implemented nationwide; a program for remanufactured locomotives which could be implemented nationwide or in California only; and a South Coast program. Reductions from new and remanufactured locomotives should be achievable without causing economic damage to the railroad industry or causing a shift of the freight carrying business to truck-based forms of transportation. At the same time, it will extend the burden of clean air attainment in California to the locomotive sector. EPA will propose a national regulation that will apply to freshly manufactured locomotive engines beginning in 2000, and may also apply to the remanufacture of engines which were made since approximately 1973. Locomotives may operate for many decades and be remanufactured many times before they are retired. Extending the application of standards to remanufactured engines will accelerate and extend the overall emission reductions in the category. EPA estimates that a national program for freshly manufactured and remanufactured engines would reduce locomotive emissions in the South Coast by approximately 40 percent from 1990 levels by 2010. As the total NO X reduction from all sources required in the South Coast is approximately 70 percent, EPA would like to achieve comparable reductions in this category. The FIP proposes that average engine NO X emissions from locomotives and sources directly associated with locomotives be lowered to the new engine levels through use of clean engines, electric power, and other means. California would retain the right to regulate operational changes in railroads, including time spent idling, rail lubrication, operating times, etc. The overall average would allow companies the maximum flexibility in meeting the additional emission reduction target. (b) Commercial Aviation. Commercial airports become increasingly important in the attainment effort as time goes by. In the South Coast Air Basin, there are five commercial airports which will contribute nearly 9 percent of a 2010 allowable attainment inventory of NO X and 6 percent of VOC if left uncontrolled. The emissions contributions in Sacramento and Ventura are smaller than in the South Coast. Airport mobile sources include aircraft; ground service equipment such as baggage carts; and ground access vehicles such as passenger cars, taxis, shuttle buses, etc. Aircraft are the dominant source. The percentage contribution and absolute amount of emissions from ground access vehicles in the future decrease substantially as other FIP measures take effect; ground service equipment emits a smaller fraction of the airport total. The FIP proposes an airline emissions bubble comprising mobile emission sources under the control of the airlines. These include aircraft, aircraft auxiliary power units, ground service equipment, captive vehicle fleets, and any other airline-operated mobile source. The FIP proposes declining targets for emissions for all commercial airline operations in the Sacramento area, Ventura, and the South Coast Air Basin during the ozone season beginning in 2001. The emission reduction requirements are consistent with those proposed for stationary sources under the emission cap program. This level of allowable emissions would translate into an environmental performance factor, applicable to each airline, expressed as an allowable pounds of pollutant per passenger equivalent unit. Airlines which exceed the limit would pay a fee based on the amount of excess emissions generated. There are a number of ways that an airline could reduce emissions under its control to avoid compliance fees. Higher plane load factors (fewer empty seats), electrifying ground service equipment, towing airplanes to the runway, increased use of single engine taxiing, and bringing the cleanest planes to the California airports all contribute to emission reductions under the FIP concept. The Agency is proposing that each airline be allowed to average the emissions from its operations at all airports within a FIP area. Such intra-airline averaging could provide airlines with additional flexibility in demonstrating compliance with the emissions target. EPA is also requesting comments on establishing an inter-airline credit and trading program to further enhance compliance opportunities. (c) General Aviation. General aviation is comprised of a wide variety of aircraft types with significantly different engines: piston, turboprop, and turbine. Much of the general aviation fleet is old, and there appear to be few, if any, significant technological improvements in emission performance which could be obtained without a large investment in research and development. Currently the general aviation manufacturing industry is also in a precarious economic state. EPA proposes to achieve emission reduction targets for general aviation which are consistent with the emission cap requirements for many stationary sources in the FIP areas. EPA is proposing two fee system options in the alternative for achieving the reductions in general aviation. In the first option, aircraft owners/operators would be charged a fee for each takeoff from an airport in the FIP areas. The fee would be set high enough to discourage use without making general aviation flying prohibitively expensive. The second option is identical to the first, but incorporates an exemption for engines that are certified to ``clean'' emission levels. It is possible that an engine manufacturer may find a differential fee system sufficient incentive to begin producing cleaner aircraft for certification and use in California. The proposal also requests comment on differentiating fees for specific airports based on the implementation of other emission reduction measures by the airport proprietors such as refueling vapor recovery where applicable. (d) Military Installations. Military installations can include a significant amount of mobile source activity. The FIP proposes, with certain exemptions, a military installation bubble in each FIP area encompassing mobile emission sources under the control of the Department of Defense (DOD). This includes auxiliary power units, ground service equipment, captive vehicle fleets, privately owned vehicles, and any other mobile source operated within the boundaries of the installation. A declining cap will be applied which corresponds to the cap imposed on stationary sources within each FIP area. (e) Ships and Ports. Marine vessels are the largest uncontrolled source of emissions of NO X and sulfur oxides (SO X ) in California. According to a study prepared for CARB, marine vessels account for approximately 40 percent of all SO X and 12 percent of all NO X emissions from both mobile and stationary sources statewide. While most emissions associated with marine vessels occur at sea, a great deal is emitted while the vessel is in port, during maneuvering and hotelling activities. Both are of concern in the South Coast area, since emissions from vessels at sea are transported onshore by the prevailing winds and can affect air quality, and because there are large ports and significant shipping activity in the area. EPA does not believe that it is practical to pursue a conventional regulatory strategy for marine vessels in the FIP for a number of reasons. Not all ships are equally high emitting, and not all ships spend a lot of time in California ports. An expensive retrofit requirement may serve only to drive shipping traffic to competing port facilities where this special technology would not be required. Also, regulation of ocean-going vessels, especially foreign-registered vessels, is traditionally undertaken by international organizations like the International Maritime Organization (IMO). A unilateral action by EPA to require such technology on all ocean-going ships that enter California's ports may be considered inappropriate by the international organizations that oversee such vessels.
