FR940216-0-00207 FR940216-0-00010 (1) The analysis shall fit a regression model to the natural logarithm of emissions measured from addition fuels 1, 2, and 3 only (as specified at §80.49(a)) and adjusted as per paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section that includes the following terms: (i) A term for each vehicle that shall reflect the effect of the vehicle on emissions independent of fuel compositions. These terms shall be of the form D i ×V i, where D i is the coefficient for the term and V i is a dummy variable which shall have the value 1.0 for the ith vehicle and the value 0 for all other vehicles. (ii) A linear term in the parameter being tested for each emitter class, of the form A i ×(P 1 ^P 1 (avg))×E i , where A i is the coefficient for the term, P 1 is the level of the parameter in question, P 1 (avg) is the average level of the parameter in question for all seven test fuels specified at §80.49(a)(1), and E i is a dummy variable representing emitter class, as defined at §80.62. For normal emitters, E 1 =1 and E 2 =0. For higher emitters, E 1 =0 and E 2 =1. (iii) For the VOC and NO x models, a squared term in the parameter being tested for each emitter class, of the form B i ×(P 1 ^P 1 (avg))2×E i , where B i is the coefficient for the term and where P 1 , P 1 (avg), and E i are as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. (iv) To the extent that the properties of fuels 1, 2, and 3 which are incorporated in the complex model differ in value among the three fuels, the complex model shall be used to adjust the observed emissions from test vehicles on those fuels to compensate for those differences prior to fitting the regression model. (v) The A i and B i terms and coefficients developed by the regression described in this paragraph (c) shall be evaluated against the statistical criteria defined in paragraph (e) of this section. If both terms satisfy these criteria, then both terms shall be retained. If the B i term satisfies these criteria and the A i term does not, then both terms shall be retained. If the B i term does not satisfy these criteria, then the B i term shall be dropped from the regression model and the model shall be re-estimated. If, after dropping the B i term, the A i term does not satisfy these criteria, then both terms shall be dropped, all test data shall be reported to EPA, and the augmentation request shall be denied. (2) After completing the steps outlined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the analysis shall fit a regression model to a combined data set that includes vehicle testing results from all seven addition fuels specified at §80.49(a), the vehicle testing results used to develop the model specified at §80.45, and vehicle testing results used to support any prior augmentation requests which the Administrator deems necessary. (i) The analysis shall fit the regression models described in paragraphs (c)(2) (ii) through (v) of this section to the natural logarithm of measured emissions. (ii) All regressions shall include a term for each vehicle that shall reflect the effect of the vehicle on emissions independent of fuel compositions. These terms shall be of the form D i ×V i, where D i is the coefficient for the term and V i is a dummy variable which shall have the value 1.0 for the ith vehicle and the value 0 for all other vehicles. Vehicles shall be represented by separate terms for each test program in which they were tested. The vehicle terms for the vehicles included in the test program undertaken by the petitioner shall be calculated based on the results from all seven fuels specified at §80.49(a). Note that the D i estimates for the petitioner's test vehicles in this regression are likely to differ from the D i estimates discussed in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section since they will be based on a different set of fuels. (iii) All regressions shall include existing complex model terms and their coefficients, including those augmentations that the Administrator deems necessary. All terms and coefficients shall be expressed in centered form. (iv) All regressions shall include the linear and squared terms, and their coefficients, estimated in the final regression model described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (v) The VOC and NO x regressions shall include those interactive terms with other fuel parameters, of the form C i(1,j) ×(P 1 ^P 1 (avg))×(P j ^P j (avg))×E i , where C i(1,j) is the coefficient for the term, P 1 is the level of the parameter being added to the model, P 1 (avg) is the average level of the parameter being added for all seven addition fuels specified at §80.49(a), P j is the level of the other fuel parameter, P j (avg) is the centering value for the other fuel parameter used to develop the complex model or used in the other parameter's augmentation study, and E i is as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, which are found to satisfy the statistical criteria defined in paragraph (e) of this section. Such terms shall be added to the regression model in a stepwise manner. (3) The model described in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section shall be developed separately for normal-emitting and higher-emitting vehicles. Each emitter class shall be treated as a distinct population for the purposes of determining regression coefficients. (4) Once the augmented models described in paragraphs (c) (1) through (3) of this section have been developed, they shall be converted to an uncentered form through appropriate algebraic manipulation. (5) The augmented model described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall be used to determine the effects of the parameter in question at levels between the levels in Fuels 1 and 3, as defined at §80.49(a)(1), for all fuels which claim emission benefits from the parameter in question. (d)(1) In the case of petitions to augment the complex model defined at §80.45 by extending the range of an existing complex model parameter, the effect of the parameter being tested shall be determined separately, for each pollutant and for each technology group and emitter class category, at levels between the extension level and the nearest limit of the core of the data used to develop the unaugmented complex model as follows: ␣ 1Fuel parameter 1Data core limits 2Lower 2Upper Sulfur, ppm 10 450 RVP, psi 7 10 E200, vol % 33 66 E300, vol % 72 94 Aromatics, vol % 18 46 Benzene, vol % 0.4 1.8 Olefins, vol % 1 19 Oxygen, wt % As ethanol 0 3.4 All others: 0 2.7 (2) The emission performance of each vehicle on the fuels specified at §80.49(b)(2), as measured through vehicle testing in accordance with §§80.50 through 80.62, shall be analyzed to determine the effects of the fuel parameter being tested on emissions according to the following procedure:
