FR940513-2-00007 FR940513-2-00006 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration [Docket No. 940377&hyph;4077] RIN: 0648&hyph;AG51 NOAA Climate and Global Change Program, Program Announcement AGENCY: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Climate and Global Change Program represents a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) contribution to evolving national and international programs designed to improve our ability to observe, understand, predict, and respond to changes in the global environment. This program builds on NOAA's mission requirements and longstanding capability in global change research and prediction. The NOAA Program is a key contributing element of the U.S. Global Change Research Program (USGCRP), which is coordinated by the interagency Committee on Environmental and Natural Ressources. NOAA's program is designed to complement other agency contributions to that national effort. DATES: Strict deadlines for submission to the FY 1995 process are: Letters of intent must be received at the Office of Global Programs (OGP) no later than June 14, 1994. Full proposals must be received at OGP no later than August 8, 1994. Applicants should receive notification of the suitability of their intended proposals by June 30, 1994. Investigators who have not received notification by that date should contact the program office. The time from target date to grant award varies with program area. We anticipate that review will occur during the fall of 1994 and funding should begin during the early spring of 1995 for most approved projects. April 1, 1995, should be used as the proposed start date on proposals, unless otherwise directed by the appropriate Program Officer. Applicants should be notified of their status within 3 to 6 months. All proposals must be submitted in accordance with the guidelines below. Failure to heed these guidelines may result in proposals being returned without review. ADDRESSES: Proposals may be submitted to: Office of Global Programs, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 1100 Wayne Avenue, Suite 1225, Silver Spring, MD 20910&hyph;5603, Attn.: Irma duPree. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Irma duPree, The Office of Global Programs, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, at the address given above, phone: (301) 427&hyph;2089 ext. 712; fax: (301) 427&hyph;2073; OMNET: I.DUPREE, Internet: dePree@aogp.noaa.gov. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Funding Availability NOAA believes that the Climate and Global Change Program will benefit significantly from a strong partnership with outside investigators. Current Program plans assume that 30&hyph;35% of the total resources available ($84 million) anticipated in FY 1995 will support extramural efforts, particularly those involving the broad academic community. Approximately $20 million will be applied toward extramural grants and cooperative agreements already in progress and those proposals submitted in FY 1994 that were recommended for funding in FY 1995. Remaining funds, approximately, $9 million will be available for new grants and cooperative agreements. This Program Announcement is for projects to be conducted by investigators both inside and outside of NOAA, primarily over a one, two or three year period. Actual funding levels may be subject to change depending on the final FY 1995 budget appropriation. The funding instrument will be a grant unless it is anticipated that NOAA will be substantially involved in the implementation of the project for which an award is to be made, in which case the funding instrument should be a cooperative agreement. Examples of substantial involvement may include but are not limited to proposals for collaboration between NOAA or NOAA scientists and a recipient scientist or technician and/or contemplation by NOAA of detailing Federal personnel to work on proposed projects. NOAA will make decisions regarding the use of a cooperative agreement on a case-by-case basis. Funding for non-U.S. institutions and contractual arrangements for services and products for delivery to NOAA are not available under this announcement.
