FR940412-1-00008 FR940412-1-00002 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 32 [Docket No. PRM&hyph;32&hyph;3] Advanced Medical Systems, Inc; Denial of Petition for Rulemaking AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Denial of petition for rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is denying a petition for rulemaking (PRM&hyph;32&hyph;3) from Advanced Medical Systems, Inc. The petitioner requested that the NRC amend its regulations because it believed that the requirements of part 32, which are applicable to original manufacturers and suppliers, were not equally applicable to manufacturers and suppliers of replacement parts. The petition is being denied because current regulations apply equally to manufacturers and suppliers of both original and replacement parts, ensuring the integrity of these parts; therefore, no additional requirements addressing the regulation of manufacturers and suppliers of replacement parts are necessary. Further, current regulations address service and maintenance of sources and devices possessed and used under an NRC license, including replacement parts, whether manufactured or supplied by the original manufacturer or supplier or some other manufacturer or supplier. Therefore the amendments suggested by the petitioner are not necessary. ADDRESSES: Copies of the petition for rulemaking, the public comments received, and the NRC's letter to the petitioner are available for public inspection or copying in the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW., (Lower Level), Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Naiem S. Tanious, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 492&hyph;3878. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Petition In a letter dated June 28, 1991, Advanced Medical Systems, Inc. (AMS) filed a petition for rulemaking with the NRC. The petition was docketed by the Commission on July 19, 1991, and was assigned Docket No. PRM&hyph;32&hyph;3. The petitioner requested that the NRC amend its regulations because it believed that the requirements of part 32, which are applicable to original manufacturers and suppliers, were not equally applicable to manufacturers and suppliers of replacement parts. The petitioner has suggested two alternatives for accomplishing this objective. The first alternative is to insert the necessary language regarding manufacturers and suppliers of replacement parts into each appropriate section of part 32. The second alternative would revise the purpose and scope provisions of §32.1 to include manufacturers and suppliers of replacement parts. Basis for Petitioner's Request The petitioner identified itself as an original teletherapy equipment manufacturer. As such, it has a definite and direct interest in the health and safety of the public who may use or be treated by equipment it manufactures. According to the petitioner, it appears that the requirements of part 32 are being interpreted as applying only to manufacturers and suppliers of original equipment and not to manufacturers and suppliers of replacement parts, devices, products, or sources designated for units originally manufactured or transferred by others. In the petitioner's view, lack of specific requirements applicable to manufacturers and suppliers of replacement parts, devices, products, or sources, can lead to use of inferior quality replacement parts which in turn can cause malfunction or failure of devices, in particular teletherapy equipment, and thereby risk of overexposure. Advanced Medical Systems cited two incidents as examples of this problem: Access No. M49250, Anderson Memorial Hospital, Anderson, South Carolina; and Access No. M49324, St. Mary's Medical Center, Saginaw, Michigan. Public Comments on the Petition A notice of receipt of the petition for rulemaking was published in the Federal Register on October 10, 1991 (56 FR 51182). Interested persons were invited to submit written comments concerning the petition. The comment period closed December 9, 1991. The NRC received comments from the State of Illinois, Department of Nuclear Safety, and the Department of the Air Force, Headquarters Air Force Office of Medical Support. The State of Illinois, Department of Nuclear Safety, stated that the Department fully supports development of the rule proposed in the petition. The Department further stated that the integrity of NRC evaluated devices (NRC or an Agreement State evaluate for safety any devices containing radioactive materials) may be compromised significantly if nonstandard replacement parts are used during the life of the device. While the Department agreed that the issue of replacement components needs to be addressed, it was concerned with the use of the term ``replacement sources and devices'' in the wording of §§32.74, 32.110 and 32.210 as suggested by the petitioner. The Department believed that all sources and devices must be evaluated by the NRC or an Agreement State, whether or not they are considered ``original'' or ``replacement'' equipment. Therefore, the Department did not believe it is necessary to distinguish between original or replacement sources or devices. The Department was in favor of the petitioner's suggested alternative to modify §32.1, Purpose and Scope.
