FR940203-2-00050 FR940203-2-00025 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;4832&hyph;2] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before March 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information or to obtain a copy of this ICR, contact Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Air and Radiation Title: New Source Performance Standard (NSPS) for Electric Arc Furnaces and Argon-Oxygen Decarburization Vessels (NSPS Subparts AA and AAa)&hyph;Information Requirements (EPA ICR No. 1060.07; OMB No. 2060&hyph;0038). This is a request for renewal of a currently approved information collection. Abstract: The owner or operator of electric arc furnaces and Argon-Oxygen decarburization vessels must provide EPA, or the delegated State regulatory authority with the following one-time-only reports: notification of the anticipated and actual dates of startup; notification of any physical or operational change to an existing facility which may increase the regulated pollutant emission rate; notification of demonstration of the continuous monitoring system (CMS); notification of the date of the initial performance test; and the results of the initial performance test. The owner or operator is also required to maintain records of the occurrence and duration of any startup, shutdown, or malfunction in the operation of an affected facility, or any period during which the monitoring system is inoperative. The owner or operator of electric arc furnaces controlled by a direct shell evacuation system must install and maintain a continuous monitoring device that continuously records pressure inside the electric arc furnaces (EAF), and records 15 minute integrated averages. The owner or operator must also submit semiannual reports of unacceptable operation of the affected facilities, and semiannual reports of exceedances of control device opacity. The notifications and reports enable EPA or the delegated State to determine that best demonstrated technology is installed and properly operated and maintained and to schedule inspections. Burden Statement: The burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 23 hours per response for reporting and 311 hours per recordkeeper annually. This estimate includes the time needed to review instructions, develop a recall plan, create and gather data, and review and store the information. Respondents: Owners or operators of electric arc furnaces and argon-oxygen decarburization vessels. Estimated No. of Respondents: 60. Estimated No. of Responses per Respondent: 2. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 21,429. Frequency of Collection: Initial notifications and reporting. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of the information collection, including suggestions for reducing the burden to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (2136), 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. and Mr. Chris Wolz, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503. Dated: January 27, 1994. Paul Lapsley, Director, Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2440 Filed 2&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
