FR940602-2-00073 FR940602-2-00038 I. Representing, directly or by implication, that prospective participants in respondents' weight loss programs will reach a specified weight within a specified time period, unless at the time of making such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence substantiating the representation. J. Representing, directly or by implication, the average or typical rate or speed at which any participant on any weight loss program has lost or will lose weight, unless at the time of making any such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. K. Failing to disclose, clearly and prominently, either (1) to each participant who, after the first two weeks on the program, is experiencing average weekly weight loss that exceeds two percent (2%) of said participant's initial body weight, or three pounds, whichever is less, for at least two consecutive weeks, or (2) in writing to all participants when they enter the program, that failure to follow the program protocol and eat all of the food recommended may involve the risk of developing serious health complications. L. Misrepresenting, directly or by implication, the performance, efficacy, or safety of any weight loss program. II It is further ordered that respondents shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of any proposed change in the corporate respondent such as dissolution, assignment, or sale resulting on the emergency of a successor corporation(s), the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries, or any other change in the corporation(s) that may affect compliance obligations arising out of this Order. III It is further ordered that respondent Don K. Gearheart shall promptly notify the commission of the discontinuance of his present business or employment and of this affiliation with a new business or employment. In addition, for a period of three (3) years from the service date of this Order, the individual respondent shall promptly notify the Commission of each affiliation with a new business or employment whose activities relate to the advertising, promotion, offering for sale, or sale of any weight loss program. When so required under this paragraph, each such notice shall include the individual respondent's new business address and a statement of the nature of the business or employment in which the individual respondent is newly engaged, as well as a description of the individual respondent's duties and responsibilities in connection with the business or employment. The expiration of the notice provision of this paragraph shall not affect any other obligation arising under this Order. IV It is further ordered that for three (3) years after the last date of dissemination of any representation covered by this Order, respondents, or their successors and assigns, shall maintain and upon request make available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: A. All materials possessed and relied upon to substantiate any such representation; and B. All tests, reports, studies, surveys, demonstrations, or other evidence in their possession or control that contradict, qualify, or call into question such representation, or the basis relied upon for such representation, including complaints from consumers. V It is further ordered that respondents shall distribute a copy of this Order to each of their officers, agents, representatives, independent contractors and employees who are involved in the preparation and placement of advertisements or promotional materials or in communication with customers or prospective customers or who have any responsibilities with respect to the subject matter of this Order; and, for a period of three (3) years from the date of entry of this Order, distribute same to all future such officers, agents, representatives, independent contractors and employees.
