FR940426-1-00158 FR940426-1-00018 (4) The administrative law judge should render a written decision no later than 90 days after the closing of the record. (5) The decision of the administrative law judge shall constitute final action by the Secretary of Labor unless, within 21 days after receipt of the decision of the administrative law judge, a party dissatisfied with the decision, or any part thereof, has filed exceptions with the Secretary of Labor specifically identifying the procedures, fact, law, or policy to which exception is taken. Any exception not specifically urged shall be deemed to have been waived. Thereafter, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become the decision of the Secretary unless the Secretary of Labor, within 30 days of such filing, has notified the parties that the case has been accepted for review. (6) Any case accepted for review by the Secretary of Labor shall be decided within 180 days of such acceptance. If not so decided, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become the final decision of the Secretary of Labor. Subpart E_Interagency Agreements ยง641.501 Administration. (a) Federal establishments other than the Department of Labor which receive and use funds under title V or this part shall submit to DOL project fiscal and progress reports as described in ยง641.406. (b) Non-DOL federal establishments which receive and use funds under title V shall maintain the standard records on individual enrollees and enrollee activities, in accordance with this part. (c) The Department may provide title V funds to another federal agency by a non-expenditure transfer authorization or by payments on an advance or reimbursement basis. (d) In aspects of project administration other than those described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, federal establishments which receive and use funds under title V may use their normal administrative procedures. Subpart F_Assessment and Evaluation ยง641.601 General. The Department shall assess each recipient and subrecipient to determine whether it is carrying out the purposes and provisions of title V and this part in accordance with the Act, this part and the grant or other agreements. The Department also shall evaluate the overall program conducted under title V or this part to aid in the administration of the SCSEP. The Department and individuals designated by the Department may make site visits and conduct such other monitoring activities as determined by SCSEP needs. ยง641.602 Limitation. In arranging for the assessment of a recipient, or the evaluation of a subrecipient, or the evaluation of the overall program under title V or this part, the Department shall not use any individual, institution, or organization associated with any project under title V. Signed at Washington, DC, this 19th day of April, 1994. Robert B. Reich, Secretary of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9923 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
