FR941219-1-00018 FR941219-1-00008 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 721 [OPPTS&hyph;50608B; FRL&hyph;4758&hyph;3] RIN 2070&hyph;AB27 Polyalkylene Polyamine; Proposed Significant New Use Rule AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: EPA is proposing a significant new use rule (SNUR) under section 5(a)(2) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) for the chemical substance described generically as polyalkylene polyamine which is the subject of premanufacture notice (PMN) P&hyph;89&hyph;963 and which is subject to a TSCA section 5(e) consent order issued by EPA. This proposal would require certain persons who intend to manufacture, import, or process this substance for a significant new use to notify EPA at least 90 days before commencing any manufacturing, importing, or processing activities for a use designated by this SNUR as a significant new use. The required notice would provide EPA with the opportunity to evaluate the intended use and, if necessary, to prohibit or limit that activity before it can occur. DATES: Written comments must be received by EPA by January 18, 1995. ADDRESSES: Each comment must bear the docket control number OPPTS&hyph;50608B. All comments should be sent in triplicate to: OPPT Document Control Officer (7407), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E&hyph;G99, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. All comments which are claimed confidential must be clearly marked as such. Three additional sanitized copies of any comments containing confidential business information (CBI) must also be submitted. Nonconfidential versions of comments on this proposed rule will be placed in the rulemaking record and will be available for public inspection. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan B. Hazen, Director, Environmental Assistance Division (7408), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E&hyph;543B, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460, Telephone: (202) 554&hyph;1404, TDD: (202) 554&hyph;0551. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposed SNUR would require persons to notify EPA at least 90 days before commencing the manufacture, import, or processing of P&hyph;89&hyph;963 for the significant new uses designated herein. The required notice would provide EPA with information with which to evaluate an intended use and associated activities. I. Authority Section 5(a)(2) of TSCA (15 U.S.C. 2604(a)(2)) authorizes EPA to determine that a use of a chemical substance is a ``significant new use.'' EPA must make this determination by rule after considering all relevant factors, including those listed in section 5(a)(2). Once EPA determines that a use of a chemical substance is a significant new use, section 5(a)(1)(B) of TSCA requires persons to submit a notice to EPA at least 90 days before they manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance for that use. Section 26(c) of TSCA authorizes EPA to take action under section 5(a)(2) with respect to a category of chemical substances. Persons subject to this SNUR would comply with the same notice requirements and EPA regulatory procedures as submitters of premanufacture notices under section 5(a)(1) of TSCA. In particular, these requirements include the information submission requirements of section 5(b) and (d)(1), the exemptions authorized by section 5(h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(3), and (h)(5), and the regulations at 40 CFR part 720. Once EPA receives a SNUR notice, EPA may take regulatory action under section 5(e), 5(f), 6, or 7 to control the activities for which it has received a SNUR notice. If EPA does not take action, section 5(g) of TSCA requires EPA to explain in the Federal Register its reasons for not taking action. Persons who intend to export a substance identified in a proposed or final SNUR are subject to the export notification provisions of TSCA section 12(b). The regulations that interpret section 12(b) appear at 40 CFR part 707. II. Applicability of General Provisions General regulatory provisions applicable to SNURs are codified at 40 CFR part 721, subpart A. On July 27, 1988 (53 FR 28354), and July 27, 1989 (54 FR 31298), EPA promulgated amendments to the general provisions which apply to this SNUR. In the Federal Register of August 17, 1988 (53 FR 31252), EPA promulgated a ``User Fee Rule'' (40 CFR part 700) under the authority of TSCA section 26(b). Provisions requiring persons submitting significant new use notices to submit certain fees to EPA are discussed in detail in that Federal Register document. Interested persons should refer to these documents for further information. III. Background EPA published a direct final SNUR for the chemical substance, which was the subject of PMN P&hyph;89&hyph;963 and a TSCA section 5(e) consent order issued by EPA, in the Federal Register of June 8, 1993 (58 FR 32227). EPA received a notice of intent to submit adverse comments for this chemical substance following publication. Therefore, as required by §721.160, the final SNUR for P&hyph;89&hyph;963 is being withdrawn elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register and this proposed rule on the substance is being issued. EPA is not soliciting and will not respond to comments on any of the other SNURs that were published in the June 8, 1993, Federal Register because those rules became effective August 7, 1993, or are being withdrawn and proposed in separate actions. The supporting rationale and background to this proposal are more fully set out in the preamble to the direct final SNUR for this substance and in the preamble to EPA's first direct final SNURs published in the Federal Register of April 24, 1990 (55 FR 17376). Consult that preamble for further information on the objectives, rationale, and procedures for the proposal and on the basis for significant new use designations including provisions for developing test data. IV. Substance Subject to This Rule EPA is proposing significant new use and recordkeeping requirements for the following chemical substance under part 721 subpart E. PMN Number P&hyph;89&hyph;963 Chemical name: (generic) Polyalkylene polyamine. CAS Number: Not available. Effective date of section 5(e) consent order: June 27, 1992. Basis for section 5(e) consent order: The order was issued under section 5(e)(1)(A)(i), (ii)(I), and (ii)(II) of TSCA based on a finding that this substance may present an unreasonable risk of injury to the environment, and that this substance is expected to be produced in substantial quantities and there may be significant or substantial human exposures. Toxicity concern: The PMN substance and similar chemicals have been shown to cause acute toxicity to aquatic organisms at low levels of exposure. Specifically, based on data submitted on the PMN substance, the fish acute LC50 value is 780 ppm, the daphnid acute LC50 value is 10 ppm, and the algal acute EC50 value is 2.9 ppm. Applying an assessment factor of 100 to the daphnid acute value, EPA predicts that chronic toxicity to aquatic life may occur at concentrations as low as 100 ppb. Recommended testing: EPA has determined that the results of a 28&hyph;day repeated dose oral study in rats (OECD Guideline No. 407) would help characterize possible human health effects posed by the substance. The PMN submitter has agreed not to exceed the production volume limit without performing this test. CFR citation: 40 CFR 721.6193. V. Applicability of SNUR to Uses Occurring Before Effective Date of the Final SNUR EPA has decided that the intent of section 5(a)(1)(B) is best served by designating a use as a significant new use as of the date of proposal rather than as of the effective date of the rule. Because this SNUR was first published on June 8, 1993, as a direct final rule, that date will serve as the date after which uses will be considered to be new uses. If uses which had commenced between that date and the effective date of this rulemaking were considered ongoing, rather than new, any person could defeat the SNUR by initiating a significant new use before the effective date. This would make it difficult for EPA to establish SNUR notice requirements. Thus, persons who begin commercial manufacture, import, or processing of the substance for uses regulated through this SNUR after June 8, 1993, will have to cease any such activity before the effective date of the rule. To resume their activities, such persons would have to comply with all applicable SNUR notice requirements and wait until the notice review period, including all extensions, expires. EPA, not wishing to disrupt the activities of persons who begin commercial manufacture, import, or processing for a proposed significant new use before the effective date of the SNUR unnecessarily, has promulgated provisions to allow such persons to comply with this proposed SNUR before it is promulgated. If a person were to meet the conditions of advance compliance as codified at §721.45(h), the person would be considered to have met the requirements of the final SNUR for those activities. If persons who begin commercial manufacture, import, or processing of the substance between proposal and the effective date of the SNUR do not meet the conditions of advance compliance, they must cease that activity before the effective date of the rule. To resume their activities, these persons would have to comply with all applicable SNUR notice requirements and wait until the notice review period, including all extensions, expires. VI. Economic Analysis EPA has evaluated the potential costs of establishing significant new use notice requirements for potential manufacturers, importers, and processors of the chemical substance at the time of the direct final rule. The analysis is unchanged for the substance in this proposed rule. The Agency's complete economic analysis is available in the public record for this proposed rule (OPPTS&hyph;50608B). VII. Comments Containing Confidential Business Information Any person who submits comments claimed as CBI must mark the comments as ``confidential,'' ``trade secret,'' or other appropriate designation. Comments not claimed as confidential at the time of submission will be placed in the public file. Any comments marked as confidential will be treated in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR part 2. Any party submitting comments claimed to be confidential must prepare and submit a nonconfidential public version in triplicate of the comments that EPA can place in the public file. VIII. Rulemaking Record EPA has established a record for this rulemaking (docket control number OPPTS&hyph;50608). The record includes basic information considered by the Agency in developing this proposed rule. EPA will supplement the record with additional information as it is received. EPA will accept additional materials for inclusion in the record at any time between this proposal and designation of the complete record. EPA will identify the complete rulemaking record by the date of promulgation. A public version of the record without any CBI is available in the TSCA Nonconfidential Information Center (NCIC) from 12 noon to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays. The TSCA NCIC is located in Rm. NE&hyph;B607, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. IX. Regulatory Assessment Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the requirements of the Executive Order. Under section 3(f), the order defines a ``significant regulatory action'' as an action that is likely to result in a rule: (1) Having an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely and materially affecting a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities (also referred to as ``economically significant''); (2) creating serious inconsistency or otherwise interfering with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially altering the budgetary impacts of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raising novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of this Executive Order, it has been determined that this proposed rule is not ``significant'' and is therefore not subject to OMB review. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), EPA has determined that this proposed rule would not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses. EPA has not determined whether parties affected by this proposed rule would likely be small businesses. However, EPA expects to receive few SNUR notices for the substance. Therefore, EPA believes that the number of small businesses affected by the rule would not be substantial, even if all of the SNUR notice submitters were small firms. C. Paperwork Reduction Act OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this rule under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), and has assigned OMB control number 2070&hyph;0012. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 30 to 170 hours per response, with an average of 100 hours per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Chief, Information Policy Branch (2131), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460; and to Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.'' The final rule will respond to any OMB or public comments on the information requirements contained in this proposal. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 721 Environmental protection, Chemicals, Hazardous materials, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Significant new uses. Dated: December 1, 1994. Joseph A. Carra, Acting Director, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics. Therefore, it is proposed that 40 CFR part 721 be amended as follows: PART 721_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 721 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2604, 2607, and 2625(c). 2. By adding new §721.6193 to subpart E to read as follows: §721.6193 Polyalkylene polyamine. (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as polyalkylene polyamine (PMN P&hyph;89&hyph;963) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Hazard communication program. Requirements as specified in §721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4) (users minimize releases to water), and (g)(5). In addition, a significant new use of this substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing associated with any use of this substance without providing risk notification as follows: (A) If as a result of the test data required under the section 5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a material safety data sheet (MSDS) as described in §721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information to an MSDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace. (B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive, or who have received these substances from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an MSDS as described in §721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. (ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as specified in §721.80(q). (iii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in §721.90(a)(1). (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Requirements as specified in §721.125(a), (b), (c), (f) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance. (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. The provisions of §721.185 apply to this section. (3) Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section. The provisions of §721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30731 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
