FR941007-1-00048 FR941007-1-00009 Background In 1977, the Congress enacted the CRA to encourage banks and thrifts to help meet the credit needs of low- and moderate-income communities, consistent with safe and sound lending practices. In the CRA, the Congress found that regulated financial institutions are required to demonstrate that their deposit facilities serve the convenience and needs of the communities in which they are chartered to do business, and that the convenience and needs of communities include the need for credit as well as deposit services. The CRA has come to play an increasingly important role in improving access to credit among under-served communities_both rural and urban_across the country. Under the impetus of the CRA, many banks and thrifts opened new branches, provided expanded services, and made substantial commitments to increase lending to all segments of society. Despite these successes, the CRA examination and enforcement system has been criticized. Financial institutions have complained that policy guidance from the supervisory agencies on the CRA is unclear and that examination standards are applied inconsistently. Financial institutions have also complained that the CRA examination process encourages them to generate excessive paperwork at the expense of providing loans, services, and investments. Community, consumer, and other groups have agreed with the industry that there are inconsistencies in CRA evaluations and current examinations overemphasize process and underemphasize performance. Community and consumer groups also have criticized the regulatory agencies for failing to aggressively penalize banks and thrifts for poor performance. Believing that the CRA examination and enforcement process can be improved, the President requested in July 1993 that the Federal financial supervisory agencies reform the CRA examination and enforcement system. The President asked the agencies to consult with the banking and thrift industries, Congressional leaders, and leaders of community-based organizations across the country to develop new CRA regulations and examination procedures that ``replace paperwork and uncertainty with greater performance, clarity, and objectivity.'' Specifically, the President asked the agencies to refocus the CRA examination system on more objective, performance-based assessment standards that minimize compliance burden while stimulating improved performance. He also asked the agencies to develop a well-trained corps of examiners who would specialize in CRA examinations. In undertaking this effort, the President requested that the agencies promote consistency and even-handedness, improve CRA performance evaluations, and institute more effective sanctions against institutions with consistently poor performance. To implement the President's initiative, the four agencies held a series of seven public hearings across the country in 1993. At those hearings, the agencies heard from over 250 witnesses. Nearly 50 others submitted written statements. The preamble to the December proposal reviewed the results of those hearings. The December Proposal The December proposal (58 FR 67466) would have eliminated the twelve assessment factors in the present CRA regulation and substituted a performance-based evaluation system. Under the December proposal, a financial institution would not have been assessed on its efforts to meet community credit needs, nor on its methods for determining the credit needs of its community. Rather, the agencies would have evaluated institutions based on their actual lending, service, and investment performance. Generally, independent institutions with at least $250 million in assets and affiliates of holding companies with at least $250 million in bank and thrift assets would have been evaluated based on some combination of lending, service, and investment tests. Institutions would have had to report to the agencies and make available to the public data on the geographic distribution of their loan applications, denials, originations and purchases. Small banks and thrifts could have elected to be evaluated under a streamlined method that would not have required them to report this data. Every institution would have had the option to have its performance evaluated based on a pre-approved strategic plan that had been subjected to review and comment by community-based organizations and the rest of the public. However, the strategic plan option would not have relieved an institution of its data reporting obligations.
