FR940516-2-00122 FR940516-2-00084 Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport Authority submitted to the FAA on October 16, 1991, the noise exposure maps, descriptions, and other documentation produced during the noise compatibility planning study conducted from October 16, 1991, through October 5, 1993. The Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport noise exposure maps were determined by FAA to be in compliance with applicable requirements on May 21, 1993. Notice of this determination was published in the Federal Register on June 7, 1993. The Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport study contains a proposed noise compatibility program comprised of actions designed for phased implementation by airport management and adjacent jurisdictions from the date of study completion to the year 1997. It was requested that the FAA evaluate and approve this material as a noise compatibility program as described in section 104(b) of the Act. The FAA began its review of the program on October 5, 1993, and was required by a provision of the Act of approve or disapprove the program within 180 days (other than the use of new flight procedures for noise control). Failure to approve or disapprove such program within the 180-day period shall be deemed to be an approval of such program. The submitted program contained proposed actions for noise mitigation on and off the airport. The FAA completed its review and determined that the procedural and substantive requirements of the Act and FAR Part 150 have been satisfied. The overall program, therefore, was approved by the Administrator effective April 1, 1994. Outright approval was granted for 2 noise abatement actions, 3 remedial land use strategies, 6 preventive land use strategies, and 5 implementation measures of the specific program elements. Noise Abatement Actions 1. Construct 1500' runway extension at the north end of Runway 13/31 with a displacement of the Runway 13 landing threshold to maintain current threshold position. 2. Establish Preferential North Flow runway use which maximizes operations on Runway 31, consistent with wind, weather, traffic and other operating conditions as an informal runway use program. Land Use Strategies Remedial. It is recommended that, at the discretion of the Airport Authority, the implementation program for alleviating incompatibilities within the 70&hyph;75 DNL contour be continued by the Airport Authority rather than the land owner (as is the case for the 65&hyph;70 DNL contour) 1. Acquisition in Fee Simple. 39 mobile homes in the 65&hyph;70 DNL contour. In the 70&hyph;75 DNL contour, there are 13 mobile homes recommended for voluntary acquisition. In the DNL 75+ contour, fee simple, voluntary acquisition of two residential structures is recommended. 2. Acquisition of Avigation Easements. In exchange for sound attenuation (item 3, below) the conveyance of an avigation easement to the airport authority would be required. For those homes now participating in the sound attenuation program (and for some mobile homes (see item 1, above)), it is recommended that avigation easements be acquired. In addition, the Airport Authority should request that an avigation easement be provided if any change in zoning or land use is proposed (from compatible to noncompatible). 3. Sound Attenuation. In the 65&hyph;70 DNL contour, for three churches and one school, for 557 single-family and 93 multi-family homes. In the 70&hyph;75 DNL contour, for 2 churches, 2 schools, 158 single-family homes and 276 multi-family homes. Preventive. These strategies apply to the DNL 65 and above noise contour. 1. Enactment of new zoning, including the establishment of a joint zoning board. a. Zoning. The local jurisdictions (City of Gulfport, Harrison County, and the Regional Airport Authority) should work together to develop a plan for proper airport zoning ordinance to comply with Part 150 noise land use compatibility criteria. b. Establish a Joint Airport Zoning Board. Recommend that Chapters of the Mississippi Code be amended to permit the Joint Airport Zoning Board to enact airport zoning regulations for areas impacted by airport noise. In addition, the GBRAA, County of Harrison, and City of Gulfport should establish a Joint Airport Zoning Board which would enact appropriate zoning in the areas surrounding the airport. 2. Easement acquisition of undeveloped land. These easements would be structured so that they would prohibit the establishment of any incompatible land use within the noise exposure area in the future. Because the FAA does not participate in acquisition of undeveloped land, in fee or easement, regardless of the noise level affecting the area, it is recommended that the land uses be classified in accordance with the noise levels. 3. Real estate disclosure. Enactment of a voluntary real estate disclosure policy notifying area residents of the potential for aircraft noise impacts within the noise exposure area. It is recommended that local developers and lending institutions inform potential buyers. 4. Revised building codes. Each jurisdiction should revise the building codes to require noise insulating materials be used in the construction of structures within the noise exposure area. These standards include new construction and would be imposed on existing homes being sound attenuated within the DNL 65 contour and above. 5. Comprehensive planning. Incorporation of the study findings into the local jurisdiction comprehensive plans.
