FR940114-0-00064 FR940114-0-00020 (2) For anchoring systems, the instructions shall indicate: (i) The minimum anchor capacity required; (ii) That anchors should be certified by a professional engineer, architect, or a nationally recognized testing laboratory as to their resistance, based on the maximum angle of diagonal tie and/or vertical tie loading (see paragraph (c)(3) of this section) and angle of anchor installation, and type of soil in which the anchor is to be installed; (iii) That ground anchors should be embedded below the frost line and be at least 12 inches above the water table; and (iv) That ground anchors should be installed to their full depth, and stabilizer plates should be installed to provide added resistance to overturning or sliding forces. (v) That anchoring equipment should be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect to resist these specified forces in accordance with testing procedures in ASTM Standard Specification D3953&hyph;91, Standard Specification for Strapping, Flat Steel and Seals. (c) Design criteria. *␣*␣* (1) The minimum number of ties provided per side of each home shall resist design wind loads required in §3280.305(c)(1). (2) Ties shall be as evenly spaced as practicable along the length of the manufactured home, with not more than two (2) feet open-end spacing on each end. (3) Vertical ties or straps shall be positioned at studs. Where a vertical tie and a diagonal tie are located at the same place, both ties may be connected to a single anchor, provided that the anchor used is capable of carrying both loadings, simultaneously. (4) * * * * * (d) Requirements for ties. Manufactured homes in Wind Zone I require only diagonal ties. These ties shall be placed along the main frame and below the outer side walls. All manufactured homes designed to be located in Wind Zones II and III shall have a vertical tie installed at each diagonal tie location. (e) Protection requirements. Protection shall be provided at sharp corners where the anchoring system requires the use of external straps or cables. Protection shall also be provided to minimize damage to siding by the cable or strap. (f) Anchoring equipment_load resistance. Anchoring equipment shall be capable of resisting an allowable working load equal to or exceeding 3,150 pounds and shall be capable of withstanding a 50 percent overload (4,725 pounds total) without failure of either the anchoring equipment or the attachment point on the manufactured home. (g) Anchoring equipment_weatherization. Anchoring equipment exposed to weathering shall have a resistance to weather deterioration at least equivalent to that provided by a coating of zinc on steel of not less than 0.30 ounces per square foot of surface coated, and in accordance with the following: (1) Slit or cut edges of zinc-coated steel strapping do not need to be zinc coated. (2) Type 1, Finish B, Grade 1 steel strapping, 1&hyph;1/4 inches wide and 0.035 inches in thickness, certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as conforming with ASTM Standard Specification D3953&hyph;91, Standard Specification for Strapping, Flat Steel, and Seals. * * * * * 9. Section 3280.403 is amended by revising paragraphs (b) and (e) introductory text and by adding new paragraph (f), to read as follows: §3280.403 Standard for windows and sliding glass doors used in manufactured homes. * * * * * (b) Standard. By January 17, 1995, all primary windows and sliding glass doors shall comply with AAMA Standard 1701.2&hyph;1985, Primary Window and Sliding Glass Door Voluntary Standard for Utilization in Manufactured Housing, except that the exterior and interior pressure tests for components and cladding shall be conducted at the design wind loads required by §3280.305(c)(1). * * * * * (e) Certification. Except as otherwise indicated in paragraph (b) of this section, by January 17, 1995, all primary windows and sliding glass doors to be installed in manufactured homes shall be certified as complying with AAMA Standard 1701.2&hyph;1985 and design wind pressures specified in §3280.305. * * * * * (f) Protection of primary window and sliding glass door openings in high wind areas. For homes designed to be located in Wind Zones II and III, manufacturers shall design exterior walls surrounding the primary window and sliding glass door openings to allow for the installation of shutters or other protective covers, such as plywood, to cover these openings. Although not required, the Department encourages manufacturers to provide the shutters or protective covers and to install receiving devices, sleeves, or anchors for fasteners to be used to secure the shutters or protective covers to the exterior walls. If the manufacturer does not provide shutters or other protective covers to cover these openings, the manufacturer must provide to the homeowner instructions for at least one method of protecting primary window and sliding glass door openings. This method must be capable of resisting the design wind pressures specified in §3280.305 without taking the home out of conformance with the standards in this part. These instructions must be included in the printed instructions that accompany each manufactured home. The instructions shall also indicate whether receiving devices, sleeves, or anchors, for fasteners to be used to secure the shutters or protective covers to the exterior walls, have been installed or provided by the manufacturer.
