FR940525-2-00116 FR940525-2-00064 Attorney for licensee: J.W. Durham, Sr., Esquire, Sr. V.P. and General Counsel, Philadelphia Electric Company, 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101. NRC Project Director: Charles L. Miller. Philadelphia Electric Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;352, Limerick Generating Station, Unit 1, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania Date of application for amendment: May 6, 1994. Description of amendment request: The amendment would revise Unit 1 Technical Specifications, Section 5.5.3, ``Capacity,'' to permit an interim increase in the spent fuel storage capacity in the Unit 1 Spent Fuel Pool (SFP) from 2040 fuel assemblies to 2500 fuel assemblies. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed Technical Specifications (TS) change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Increasing the spent fuel storage capacity in the Unit 1 Spent Fuel Pool (SFP) from 2040 fuel assemblies to 2500 fuel assemblies does not increase the probability of occurrence of an accident. Since all fuel handling activities will be performed using approved procedures and compatible equipment, the probability of a fuel handling accident occurring is unchanged. Increasing the spent fuel storage capacity in the Unit 1 SFP to 2500 fuel assemblies will facilitate storing 1940 spent fuel assemblies (including contingency) that have been discharged from LGS, Units 1 and 2, and 560 low exposure fuel assemblies shipped to LGS from the Shoreham Nuclear Power Station. The decay heat load associated with the entire Shoreham fuel inventory is insignificant, since it equates to less than 5% of the heat load generated from one (1) recently discharged full power fuel bundle. Therefore, the actual decay heat load to the Unit 1 SFP will be equivalent to that which is generated from storing the 1940 spent fuel assemblies discharged from LGS, Units 1 and 2. Increasing the spent fuel storage capacity in the Unit 1 SFP to accommodate the storage of 2500 fuel assemblies, as proposed in this TS Change Request, is bounded by the existing analysis supporting the storage of spent fuel at LGS. The existing analysis considers design inputs for structural integrity, criticality, and thermal-hydraulics and is based on the storage of 2862 spent fuel assemblies. As documented in Section 9.1.3, ``Spent Fuel Pool Cooling and Cleanup Systems,'' of Supplement 2 of the NRC's Safety Evaluation Report, i.e., NUREG&hyph;0991, ``Safety Evaluation Report Related to the Operation of Limerick Generating Station, Units 1 and 2,'' the NRC indicated that based on its independent analysis the heat removal capability of the Fuel Pool Cooling and Cleanup (FPCC) system could only support 2484 spent fuel assemblies. However, the LGS, Unit 1 TS currently limit the storage of spent fuel to 2040 spent fuel assemblies. Since the decay heat load from the Shoreham fuel inventory (i.e., 560 fuel assemblies) is insignificant, the actual heat load to the Unit 1 SFP will be equivalent to that generated from 1940 fuel assemblies discharged from LGS, Units 1 and 2, which is less than the limit currently specified [in] the TS (i.e., 2040 fuel assemblies). Relocating six (6) of the existing Unit 2 spent fuel storage racks to the Unit 1 SFP will be conducted in accordance with PECO Energy's Heavy Loads Program which was developed in order to implement the guidance delineated in NUREG&hyph;0612, ``Control of Heavy Loads at Nuclear Power Plants,'' such that the likelihood of a heavy load drop is precluded. The Unit 2 spent fuel storage racks are identical to those already in use in the Unit 1 SFP. Procedures will be in place to ensure that the Unit 2 spent fuel storage racks are situated in the Unit 1 SFP to insure [ensure] proper neutron poison alignment with the existing Unit 1 racks. The existing spent fuel storage racks are designed for rack-to-rack contact during design basis events without the loss of structural integrity. The racks are also designed to withstand the impact from a dropped fuel assembly without the loss of structural integrity or be damaged in a way that could adversely affect the criticality analysis. Increasing the spent fuel storage capacity to accommodate the storage of 2500 spent fuel assemblies will not affect the spent fuel storage racks since the racks are specifically designed to safely store spent fuel. This proposed TS change will not prevent the ability of the FPCC system from performing its design function to adequately cool the SFP. The FPCC system will continue to function normally and be capable of maintaining the SFP temperature at or below 140 ○F. The backup cooling and makeup systems (i.e., Residual Heat Removal (RHR), Emergency Service Water (ESW), and Residual Heat Removal Service Water (RHRSW) systems) will continue to function as designed to provide an alternate source of cooling and makeup water to ensure SFP cooling is maintained. The RHR system is still capable of maintaining the SFP temperature less than 140 ○F as described in LGS Updated Final Safety Analysis Report (UFSAR). Increasing the spent fuel storage capacity in the Unit 1 SFP will not increase the probability of a loss of fuel pool cooling accident or adversely affect the Refuel Floor ventilation system. The consequences of a Fuel Handling Accident as described in the LGS UFSAR are not increased since the number of fuel assemblies stored in a SFP is not an input to the initial conditions of the accident evaluation. This accident evaluates the dropping of a spent fuel assembly and the fuel grapple assembly into the reactor core during refueling operations. A drop height of 32 feet for the spent fuel assembly and 47 feet for the fuel grapple assembly are assumed and will produce the largest number of failed fuel rods. Since the maximum possible height a fuel assembly can be dropped over the SFP does not exceed 32 feet, the consequences of a Fuel Handling Accident will not be increased by increasing the number of fuel storage cells. The consequences of a loss of fuel pool cooling as described in Section 9.1.3.6 of the LGS UFSAR will not be increased. The event described in the UFSAR assumes that the iodine in the fuel from past refuelings is negligible, due to the long decay time. Iodine is the major contributor to thyroid dose. Since the iodine in the fuel from past refuelings is negligible, due to the long decay time, increasing the spent fuel storage capacity will not increase the dose due to the release of iodine in the SFP water resulting from boiling and therefore, the consequences are not increased.
