FR940922-2-00020 FR940922-2-00006 DOC Position The interest amount in question was reported in the grower's supplemental response and we included it in the COP analysis for both the preliminary and final results. Comment 47 Petitioners argue that, since this grower did not report an expense for rates, the Department should calculate rates for this grower. Respondent argues that the grower leased the orchards at arm's length from unrelated parties and the lease payments constituted the entire compensation to the owner for the use of orchards. DOC Position We agree with respondent. The benchmark for determining costs in this case is the cost of growing kiwifruit to the current grower. This grower leased orchards from an unrelated party in an arm's-length transaction. Lease payment includes rates expense. Therefore, we have not added any additional rates expense in our calculations. Comment 48 Petitioners argue that this grower did not report any set-up costs and that respondent's claim that the leases for leased properties included set-up costs is unsupported. Petitioners contend that the Department should impute set-up costs for this grower. Respondent argues that the grower leased the orchards at arm's length from unrelated parties and that the lease payments constituted the entire compensation to the owner for the use of orchards. DOC Position We agree with respondent. This grower leased established orchards at arm's length from unrelated parties. The lease payments constituted the entire compensation to the owner for the use of orchards. Thus, the lease payment effectively reflects the lessor's portion of orchard set-up costs. Accordingly, we have accepted respondent's claim regarding set-up costs. Comment 49 Petitioners argue that respondent understated the G&A expenses for this grower. Petitioners request that the Department recalculate the G&A expense for this grower. DOC Position We disagree. First, the Department verified this grower's cost in New Zealand and made certain adjustments to its G&A expenses for the preliminary results. Second, petitioners have not explained why respondent's reported G&A expense is not accurate. No additional adjustment is warranted. Grower 15 Comment 50 Petitioners argue that certain direct and indirect expenses for this grower should be recalculated because most expenses were classified as common and allocated to kiwifruit or cattle/other on the basis of land area. Petitioners further assert that the allocation to cattle/other is unreasonable because the kiwifruit vines were not cut down and the cattle were not introduced until after the harvest, which occurred two to three months after the end of the period covered by the financial statement. In addition, petitioners argue that insurance costs should be expensed as of the time incurred since the future financial statements are not likely to show any liability for this cost. DOC Position We disagree with petitioners. Respondent's methodology of allocating costs based on land area is an acceptable methodology in this case. Although cattle were not fully introduced into the grower's operations before the kiwifruit harvest, nevertheless, the grower incurred development costs during the POR that were related to the establishment of the new cattle operations. Therefore, we accepted respondent's cost allocation as an appropriate estimation of the cost of cultivating kiwifruit. Accordingly, we have not adjusted respondent's figure for the final results. With regard to petitioners' argument concerning the insurance premium, we disagree with petitioners because GAAP in New Zealand allows entities to amortize the value of insurance premiums for loans over the life of loan. Accordingly, we have not adjusted respondent's costs for insurance premiums in the final results. Comment 51 Petitioners argue that the allocation of interest expense on the basis of land area is not reasonable for this grower because it understates the interest expense applicable to kiwifruit. Petitioners contend that this expense should be recalculated. DOC Position We disagree with petitioners. Respondent's methodology of allocating interest based on land area is reasonable because it attempts to approximate actual expense in terms of the relative resources devoted to the kiwifruit in relation to other activities on the farm. Therefore, we have accepted respondent's allocation of interest expenses. Grower 16 Comment 52 Petitioners argue that the Department's preliminary analysis memorandum suggests that the Department intended to recalculate the ``other'' category of expense for this grower. Petitioners urge the Department to recalculate the ``other'' expense for the final results. DOC Position Because respondent's figure understated its actual ``other'' expense category, we intended to reallocate this expense by orchard area. For these final results, we have used the revised figure. Comment 53 Petitioners argue that the Department should recalculate labor cost for this grower because the grower raised multiple crops and reported imputed, rather than actual, labor cost. DOC Position We disagree with petitioners. Respondent's methodology of allocating costs is an acceptable methodology in this case. Respondent reported direct-labor costs other than owner labor based on his financial statements. Without a more accurate alternative, we accepted respondent's cost allocation as an appropriate estimation of the cost of cultivating kiwifruit. Accordingly, no adjustment has been made to respondent's information for the final results.
