FR940506-1-00046 FR940506-1-00012 (2) The Regional Director will issue a permit required under paragraph (a) of this section upon receipt of a complete application, if all Research Plan fees due are paid. Upon receipt of an incomplete or improperly completed application, the Regional Director will notify the applicant of the deficiency. No permit will be issued to an applicant until a complete application is submitted and all fees are paid. (d) Notification of change. Any person who has applied for and received a permit under this section must notify the Regional Director, in writing, of any change in the information provided under paragraph (b) of this section within 10 days of the date of that change. (e) Duration. The permit issued by the Regional Director will continue in full force and effect for the period January 1 through June 30, or July 1 through December 31, of the year for which it was issued, or until it is revoked, suspended, or modified under part 621 (Civil Procedures) of this chapter. (f) Alteration. No person may alter, erase, or mutilate any permit issued under this section. Any permit that has been intentionally altered, erased, or mutilated is invalid. (g) Transfer. Permits issued under this section are not transferable or assignable. Each permit is valid only for the processor for which it is issued. The Regional Director must be notified of a change in ownership, pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. (h) Inspection. The permit issued under this section must be maintained on the processor vessel or at the shoreside processor. The permit must be available for inspection upon request by an authorized officer or any employee of NMFS or ADF&G designated by the Regional Director or Commissioner of ADF&G. (i) Sanctions. Procedures governing permit sanctions are found at subpart D of 15 CFR part 904. (j) Disclosure. NMFS will maintain a list of permitted processors that may be disclosed for public inspection. §677.5 Recordkeeping and reporting. (a) Applicability. Any processor that processes fish from a Research Plan fishery is responsible for compliance with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this part. (b) General requirements. Any form, record, or report that is required to be submitted or provided to the Regional Director must be addressed or delivered to the National Marine Fisheries Service, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802. Submissions must be complete, legible, and in English. §677.6 Research Plan fee. (a) Fee percentage. The fee percentage will be set annually under procedures at §677.11, such that the total fees equal the lesser of the following: (1) The cost of implementing the Research Plan, including nonpayments, minus any other Federal funds that support the observer program and any existing surplus in the North Pacific Fishery Observer Fund; or (2) Two percent of the exvessel value of all Research Plan fisheries. (b) Bimonthly fee assessment. The Research Plan bimonthly fee assessment is the fee percentage established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year, multiplied by the standard exvessel price established pursuant to §677.11 for the calendar year, multiplied by the round weight or round-weight equivalent of retained catch for each species from Research Plan fisheries during the bimonthly period. (c) Fee assessment payments. Each processor that retains fish for processing from a Research Plan fishery must collect and pay the Research Plan fee. NMFS will bill each processor of Research Plan fisheries for bimonthly fee assessments, based on the best available information on retained catches processed during that bimonthly period. Bimonthly fee assessment payments must be in the form of certified check, draft, or money order payable in U.S. currency to ``NOAA-NMFS.'' The Regional Director must receive payment in full within 30 calendar days from the date of issuance of each bimonthly fee assessment bill. Payments will be deposited in the North Pacific Fishery Observer Fund within the U.S. Treasury. (d) Disputed fee assessments. A processor must notify the Regional Director, in writing, within 30 days of issuance of the bimonthly fee assessment bill, if any portion of the bimonthly fee assessment bill is disputed. The processor must pay the undisputed amount of the bimonthly fee assessment bill within 30 days of its issuance, and provide documentation supporting the disputed portion claimed to be under- or over-billed. The Regional Director will review the disputed bimonthly fee assessment bill and the documentation provided by the processor, and will notify the processor of his determination within 60 days of the date of issuance of the disputed bimonthly fee assessment bill. If the Regional Director determines a billing error had occurred, the processor's account will be rectified by credit or issuance of a corrected bimonthly fee assessment bill. If the Regional Director determines that a billing error had not occurred, the balance of the disputed bimonthly fee assessment bill is due within 15 days of issuance of the determination. Late charges will be assessed for payments not received within 15 days. If the processor does not dispute the amount of the bimonthly fee assessment bill within 30 days of its issuance, the bimonthly fee assessment will be final, and will be due to the United States. (e) Late charges. The NOAA Office of the Comptroller shall assess late charges in the form of interest and administrative charges for late payment of fee assessments. Interest will accrue on the unpaid amount at a percentage rate established by the Federal Reserve Board and applied to funds held by the U.S. Treasury for each 30-day period, or portion thereof, that the payment is overdue.
