FR940712-2-00100 FR940712-2-00068 The Phlx proposes to list for trading American-style options 3 on the Index, a price-weighted index composed of sixteen highly capitalized and widely held common stocks of U.S. companies that are primarily involved in the design, manufacture, sale and distribution of semiconductors used in computer and other electronic device manufacturing. 4 The Exchange proposes classifying the Index as a narrow-based industry index. 3 An American-style option can be exercised at any time before the option expires. 4 The components of the Index are: Advanced Micro Devices; Analog Devices; Applied Materials; Cypress Semiconductor; Integrated Device Technology; Intel Corp. International Rectifier Corp.; Lattice Semiconductor Corp.; LSI Logic Corp.; Micron Technology Inc.; Motorola Inc.; National Semiconductor Corp.; Novellus Systems, Inc.; Teradyne, Inc.; Texas Instruments, Inc.; and VLSI Technology, Inc. The formula for calculating the Index is as follows: E:GRAPHICSEN12JY94.000 where: SP=Current stock price for each component. BASE=Base Value; Number by which the Index is initially normalized to a value of 200. The current price of each component issue is multiplied by 100 shares. The resulting market values are added to determine the current aggregate market value of the issues in the Index. To compute the current Index value, the aggregate market value is divided by the base divisor. The value of the Index was set to equal 200 on December 1, 1993. Adjustments in the value of the Index which are necessitated by the addition and/or deletion of an issue from the Index are made by adding and/or subtracting the market value (current stock price × 100 shares) of the relevant issues. The Index value will be updated dynamically at least once every 15 seconds during the trading day. The Phlx has retained Bridge Data, Inc. to compute the value of the Index. Pursuant to Phlx Rule 1100A, updated Index values will be disseminated and displayed by means of primary market prints reported by the Consolidated Tape Association and over the facilities of the Options Price Reporting Authority. The Index value will also be available on broker/dealer interrogation devices to subscribers of the option information. In accordance with Phlx Rule 1009A, if any change in the nature of any stock in the Index occurs as a result of delisting, merger, acquisition or otherwise, the Exchange will take appropriate steps to delete this stock from the Index and replace it with another stock which the Exchange believes would be compatible with the intended market character of the Index. In making replacement determinations, the Exchange will also take into account the capitalization, liquidity, and volatility of a particular stock. Index options will be traded pursuant to the current Phlx rules governing the trading of index options, particularly Phlx Rules 1000A through 1103A, and generally, Phlx Rules 1000 through 1070. The settlement value for Index options will be based on the opening values of the component securities on the date prior to expiration. Index options will expire on the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month, and the last day for trading in an expiring series will be the second business day (ordinarily a Thursday) preceding the expiration date. The Phlx proposes to employ position and exercise limits pursuant to Phlx Rule 1001A(b) (i) and 1002A, respectively. Exercise price intervals will be initially set at 5 point intervals and additional exercise prices will be added in accordance with Phlx Rule 1101A(a). The Phlx will trade consecutive and cycle month series pursuant to Phlx Rule 1101A. Specifically, there will be three expiration months from the March, June, September, December cycle plus two additional near-term months so that the three nearest term months will always be available. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and with Section 6(b)(5), 5 in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to facilitate transactions in securities, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market 5 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Phlx does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Phlx. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;02 and should be submitted by August 2, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 6 6 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16754 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
