FR940523-2-00007 FR940523-2-00003 The State, published daily in Columbia, SC. District Rangers Decisions Enoree Ranger District: Newberry Observer, published tri-weekly (Monday, Wednesday, and Friday) Newberry, SC. Andrew Pickens Ranger District: Seneca Journal and Tribune, published bi-weekly (Wednesday and Friday) in Seneca, SC. Long Cane Ranger District: Index-Journal, published daily (Sunday through Friday) in Greenwood, SC. Wambaw Ranger District: News and Courier, published daily in Charleston, SC. Witherbee Ranger District: News and Courier, published daily in Charleston, SC. Tyger Ranger District: The Union Daily Times, published daily in Union, SC. Edgefield Ranger District: Augusta Herald, published daily in Augusta, GA. George Washington National Forest, Virginia Forest Supervisor Decisions Daily News Record: published daily in Harrisonburg, VA. District Rangers Decisions Lee Ranger District: Shenandoah Valley Herald, published weekly (Wednesday) in Woodstock, VA. Warm Springs Ranger District: The Recorder, published weekly (Thursday) in Monterey, VA. Pedlar Ranger District: News-Gazette, published weekly (Wednesday) in Lexington, VA. James River Ranger District: Virginian Review, published daily in Covington, VA. Deerfield Ranger District: Daily News Leader, published daily in Staunton, VA. Dry River Ranger District: Daily News Record, published daily in Harrisonburg, VA. Jefferson National Forest, Virginia Forest Supervisor Decisions Roanoke Times & World-News, published daily in Roanoke, VA. District Rangers Decisions Blacksburg Ranger District: Roanoke Times & World-News, published daily in Roanoke, VA. Monroe Watchman, published weekly (Thursday) in Union, WV (only for those decisions in West VA_notice will be published in the Roanoke Times and Monroe Watchman). Glenwood Ranger District: Roanoke Times & World-News, published daily in Roanoke, VA. New Castle Ranger District: Roanoke Times & World-News, published daily in Roanoke, VA. Monroe Watchman, published weekly (Thursday) in Union, WV (only for those decisions in West VA_notice will be published in the Roanoke Times and Monroe Watchman). Mount Rogers National Recreation Area: Bristol Herald Courier, published daily in Bristol, VA. Clinch Ranger District: Kingsport-Times News, published daily in Kingsport, TN. Wythe Ranger District: Southwest Virginia Enterprise, published by-weekly (Wednesday and Saturday) in Wytheville, VA. Kisatchie National Forest, Louisiana Forest Supervisor Decisions Alexandria Daily Town Talk, published daily in Alexandria, LA. District Ranger Decisions Caney Ranger District: Minden Press Herald, published daily in Minden, LA. Homer Guardian Journal, published weekly (Wednesday) in Homer, LA. Catahoula Ranger District: Alexandria Daily Town Talk, published daily in Alexandria, LA. Colfax Chronicle, published weekly (Wednesday) in Colfax, LA. Evangeline Ranger District: Alexandria Daily Town Talk, published daily in Alexandria, LA. Kisatchie Ranger District: Natchitoches Times, published bi-weekly (Sunday and Wednesday) in Natchitoches, LA. Vernon Ranger District: Leesville Leader, published daily in Leesville, LA. Winn Ranger District: Winn Parish Enterprise, published weekly (Wednesday) in Winnfield, LA. National Forests in Mississippi, Mississippi Forest Supervisor Decisions
