FR940110-1-00030 FR940110-1-00004 At INS, examinations officer work years relate directly to workload volume, and the management and administration work that supports the examinations officers are dependent upon the number of officer work years. Work years are a useful gauge of the resources needed in each program because they include the contributions of both full and part-time staff. Other possible distribution-keys (positions and dollars) are believed to be inferior to work years. Positions alone are inferior as a distribution-key because they include only full-time permanent staff and vacancies. The use of positions would understate proper assignment levels to the extent that part-time workers are ignored, but would overstate proper assignment levels to the extent that vacancies are included. Dollars are also an inferior distribution-key because they may be skewed by the inclusion of one-time expenditures or other unique costs. The distribution-key concept is consistent with the guidance provided by the Department. The following discussion is provided: For each overhead activity *␣*␣*, estimate, on a rational basis, approximately what percentage of the amount is indirectly relatable or incidental to the functions and costs *␣*␣* . The percentage assigned ordinarily should be based on the relative amount of time or outputs traceable to the particular unit of performance. In the case of very general, non-traceable activities (e.g., executive direction or congressional and public affairs), where there are labor-intensive performance units, general or non-traceable cost allocations may be predicated on relative employment (costs or full time personnel equivalents) devoted directly to the fee account revenue-generating programs vis-a-vis all other programs. User Fee Programs, Department of Justice, Justice Management Division, April 1993, pp. 10&hyph;11. To distribute costs properly, based on the distribution-key concept, INS will propose to transfer 143 positions, 133 work years, and associated costs from the Salaries and Expenses appropriation to the Examinations Fee Account. However, INS will not propose to use all of the resources potentially available as a result of the transfer to correct documented deficiencies in M&A program support activities in fiscal year 1994. Rather, INS will propose to use part of these resources to support additional work years for the Adjudications and Naturalization Program to ensure good service during the period of transition when more work will be shifted from district offices to service centers (the ``Direct Mail III'' program). INS will defer full use of the resources for program support activities until fiscal year 1995 or 1996, as conditions warrant. 3. Investments to Improve Service Quality Service quality improvements are made possible by investments in staff additions and capital assets. One investment which will be financed by the examinations fee increase will be the continued expansion of INS service center operations. These expanded automation-intensive facilities will improve productivity and reduce delays in application processing operations. The transfer of work now conducted at the district offices to the service centers will improve processing at district offices and allow district office staff to devote more time to those applications which require personal contact with people applying for benefits. C. Proposed Fee Increase The need for increased revenues which underlies the proposed fee increase was calculated by adjusting the projected total costs of providing adjudications and naturalization services to include the transfers and service improvements described above, and comparing the costs to the revenue projected under the current fee schedule. Because they are reflected in INS budget projections, the calculation incorporates the effects of inflation-based cost increases that have occurred since the last general fee increase in April 1991 and all other mandatory adjustments to the cost base. This calculation yields a required percentage revenue increase which, with limited exceptions, was then uniformly applied to the existing schedule of fees. The exceptions to this procedure, required because of (i) the consolidation of forms and (ii) certain technical adjustments, are described below. Exhibit 2, Projected Examinations Fee Account, shows the projected fiscal year 1994 resource allocations to the Examinations Fee Account. The projected transfers from the Salaries and Expenses appropriation, which are incorporated in Exhibit 2, are shown in Exhibit 3, Projected Transfers From Salaries and Expenses Appropriation to Examinations Fee Account. Exhibit 4, Proposed Examinations Fee Revenue Adjustment, shows how the proposed fee increase was computed. The calculations are based on the projected fiscal year 1994 budget, and begin with an estimate of the funds that will remain in the Examinations Fee Account at the close of fiscal year 1993.
