FR940919-2-00161 FR940919-2-00066 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34654; File No. SR&hyph;CSE&hyph;94&hyph;08] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Exchange Membership Application Fees September 12, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on August 16, 1994, the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Inc. (``CSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The CSE hereby proposed to amend the membership application fees imposed by the Exchange as follows: ␣ 1Item 1Current fee 1Proposed fee Yearly Membership Dues: (Quarterly Charge $625) $2,500 1$2,500 New Member Application Fee 100 1,000 Transfers: Responsible Party Change 75 350 Firm Registration/Name Change 75 350 CBOE Exercise Application 75 350 1No Change. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Purposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Exchange has determined to increase the fees associated with applications for membership to more accurately reflect the costs associated with the processing of applications and to place them more in line with the fees existing on other markets. The increases apply to the initial application fee as well as the fee to exercise a Chicago Board Options Exchange (``CBOE'') membership. The exercise process is part of the agreement for access between the two markets. 1 Additionally, intra-firm transfers of individuals assigned to a membership are being raised to reflect the cost of processing the transfers. 1 Pursuant to an agreement signed in November 1986, a CBOE member may be eligible to become a proprietary member of the CSE without having to purchase and own a certificate of proprietary membership ( i.e., a seat on the Exchange), provided that the CBOE member meets all of the other requirements of eligibility set forth in the CSE's By-Laws. See Article II, Section 5.2 of the CSE's Code of Regulations (By-Laws). 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers or dealers, and in general is designed to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The CSE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others No written comments were either solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. §552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of CSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CSE&hyph;94&hyph;08 and should be submitted by October 11, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23047 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
