FR940516-1-00007 FR940516-1-00001 III. Section-by-Section Analysis Current Rule 4.21 would be reorganized with a view towards simplification of presentation. Rule 4.21 would continue to require CPOs to deliver a disclosure document. New Rule 4.24 sets forth general disclosure requirements, i.e. , requirements applicable to disclosure of all matters other than past performance. Past performance disclosure requirements would be codified in new Rule 4.25. New Rule 4.26 would contain requirements with respect to the use, amendment and filing of the disclosure document. 24 24 The disclosure requirements for CTAs would be correspondingly reorganized and set forth in Rules 4.31, 4.33, 4.34 and 4.35. Many of the proposed changes for pool disclosure documents are also proposed for CTA documents. Rather than repeating the discussion of these changes, the text or footnotes thereto indicate where amendments similar to those discussed for pool disclosure documents are also proposed for CTA disclosure documents. A. Section 4.25_Performance Disclosures Simplification of past performance disclosure requirements has been a primary objective of this rulemaking. The proposed revisions of the past performance disclosure requirements are predicated upon the view that past performance is not predictive of future performance results and that inclusion of multiple performance records in disclosure documents may tend to give undue importance to past performance data. Nonetheless, the Commission believes that past performance disclosure may serve to reveal negative performance results and the volatility of pool returns. Consequently, the Commission is proposing to substantially simplify past performance requirements with the objective of eliminating required disclosure of past performance that is of secondary relevance to the pool offered. The proposed rules are designed to foster clarity and simplicity. This objective would be achieved in part by substituting a summary of core performance data for the multicolumnar presentations called for under current rules. This new ``capsule'' format, which has recently been used by some CPOs pursuant to exemptive relief issued by the Division of Trading and Markets on a case-by-case basis, 25 provides a simple, readable and succinct overview of pool performance and substantially reduces the overall quantity of performance data required to be presented without sacrificing the elements important to customers. 25 The proposed summary format differs in minor respects from that used by those CPOs.
