FR940208-2-00069 FR940208-2-00056 To the extent practicable, at least 50 percent of the corps members will be economically disadvantaged youths. Corps members will receive a living allowance, during the eleven month program and will also receive a post-service benefit upon successful completion. Summer National Service Program The Summer National Service program will be a residential program for youth 14&hyph;17 years of age. Summer corps members shall enter into agreement to participate for a period of eight weeks. Participants will receive approximately two weeks of training followed by six weeks of community service projects. The FY94 summer campus will be located on a military base in the Northeast and focus on public safety and environmental projects. Summer camp participants will represent the same diverse group explained under the National Service Program, receive a living allowance and will also receive a post-service benefit upon successful completion. NCCC Program Benefits NCCC programs benefit individuals, communities, and the nation. Programs benefit individuals by providing educational opportunities, assisting transitioning military personnel, and helping to establish a work ethic in young adults. Communities benefit through the completion of community projects that would otherwise not be done. Our nation benefits by improved social and racial relationships, maximized use of existing federal resources, and increased public awareness of environmental, education, human services, and public safety issues. Concept Papers Interested organizations and individuals are encouraged to submit concept papers in support of the above NCCC programs. Submissions will be reviewed and maintained on file by category to assist the NCCC staff in program development. Submitters may be contacted during the developmental and implementation phases for further details or possible collaboration to accomplish program elements. This notice does not obligate the NCCC to enter into any grants or contracts as a result of this notice. Dated: February 3, 1994. Frederick Peters, Deputy Director of Training, Education & Military Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2852 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4430&hyph;61&hyph;M
