FR940304-1-00121 FR940304-1-00014 Maintenance and installation costs were considered for ranges and ovens. The Department determined that the only design option which required additional maintenance costs was electronic ignition for gas cooktops. Using data obtained from electronic ignition manufacturers, the Department established a price for replacing malfunctioning electronic ignition devices. A retirement function based on data received from electronic ignition manufacturers and service technicians was used to establish the rate of failure of these control devices. With the retirement function and replacement cost, the expected maintenance expense was then determined. Mr. Rajendra Narang provided patents for improving the efficiency of gas ranges/ovens. These included, for ovens: Combustion air preheated by discharge gases, heated discharge gases discharged only when combustion occurs, and circulation fans for better airflow; for cooktops: an efficient piloted ignition and flame containing burner rings to support pots and pans. (Narang, No. 82). The Department was not able to assess the energy savings from most of the design options presented by Mr. Narang. (Circulation fans were analyzed, however.) Experimental data and simulation models were not available to allow evaluation of these design options. Other comments. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers recommended that the usage assumptions for ranges/ovens be decreased to account for changes in lifestyles since the original usage values were estimated. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers said the reductions in energy use are from 68 to 74 percent for cooktops and ovens. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61 at 38). Whirlpool Corporation stated that DOE should revise the test procedure to account for lower usage; the present test procedure overstates usage for cooktops and ovens by 70 and 76 percent, respectively. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 17). The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy also recommended that the usage values be updated. (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. at 2). Finally, Arkansas Western Gas said range use is down, and that gas use is so low (6Mcf) that any conservation item will have little effect. (Arkansas Western Gas, No. 64 at 6). As stated previously, the Department has proposed revised test procedures for kitchen ranges and ovens. The Department used the proposed test procedure, including the more current field usage numbers, for the analyses in today's notice. The new annual useful cooking energy output values were determined to be 209.4 kWh for electric cooktops, 732.5 kBtus for gas cooktops, 35.5 kWh for electric ovens, and 124.2 kBtus for gas ovens. With regard to potential microwave oven standards, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers contended that such standards would have an insignificant effect on energy consumption. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 29). The Department analyzed quantitatively the energy-saving potential of standards on microwave ovens and found that significant savings are possible. (See Technical Support Document, Chapter 5). With respect to the usage values for microwave ovens, Whirlpool Corporation stated that microwave energy use has increased significantly, and DOE should initiate a new study to determine a reasonable estimated energy use for microwave ovens. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 19). Citing the Electronic Industries Association's estimated 100 kWh/yr usage for microwave ovens in 1987, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that it was consistent with its 1976 data showing 75 kWh/yr usage because, although average family size has decreased, microwave oven use within the household has increased. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 27). As with the usage number for conventional ranges and ovens, the Department used the proposed test procedure usage values for the analysis of microwave ovens. The Department obtained the proposed energy use values from several utility conditional demand studies resulting in the proposed usage value of 270 kWh/yr for microwave ovens.
