FR940228-1-00153 FR940228-1-00010 5. How does the new definition affect less-than-full-time students? •The definition does not affect part-time students. [Kansas City] •A student who completes fewer than the required minimum number of clock or credit hours during the 30-week period should be considered less-than-full-time. [San Francisco] •The length of the academic year is irrelevant to determining the enrollment status of students. Enrollment status is determined by the length of time (in terms of credit or clock hours) that a student takes to complete a ``program.'' [Atlanta] II. Eligible Program A. Effective July 1, 1993, section 481(b) and (c) of the HEA require a proprietary institution of higher education or a postsecondary vocational institution to provide an eligible program of training that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. Section 481(e) of the HEA requires an eligible program to consist of at least 600 clock hours, 16 semester hours, or 24 quarter hours offered during a minimum of 15 weeks, if the program admits students who have not completed the equivalent of an associate degree. An eligible program must consist of at least 300 clock hours, eight semester hours, or 12 quarter hours offered during a minimum of ten weeks, if the program is an undergraduate program requiring the equivalent of an associate degree for admission or if the program is a graduate or professional program. The Secretary is required to develop regulations to determine the quality of educational programs of less than 600 clock hours. Those regulations must, at a minimum, require those educational programs to have verified completion and placement rates of at least 70 percent. An educational program of more than 300 clock hours and less than 600 clock hours that meets the Secretary's regulations qualifies for eligibility under the Federal Family Education Loan programs even if the educational program is not an undergraduate program requiring the equivalent of an associate degree for admission, and even if the educational program is not a graduate or professional program. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. What is the equivalent of an associates degree? •An associates degree should be a degree which meets the degree requirements of any State for an associate degree. [Kansas City] •An associates degree should represent the completion of any educational program that meets State licensure requirements and that equals at least the length of a typical associate degree program. [Kansas City] •An associates degree should represent the completion of any educational program leading to a vocational objective if the program is at least 1,800 clock hours, (60 or 48) semester hours, or (90 or 64) quarter hours. (The variation in credit hours depends on whether the negotiators decide to use the number of credits required to earn an associate degree or the number of credits required for completion of at least two academic years.) [Kansas City] •An associates degree should represent the completion of an educational program that is at least two academic years in length. [Kansas City] •An associates degree should represent the completion of an educational program leading to licensure in an occupation, if a community college offers an associate degree program for that occupation. [Kansas City]
