FR941116-0-00058 FR941116-0-00011 Finally, since the Commission has deferred the requirement that oil pipelines file Form No. 6 on an electronic medium, in addition to paper filing, §385.2011 of Part 385 of Title 18 of the Code of Federal Regulations will not be changed as proposed in the NOPR at this time. The Commission will issue a final rule on this subject at an appropriate time. VI. Depreciation A. Discussion of Comments In Order No. 561, the Commission stated that it would be the pipelines' responsibility in the future to perform depreciation studies to establish revised depreciation rates for oil pipelines. The Commission further stated that the specific requirements for such studies would be developed in this proceeding. 49 In the NOPR, the Commission proposed a new Part 347 to its regulations, encompassing the information required to be submitted by oil pipeline companies to establish revised depreciation rates. 49 III FERC Stats. & Regs, ¶ 30,985 (1993), at 30,967&hyph;8. Several commentors provided comments concerning the process for the establishment and/or changing of depreciation rates for common carrier property. Based upon a review of these comments, several modifications will be made to the regulations as proposed in the NOPR. One commentor 50 suggested that the transmittal letter, which submits a request for new or changed depreciation rates, only be filed with the Commission and not sent to all shippers and subscribers. The Commission disagrees. It will continue to require the transmittal letter to be sent to all shippers and subscribers. Depreciation rates as set or as subsequently modified can have a considerable effect on a pipeline's rates; and as such, shippers need to be kept informed as to when the rates are being requested to be established or changed. As Davis states, ``To apprise shippers and subscribers of the change in the depreciation rate is alerting them that a forthcoming rate change could be challenged on the basis of the rate of depreciation.'' 51 If a change in the tariff rate is requested resulting from an approved change in the underlying depreciation rates, then protests filed because of a lack of adequate information about the change in depreciation rates could be prevented. 50 Davis, p. 2. 51 Id. Modifications to the proposed regulations (18 CFR 347.1) which delineate the information which should be filed when seeking to establish or change depreciation rates have been requested by several commentors. 52 As to those claims that certain data are not available, the Commission has provided in §347.1(e) for consideration of individual circumstances. Section 347.1(e) states, in part: 52 Davis, Marathon, and AOPL. Modifications, additions, and deletions to these data elements should be made to reflect the individual circumstances of the carrier's properties and operations. [emphasis added] This statement allows for the modification of the data elements for individual pipelines to account for, among other things, information which is not available to the pipeline. Therefore, a pipeline which does not have up-to-date engineering maps 53 could submit ``simplified maps or drawings that contain such information *␣*␣*.'' Where information is not available, that data element may be omitted by simply stating that the information is not available. 53 See Davis, pp. 3&hyph;4. The comments concerning oil field reserve and production information 54 are well taken and that portion of the regulations [18 CFR 347.1(e)(5)(ix)] is modified from that previously proposed to require only that the pipeline disclose the fields or areas from which crude oil is obtained. 54 Davis, pp. 4&hyph;5, Marathon, pp. 5&hyph;6, and AOPL, pp. 40&hyph;41. Similarly, the comments concerning the proprietary nature of individual shipper information are also well taken. 55 The portion of the proposed regulations in 18 CFR 347.1(e)(vi) is modified to require that pipelines supply only a list of shipments and their associated receipt points, delivery points, and volumes for the most current year. Such information shall be provided in such a format to prevent disclosure of information which would violate the ICA. 55 Davis, p. 4; AOPL, pp. 41&hyph;42. Further, as requested by AOPL, 56 all information submitted pursuant to 18 CFR 347.1 will be publicly available unless specific confidential treatment is sought by the filing carrier. 56 AOPL, p. 40, n. 69. B. Depreciation Regulations Adopted Other than as discussed above, the Commission is adopting depreciation regulations as proposed in the NOPR. The Commission adopts the following regulations as new Part 347 of the Commission's regulations, which requires the following information to be filed by oil pipeline companies to justify a request for either new or changed carrier account depreciation rates: a. A brief summary of the general principles on which the proposed depreciation rates are based ( e.g., why the economic life of the pipeline section is less than the physical life). b. An explanation of the organization, ownership, and operation of the pipeline. c. A table of the proposed depreciation rates by primary carrier account. d. An explanation of the average remaining life on a physical basis and on an economic basis.
