FR940610-2-00153 FR940610-2-00076 The Commission also finds the requirements that all securities comprising the index be ``reported securities,'' as defined in Rule 11Aa3&hyph;1 under the Act, and that the index value be disseminated at least once every 15 seconds during trading hours of the index, will contribute significantly to the transparency of the market for such index options. 23 The Commission further believes that basing the settlement value of expiring index options upon the opening prices of the component securities on the primary exchange on which they are traded (or on the Nasdaq National Market) may help contain the volatility of related markets upon their expiration. 23 Currently, only exchange-traded securities and Nasdaq National Market securities qualify as ``reported securities.'' See supra note 17. The Commission notes that an Exchange which lists options pursuant to this order must notify the Commission immediately upon discovering that such options have failed to satisfy the maintenance listing standards described herein, and is prohibited from listing any additional series of such options unless the Exchange, with the affirmative concurrence of the Commission, determines that such failure is insignificant. The Commission believes that this requirement helps to ensure the continued compliance of such new option products with the standards set forth in this order, and confirms the obligation of the Exchanges to monitor all series of options listed thereon to ensure that they continue to satisfy the maintenance listing standards prescribed in their respective rules. On the other hand, this requirement will allow the Commission to provide flexibility on the issue of continued listing, where the failure to meet a particular standard is insignificant and will not hinder the protection of investors or cause the index to be susceptible to manipulation. The Commission further notes that each of the Exchanges' rules that are applicable to narrow-based index options, including provisions addressing sales practices, floor trading procedures, position and exercise limits, 24 margin requirements, and trading halts and suspensions, will continue to apply to any narrow-based index listed pursuant to the streamlined approval procedures described herein. 24 In its section 19(b)(3)(A) filing, an Exchange must specify the applicable position limits for options on the narrow-based index. Finally, the Commission generally believes that a surveillance sharing agreement between an Exchange proposing to list a stock index derivative product and the exchange(s) trading the stocks underlying the derivative product is an important measure for surveillance of the derivative and underlying securities markets. Such agreements ensure the availability of information necessary to detect and deter potential manipulations and other trading abuses, thereby making the stock index product less readily susceptible to manipulation. In this regard, all of the Exchanges, as well as the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD''), are members of the Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG''), which provides for the exchange of all necessary surveillance information. 25 In light of the Exchanges' membership in the ISG, and the fact that the generic listing and maintenance listing standards ensure that all stocks (and ADRs) comprising a narrow-based index being added pursuant to this order would be listed on a U.S. exchange (or quoted on and traded through the Nasdaq National Market), the Commission is satisfied that the ISG Agreement would cover investigations and inquiries regarding trading activity in options on narrow-based indexes and their underlying component securities. In addition, the Commission finds that the requirement that no more than 20 percent of the weight of the index may be comprised of ADRs that are not subject to a comprehensive surveillance sharing agreement between the particular U.S. exchange and the primary market of the underlying security will continue to ensure that the Exchanges have the ability to adequately surveil trading in the narrow-based index options and the ADR components of the index. 26 25 The ISG was formed on July 14, 1983, among other things, to coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, dated July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, dated January 29, 1990. 26 As noted above, comprehensive surveillance sharing agreements must be in place with the markets underlying ADRs representing at least 80 percent of the weight of the index unless the ADR meets the 50 percent U.S. trading volume test (and the 30 percent maintenance volume test). See supra note 18. In addition, by virtue of the Exchange's and the NASD's membership in the ISG, the Exchanges would have the ability to obtain surveillance information regarding trading in the ADR. See Release No. 34&hyph;31529, supra note 18.
