FR940505-0-00077 FR940505-0-00020 d. Announcements of activities, e.g., bake sale, car wash, charity auction, oratorical contest, substantially all the work of which is conducted by the members or supporters of a qualified organization without compensation are mailable at the special bulk third-class rates. Such activities are considered to be ``substantially related'' to the organization's purposes. e. Advertisements for products and services, including products and services offered as prizes or premiums, substantially all of which have been received by a qualified organization as gifts or contributions. Such products and services are considered ``substantially related'' to the organization's purposes. f. An advertisement, promotion, or offer for a periodical publication, including subscription order forms, meeting the eligibility criteria in E211 and published by one of the types of qualified nonprofit organizations listed in E370.2.0 is mailable at the special bulk third-class rates. 5.7␣Other Matter * * * * * [Add new 5.7c as follows:] c. A listing in a qualified organization's newsletter or other publication of the names of individuals or organizations who sponsor the publication or other activities of the qualified organization. The Postal Service presumes that an item is an acknowledgment of a sponsor and not an advertisement ineligible for special rates if it occupies not more than 7 square inches (the approximate size of a business card) and if it appears in a portion of the publication titled ``Sponsors,'' ``Contributors,'' ``Donors,'' or a similar designation. [Renumber old 5.9 as 5.10 and add new section 5.9 as follows:] 5.9␣Products Mailable at Special Bulk Third-Class Rates The following products are mailable at special bulk third-class rates: a. Low-cost items within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 513(h)(2), Internal Revenue Code. Under this standard, low-cost items are currently those having a cost of not more than $6.39 as of January 1, 1994. At the beginning of each calendar year, the value of low-cost items is adjusted for cost of living. The cost is the cost to the qualified nonprofit organization that mails the item or on whose behalf the item is mailed. b. Items donated or contributed to the qualified organization. Such items need not meet the definition of low cost as described in 5.9a. c. Periodical publication of a qualified nonprofit organization that does not contain any advertisements or other material ineligible to be mailed at the special bulk third-class rates under 5.4 a, b, c, or d. Periodical publication and qualified nonprofit organization are defined in 5.6f. A transmittal letter making these changes in the pages of the Domestic Mail Manual will be published and will be transmitted to subscribers automatically. Notice of issuance will be published in the Federal Register as provided by 39 CFR 111.3. Stanley F. Mires, Chief Counsel, Legislative. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10852 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 2:29 pm] BILLING CODE 7710&hyph;12&hyph;U
