FR940503-2-00129 FR940503-2-00085 DTC solicited comment from its participants regarding (1) the necessity of unwind procedures in the SDFS service that override risk management controls and (2) if unwind procedures are necessary, whether participants would be prepared to absorb the additional costs of mechanisms to assure that use of the unwind procedures on the same day that any DTC participant failed to settle would not deplete DTC's liquidity resources. DTC received ten comment letters from participants and two from industry organizations. 12 Generally, the comments supported the use of unwind procedures as a way to replicate the risks taken by parties to transactions in the physical MMI market ( i.e., to place the risk and burden of default on the appropriate party, which is on the issuer or the purchaser instead of on the issuing and paying agent). The comments also generally supported the interim solution of obtaining an additional, dedicated line of credit and allocating its cost to SDFS system participants. 12 Letters from Albert Howell, Vice President, Money Market Operations, Merrill Lynch, to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (March 7, 1994); Christopher T. Amico, Assistant Vice President, Chemical Bank, to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (February 1, 1994); Gary S. Schayne, Vice President, Citibank, to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (January 31, 1994); Ronald M. Thalheimer, Vice President, The First National Bank of Chicago, to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (February 3, 1994); Michael J. Stein, Vice President, State Street Bank and Trust Company, to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (February 7, 1994); Stephen J. Melanaski, Vice President, United States Trust Company of New York, to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (January 21, 1994); Mark Handsman, Vice President-Assistant Treasurer, Goldman Sachs, to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (February 23, 1994); Michael J. Gardiner, Vice President, The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (February 28, 1994); S. Michael Barnes, Vice President, and Lloyd A. Baggs, Trust Officer, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (February 24, 1994); R. May Lee, Assistant General Counsel, Public Securities Association, to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (March 2, 1994); Jill M. Considine, President, New York Clearing House to James Reilly, Vice President, DTC (March 23, 1994). Two of DTC's bank participants did not support DTC's proposals and offered alternative solutions. One of these two commentators argued that issuing and paying agents should fund presentments earlier or that unwind procedures should be employed earlier in the day. 13 The other commentator suggested that DTC should create a system similar to the procedures employed by the Clearing House Interbank Payment System. 14 13 Letter from State Street Bank and Trust Co., supra note 12. 14 Letter from Bankers Trust Co., supra note 12. DTC has agreed to implement the dedicated line of credit as an interim solution and proceed with the necessary modifications to implement the system enhancements. DTC also has agreed to continue to employ its liquidity monitoring system which simulates double default scenarios every fifteen minutes beginning at 2 p.m. E.S.T. 15 15 Letter from Richard B. Nesson, DTC to Christine M. Cumming, Vice President, Domestic Banking Department, FRBNY (March 8, 1994).
