FR940810-0-00068 FR940810-0-00021 Dr. Oliver rebutted these arguments (Ex 143, Attachment F). She argued that she had adequate controls, adequately accounted for age and demonstrated that pleural plaques were significantly associated with both latency and duration of work as custodian in the total group and in the group with no known other exposure, that lung restriction was significantly associated with duration of work as a custodian, and that pleural plaques mark increased risk for lung cancer mortality. Dr. Levin also responded to the reviewer's criticism of his studies with Dr. Selikoff (Ex. 143, Attachment G). He pointed out that all x-rays had been read by a single reader, Dr. Selikoff, and that there is no evidence that smoking without asbestos exposure increases appearance of the small irregular opacities in the lung seen on the x-rays in their study. He further noted that in his study only actively working custodians were included and were therefore a ``survivor'' group and would therefore not be expected to report pulmonary dysfunction frequently. He claimed that relatively unexposed subject groups would not be expected to have more than an upper limit of 3% pleural plaques. Dr. Anderson also responded to the Weill/Hughes comments (Ex. 143, Attachment H). He asserted that the review fails to explain how biases would significantly increase odds ratios in the study, that misclassification often is random and biases toward not detecting a difference between the study and control groups. He also questioned existence of evidence that smoking without asbestos exposure causes pleural thickening or irregular opacities. The review of available literature, including the studies mentioned above by the Health Effects Institute, resulted in its the estimation that the prevalence of pleural plaques in the general population to be about 5% (Ex. 1&hyph;344, p. A2&hyph;9). Although HEI advised caution in interpreting the existing studies due to lack of specificity and sensitivity of methods used and couched its conclusions in cautious terms, they concluded: ``*␣*␣* there is now persuasive evidence implicating asbestos-related pleural disease as an independent cause or indicator of functional impairment and possibly even disability *␣*␣* On the individual level, pleural disease may be the only indication of asbestos exposure, may explain symptoms and function impairment, and may predict future deterioration in lung function'' (Ex. 1&hyph;344 p. A2&hyph;12). OSHA agrees that health effects such as lung function impairment and pleuritic pain would be considered ``material impairment,'' if substantial evidence supports the link to pleural plaques. OSHA concludes that the scientific data indicate that pleural plaques are primarily associated with asbestos exposure, and that they have occurred and still may at relatively low exposure levels.
