FR940919-2-00076 FR940919-2-00046 Process Reengineering Program; Disability Reengineering Project Plan Agency: Social Security Administration, HHS. Action: Announcement of the plan for a new disability claim process. SUMMARY: The Social Security Administration (SSA) announces a plan to redesign the claim process for Social Security Disability Insurance and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) disability benefits. This notice contains the plan, as well as background information. The aim of the plan is to achieve dramatic improvements in service to claimants filing for disability benefits and restore public confidence in SSA's disability programs. FOR ADDITIONAL COPIES CONTACT: Social Security Administration, PO Box 17052, Baltimore, MD 21235, (410) 966&hyph;8255. The plan is available in alternative formats for visually impaired individuals. Please use this same telephone number to request a copy of the plan in an alternative format. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background_What is the Process Reengineering Program? SSA began an Agency-wide program of Process Reengineering in the summer of 1993. The Process Reengineering Program is one way that SSA is seeking to improve its overall delivery of service to the public. The Process Reengineering Program essentially asks the question, ``If SSA had the opportunity today to design its processes, what would they look like?'' In other words, ``how would we design a process if we were starting over?'' The Program s objective is to fundamentally rethink and radically redesign SSA's processes to achieve dramatic improvements in critical measures of performance such as quality of service, speed and efficiency. The ultimate goal is to achieve dramatically improved levels of service from the customer's perspective while enriching and improving the work lives of employees. The Process Reengineering Program is the culmination of an investigation by SSA of the reengineering efforts conducted by private companies, public organizations, academic institutions, and consulting firms with ``hands on'' experience. The positive findings from that investigation, combined with concerns about the impact of current and projected workloads, led SSA to conclude that a disability claims process reengineering effort was critical to its objectives of providing world-class service to the public and restoring public confidence in its disability programs. Based on analysis of what has worked best in other organizations, SSA developed a customized reengineering methodology. This methodology used a team approach (composed of SSA and State Disability Determination Service (DDS) employees) and combined a strong customer focus with classic management analysis techniques to intensely review a single business process. While the reengineering team was comprised of employees who were knowledgeable about the current disability process, the methodology focused heavily on obtaining the views of a broad segment of individuals, groups and organizations involved both internally and externally to the process. What Does the Disability Reengineering Project Address? Despite the outstanding efforts of SSA and State DDS employees throughout the country, the Agency continues to have difficulty providing a satisfactory level of service to claimants filing for disability benefits. The steps in the current disability process have not changed in any important way since the beginning of the Disability Insurance program in the 1950s. Yet, case loads, types of disabilities, and the demographic characteristics of individuals with disabilities who are potentially eligible for benefits have changed radically. The State DDSs make the initial decisions about whether an applicant for Disability Insurance or SSI benefits is disabled. In Fiscal Year (FY) 1995, it is estimated that SSA will forward 2.9 million initial disability claims to the DDSs for disability determinations_a 69 percent increase over FY 1990 levels. Similarly, the number of requests for an administrative law judge hearing on denied claims is expected to increase to 542,000, a 75 percent increase over FY 1990 levels. Recent management initiatives to improve service through resource reallocations and productivity enhancements have not been sufficient to deal successfully with the workload demands and it is expected that disability processing times and backlogs will continue to grow under the present process. The result is that many claimants have to wait much too long at each stage of the process. SSA and State DDS employees are working longer and harder, while becoming increasingly frustrated about their inability to provide the type of service the public deserves.
