FR941027-2-00129 FR941027-2-00077 Applicants should be familiar with the ``General Provisions'' of J&hyph;1 visa regulations. The Agency will process the IAP&hyph;66 forms for travel to the U.S. Applicant must arrange for basic health and accident insurance coverage of exchange participants while they are on exchange. Please refer to the Program Objectives, Goals, and Implementation section of the Solicitation Package for greater detail regarding the design of the component parts as well as other program information. Proposed budget: Applicants must submit a comprehensive budget for the entire program. There must be a summary budget as well as a break-down reflecting both the administrative budget and the program budget. All program costs should clearly indicate whether they cover U.S. or NIS participants. Grants awarded to eligible organizations with less than four years of experience in conducting international exchange programs will be limited to $60,000. Please refer to the POGI and Proposal Submission Instructions sections of the Solicitation Package for complete budget guidelines and format instructions. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines stated herein and in the Solicitation Package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals also will be reviewed by the Agency contracts office, as well as the pertinent USIA area office and the USIA post overseas, where appropriate. Proposals may be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel or by other Agency elements. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the USIA Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with the USIA grants officer. Review Criteria Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the criteria stated below. These criteria are not rank ordered and all carry equal weight in the proposal evaluation: 1. Quality of the program idea: Proposals should exhibit originality, substance (particularly in academic/educational aspects), precision, and relevance to Agency mission. 2. Program planning: Detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive undertakings and logistical capacity. Agenda and plan should adhere to the program overview and guidelines described above. 3. Ability to achieve program objectives: Objectives should be reasonable, feasible, and flexible. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program's objectives and plan. 4. Multiplier effect/impact: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, including maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term individual and institutional linkages. 5. Support of diversity: Proposals should demonstrate the recipient's commitment to promoting the awareness and understanding of diversity. 6. Institutional capacity: Proposed personnel and institutional resources should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the program or project's goals. 7. Institution's record/ability: Proposals should demonstrate an institutional record of successful exchange programs, including responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts. The Agency will consider the past performance of prior recipients and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. 8. Follow-on activities: Proposals should provide a plan for continued follow-on activity (without USIA support) which ensures that USIA supported programs are not isolated events. Proposal should demonstrate how activity will contribute to institution-building in the NIS. 9. Project evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the program, both as the activities unfold and at the end. USIA recommends that the proposal include a draft survey questionnaire or other technique plus description of a methodology for use in linking outcomes to original project objectives. Award-receiving organizations/institutions will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is concluded or quarterly, whichever is less frequent. 10. Cost-effectiveness: The overhead and administrative components of the proposal, including salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. 11. Cost-sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as institutional direct funding contributions. 12. Value to U.S.-partner country relations: Proposed projects will be reviewed by USIA's geographic area desk officer and overseas officers to assess the relevance to program need, potential impact, and significance in the partner country(ies). 13. Selection process: Proposals should provide a specific plan to ensure a selection based on merit and should include detailed criteria for selection of U.S. and NIS teacher and administrator as well as U.S. and NIS student participants. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. The needs of the program may require the award to be reduced, revised, or increased. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about February 15, 1995. Awards made will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: October 19, 1994. John P. Loiello, Associate Director, Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26456 Filed 10&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
