FR940916-1-00099 FR940916-1-00016 Section 232.103. This section contains design standards for conventional locomotive air brakes. The intent of this proposed section is to preserve the time-proven performance of the conventional locomotive air brake. Most of the design standards contained in this section were copied directly from §§229.47 through 229.57 of this chapter. Those provisions of Part 229 that are incorporated into this part will be removed from Part 229. Since these design standards apply totally to existing systems, they are very specific and leave little room for flexibility based on performance. The language regarding the emergency brake valve previously contained in §229.47 is changed to permit the brake pipe valve to be located under the console and to be operated manually by the use of an extension. Section 232.103(e) proposes a significant new design standard requiring that after January 1, 1996, certain new and rebuilt locomotives and yard air sources be equipped with air dryers. As noted in the discussion of cold weather operations and the analysis of §232.15(j), several parties commented on the widespread use of methanol and other alcohols in the trainline during cold weather operations. Although most railroads have operating rules banning the use of such chemicals, it is apparent that there is frequent use of these chemicals. Based on FRA experience and the statements of several commenters, it is evident that the use of chemicals in the trainline causes untimely wear and tear to brake system components and has a long-term detrimental effect on train air brakes. Consequently, FRA in §232.15(j)(2) proposes to ban the use of chemicals in the train air brake system. Furthermore, based on the comments of several parties, FRA believes that phasing in the use of air dryers in cold weather conditions will generally eliminate the perceived need to use alcohol and other foreign substances in the trainline and improve the performance of air brake systems in cold weather. Several railroad commenters indicated that air dryers are very effective in improving the cold weather performance of train air brake systems. In addition, several railroads commented that the benefits of air dryers justified making them standard on all their locomotives. As the accumulation of water in the air brake system has not been a problem with shorter trains, trains operated at lower speeds, or trains operated in warmer climates, FRA intends to except from the requirements of this section new and rebuilt locomotives that power trains and yard air sources that service trains operated exclusively in service that meets any of the following criteria: (a) The locomotive powers or the yard air source services only trains limited to speeds of 30 mph or less; (b) The locomotive powers or the yard air source services only trains of 20 or fewer cars; or (c) The locomotive powers or the yard air source services only trains not operated under cold weather conditions. Shortline and excursion railroads rarely, if ever, purchase new locomotives and rebuild very few locomotives that operate outside the exceptions noted above. Furthermore, based on the information gathered by FRA, there are virtually no shortline railroads that use or possess any yard air sources which service trains not excepted by this requirement. Due to the limited number of cars transported by most shortline railroads, these types of operations tend to use locomotives in their yards to charge the trainlines of cars awaiting transportation. Consequently, the economic impact of this requirement on shortline and excursion railroads is mitigated substantially. The performance required of the air dryer is within the performance capabilities of commercially available air dryers. In order to further develop and evaluate this proposal, FRA seeks comments from all interested parties regarding the following specific issues: (1) How effective are air dryers in reducing braking problems in cold weather by reducing moisture build-up in brake equipment?
