FR940620-2-00056 FR940620-2-00035 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 50&hyph;029] Yankee Atomic Electric Co., Yankee Nuclear Power Station, Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an exemption from the requirements of 10 CFR ยง140.11(a)(4) to Facility Operating License (Possession Only) No. DPR&hyph;3, issued to the Yankee Atomic Electric Company (YAEC or the licensee), for the Yankee Nuclear Power Station (YNPS or plant) located at the licensee site in Franklin County, Massachusetts. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The proposed action would grant an exemption from the requirements of 10 CFR ยง140.11(a)(4) to the extent that primary financial protection in the amount of $100 million (reduced from the current level of $200 million) shall be maintained and an exemption from participation in the industry retrospective rating plan (secondary level financial protection) should be granted for the YNPS. The licensee requested an amendment to the facility Indemnity Agreement No. B&hyph;17 in a letter dated September 28, 1992, as supplemented by letter dated January 19, 1993. However, the staff has determined that an exemption to 10 CFR ยง140.11(a)(4) is required before the licensee Indemnity Agreement may be amended as provided by the proposed exemption. The Need for the Proposed Action The plant was permanently shut down on October 1, 1991, and defueled during February 1992. The NRC in license Amendment No. 142, dated August 5, 1992, modified Facility Operating License No. DPR&hyph;3 to possession only status. The license is conditioned so that YAEC is not authorized to operate or place fuel in the reactor vessel, thus formalizing the licensee commitment to permanently cease power operations. The plant has not operated for more than two years and eight months, and radioactive decay has significantly reduced the radioactive nuclide inventory and decay heat of the spent fuel. Sufficient time has elapsed so as to significantly reduce the potential consequences of postulated accidents, in view of the low density storage of the fuel in the pool. The proposed exemption addresses two areas for relief of financial protection requirements: (1) a reduction in the primary financial protection coverage requirements from $200 million to $100 million and (2) withdrawal from participation in the industry retrospective rating plan (secondary level). As the YNPS no longer contributes risk to the industry retrospective rating plan as an operating plant, the reduction in risk associated with its current status should be reflected in the indemnification requirements to which the licensee is subject. The issuance of this exemption would allow a more equitable allocation of financial risk. Environmental Impact of the Proposed Action The proposed action does not involve any environmental impacts. The proposed exemption is in a subject area (changes in surety, insurance and/or indemnity requirements) for which the Commission in 10 CFR ยง51.22(c)(10) has determined that a license amendment would meet the criteria for categorical exclusion from the need for either an environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement. However, the Commission has nonetheless decided to prepare an environmental assessment for this specific action. Since the proposed action does not involve a change in plant operation or configuration, (1) there is reasonable assurance that the proposed action would not increase the probability or the consequences of an accident or reduce the margin of safety, (2) no changes would be made in the types or quantities of effluents that may be released offsite, and (3) there would be no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative radiation exposures. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that this proposed action would result in no significant radiological environmental impact. With regard to potential non-radiological impacts, the proposed action does not affect non-radiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant non-radiological impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded that there are no measurable environmental impacts associated with the proposed action, any alternative with equal or greater environmental impacts need not be evaluated. The principal alternative would be to deny the action. This would not reduce the environmental impacts associated with the plant and would not enhance protection of the environment or public health and safety. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not previously considered for the YNPS. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with a representative of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For further details with respect to this action, see the YAEC application dated September 28, 1992, and supplemental letter dated January 19, 1993, which are available for public inspection at the Commission Public Document Room, Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the Local Public Document Room for the YNPS at the Greenfield Community College, 1 College Drive, Greenfield, Massachusetts 01301. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 13th day of June 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Singh S. Bajwa, Acting Direction, Non-Power Reactors and Decommissioning Project Directorate, Division of Operating Reactor Support, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14918 Filed 6&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
