FR940721-2-00075 FR940721-2-00038 •Guiding principles for the application process; •Accessibility of the application process and the need for plain language forms and documents; •Marketing; •Waiting lists; •Occupancy standards; •Rent reform; •Screening applicants, including applicants with non-traditional tenant histories; •Reasonable accommodations in the application and screening process; •Disability-related inquiries; and •Determinations involving alcohol and controlled substances. Chapter 2_Management The application process ends when the housing provider makes the decision to admit an applicant. Next, the housing management process begins, encompassing orientation, execution of the lease, move-in, occupancy and lease compliance. The Task Force addressed the following topics within the housing management process; •Guiding Principles for the housing management process; •The lease; •Preventing and addressing lease violations; •Unit transfers; and •Retention of housing during hospitalization or residential treatment. Chapter 3_Evictions Eviction from public or assisted housing is a very serious sanction; it not only displaces the resident, it also discontinues the subsidy that makes housing affordable to that resident. Eviction is nonetheless occasionally necessary. Experience shows that some individuals are not willing to meet the essential obligations of tenancy and must be removed in order to preserve the viability of the housing development. Given the shortage of public and assisted housing, and the difficulty of preserving this housing, the Task force also stresses the need to remove those whose conduct is destructive to the development. An equitable eviction policy will authorize the eviction, in appropriate circumstances, of those residents whose conduct violates essential provisions of the lease, those whose conduct repeatedly violates minor provisions of the lease, and those who allow others to do so. The Task Force reviews the proper use of eviction as focusing generally on whether and how seriously the conduct in question adversely affects the housing community. In addition, the Task Force recommends that except as noted, the status, regulations, handbooks and lease provisions regarding eviction not be changed. The report addresses the following topics: •Alternatives to eviction; •Alternatives after eviction, to prevent homelessness; •Notices; •Drug abuse and drug related crime; •Criminal activity as grounds for eviction; •Former users of illegal drugs; •Fraud; •Minor crimes and off-premises criminal activity; •Public housing grievance procedure; •Residents' liability for the actions of others; •Consideration of all the facts and circumstances; •Criminal activity prior to admission; •Subsidy termination_certificate and voucher programs; and •Subsidy termination_assisted housing. Chapter 4_Reasonable Accommodations Reasonable accommodation is a creative, challenging and evolving area of disability law and practice, affecting every aspect of admissions, occupancy and evictions. The Task Force believes that, despite many uncertainties as to what is required by law, it is possible to craft sound, basic, reasonable accommodation policies and procedures which will satisfy the intent of the law without subjecting either persons with disabilities or housing providers to unintended burdens. This chapter tackles a wide range of reasonable accommodations issues with the intention of providing guidance on the procedural elements essential to achieving compliance. Specifically, the chapter is organized as follows: •Regulatory and case-law references that provide background on the concept of reasonable accommodation followed by brief discussion of program accessibility requirements (the self-evaluation and transition plan); •Discussion of a definition of reasonable accommodation; •Statement of principles applicable to reasonable accommodations, drawn from current law and regulation and describing both affirmative requirements and the regulatory limits placed on the implementation of the concept; •Examination of the regulatory limits that apply to accommodations (undue burdens and fundamental alterations); •Recommendations on effective implementation of reasonable accommodations;
