FR941028-2-00128 FR941028-2-00090 The Amex will accept initial trade data submissions in all listed bonds traded on the floor of the Amex from its clearing member organizations and compare the data through OCS. The compared trades then will be transmitted to the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC'') where the transactions will be printed on clearing members' contract sheets. NSCC then will complete the clearance and settlement process. Any uncompared trade will remain in OCS for resolution until resolved or canceled. 8 8 Cancel means to remove the transaction from the system. When there is an uncompared transaction and one party does not acknowledge the transaction, the floor official can authorize the close out of the transaction. However, where the transaction is acknowledged by both parties but one party does not acknowledge the transaction until T+2, the transaction must be canceled by the late acknowledging party and must be resubmitted as an ``as of'' trade. Expanding the Amex's on-line comparison system to include bond transactions will automate the Exchange's bond trade comparison and resolution system and will shorten the comparison cycle from T+2 to T+1. The Amex believes the proposal will reduce the risk exposure to investors and to Amex members and will contribute to the prompt and efficient clearance and settlement of securities transactions. The Amex also believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act and specifically with the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in that it will foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities and will protect investors and the public interest. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Amex does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Section 6(b)(5) of the Act requires that the rules of the Exchange be designed to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities and protect investors and the public interest. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) in that it will expand Amex's on-line comparison system to include bond transactions and will automate Amex's bond trade resolution system. In addition, the proposal will shorten the comparison cycle for bond transactions from T+2 to T+1, which is consistent with the conversion to a three business day settlement cycle. 9 9 For a complete description of Commission Rule 15c6&hyph;1 mandating a three business day settlement cycle for most broker-dealer transactions, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33023 (October 6, 1993), 58 FR 52891 [File No. S7&hyph;5&hyph;93] (``Rule 15c6&hyph;1 Adopting Release''). Amex has requested that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the filing. The Commission finds good cause for so approving the proposed rule change because it will allow Amex members to begin utilizing the New York Stock Exchange's OCS for bond transactions as soon as possible. In addition, Amex has distributed two information circulars to its members concerning the use of the New York Stock Exchange's OCS for bond transactions, and Amex has not received any comments. Further, the Commission published for comment the New York Stock Exchange's proposal to implement OCS, received no comments, and subsequently approved the proposal. 10 10 Securities Exchange Release Act No. 26527 (March 14, 1989); 54 FR 11470 [File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;88&hyph;36] (order granting approval to the New York Stock Exchange's OCS). IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submission should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington DC 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;44 and should be submitted by November 21, 1994. It Is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) that the proposed rule change is hereby approved. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 11 11 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26763 Filed 10&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
