FR940304-2-00046 FR940304-2-00034 Agreement Containing Consent Order In the Matter of: Columbia Healthcare Corporation, a corporation, and HCA-Hospital Corporation of America, a corporation. The Federal Trade Commission (``Commission''), having initiated an investigation into the proposed acquisition of HCA-Hospital Corporation of America (``HCA'') by Columbia Healthcare Corporation (``Columbia''), and it now appearing that Columbia and HCA, hereinafter sometimes referred to as proposed respondents, are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to divest certain assets and to cease and desist from certain acts; It is hereby agreed by and between Columbia and HCA, by their duly authorized officers and attorneys, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Columbia Healthcare Corporation is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Delaware, with its principal place of business at 201 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202. 2. Proposed respondent HCA-Hospital Corporation of America is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Delaware, with its principal place of business at One Park Plaza, Nashville, Tennessee 37203. 3. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 4. Proposed respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 5. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 6. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondents that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached, or that the facts as alleged in the draft complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true. 7. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondents, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following order to divest and to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to divest and to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondents' addresses as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation or interpretation not contained in the order or this agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order.
