FR940922-1-00036 FR940922-1-00008 Because ROM is useful to assess regional strategies in light of the transport of ozone and ozone precursors across a region, and is therefore critical to establishing boundary conditions for UAM models, it is also useful to assess the degree of transport across a region. The ROM studies discussed above therefore are a critical component of the best current information regarding the extent to which upwind areas contribute to exceedances of the ozone standard in downwind areas throughout the OTR. Use of these studies, together with regional trajectory analyses, to assess contribution between areas, is consistent with EPA's published guidance for conducting contribution analyses. 26 The OTC, too, relied on these approaches consistent with EPA's published guidance to establish the importance of addressing pollution that is transported throughout the OTR and to thereby support its recommendation that the LEV program is necessary region-wide. 26 See U.S. EPA, Doc. EPA&hyph;450/4&hyph;91&hyph;015, Criteria for Assessing the Role of Transported Ozone/Precursors in Ozone Nonattainment Areas (1991). EPA believes that the ROM studies, together with regional trajectory analyses, show that the large percentage reductions in NO X and VOC discussed above (on the order of 50% to 75% reductions, with somewhat less emphasis on VOC reductions outside the urban areas) are needed throughout the OTR for purposes of the downwind nonattainment areas to attain the NAAQS. EPA recognizes that these conclusions are based on ROM and trajectory analyses for the OTR as a whole, and that factual uncertainty remains regarding the precise degree of contribution for individual small subunits of the modeled domain to ozone violations in other areas, and the amount of emissions reductions needed to prevent such contribution. To assess such contribution for each subunit in the grid would require a myriad of sensitivity tests that are extremely complicated. This is because contribution from one area to another can be enormously difficult to isolate. The significance of any particular area's contribution depends on the controls that have been implemented in other areas that share the same airshed. The interrelationship between the ROM and UAM models illustrates this point. The strategies needed in the urban areas depend on what is being done in other areas that affects UAM boundary conditions, and the strategies applied in all of the areas determines the boundary conditions. In short, upwind areas may need to do somewhat less to avoid causing downwind exceedances if the downwind areas themselves do more, but the upwind areas may need to do more if the downwind areas do less. And this relationship must account for such variables in the many areas that share air throughout the northeast. While recognizing these complications and the associated factual uncertainties, modeling and wind trajectory analyses show that emissions transport from OTR areas in an arc extending from the south and southwest to the northwest substantially affect nonattainment areas along the East Coast urban corridor. The OTC's technical support document for its recommendation 27 contains several analyses that support this conclusion. These analyses relate wind trajectory data to monitored ozone data during three multi-day ozone exceedance episodes in 1992 and 1993, as well as the July 1988 episode that was the subject of the ROMNET study discussed above. These analyses also relate monitoring data at mountaintop sites during these episodes that indicate a broad region-wide buildup of ozone as the episodes progress. For the 1992 and 1993 episodes, the wind trajectory data together with the timing of high ozone readings at relatively rural sites in the northern part of the OTR support the conclusion that transport from the East Coast urban corridor toward the northeast portions of the OTR leads to high regional ozone over a prolonged period. 27 See ``The Long Range Transport of Ozone in the Ozone Transport Region'' (January 1994). The analysis of the July 1988 episode relies heavily on EPA's ROMNET study. The ROMNET results indicate that emissions within the East Coast urban corridor have a dominant impact on predicted ozone levels within the corridor when emissions levels are very high. The conclusion that corridor-wide emissions play a dominant role in affecting predicted high ozone concentrations is consistent with findings in a subsequent study EPA has performed for the OTC. 28 The ROMNET study separately modeled the impact of similar large percentage reductions (60%) in NO X emissions first in OTR nonattainment areas, second in OTR attainment areas and third in the four states bordering the OTR. The modeling showed that ozone levels in the urban corridor were more sensitive to reductions in the nonattainment areas (which are mostly in the urban corridor). This was because the actual quantity of emissions and hence the amount eliminated through a 60% reduction was greater in the urban corridor, and because these reductions were closer to the problem. However, as shown in the ROMNET study, emissions from outside the urban corridor have an increasingly important impact as the emissions within the corridor are reduced. Since modeling indicates that very large reductions inside the urban corridor are needed to approach the NAAQS, EPA expects that large reductions outside the urban corridor will also become increasingly important and in fact necessary for the nonattainment areas in the urban corridor to reach the NAAQS. 28 See Report of OTC Modeling Committee, ``Sensitivity of Regional Ozone to Reductions in NO X and VOC Emissions: Results of Phase III ROM Analyses'' (Section 9)(Winter 1993 Meeting). In addition to the study of these three episodes on which the OTC relied, EPA has reviewed additional surface and aloft wind trajectory information. This information was generated from ROM wind fields for each of the days analyzed in the four UAM modeling studies for purposes of attainment demonstrations currently underway for the four UAM modeling domains in the OTR. In all, EPA analyzed twenty-five days during 1987, 1988 and 1991. EPA has found that on more than 80% of these days surface winds 29 are from the south to southwesterly direction. This surface wind orientation is consistent with a large cumulative impact of emissions along the northeast urban corridor. EPA also found that, on about 70% of the days, winds aloft 30 originate from directions ranging from west-southwest through northwest. This wind aloft orientation is consistent with a longer range impact on the northeast urban corridor from sources located anywhere from the west-southwest through the northwest of each of the OTR nonattainment areas in the urban corridor. This would include sources in the western and northwestern portions of the OTR and beyond. 29 Surface winds in a ROM analysis represent wind flow in the lowest 100&hyph;300 meters of the atmosphere. 30 Winds aloft in a ROM analysis represent an average over a layer from 300 meters to about 1500 meters above ground.
