FR940524-2-00040 FR940524-2-00027 Part I: Support and enhancement of existing State cancer registries (Section 399H). Approximately $11 million is available in FY 1994 to fund up to 40 States to support and enhance existing State registries. It is expected that the average award to support and enhance an existing State registry will be $300,000, ranging from $150,000 to $1,000,000. Part II: Planning and implementation of statewide cancer registries (Section 3991). Approximately $3 million is available in FY 1994 to fund approximately 10 awards to plan and implement a statewide cancer registry in States where one does not exist. It is expected that the average award will be $300,000, ranging from $150,000 to $400,000. Awards for both Part I and Part II are expected to begin on or about September 1994 and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 5 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. Additional funds may become available in support of building public health information infrastructure in FY 1994. Recipient Financial Participation Recipient financial participation is required for this program announcement in accordance with the authorizing legislation for Part I applicants only: A. Recipients of funds under Part I must agree, with respect to the costs of the program, to make available (directly or through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions toward such costs in an amount that is not less than 25 percent of such cost or $1 for every $3 of Federal funds provided in the grant. [Sec. 399H(b)(1)] B. In determining the amount of non-Federal contributions under A. (above), the recipient may include only such contributions as are in excess of the amount of such contributions made by the State toward the collection of data on cancer for the fiscal year preceding the first year of funding under this announcement. CDC may decrease the amount of non-Federal contributions required if the State can demonstrate that decreasing such amount is appropriate because of financial hardship. [Sec. 399H(b)(2)]. Applicants will be notified of the details regarding criteria for defining ``financial hardship'' and the process for deciding eligibility when they become available. Non-Federal contributions may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant extent by the Federal Government, may not be included in determining the amount of such non-Federal contributions. Purpose The purpose of these awards is to establish a national program of cancer registries by supporting States in their efforts to (Part I) enhance State cancer registries to become statewide, population-based, registries that meet minimum standards of completeness, timeliness, and quality, and (Part II) plan and implement statewide, population-based cancer registries where they do not currently exist. The national goals of this program are to rapidly establish and standardize the reporting of cancer among the States in order to provide: (1) Timely feedback for evaluating progress toward achieving cancer-control objectives that include the ``Healthy People 2000'' objectives; (2) data to identify cancer incidence variation for ethnic groups and for regions within a State, between States, and between regions; (3) guidance for health resource allocation; (4) data to evaluate State cancer-control activities; and (5) information to improve planning for future health care needs.
