FR941103-0-00034 FR941103-0-00007 This golden rule has several implications. First, for purposes of setting FERC-jurisdictional rates, costs must be allocated between jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional customers in a consistent way, to determine the cost responsibility of the two sets of customers. 24 24 The Commission is not in any way suggesting any interference with state authority to determine the appropriate ratemaking methodology for bundled retail sales. Second, when a utility uses its own transmission system to make off-system sales, it should ``pay'' for transmission service at the same price that third-party customers pay for the same service, and credit the transmission revenues to its native load customers. This treatment restricts the transmission owner's ability to gain an unfair advantage in the bulk power market by selling itself transmission service at a discount that would be subsidized by native load and transmission-only customers. 25 25 In PSI, for example, the Commission required that PSI take transmission service under its own transmission tariff when making market-based power sales. The Commission adopted this approach to prevent PSI from using its transmission ownership to exercise an unfair competitive advantage in wholesale power markets. Public Service Company of Indiana, Inc., Opinion No. 349, 51 FERC ¶ 61,367 at 62,201 (1990), order on rehearing, PSI Energy, Inc., 52 FERC ¶ 61,260, order granting clarification, 53 FERC ¶ 61,131 (1990), appeal dismissed sub nom. Northern Indiana Public Service Co. v. FERC, 954 F.2d 736 (D.C. Cir. 1992). Pricing comparability does not mean that the Commission is endorsing an end result in which there are no differences in prices paid by various customers. For example, the Commission is not suggesting that prices must be based on highly aggregated costs so that all customers face a uniform rate per kWh of service. Rather, we are receptive to pricing proposals that disaggregate costs in order to give better price signals to all users of the system_third parties and the transmission owner itself. Such disaggregation still permits different customers to pay different prices. Pricing comparability does not rule out such a result. Finally, comparability of pricing includes certainty of pricing. A transmission customer should have pricing certainty comparable to that of the transmitting utility, e.g. , the same transmission pricing certainty for long-term power contracts as the transmitting utility has. 3. Transmission Pricing Should Promote Economic Efficiency Section 212(a) of the FPA, as amended by EPAct, states that transmission pricing should promote economically efficient generation and transmission of electricity. 26 In our view, this means that transmission pricing should promote good decision-making and foster: 26 16 U.S.C. 824k(a). •Efficient expansion of transmission capacity; •Efficient location of new generators and new load; •Efficient use of existing transmission facilities, including the efficient allocation of constrained capacity through appropriate market clearing mechanisms; and •Efficient dispatch of existing generating resources. To the extent practicable, transmission rates should be designed to reflect marginal costs, 27 rather than embedded costs, in a manner consistent with the remaining principles. We favor marginal cost prices in order to promote efficient decision-making by both transmission owners and users. 28 In the short-run, marginal transmission costs are primarily line losses and, when lines are congested, opportunity costs. In the long-run, marginal transmission costs include all the costs of the transmission system and support services. The Commission recognizes the complexity of estimating marginal cost on the transmission grid and of implementing pricing that follows marginal transmission costs, but we encourage experimentation in this area. 29 On a case-by-case basis, we will balance the desirability of more economically efficient price signals against the additional complexity of implementing such pricing. 27 Alfred Kahn, infra n.28, defines marginal cost as ``[t]he cost of producing one more unit; it can equally be envisioned as the cost that would be saved by producing one less unit.'' 28 See 1 Alfred E. Kahn, The Economics of Regulation 63&hyph;86. 29 Such proposals should be fully supported, with as much detail as possible. See New England Power Company, Opinion No. 352, 52 FERC ¶ 61,090 (1990), reh'g denied, Opinion No. 352&hyph;A, 54 FERC ¶ 61,055 (1991), aff'd sub nom. Town of Norwood, Massachusetts v. FERC, 962 F.2d 20 (D.C. Cir. 1992). 4. Transmission Pricing Should Promote Fairness As a general matter, transmission pricing should be fair and equitable. This has two important implications. First, the EPAct requires that, to the extent practicable, existing wholesale, retail and transmission customers should not pay for the costs incurred in providing wholesale transmission services ordered under section 211. Similarly, we do not believe that third-party transmission customers should subsidize existing customers. We believe this principle should apply equally to transmission services under both section 211 and sections 205 and 206.
