FR941110-1-00089 FR941110-1-00011 The current regulation requires all companies that destroy or transform controlled substances, regardless of whether or not they were produced or imported explicitly for transformation or destruction, to maintain records and to report to EPA the amounts of substances destroyed or transformed within 45-days of the end of the control period (annually). Facilities that transform or destroy controlled substances that were explicitly produced or imported for transformation or destruction must submit an IRS certificate of intent to transform or a destruction verification to the producer when the substance is sold or transferred. The producer reports to EPA quarterly the quantities sold or transferred for transformation or destruction with a copy of the IRS transformation certification or the destruction verification. EPA requires the information from both the producer/importer and the transformer/destroyer to crosscheck and verify the quantity of controlled substances claimed to be produced or imported without expended allowances explicitly because it was for transformation or destruction. (iv) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for transformers of controlled substances produced or imported for intended emissive uses. Under the current regulation, a person who transforms a controlled substance that was produced for intended emissive uses may request additional production allowances or consumption allowances from the Agency. The current regulation lists the information the Agency must receive to consider a request for additional production allowances in §82.9(c) and for additional consumption allowances in §82.10(b). A person may only request additional production allowances and consumption allowances for the transformation of class I controlled substances (except methyl bromide) that were produced for intended emissive uses during the remaining control period from January 1, 1995, to January 1, 1996. A person transforming methyl bromide that was produced for intended emissive uses may request additional production and/or consumption allowances until January 1, 2001. EPA proposes waiving the annual reporting requirement for transformation facilities that receive controlled substances that were produced or imported for intended emissive uses, as long as the facility does not request from EPA additional production or consumption allowances before January 1, 1996, and does not request transformation credits after January 1, 1996. If a person transforms a controlled substance produced or imported for intended emissive use for which additional production or consumption allowances are requested from EPA during the control period from January 1, 1995, until January 1, 1996, or for which transformation credits are requested from the Agency after January 1, 1996, the transformer must report to the Agency the name and quantity of substance transformed at the end of the control period. The proposed recordkeeping and reporting requirements for a transformer who requests transformation credits (beginning after January 1, 1996) are similar to the current requirements for obtaining additional production allowances as listed under §82.9(c). Effective January 1, 1996, a person who transforms a class I controlled substance (except methyl bromide) that was produced or imported for intended emissive use may submit specific information to EPA requesting transformation credits (see Section A.1.c., ``The Post-Phaseout Procedures for Granting Destruction or Transformation Credits). The following information must be submitted to request transformation credits: _The identity and address of the person requesting the credits; _The name, quantity, and volume of controlled substance transformed; _A copy of the invoice or receipt documenting the sale of the controlled substance to the person; _The name of the use system from which the controlled substance was recovered; (v) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for destroyers of controlled substances produced or imported for intended emissive uses. Under the current regulation, all facilities that destroy controlled substances that were produced or imported for intended emissive uses are required to report the names and quantities of class I substances destroyed within 45-days of the end of the control period. In addition, these destroyers may request additional production allowances and/or consumption allowances from EPA under the current regulation in §82.9(c) and §82.10(b). EPA proposes waiving the annual reporting requirement for destruction facilities that receive controlled substances that were produced or imported for intended emissive uses, as long as the facility does not request from EPA additional production or consumption allowances before January 1, 1996, and does not request destruction credits after January 1, 1996. However, if a person destroys a controlled substance produced or imported for intended emissive use for which additional production or consumption allowances are requested from EPA during the control period from January 1, 1995, until January 1, 1996, or for which destruction credits are requested from the Agency after January 1, 1996, the destroyer must report to the Agency the name and quantity of substances destroyed at the end of the control period. The recordkeeping and reporting requirements for a destroyer who requests destruction credits (beginning after January 1, 1996) are similar to the information now required for additional production allowances as listed under §82.9(c). Effective January 1, 1996, a person who destroys a class I controlled substance (except methyl bromide) that was produced or imported for intended emissive use may submit specific information to EPA requesting destruction credits (see Section A.1.c. for a description of the ``The Post-Phaseout Procedures for Granting Destruction and Transformation Credits''). The information someone must submit to request destruction credits is: _The identity and address of the person requesting the credits; _The name, quantity, and volume of controlled substance destroyed; _A copy of the invoice or receipt documenting the sale of the controlled substance to the person; _The name of the use system from which the controlled substance was recovered; _The efficiency of the destruction process. (vi) Recordkeeping and reporting for exporters of controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed. The current regulation has no specific recordkeeping or reporting requirements for exporters of controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed. All exporters of controlled substances, regardless of whether the substance is exported for an intended emissive use, for transformation or for destruction, must submit the information listed under §82.13(h) to the Agency annually.
