FR940513-1-00066 FR940513-1-00017 B. Pollutants To Be Regulated The pollutants to be regulated are all VOC and HAP emitted during marine tank vessel loading and unloading operations. C. Proposed Standards The proposed standards are developed under sections 183(f) and 112(d) of the Act. As discussed above, section 183(f) requires the promulgation of standards implementing reasonably available control technology (RACT). Section 112(d) requires the promulgation of maximum achievable control technology (MACT), which is selected using different criteria than are used for determining RACT. As a result, RACT standards developed under section 183(f) have somewhat different applicability criteria, as well as a different level of emissions reduction, compared to the section 112(d) MACT standards. However, the majority of requirements (e.g., reporting, recordkeeping, performance tests, monitoring) are identical. In order to simplify the regulatory process, both sets of standards, RACT and MACT, are presented in a single regulation and proposed under 40 CFR part 63. 1. Proposed RACT Standards Existing and new sources exceeding either of the throughput cutoffs of 790 million liters per year (L/yr) (5 million barrels per year (bbl/yr)) of gasoline or 16 billion L/yr (100 million bbl/yr) of crude oil must meet the RACT requirement of capture and control of vapors from marine vessel loading operations. The EPA believes that approximately 25 terminals will be required to install controls under these proposed standards. The RACT for marine vessel loading operations is a capture system consisting of a vapor tight marine vessel and all of the piping and equipment necessary to route all VOC vapors to a control device connected to either a thermal destruction device or a recovery device. If a thermal destruction device is used to process vapors, 98 percent destruction efficiency must be achieved. If a recovery device is used to process the vapors, 95 percent recovery must be achieved, or as an alternative, for recovery of gasoline vapor emissions, a source must ensure an outlet concentration of 1,000 parts per million by volume (ppmv) or less. 2. Proposed MACT Standards New marine vessel loading operations exceeding 1 megagram per year (Mg/yr) (1.1 tons per year) of uncontrolled HAP emissions that are located at major sources must meet the MACT requirement of capture and control of vapors from marine vessel loading operations. The MACT for new marine vessel loading operations is a capture system consisting of a vapor tight marine vessel and all of the piping and equipment necessary to route all VOC vapors to a control device that is capable of reducing HAP emissions to the atmosphere by 98 percent. Existing marine vessel loading operations exceeding approximately 1 Mg/yr of HAP emissions that are located at major sources must meet the same vessel tightness requirements as new sources. The EPA believes that approximately 300 terminals will be affected by these proposed standards. These operations will have a MACT emissions requirement of 93 percent emission reduction. Control devices used to achieve this emission limit are required to operate at 95- and 98 percent removal efficiencies respectively. However, these facilities have the option of exempting emissions of one or more commodities from control provided an overall 93 percent emission reduction is achieved. This overall emission reduction may be demonstrated by controlling all but a few commodities loaded. Partial control of any given commodity would not be allowed under the proposed compliance provisions. At both new and existing sources, emissions from ballasting operations would be prohibited. Emissions of HAP from steam stripping used to regenerate carbon beds when carbon adsorption is used to control emissions from marine vessel loading operations would also be prohibited under today's proposed standards. 3. Source Reduction and Recycling The Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;508; 42 U.S.C. 13101 et seq., ER 71:0501) establishes the following pollution prevention hierarchy as national policy: a. Pollution should be prevented or reduced at the source wherever feasible; b. Pollution that cannot be prevented should be recycled in an environmentally safe manner wherever feasible;
