FR941028-2-00155 FR941028-2-00109 Comments: Increase the recommended turnaround time for stat smears for laboratories unable to use rapid methods and remove the term ``stat smears'' from recommendations. Response: Reemphasized the importance of rapid laboratory results. Discouraged batching of specimens and added the recommendation that laboratories that perform mycobacterial tests infrequently refer specimens to an experienced laboratory. Removed the term ``stat smears''. D. Management of Patients in Ambulatory Care Settings and Emergency Rooms Comments: Clarify the requirement that patients should wear surgical masks but that health care workers (HCWs) must wear particulate respirators. Response: Added a footnote to explain the rationale for each: one to protect the worker from infection and the other to decrease the amount of droplet nuclei in the air produced by the patient. Comments: Do not require isolation rooms in all ambulatory care settings. Response: Restated and clarified that if TB patients are seen infrequently or not at all in a facility, an isolation room is not needed. However, there must be a protocol for referral and periodic risk assessment. E. Management of Hospitalized Patients With TB Comments: Do not require isolation for most or all pediatric patients. Response: Provided some examples of potentially infectious pediatric TB patients and added a section explaining the need to evaluate parents as possible source of infection. Comments: Radiology should not, and in many facilities, cannot have a separate area for TB patients. Response: Clarified the section to refer only to facilities where many TB patients are seen. Comments: Provide clearer recommendations for visitors and their use of respiratory protection. Response: Expanded the recommendations to make clearer. Comments: Requiring three negative smears to release a patient from isolation is excessive and unnecessary, especially for suspected TB cases. Response: Clarified: if TB has been ruled out, there is no need to retain the patient in isolation. Reiterated that if TB has been confirmed the patient should have three consecutive negative sputum smears collected on different days. Comments: The recommendation that TB patients not be discharged to home if an HIV-infected person or young children are in the household is potentially problematic. Response: Clarified that this is one of many factors that should be taken into consideration when planning to discharge TB patients, not a hard-and-fast rule. Comments: Labeling door TB Isolation would breach patient confidentiality. Response: Recommended using the term Isolation rather than TB Isolation giving hospitals the flexibility to label doors according to individual policies or practices.
