FR940630-0-00040 FR940630-0-00012 Public Comments The Director solicited public comments and provided an opportunity for a public hearing on the proposed amendment submitted on October 1, 1993. No public comments were received, and because no one requested an opportunity to testify at a public hearing, no hearing was held. The Director reopened the public comment for the revised amendment submitted on April 5, 1994. No comments were received. Agency Comments Pursuant to 30 CFR 732.17(h)(11)(i), the Director solicited comments from the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the heads of other Federal agencies with an actual or potential interest in the Alabama program. No comments were received. Environmental Protection Agency Under 30 CFR 732.17(h)(11)(ii), the Director is required to obtain the written concurrence of the Administrator of the EPA with respect to any provisions of a State program amendment that relate to air or water quality standards promulgated under the authority of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq .) or the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ). The Director has determined that this amendment contains no provisions in these categories and that EPA's concurrence is not required. V. Director's Decision Based on the above findings, the Director is approving the program amendment submitted by Alabama on October 1, 1993, and revised on April 5, 1994. The Federal regulations at 30 CFR Part 901 codifying decisions concerning the Alabama program are being amended to implement this decision. This final rule is being made effective immediately to expedite the State program amendment process and to encourage States to bring their programs in conformity with the Federal standards without delay. Consistency of State and Federal standards is required by SMCRA. VI. Procedural Determinations Executive Order 12866 This rule is exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review). Executive Order 12778 The Department of the Interior has conducted the reviews required by section 2 of Executive Order 12778 (Civil Justice Reform) and has determined that, to the extent allowed by law, this rule meets the applicable standards of subsections (a) and (b) of that section. However, these standards are not applicable to the actual language of State and Tribal abandoned mine land reclamation plans and revisions thereof since each such plan is drafted and adopted by a specific State or Tribe, not by OSM. Decisions on proposed State and Tribal abandoned mine land reclamation plans and revisions thereof submitted by a State or Tribe are based on a determination of whether the submittal meets the requirements of Title IV of SMCRA (30 U.S.C. 1231&hyph;1243) and the Federal regulations at 30 CFR Parts 884 and 888. National Environmental Policy Act No environmental impact statement is required for this rule since agency decisions on proposed State and Tribal abandoned mine land reclamation plans and revisions thereof are categorically excluded from compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4332) by the Manual of the Department of the Interior [516 DM 6, appendix 8, paragraph 8.4B(29)]. Paperwork Reduction Act This rule does not contain information collection requirements that require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. et seq. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Department of the Interior has determined that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq .). The submittal which is the subject of this rule is based upon corresponding Federal regulations for which an economic analysis was prepared and certification made that such regulations would not have a significant economic effect upon a substantial number of small entities. Accordingly, this rule will ensure that existing requirements previously promulgated by OSM will be implemented. In making the determination as to whether this rule would have a significant economic impact, the Department relied upon the data and assumptions in the analyses for the corresponding Federal regulations.
