FR940304-1-00115 FR940304-1-00014 The rest of the comments on range/oven product classes argued that the Department had proposed far too many different classes in the September 1990 advance notice. As mentioned, Aloha Systems, Inc. recommended a single product class for electric cooktops. The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the California Energy Commission, and the Ohio Office of the Consumers' Council all stated that there are too many classes for conventional ranges and ovens. (Aloha Systems, Inc. No. 2 at 1; American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 1; Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 25, California Energy Commission, No. 24 at 5; and Ohio Office of the Consumers' Council, No. 60 at 9). ENTEX proposed that the Department specify freestanding, drop-in, and slide-in ovens and wall ovens as one class. (ENTEX, No. 58 at 6). Whirlpool Corporation, a manufacturer of ranges and ovens, suggested that DOE not analyze those classes with low sales volumes, and instead restrict the analysis to the following nine classes: Electric cooktops with open coil elements; electric cooktops with solid disk elements; standard or catalytic electric ovens; self-cleaning electric ovens; conventional or sealed burner gas cooktops (with and without power cords); standard or catalytic gas ovens (with and without power cords) and self-cleaning gas ovens. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 16). Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that three of the classes listed in the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for gas cooktops, conventional burners with electrical cords, conventional burners without electrical cords and sealed burners, should be consolidated into two classes, namely, conventional and sealed burners with electrical cords and conventional and sealed burners without electrical cords. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 47, 48). After considering the comments and reviewing the data, the Department believes that many of the classes proposed in the September advance notice were not warranted on a utility and performance basis. For this proposed rule, four product classes were considered for electric cooktops: Low or high wattage open (coil) elements, smooth cooktops, grill with or without downdraft feature, and griddle with or without downdraft feature. The baseline cooktop element selected for smooth cooktops is a solid disk element. As compared to open coil element cooktops, smooth cooktops are much easier to clean. Because cleanability is a consumer utility, the Department believes that a separate class is warranted for smooth cooktops. Induction cooking, halogen lamps, and radiant elements were considered as design options for smooth cooktops and assessed according to the economic characteristics of the particular design. Because of the small amount of empirical data on grill and griddle cooktops, the Department was unable to analyze these classes. In addition, the DOE test procedure is presently unable to measure grill or griddle energy consumption, and the Department has not proposed to include the testing of grills or griddles. As a result, the Department is not proposing any standard for these two classes. Four product classes are now considered for gas cooktops: Conventional burners, grill with or without downdraft feature, griddle with or without downdraft feature, and warming/simmer burners. For other designs, the Department does not believe that significant utility issues exist, for example, in the ability of the appliance to operate during electric outages, which would require that classes be established into gas cooktops with and without electrical cords. Between 90 and 93 percent of residential electricity customers experience no electric outages longer than four hours per year. 28 Designs which use electricity were evaluated on their economic advantages and disadvantages. Other classes in the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (sealed and radiant burners) were considered as design options for conventional cooktops. There were no utility issues warranting separate classes for sealed and radiant burners. As with electric cooktops, because of the small amount of empirical data on grill and griddle cooktops and warming burners, the Department was unable to analyze these classes. In addition, the DOE test procedure is presently unable to measure grill, griddle or warming burner energy consumption, and the Department has not proposed to include the testing of grills, griddles or warming burners. As a result, the Department is not proposing any standard for these three classes. 28 A.P. Sanghvi, 1990. Cost-Benefit Analysis of Power System Reliability: Determination of Interruption Costs . Prepared by RCG/Hagler/Bailly Inc. for Electric Power Research Institute EL&hyph;6791, vol 2, p3&hyph;3.
