FR941216-0-00030 FR941216-0-00010 (f) If the foregoing procedure results in a tie between a foreign offer as evaluated and a domestic offer, award shall be made on the domestic offer. In such case, offers proposing to use any foreign construction material will be considered to be foreign offers. (g) For evaluation purposes under paragraph (c) above, the following information and any applicable supporting data based on the canvass of suppliers shall be included in the offer for the use of one or more other foreign construction materials: Foreign and Domestic Construction Materials Cost Comparison 1Construction material description 1Unit of measure 1Quantity 1Cost (dollars)1 Item 1: Foreign construction material $ Comparable domestic construction material $ Item 2: Foreign construction material $ Comparable domestic construction material $ 1Include all delivery costs to the construction site and any applicable duty. (End of Provision) Alternate I (JAN 1994). If Alternate I is used, paragraphs (a) and (f) of the basic clause should be deleted and the following paragraphs (a) and (f) substituted. In addition, two asterisks should be inserted after the phrase ``Foreign construction material'' each time it appears in the chart in paragraph (g) and the following explanation added at the bottom of the chart ``*␣*␣* Do not include EC or NAFTA country construction materials.'' (a) The Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10) generally requires that only domestic construction material be used in performing this contract. However, the Memorandum of Understanding between the United States of America and the European Community (EC) on Government procurement and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) exempt EC and NAFTA country construction material from application of the Buy American Act. (See FAR 52.225&hyph;15 ``Construction Materials under European Community and NAFTA Agreements''). Therefore, the Contractor shall use only domestic construction material, EC construction materials, or NAFTA country construction materials in the performance of this contract except for other foreign construction materials, if any, listed below. ``Other foreign construction material,'' as used in this provision, means construction material that is not EC or NAFTA country construction material as defined in FAR 52.225&hyph;15. (List applicable excepted materials or indicate ``none.'') (f) If the foregoing procedure results in a tie between an offer that includes other foreign construction material as evaluated and an offer that includes domestic, EC or NAFTA construction material, award shall be made on the offer providing domestic, EC or NAFTA construction material. Dated: November 30, 1994. Ida M. Ustad, Associate Administrator for Acquisition Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30817 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;61&hyph;M
