FR941019-0-00048 FR941019-0-00007 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Bureau of Export Administration 15 CFR Parts 773, 778, and 799 [Docket No. 941081&hyph;4281] RIN 0694&hyph;AB05 Revisions to the Export Administration Regulations: Exports of Sample Shipments and Mixtures Containing Precursor and Intermediate Chemicals; Revision to Australia Group Members AGENCY: Bureau of Export Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Interim rule. SUMMARY: The Bureau of Export Administration (BXA) maintains the Commerce Control List (CCL), which appears in the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). This rule amends the CCL by revising Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) 1C60. This ECCN controls dual-use precursors and intermediate chemicals useful in the production of chemical warfare agents. In addition this rule makes an editorial correction by removing ECCN 1C64E for Di-isopropylcarbodiimide (C.A.S. # 693&hyph;13&hyph;0) and di-cyclohexocarbodiimide (C.A.S. # 538&hyph;75&hyph;0), which was inadvertently readmitted to the Commerce Control List. The changes made by this rule are based on recent discussions in the Australia Group (AG). Finally, this rule revises the list of countries eligible to receive Australia Group (AG) benefits under U.S. regulations to include the Czech Republic and remove Turkey. DATES: This rule is effective October 19, 1994. The reporting requirement for sample shipments will not be applicable until January 17, 1995. Comments must be received by November 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments (six copies) should be sent to Sharron Cook, Bureau of Export Administration, Department of Commerce, P.O. Box 273, Washington, DC 20044. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For questions on foreign policy controls, call Patricia Sefcik, Bureau of Export Administration, Telephone: (202) 482&hyph;0707. For questions of a technical nature on chemical weapon precursors, biological agents, and equipment that can be used to produce chemical and biological weapons agents, call James Seevaratnam, Bureau of Export Administration, Telephone: (202) 482&hyph;2729. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background At the December 1993 meeting of the Australia Group, the delegates discussed certain technical revisions in the Australia Group's harmonized controls on chemical weapons precursors. The changes discussed at the meeting were further modified at the May 1994 meeting, and are contained in this interim rule. These changes refine the scope of controls on exports of sample shipments and mixtures containing controlled precursor and intermediate chemicals. This rule does not address controls on biological agents. This interim rule revises ECCN 1C60, which controls precursor and intermediate chemicals useful in the production of chemical warfare agents, as follows: ECCN 1C60 (1) Note 1 to 1C60 is revised to modify the general license treatment for sample shipments containing controlled chemical precursors to eligible destinations (all destinations except Iran, Syria, Country Groups S and Z, and countries subject to an embargo administered by the Department of the Treasury). Previously, all 54 precursor chemicals were eligible for sample shipments. Under the revised rule ␣␣␣␣ 0-Ethyl-2-diisopropylaminoethyl methylphosphonite (QL) (C.A.S. # 57856&hyph;11&hyph;8), Ethylphosphonyl difluoride (C.A.S. # 753&hyph;98&hyph;0), and Methylphosphonyl difluoride (C.A.S. # 676&hyph;99&hyph;3) are not eligible for sample shipments. General license treatment for sample shipments to eligible destinations has been available for a single sample shipment of a 55-gallon container or less of each chemical to any one consignee per calendar year. Exporters may continue to export a single sample shipment of a 55-gallon container (or approximately 200 kg) or less of each chemical except the three excluded chemicals, for research or evaluation purposes to any one consignee per calendar year. The exporter is now required to submit, to BXA within 30 days of each sample shipment, a written report on company letterhead stationery that details the chemical(s), Chemical Abstract Service Registry (C.A.S.) number(s), quantity(ies), the ultimate consignee's name and address, and the date exported. Information contained in the reports is subject to applicable confidentiality provisions. (2) Note 2 to 1C60 is revised to modify control of exports and reexports of mixtures that contain controlled chemical precursors. Previously, controls on controlled chemicals extended to any mixtures containing those chemicals, unless the chemical was merely an impurity that was not intentionally added or was a normal ingredient in consumer goods intended for retail sales. This revision adds a three tier approach to a Note regarding mixtures under ECCN 1C60. The first tier lists three chemicals that require a validated license ``regardless of the concentrations in the mixture''. The second tier lists twenty chemicals that require a validated license when at least one of the precursors constitutes more than 10 percent of the weight of the mixture on a solvent free basis. The third tier includes the remaining precursor chemicals, not already covered by the first two tiers, and explains that a validated license is required if at least one of the precursors constitutes more than 25 percent of the weight of the mixture on a solvent free basis. The retail product exemption is continued, regardless of percentage of the controlled chemical, provided the product is formulated as a consumer good packaged for retail sale for personal use. The exemption for unintended impurities is removed since such impurities generally fall within one of the applicable de minimis levels. This rule also provides a definition of ``mixtures''. In light of the changes made by this rule, it is the Department's position that the provisions of §776.12 of the EAR do not apply to mixtures containing controlled chemical precursors, because mixing of chemicals does not constitute incorporation within the meaning of §776.12. Turkey has been removed from the list of countries excepted from the requirement for a validated license under Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) 1C60C. Because the Government of Turkey has not adopted AG-comparable export controls, a validated license is required for all AG-list chemical precursors identified under ECCN 1C60C until such time as appropriate export controls are in place.
