FR940617-1-00035 FR940617-1-00012 In response to the advance notice of proposed rulemaking and reopening of the administrative record for alcohol drug products for topical antimicrobial OTC use published in the Federal Register of May 21, 1982 (47 FR 22324), one comment objected to the statement of identity in proposed §333.98(a) which read, ``alcohol for topical antimicrobial use,'' (47 FR 22324 at 22332). The comment stated that this term would be confusing to the consumer and suggested the term ``antiseptic for the skin.'' The agency agrees that OTC topical antimicrobial drug products need not have multiple statements of identity. In reviewing the statements of identity recommended by the Antimicrobial I Panel (39 FR 33103), i.e., health-care personnel handwash, patient preoperative skin preparation, skin antiseptic, surgical hand scrub, and the statement of identity recommended by the Miscellaneous External Panel (47 FR 22324), i.e., alcohol for topical antimicrobial use, the agency has determined that the general term ``antiseptic'' broadly describes all proposed product categories and reflects the basic intended uses of these products. The agency believes that the statement of identity of ``multiple purpose skin prep'' or ``skin prep'' recommended by one comment would not as clearly and succinctly describe the use of these products as the statement of identity ``antiseptic.'' As discussed in section I.B., comment 5, the agency is also proposing an additional term ``antiseptic handwash'' as a statement of identity to describe products for home use. As discussed in the first aid antiseptic segment of this rulemaking (56 FR 33644 at 33647), the term ``skin'' has been deleted from the previously proposed statement of identity ``skin antiseptic.'' Although several comments felt that the word ``skin'' was superfluous, the agency has no objection to the statement ``antiseptic for the skin'' or ``skin antiseptic'' appearing elsewhere in the labeling of these products as additional information to the consumer or health-care professional, provided it does not appear in any portion of the labeling required by the monograph and does not detract from such required information. (See section I.I., comment 19.) As stated in the first aid antiseptic segment of this rulemaking (56 FR 33644 at 33647), the agency believes that the term ``antiseptic'' is readily understood by consumers. The agency also finds this to be true for health professionals. The agency is therefore proposing the term ``antiseptic'' as the general statement of identity for all OTC topical antimicrobial ingredients included in this tentative final monograph. Further, FDA is also proposing that manufacturers may have an option to provide an alternate statement of identity describing only the specific intended use(s) of the product. Specifically, the agency is proposing that the statement of identity for antiseptic drug products in §333.450(a) read as follows: ``The labeling of a single-use product contains the established name of the drug, if any, and identifies the product as an `antiseptic' and/or with the appropriate statement of identity described in §§333.455(a), 333.460(a), or 333.465(a). The labeling of a multiple-use product contains the established name of the drug, if any, and may use the single statement of identity `antiseptic' and/or the appropriate statements of identity described in §§333.455(a), 333.460(a), and 333.465(a). When `antiseptic' is used as the only statement of identity on a single-use or a multiple-use product, the intended use(s), such as patient preoperative skin preparation, is to be included under the indications. For multiple-use products, a statement of the intended use should also precede the specific directions for each use.'' The agency believes that the proposed labeling for these multiple-use products is flexible and provides manufacturers with a number of options. However, the agency recognizes that some manufacturers may wish to label their antiseptic drug products with all of the allowable indications for a particular active ingredient and that this may give rise to difficulties in incorporating all of the information on a product's various uses in the limited space on an OTC label. The agency wishes to point out that some portions of the proposed indications are optional, i.e., the examples included in both the antiseptic and health-care personnel handwash indications, and need not be incorporated in the labeling at all. In addition, manufacturers are free to design ways of incorporating all the information on the various uses of their drug product through the use of flap labels, redesigned packages, or package inserts.
