FR940314-1-00015 FR940314-1-00004 (2) The FAA may impose schedules other than those proposed, upon finding that such changes are necessary to ensure that any other Level 3 corrosion is detected in a timely manner. (3) Within the time schedule approved under paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this AD, accomplish the basic tasks in the affected aircraft zones of the remaining Model F&hyph;27 series airplanes in the operator's fleet. (e) If, as a result of any inspection after the initial inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this AD, it is determined that corrosion findings exceed Level 1 in any area, within 60 days after such determination, implement a means, approved by the FAA, to reduce future findings of corrosion in that area to Level 1 or better. (f) Before any operator places into service any airplane subject to the requirements of this AD, a schedule for the accomplishment of basic tasks required by this AD must be established in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this AD, as applicable: (1) For airplanes previously maintained in accordance with this AD, the first basic task in each aircraft zone to be performed by the new operator must be accomplished in accordance with the previous operator's schedule or with the new operator's schedule, whichever would result in the earlier accomplishment date for that task. After each basic task has been performed once, each subsequent task must be performed in accordance with the new operator's schedule. (2) For airplanes that have not been previously maintained in accordance with this AD, the first basic task for each aircraft zone to be performed by the new operator must be accomplished prior to further flight or in accordance with a schedule approved by the FAA. (g) Within 7 days after the date of detection of any Level 3 corrosion, and within 3 months after the date of detection of any Level 2 corrosion, submit a report to Fokker of such findings, in accordance with section 2.5 of the Document. Note 11: Reporting to the FAA of Level 2 and Level 3 corrosion found as a result of any opportunity inspections is highly desirable. (h) An alternative method of compliance or adjustment of the compliance time, which provides an acceptable level of safety, may be used when approved by the Manager, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate. Operators shall submit their requests through the cognizant Maintenance Inspector at the appropriate FAA Flight Standards office, who may concur or comment and then send it to the Manager, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113. Note 12: Information concerning the existence of approved alternative methods of compliance with this AD, if any, may be obtained from the Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113. (i) Special flight permits may be issued in accordance with FAR 21.197 and 21.199 to operate the airplane to a location where the requirements of this AD can be accomplished. (j) Reports of inspection results required by this AD have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ) and have been assigned OMB Control Number 2120&hyph;0056. Issued in Renton, Washington, on March 8, 1994. Darrell M. Pederson, Acting Manager, Transport Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5850 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;U
