FR940506-2-00039 FR940506-2-00022 Corps of Engineers Availability of Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Proposed Anacostia River and Tributaries, District of Columbia and Maryland Feasibility Study AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Baltimore District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: The Baltimore District of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers investigated the feasibility of construction of fish and wildlife restoration measures in the Anacostia River basin. The District Engineer recommends the restoration of 80 acres of wetlands, t miles of streams and 33 acres of bottomland habitat. The feasibility study of the potential restoration actions was conducted under authority of a U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Public Works and Transportation resolution adopted September 8, 1988. The non-Federal sponsors for the feasibility phase of the project are: Montgomery County, Prince Georges County, the District of Columbia, the State of Maryland, the Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin, and the Metropolitan Washington Counsel of Governments. DATES: Written comments must be submitted by June 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments to: Colonel J. Richard Capa, District Engineer, P.O. Box 1715, Attn: CENAB&hyph;PL&hyph;PR, Baltimore, Maryland 21203&hyph;1715. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Marak McKevitt, Study Manager, (410) 962&hyph;2650. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. The U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Public Works and Transportation, authorized the Anacostia River and Tributaries study in a resolution adopted on September 8, 1988. The resolution requested the Corps of Engineers to determine if further improvements for flood control, navigation, erosion, sedimentation, water quality and other related water resources needs are advisable on the Anacostia River and Tributaries. 2. The Anacostia River basin is a 170-square-mile sub-basin of the Potomac River. Headwaters of the Anacostia River are in the Piedmont and coastal plain areas of Montgomery and Prince Georges Counties, Maryland and it joins with the Potomac River in the District of Columbia. The entire river system is freshwater; although, the total tidal influence extends for approximately 9 miles above the confluence with the Potomac River. 3. The Corps of Engineers involvement in the basin dates back more than 115 years and includes projects and programs for navigation, flood control, debris removal and aquatic vegatation control. These Federal actions have served their intended purposes well and have benefited the area in terms of improved navigation and reduced flood damage. However, from 1902 through the 1960s, project construction eliminated approximately 2,600 acres of wetlands, 99,000 linear feet of aquatic habitat and 700 acres of bottomland hardwoods. These ecosystems performed numerous beneficial ecological functions for the Anacostia basin and the associated Potomac River and Chesapeake Bay. One of the primary functions of these ecosystems is fish and wildlife habitat. Historically, the Anacostia River basin contained a diverse assemblage of fish and wildlife species. However, populations of many species have sharply declined due to the habitat loss and degradation in the Anacostia basin.
