FR941102-1-00049 FR941102-1-00012 40 CFR Part 721 [OPPTS&hyph;50611; FRL&hyph;4582&hyph;2] RIN 2070&hyph;AB27 Dihydro-7a-methyl-1 H ,3 H ,5 H -oxazolo[3,4-c]oxazole; Proposed Significant New Use Rule AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: EPA is proposing a significant new use rule (SNUR) under section 5(a)(2) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) for the chemical substance described as dihydro-7a-methyl-1 H ,3 H ,5 H -oxazolo[3,4-c]oxazole, which is the subject of premanufacture notice (PMN) P&hyph;91&hyph;1324. This proposal would require certain persons who intend to manufacture, import, or process this substance for a significant new use to notify EPA at least 90 days before commencing any manufacturing or processing activities for a use designated by this SNUR as a significant new use. The required notice would provide EPA with the opportunity to evaluate the intended use and, if necessary, to prohibit or limit that activity before it can occur. DATES: Written comments must be received by EPA on or before December 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments must be sent in triplicate to: OPPT TSCA Document Receipt Officer (7407), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E&hyph;G99, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Comments that are claimed as confidential business information (CBI) must be clearly marked CBI. If CBI is claimed, three additional copies of the comments without the CBI must also be submitted. Nonconfidential versions of comments on this proposed rule will be placed in the rulemaking record and will be available for public inspection in the TSCA Nonconfidential Information Center (NCIC) located in Rm. NE&hyph;B607. Comments should include the docket control number. The docket control number for the chemical substance in this SNUR is OPPTS&hyph;50611. Unit VI. of this preamble contains additional information on submitting comments containing information claimed as CBI. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan B. Hazen, Director, Environmental Assistance Division (7408), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E&hyph;543B, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460, Telephone: (202) 554&hyph;1404, TDD: (202) 554&hyph;0551. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposed SNUR would require persons to notify EPA at least 90 days before commencing the manufacture, import, or processing of the substance dihydro-7a-methyl-1 H ,3 H ,5 H -oxazolo[3,4-c]oxazole for the significant new uses described herein. The required notice would provide EPA with information with which to evaluate an intended use and associated activities. I. Authority Section 5(a)(2) of TSCA (15 U.S.C. 2604(a)(2)) authorizes EPA to determine that a use of a chemical substance is a ``significant new use.'' EPA must make this determination by rule after considering all relevant factors, including those listed in section 5(a)(2). Once EPA determines that a use of a chemical substance is a significant new use, section 5(a)(1)(B) of TSCA requires persons to submit a notice to EPA at least 90 days before they manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance for that use. Section 26(c) of TSCA authorizes EPA to take action under section 5(a)(2) with respect to a category of chemical substances. Persons subject to this SNUR would comply with the same notice requirements and EPA regulatory procedures as submitters of premanufacture notices under section 5(a)(1) of TSCA. In particular, these requirements include the information submission requirements of section 5(b) and (d)(1), the exemptions authorized by section 5(h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(3), and (h)(5), and the regulations at 40 CFR part 720. Once EPA receives a SNUR notice, EPA may take regulatory action under section 5(e), 5(f), 6, or 7 to control the activities for which it has received a SNUR notice. If EPA does not take action, section 5(g) of TSCA requires EPA to explain in the Federal Register its reasons for not taking action. Persons who intend to export a substance identified in a proposed or final SNUR are subject to the export notification provisions of TSCA section 12(b). The regulations that interpret section 12(b) appear at 40 CFR part 707. II. Applicability of General Provisions General regulatory provisions applicable to SNURs are codified at 40 CFR part 721, subpart A. Regulatory provisions covering user fees applicable to significant new use notices are codified at 40 CFR part 700 under the authority of TSCA section 26(b). Interested persons may refer to these sections for further information. III. Background EPA is proposing to establish significant new use and recordkeeping requirements for the following chemical name dihydro-7a-methyl-1 H ,3 H ,5 H -oxazolo[3,4-c]oxazole. The proposed SNUR designates as significant new uses: 1. Exposure to the PMN substance without ocular protection (chemical goggles or equivalent eye protection). 2. Any predictable or purposeful release of the PMN substance to surface water above 500 ppb (parts per billion). On August 19, 1991, EPA received a PMN (P&hyph;91&hyph;1324) for dihydro-7a-methyl-1 H ,3 H ,5 H -oxazolo[3,4-c]oxazole. EPA had concerns that the substance may be a severe eye irritant based on test data available on other aliphatic amines and oxazoles. Also, based on that data, irritation to the exposed eye is exacerbated by irrigation. In a letter to the Company dated December 6, 1991, EPA predicted that releases of spent metalworking fluids containing the PMN substance could result in surface water concentrations as high as 16 ppm (parts per million). Assuming rapid hydrolysis of the PMN substance, the resulting surface water concentration is expected to significantly exceed the Agency's level of concern for the hydrolysis product. To mitigate the Agency's concern regarding aquatic toxicity, the company was required to perform a 96&hyph;h bioassay in algae (40 CFR 797.1050), a 48&hyph;h LC50 test in daphnids (40 CFR 797.1300), and a 96&hyph;h LC50 test in fish (40 CFR 797.1400). Based on the results of this information, the Agency would reassess its surface water concentration estimates for the PMN substance and its hydrolysis products. The letter also recommended that each worker exposed to the PMN substance be required to wear adequate ocular protection once they were allowed to manufacture or import. EPA has concerns for environmental effects of the PMN substance based on quantitative structure activity relationships (``QSARs'') derived from test data on analogous aliphatic amines and oxazoles. The following ecotoxicity values for the PMN substance were predicted: 307 mg/L for fish 96&hyph;h LC50, 19 mg/L for daphnid 48&hyph;h LC50, and 21 mg/L for algal 96&hyph;h EC50, and algal chronic value (ChV) = 3.4 mg/L, with a concentration of concern of 0.200 mg/L. The Company suspended the PMN review period and conducted the 96&hyph;h bioassay in algae, 48&hyph;h LC50 test in Daphnia , and 96&hyph;h LC50 test in fish. The data was completed and submitted to the Agency for validation and review. The results of the studies were acceptable; however, suggestions from the Agency in performing the studies were not followed. For the aquatic toxicity testing, the Agency recommended that the PMN substance be tested two ways: The PMN substance added directly to the exposure vessels and organisms added within 10 minutes, and the PMN substance tested completely hydrolyzed. The Company tested the PMN substance two ways, but they did not test by direct dilution. Direct dilution is adding the PMN substance directly to exposure vessels without the preparation of a stock solution. They prepared an aqueous stock solution which they added to the exposure vessels. Preparing an aqueous stock solution resulted in some unknown amount of hydrolysis, thus reducing the difference between the two recommended tests, i.e. unhydrolyzed PMN versus completely hydrolyzed PMN substance. The Agency accepted the test data, however, because (1) the unhydrolyzed PMN substance was predicted to be less toxic than the hydrolysis products of the PMN substance and (2) the hydrolysis t 1/2 (half-life) of the PMN substance appeared to be much shorter than predicted during the initial review. The results from the first type, i.e., case (1), of toxicity study were as follows: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ lFish 96&hyph;h LC50 l46.0 mg/L lDaphnid 48&hyph;h LC50 l34.0 lGreen algal 96&hyph;h EC50 l1.33 lFish chronic value (ChV) l5.0 lDaphnid ChV l3.0 lAlgal ChV l1.0 The fish and daphnid ChVs were predicted assuming an acute to chronic ratio (ACR) = 10.0. In reviewing the studies where complete hydrolysis had taken place, i.e., case (2), the results were as follows: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ lFish 96&hyph;h LC50 l200.0 mg/L lDaphnid 48&hyph;h LC50 l100.0 lGreen algal 96&hyph;h EC50 l5.8 lFish ChV l20.0 lDaphnid ChV l10.0 lAlgal ChV l4.6 lAssessment factor (AsF) l10.0 lConcentration of concern (COC) l0.500 mg/L (ppm) The fish and daphnid acute toxicity values were predicted by calculating the difference between the partially and completely hydrolyzed chemical using test data for green algal 96&hyph;h EC50 values, i.e., a factor of 4.0. The fish and daphnid ChVs were predicted assuming an ACR = 10.0. No other additional testing was recommended by the Agency. The review period inadvertently expired prior to EPA making a final determination on the PMN substance. The Company stated that they did not expect to commence manufacturing the PMN substance any time in the near future, but did not withdraw the PMN from review. The only releases which may exceed the concern concentration would occur during use. It was predicted that 99 percent of the PMN substance would undergo hydrolysis; however, negligible removal of the hydrolysis products was expected during wastewater treatment. The surface water concentration of hydrolysis products resulting from releases from large metalworking shops is the only situation in which EPA expects the concern concentration would be exceeded. Based on the completed review of toxicity data on the PMN chemical submitted to the Agency and the use scenario described in the PMN application, releases to surface water exceeding 500 ppb would be toxic to aquatic organisms. Therefore, the issuance of a Non-5(e) Notice and Comment SNUR requiring the use of ocular protection for workers who will be exposed to the PMN substance and any releases of the PMN substance to surface water resulting in surface water concentrations above 500 ppb would be considered a significant new use. IV. Applicability of SNUR to Uses Occurring Before Effective Date of the Final SNUR EPA has decided that the intent of section 5(a)(1)(B) is best served by designating a use as a significant new use as of the date of proposal rather than as of the effective date of the final rule. If uses which commence between that date and the effective date of the final rule were considered ongoing, rather than new, any person could defeat the SNUR by initiating a significant new use before the effective date. This would make it difficult for EPA to establish SNUR notice requirements. Thus, persons who begin commercial manufacture, import, or processing of the substance for uses identified in this SNUR after the proposed date of the final rule will have to cease any such activity before the effective date of the rule. To resume their activities, such persons would have to comply with all applicable SNUR notice requirements and wait until the notice review period, including all extensions, expires. EPA, not wishing to unnecessarily disrupt the activities of persons who begin commercial manufacture, import, or processing of a significant new use before the effective date of the SNUR, has promulgated provisions to allow such persons to comply with this proposed SNUR before it is promulgated. If a person were to meet the conditions of advance compliance as codified at §721.45(h), the person would be considered to have met the requirements of the final SNUR for those activities. If persons who begin commercial manufacture, import, or processing of the substance between proposal and the effective date of the SNUR do not meet the conditions of advance compliance, they must cease that activity before the effective date of the rule. To resume their activities, these persons would have to comply with all applicable SNUR notice requirements and wait until the notice review period, including all extensions, expires. V. Economic Analysis EPA has evaluated the potential costs of establishing significant new use notice requirements for potential manufacturers, importers, and processors of the chemical substance. The Agency's complete economic analysis is available in the public record for this proposed rule (OPPTS&hyph;50611). VI. Comments Containing Confidential Business Information Any person who submits comments claimed as CBI must mark the comments as ``confidential,'' ``trade secret,'' or other appropriate designation. Comments not claimed as confidential at the time of submission will be placed in the public file. Any comments marked as confidential will be treated in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR part 2. Any party submitting comments claimed to be confidential must prepare and submit a nonconfidential public version in triplicate of the comments that EPA can place in the public file. VII. Rulemaking Record EPA has established a record for this rulemaking (docket control number OPPTS&hyph;50611). The record includes basic information considered by the Agency in developing this proposed rule. EPA will supplement the record with additional information as it is received. EPA will accept additional materials for inclusion in the record at any time between this proposal and designation of the complete record. EPA will identify the complete rulemaking record by the date of promulgation. A public version of the record, without any CBI, is available in the TSCA Nonconfidential Information Center (NCIC) from 12 noon to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays. The TSCA NCIC is located in Rm. NE&hyph;B607, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC. VIII. Regulatory Assessment Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to all the requirements of the Executive Order (i.e., Regulatory Impact Analysis, review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)). Under section 3(f), the order defines a ``significant regulatory action'' as an action likely to lead to a rule: (1) Having an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely and materially affecting a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities (also referred to as ``economically significant''); (2) creating serious inconsistency or otherwise interfering with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially altering the budgetary impacts of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raising novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of this Executive Order, it has been determined that this rule is not ``significant'' and is therefore not subject to OMB review. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), EPA has determined that this proposed rule would not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses. EPA has determined that approximately 10 percent of the parties affected by the rule could be small businesses. However, EPA expects to receive few SNUNs for these substances. Therefore, EPA believes that the number of small businesses affected by the rule will not be substantial, even if all of the SNUR notice submitters were small firms. C. Paperwork Reduction Act OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this proposed rule under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), and has assigned OMB control number 2070-0012. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 30 to 170 hours per response, with an average of 100 hours per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Chief, Information Policy Branch (2131), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460; and to Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.'' The final rule will respond to any OMB or public comments on the information requirements contained in this proposal. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 721 Environmental protection, Chemicals, Hazardous materials, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Significant new uses. Dated: October 25, 1994. Joseph A. Carra, Acting Director, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics. Therefore, it is proposed that 40 CFR part 721 be amended as follows: PART 721_[AMENDED] 1.The authority citation for part 721 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2604, 2607, and 2625(c). 2. By adding new §721.5540 to subpart E to read as follows: §721.5540 Dihydro-7a-methyl-1 H ,3 H ,5 H -oxazolo[3,4-c]oxazole. (a) Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting. (1) The chemical substance dihydro-7a-methyl-1 H ,3 H ,5 H -oxazolo[3,4-c]oxazole is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Protection in the workplace. Requirements as specified in 40 CFR §721.63(a)(2)(iii) (data indicate that irritation is exacerbated by irrigation), (a)(3). (ii) Release to water. Requirements as specified in §721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 500 ppb). (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. (1) Recordkeeping requirements. The recordkeeping requirements specified in §721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance. (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. The provisions of §721.185 apply to this significant new use rule. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27102 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
