FR940607-2-00122 FR940607-2-00075 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Internal Revenue Service [Delegation Order No. 236] Delegation of Authority AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Delegation of authority. Summary: The Delegation Order is extended to rollover and recurring issue settlements effected by Appeals with respect to the same taxpayer in the previous or subsequent tax periods. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Harry E. Lebedun, CP:EX:C:C, Room 2032 1111 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20224, (202)&hyph;622&hyph;3373 (not a toll free number). Order No. 236 (Rev. 1). Effective Date: 6&hyph;3&hyph;94. Settlement Authority for Examination Case Managers. The authority vested in the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue by Treasury Order Nos. 150&hyph;04, 150&hyph;09 and 150&hyph;10 and the authority contained in 26 U.S.C. & 7121 is hereby delegated as follows: 1. All District Directors, Examination division chiefs, Examination branch chiefs, and Examination case managers are delegated discretionary authority under section 7121 of the Internal Revenue Code to accept settlement offers, regardless of the amount of liability sought to be compromised, with respect to rollover and recurring issues in Coordinated Examination Program cases where a settlement on the merits has been effected by Appeals with respect to the same taxpayer in a previous or subsequent tax period. Prior to finalization, the proposed settlement, together with any related closing agreement or Form 870AD, shall be substantively reviewed and approved by the appropriate branch chief within the Examination function. 2. For purposes of this delegation of limited settlement authority, the terms ``rollover'' and ``recurring'' issues are defined as follows: (a) A ``rollover'' issue involves an adjustment arising from the same legal issue in the same transaction or taxable event and impacts more than one tax period. For example, the rate of amortization or depreciation of an asset, bad debt losses, basis and inventory adjustments and the like, when related to the same transaction and which affect future tax periods, would be susceptible to case manager settlement where a settlement on the merits has been reached in Appeals in a previous tax period with respect to the same taxpayer. (b) A ``recurring'' issue involves an adjustment arising from the same legal issue in a separate transaction or a repeated taxable event in which the taxpayer advances the same legal position with respect to such similar transaction or repeated taxable event as advanced by such taxpayer in a prior tax period. For example, the method of depreciation with respect to similar assets, the use of the same accounting method with respect to similar transactions, the annual computation of such deductions as depletion, the computation of certain tax credits and the like, when advanced by the same taxpayer in later tax periods would be susceptible to case manager settlement where a settlement on the merits has been reached by Appeals in a previous tax period with respect to the same taxpayer. 3. No settlement shall be effected unless the following factors are present in the tax year currently under Examination jurisdiction: (a) The facts surrounding a transaction or taxable event in the tax period under examination, including the relative amounts at issue, are substantially the same as the facts in the settled period. (b) The underlying issue must have been settled on its merits independently of other issues in a previous or subsequent tax period by Appeals. (c) The legal authority relating to such issue must have remained unchanged. (d) The issue must have been settled in Appeals with respect to the same taxpayer (including consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries) in a previous tax period. 4. All District Directors, Examination division chiefs, Examination branch chiefs, and Examination case managers are delegated authority to execute closing agreements and the Form 870AD in order to effect any final settlement reached with respect to any rollover or recurring issue in a Coordinated Examination Program case. 5. The authority delegated in this Order may not be redelegated. 6. The authority contained in this Order is intended to supplement the authority contained in Delegation Order No. 97 (as amended). Dated: May 21, 1994. Approved: Michael P. Dolan, Deputy Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13813 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4830&hyph;01&hyph;U
