FR940228-2-00143 FR940228-2-00083 The Secretary may subsequently conduct an external study or studies of the effectiveness and lessons learned from projects funded under this program. If he does so, projects will be required to cooperate with the conduct of the study, by sharing their experiences, project evaluations, and data. Regarding priority 1, the Secretary is concerned that the Nation's schools encourage too few minority and female students to study and pursue careers in the fields of mathematics and science. The Secretary believes that the well-documented underrepresentation of minorities and women in these disciplines represents a waste of human talent that the Nation can ill afford. This priority would therefore support, and learn from, projects that seek to stimulate and sustain the interest and attainments of female and minority children in mathematics and science. Regarding priority 2, the Secretary believes that environmental education can stimulate students' interest in scientific fields and enhance their understanding of these disciplines. The Secretary also believes that environmental issues are important in their own right and are, therefore, eminently worthy of study. The Secretary finds, however, that environmental education programs of high quality are available in too few of the Nation's schools, in part because American teachers have very limited opportunities to increase their knowledge of environmental issues and to learn the most successful means of providing environmental education. The Secretary proposes, therefore, to support and learn from projects in professional development for teachers in environmental education. The Secretary draws to the attention of potential applicants responding to priority 2 the National Consortium for Environmental Education and Training (NCEET) at the University of Michigan, an undertaking funded by the Environmental Protection Agency under section 5 of the National Environmental Education Act of 1990. NCEET's primary emphasis is professional development for teachers in environmental education. Potential applicants should consult with NCEET to ensure that their projects are not duplicative of the National Consortium's efforts. The Secretary will announce the final priorities in a notice in the Federal Register . The final priorities will be determined by responses to this notice, available funds, and other considerations of the Department. Funding of particular projects depends on the availability of funds, the nature of the final priorities, and the quality of the applications received. The publication of these proposed priorities does not preclude the Secretary from proposing additional priorities; nor does it limit the Secretary to funding only these priorities, subject to meeting applicable rulemaking requirements. Note: This notice of proposed priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under this competition will be published in the Federal Register concurrently with or following publication of the notice of final priorities. Applications are not available at this time. However, to have your name placed on a mailing list, please write to: Dwight D. Eisenhower National Program for Mathematics and Science Education, 555 New Jersey Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20208&hyph;5572, or FAX your request to: Eisenhower Program: 202&hyph;219&hyph;2106. Absolute Priorities Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary proposes to give an absolute preference to applications that meet one of the following priorities. Each application shall respond to only one of the two priorities, although an applicant could submit more than one application to respond to more than one priority. The Secretary funds under this competition only applications that meet one of these absolute priorities: Proposed Priority 1_Encouraging Female and Minority Students in Mathematics and Science The Secretary will support model projects designed to stimulate and sustain the interest and attainments of female and minority children in mathematics and science.
