FR940826-2-00087 FR940826-2-00055 5. Buy-Back The detailed requirements of Sections V.A through V.D of the proposed Final Judgment are intended to mitigate the effects of lock-in insofar as they make it possible for AT&T to raise the costs of McCaw's rivals, and otherwise adversely affect competition in cellular or wireless service or infrastructure equipment markets. To provide additional assurance that AT&T will abide by these requirements, Section V.E provides that AT&T may be required to buy back the cellular infrastructure equipment it has sold to an unaffiliated customer that competes with McCaw if it violates any of its duties under Sections V.A through V.D. The buy-back obligation will be triggered if the United States determines that AT&T has violated any of its duties under Sections V.A. through V.D to an unaffiliated cellular carrier in any area(a) where that carrier competes with McCaw or a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System and (b) where the unaffiliated cellular carrier has deployed or contract to deploy an AT&T equipped cellular system prior to entry of the judgment. Thus, if a carrier currently uses AT&T equipment in a market where it competes with McCaw, and AT&T were to fail to provide software upgrades to that carrier's system in that market in violation of Section V.B, the buy-back obligation of Section V.E might be triggered. If, however, AT&T failed to provide software upgrades to that carrier's system in a market in which that carrier did not compete with McCaw or a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System, the buy-back obligation would not be triggered. If AT&T is required by the United States to buy equipment back from an unaffiliated customer, the price shall be the original purchase price of the equipment purchased or contract for by the carrier for use in that system prior to entry of the judgment, less depreciation as calculated on a straight-line basis over a period of ten years for switches and eight years for all other hardware. These periods were selected as generally consistent with what the United States understood to be the useful lives of such equipment. AT&T shall also refund the proportionate share of all monies paid for unused portions of software licenses, and shall release the customer from future obligations relating to cellular infrastructure equipment deployed in that system. In order to assure that buy-back is meaningfully available to customers in a reasonably timely manner, Section V.D gives the United States the sole and unreviewable discretion to determine whether that AT&T has violated any of its duties under Sections V.A through V.D of the judgment. An expeditious determination of whether buy-back has been triggered is necessary if the locked-in customer is to decide whether to replace a system, and subjecting that determination to litigation delays would make the buy-back remedy ineffectual. AT&T has irrevocably waived any right to appeal, contest or otherwise challenge the determination of the United States. It is not intended that this section create any private rights on behalf of any AT&T customer, nor that any such customer have any right to appeal, contest or otherwise challenge any determination by the United States pursuant to Section V.E, inasmuch as the purpose of the section is to aid in the enforcement of ad secure compliance with Sections V.A through V.D of the judgment. It is the intention of Section V.E that buy-back be a remedy to ensure compliance with the proposed Final Judgment, and that in determining whether to impose the requirement the United States will consider the seriousness of the violation, its effect on competition, whether it is part of a pattern of noncompliance, and any other relevant factors. Section V.E also permits the United States, in its sole discretion, to appoint an independent fact-finder to conduct the investigation or factual determination of any issue raised in connection with any alleged violation, reserving to the United States the right to make a final determination. In the event of such an appointment, the losing party ( i.e. , the customer or AT&T) shall pay all costs and fees of the fact-finder. The United States will not undertake proceedings to determine whether buy-back should be required except on the application of and with the consent of the affected customer, including consent to the payment of costs and fees.
