FR940505-1-00056 FR940505-1-00012 For policy as well as legal reasons, this resolution makes sense, and it avoids extreme results. On the one hand, it would be unhelpful for EPA to design the FIP to meet the old law requirements that have since been repealed. And for EPA to impose in 1995 a regulatory regime that became extinct in 1990 would surely not serve Congressional intent or constitute sound regulatory policy. On the other hand, it would equally disserve Congressional intent to compel these FIPs, which are not based on state failures to meet any requirements of the new Act, to meet all those requirements and to cure failures that were not part of the obligation that the Court orders preserved. In the Coalition case, the Ninth Circuit Court itself seemed to imply that EPA's FIP need not address new requirements when it noted that the state could ``propose these new measures as revisions to the FIP under the timetables provided in the 1990 Amendments just as the state would be required to do if a FIP had been in effect when those Amendments were adopted''. Coalition for Clean Air, 971 F.2d at 226. Indeed, if the FIP were to try to meet all the requirements of the new Act, it would have to anticipate and cure new failures before they had arisen under the new Act, and before the State has had an opportunity to develop and submit plans to comply with the new Act. This would violate the express congressional determination that ``air pollution prevention'' and ``air pollution control at its source is the primary responsibility of States and local governments.'' Section 101(a)(3). Thus, EPA has concluded that the FIPs must cure the original failure to demonstrate attainment. But in these FIPs the Agency need not assume additional obligations to meet new requirements as to which no state delinquency has yet been established under the new Act, or as to which EPA's FIP obligation has not yet matured. b. The FIPs Must Demonstrate Attainment_(1) What Attainment Deadline Governs? (a) Background. The Ninth Circuit last addressed the issue of what attainment deadline applied to a pre-Amendment FIP obligation in Delaney v. EPA, 898 F.2d 687 (9th Cir. 1990). But at that time the attainment deadline in the then extant Clean Air Act_December 31, 1987_ had passed, and Congress had not yet extended it. In a March 1990 opinion, prior to the passage of the Clean Air Act Amendments, the Ninth Circuit vacated EPA's approval of two Arizona carbon monoxide SIPs, and ordered EPA to promulgate FIPs consistent with that court's opinion. Interpreting EPA's statutory requirement to develop a FIP in light of the elapsed statutory attainment date of December 31, 1987, the Court concluded that ``the national ambient air quality standards must be attained as soon as possible with every available control measure *␣*␣*.'' 898 F.2d at 691. The Court relied upon EPA guidance, subsequently revoked, for the part of its formulation requiring ``all possible measures'' or ``every available measure.'' 55 FR 36505 (September 5, 1990). The Court, in formulating this attainment test, made plain that, while it understood that a Congressional re-determination of the attainment deadlines was in the works, the Court was constrained until Congress acted. Thus, at the time the Delaney Court and EPA last struggled to define an appropriate FIP attainment deadline, they confronted not only a lapsed attainment deadline, but Congressional silence as to an appropriate replacement. Quoting from its opinion in Abramowitz v. EPA, 832 F.2d 1071, 1079 (9th Cir. 1987), the Delaney Court stated: ``We are informed by counsel for both sides of their expectation that Congress will extend the deadline once again in the near future, but we must apply the law as it now stands, not as it may become. *␣*␣* Until the Clean Air Act is further considered *␣*␣* the Agency must `give effect to the unambiguously expressed intent of Congress.' We, and the EPA, are bound by the statutory scheme until Congress alters that scheme.'' 898 F.2d at 691. (b) Current law. Now, however, Congress has indeed ``alter[ed] that scheme'', the new law applies, and EPA, in formulating its FIPs, has the benefit of Congressional determination of appropriate attainment dates. With the passage of the Clean Air Act Amendments, Congress has made specific attainment deadline determinations with respect to each type of area. As with other aspects of the new law, EPA believes that the attainment dates of the new law apply. Indeed, even if it were not clear that the new attainment dates apply, it is now impossible to design FIPs to meet the 1987 attainment date that governed the original state plans, and there is a clear expression of Congressional intent as to substitute attainment deadlines. As noted above, under the new Act, the ozone attainment date must be ``as expeditiously as practicable but not later than'' November 15, 1999 for Sacramento; November 15, 2005 for Ventura; and November 15, 2010 for the South Coast. Section 181(a). The carbon monoxide attainment date for the South Coast must be ``as expeditiously as practicable but not later than'' December 31, 2000. (2) These FIPs need not address new requirements other than the requirement to demonstrate attainment. As shown above, EPA's obligation to design a FIP arose from state failures to demonstrate attainment under the old Clean Air Act. The Amendments imposed for the first time additional, different requirements that were not in effect when EPA disapproved the state plans giving rise to its FIP obligation, and which took effect after EPA's FIP obligation matured. Thus California was given no opportunity to meet these requirements in its previous SIPs, and any failure to meet these requirements would be a new delinquency that was not the subject of EPA's original FIP obligation. EPA therefore has concluded that the FIPs need not address these requirements unless and until California has failed to satisfy them and the time for EPA to promulgate a replacement FIP under the new Act has elapsed.
