FR940104-2-00054 FR940104-2-00035 Fish and Wildlife Service Notice of Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for Lesser Long-Nosed Bat for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the lesser long-nosed bat ( Leptonycteris curasoae yerbabuenae ) which the Service listed as an endangered species in 1988 (FR 38460; September 30, 1988). The lesser long-nosed bat occurs in southern Arizona, southwest New Mexico and the western and southern portions of Mexico. This species is migratory and is found in the United States during the summer. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before March 7, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 3616 West Thomas Road, suite 6, Phoenix, Arizona 85019. Written comments and material regarding the plan should be addressed to the State Supervisor at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Please phone Lesley Fitzpatrick, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Fish and Wildlife Service Biologist; at telephone 602/379&hyph;4720 (see ADDRESSES ). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened plant or animal to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe the site specific management actions considered necessary for conservation and survival of the species, establish objectives, and measurable criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting species, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service, and other affected Federal agencies, will take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The lesser long-nosed bat occurs in caves and mines in southern Arizona from approximately May through September. Both maternity colonies and night roosts are found in the state. Wintering areas for bats that summer in the United States are not defined. Maternity colonies and other types of roosts are found in western and southern Mexico. Management issues and concerns include mining activities, disturbance of foraging areas, animal control actions, and human disturbance of roost sites. The lesser long-nosed bat recovery plan has been reviewed by the appropriate Service staff in Region 2 and was developed with input from selected experts on the biology of the species. The plan will be finalized and approved following incorporation of comments and material received during this comment period. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All biological comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to the approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: December 16, 1993. John G. Rogers, Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
