FR940414-1-00092 FR940414-1-00010 A. Upset and Bypass Provisions A recurring issue is whether industry limitations and standards should include provisions authorizing noncompliance with effluent limitations during periods of ``upset'' or ``bypass''. An upset, sometimes called an ``excursion,'' is an unintentional and temporary noncompliance with technology based effluent limitations occurring for reasons beyond the reasonable control of the permittee. EPA believes that upset provisions are necessary to recognize an affirmative defense for an exceptional incident including ``Acts of God''. Because technology-based limitations can require only what properly designed, maintained and operated technology can achieve, it is claimed that liability for such situations is improper. When confronted with this issue, courts have been divided on the question of whether an explicit upset or excursion exemption is necessary or whether upset or excursion incidents may be handled through EPA's exercise of enforcement discretion. (Compare Marathon Oil Co. v. EPA, 564 F.2d 1253 (9th Cir. 1977) with Weyerhaeuser v. Costle, 590 F.2d 1011 (DC Cir. 1978). See also American Petroleum Institute v. EPA, 540 F.2d 1023 (10th Cir. 1976); CPC International Inc. v. Train, 540 F.2d 973 (4th Cir. 1976)); and FMC Corp. v. Train, 539 F.2d 973 (4th Cir. 1976).) While an upset is an unintentional episode during which effluent limitations are exceeded, a bypass is an act of intentional noncompliance during which wastewater treatment facilities are circumvented in emergency situations. EPA has both upset and bypass provisions in NPDES permits, and has promulgated NPDES and pretreatment regulations which include upset and bypass permit provisions. (See 45 FR 33290, 33448 May 19, 1980; 40 CFR 122.60(g)(h), 40 CFR 403.16 and 403.17). The upset provision establishes an upset as an affirmative defense to prosecution for violation of technology-based effluent limitations. The bypass provision authorizes bypassing to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage. Since the limitations and standards are proposed to be set at zero discharge and there are already upset and bypass provisions in NPDES permits and pretreatment regulations, EPA will let local permit and control authorities deal with individual upsets or requests for bypass. B. Variances and Modifications Upon the promulgation of these regulations, the effluent limitations for the appropriate subcategory must be applied in all Federal and State NPDES permits issued to direct dischargers in the pesticide formulating, packaging or repackaging industry. In addition, the pretreatment standards are directly applicable to indirect dischargers. For the proposed BPT effluent limitations (Subcategory E only), the only exception to the binding limitations is EPA's ``fundamentally different factors'' (``FDF'') variance (40 CFR part 125, subpart D). This variance recognizes factors concerning a particular discharger which are fundamentally different from the factors considered in this rulemaking. Although this variance clause was set forth in EPA's 1973&hyph;1976 effluent guidelines, it is now included in the NPDES regulations and not the specific industry regulations. (See 44 FR 32854, 32893 (June 7, 1979) for an explanation of the ``fundamentally different factors'' variance). The procedures for application for a BPT FDF variance are set forth at 40 CFR 122.21(m)(1)(i)(A). Dischargers subject to the BAT limitations proposed in these regulations may also apply for an FDF variance, under the provisions of sec. 301(n) of the Act, which regulates BAT, BCT, and pretreatment FDFs. In addition, BAT limitations for nonconventional pollutants may be modified under sec. 301(c) (for economic reasons) and 301(g) (for water quality reasons) of the Act. Under sec. 301(l) of the Act, these latter two statutory modifications are not applicable to ``toxic'' or conventional pollutants. Dischargers subject to pretreatment standards for existing sources are also subject to the ``fundamentally different factors'' variance and credits for pollutants removed by POTWs, as discussed in Section XIII.E. Dischargers subject to pretreatment standards for new sources are subject only to the removal credit provision (See Section XIII.E). New sources subject to NSPS are not eligible for EPA's ``fundamentally different factors'' variance or any statutory or regulatory modifications. (See duPont v. Train, supra.) C. Relationship to NPDES Permits and Monitoring Requirements The BAT and NSPS limitations in today's proposed rule would be applied to individual pesticide plants through NPDES permits issued by EPA or approved State agencies under section 402 of the Act. The preceding section of this preamble discussed the binding effect of this regulation on NPDES permits, except when variances and modifications are expressly authorized. This section adds more detail on the relation between this regulation and NPDES permits. One issue is how this regulation will affect the powers of NPDES permit-issuing authorities. EPA has developed the limitations and standards in the proposed rule to cover the typical facility for this point source category. This regulation does not restrict the power of any permitting authority to act in any manner consistent with law or these or any other EPA regulations, guideline, or policy. A concern of permit writers, as well as local control authorities, may be the apparent contradiction of writing a discharge permit for a zero discharge regulation. During development of the proposed regulation, EPA contacted a few permit writers who wrote NPDES permits for facilities that reported zero discharge in the survey. EPA obtained copies of these permits, and found that because the facilities still had wastewater discharges due to sanitary wastewater or other non-PFPR operations, the permit writers were able to specify zero discharge of the PFPR process wastewater streams. Even if a facility is totally no discharge, an NPDES permit may be requested by the facility to provide upset provisions which would not apply to discharge in the absence of a permit. Another topic of concern is the operation of EPA's NPDES enforcement program, which was an important consideration in developing today's proposal. The Agency emphasizes that although the Clean Water Act is a strict liability statute, EPA can initiate enforcement proceedings at its discretion. EPA has exercised and intends to exercise that discretion in a manner that recognizes and promotes good faith compliance.
