FR940722-0-00102 FR940722-0-00019 48. In addition, we will retain the discretion to declare at any point after 40 rounds in a simultaneous multiple round auction that the auction will end after some specified number of additional rounds. 24 This gives the Commission a means to prevent bidders from continuing to bid on a few low value licenses solely to delay the closing for all licenses in an auction with a simultaneous closing rule. This will also ensure that the Commission can end the auction if it determines that the benefits from ending the auction, and hence issuing licenses more rapidly, exceeds the possible efficiency loss from cutting off bidding on a few low value licenses. If we exercise this option, we favor the use of three final rounds. Allowing more than one additional round provides some opportunity for counter-offers, thus reducing the risk that a license will not be awarded to the party that values it most highly. 24 PacBell proposed that in case of inordinate delays in the auction the Commission should have the ability to conclude the auction at any time after 40 rounds by issuing a call for final bids on the following business day for each of those licenses for which the highest bid increased in at least 1 of the preceding 3 rounds. See reply comments of PacBell, Attachment of Paul Milgrom and Robert Wilson, Appendix at 5. 49. Moreover, if this fail-safe mechanism is used, we will accept bids in the final round(s) only for licenses on which the highest bid increased in at least one of the preceding three rounds. No new bids will be accepted for other licenses. 25 There are two reasons not to take bids on licenses on which there has been no recent bidding. First, the fact that bidding on an individual license may close will provide an additional incentive to bid actively and thus speed the conclusion of the auction. If bids are accepted on all licenses in the final round(s) there is less cost to a bidder in holding back. Second, closing bidding on licenses for which activity has ceased ensures high bidders for those licenses that they will not lose a license without having an opportunity to make a counter-offer. 26 This reduces the uncertainty associated with aggregating licenses that are worth more as a package than individually. If final bids are accepted on all licenses, a high bidder on an aggregation of licenses may unexpectedly lose a critical part of the aggregation and have no chance to regain it except in the post-auction market, where bargaining or other transaction costs may be high. 25 See reply comments of PacBell, Appendix to attachment by Milgrom and Wilson at 5. See also Second Report and Order at ¶130, n. 106. 26 Either the auction will close only when bidding ceases on all licenses, so the high bidder will have an opportunity to respond to any new bids, or the Commission will call for final bids but not accept new bids on licenses on which there have been no new bids in the previous three rounds, so no other bidder will have the opportunity to outbid the high bidder in a final round. 4. Duration of Bidding Rounds 50. In simultaneous multiple round auctions for large numbers of interdependent high-value licenses, bidders may need a significant amount of time to evaluate back-up strategies and consult with their principals. For this reason, PacBell proposes one bidding round per day and PacTel proposes three business days per bidding round for broadband PCS. 27 We will provide bidders with a single business day to submit bids, and conduct one round of bidding each business day. 28 However, we reserve the discretion to vary, by public notice or announcement, the duration of bidding rounds or the interval at which bids are accepted ( e.g., run two or more rounds per day rather than one), in order to move the auction toward closure more quickly. We are more likely to conduct more than one round per day early in an auction than towards the end of an auction. At early stages of an auction prices will be low and contain relatively little information, so bidders will need less time to deliberate. It is in the final stages of an auction, when the consequences of bidding decisions are greatest, that bidders need the most time to deliberate. We will indicate either by Public Notice prior to an auction, or by announcement during an auction any changes to the duration of and intervals between bidding rounds. 27 Comments of PacBell, Attachment by Milgrom and Wilson at 19; comments of PacTel, Attachment by McAfee at 16. 28 With one round per day, the auction may take weeks to complete. This should not impose an excessive burden on bidders, however, because bids may be submitted by telephone or by a computer connected to a telephone line, so bidders need not have a representative in Washington throughout the auction. 5. Activity Rules 51. As discussed above, in order to ensure that simultaneous auctions with simultaneous stopping rules close within a reasonable period of time and to increase the information conveyed by bid prices during the auction, we believe that it is necessary to impose an activity rule to prevent bidders from waiting until the end of the auction before participating. Because simultaneous stopping rules generally keep all licenses open for bidding as long as anyone wishes to bid, they also create an incentive for bidders to hold back until prices approach equilibrium before making a bid. As noted above, this could lead to very long auctions. Delaying serious bidding until late in the auction also reduces the information content of prices during the course of an auction. Without an activity rule, bidders cannot know whether a low level of bidding on a license means that the license price is near its final level or if instead many serious bidders are holding back and may bid up the price later in the auction. 29 An activity rule is less important when licenses close one-by-one because failure to participate in any given round may result in losing the opportunity to bid at all, if that round turns out to be the last. 29 See ex parte presentation by Paul Milgrom on behalf of PacBell, June 21, 1994.
