FR940822-2-00021 FR940822-2-00017 The Mentor-Protege Plan shall also include information on the mentor's ability to provide developmental assistance, schedule for providing such assistance, and criteria for evaluating the protege's developmental success. The Plan shall include termination provisions complying with Notice and due process rights of both parties and a statement agreeing to submit periodic report reviews and cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be required by the Department in order to determine the extent of compliance with the terms of the agreement. G. Measurement of Program Success The overall success of the pilot program will be measured by the extent to which it results in: (a) An increase in the protege firm's technical and business capability, industrial competitiveness, client base expansion and improved financial stability. (b) An increase in the number of value of contracts, subcontracts and suppliers by small disadvantaged business protege firms in industry categories where small disadvantaged businesses have not traditionally participated within the mentor firm's activity. (c) The overall enhancement and development of protege firms as a competitive contractor, subcontractor, or supplier to the Department of Energy, other Federal agencies or commercial markets. (d) Proteges after successfully completing one year under the Mentor-Protege Initiative program may seek multiple mentors provided conflict of interest provisions would not prevent such an arrangement and the approval of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization is received. H. Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization (a) All information submitted shall be reviewed and approved by the Department of Energy's Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization. The Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization will provide a copy of the submitted information to the cognizant Department of Energy program manager and contracting officer for a parallel review and concurrence. (b) Upon agreement approval, the mentor may implement the developmental assistance under the program. I. Internal Controls by the Department (a) The Department of Energy's Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization will manage the program and establish internal controls to achieve the stated program objectives. Controls will include: (1) Reviewing and evaluating mentor-protege applications for realism, validity and accuracy of provided information; and (2) Reviewing semi-annual progress reports submitted by mentors and proteges on protege development to measure protege progress against the master plan contained in the approved agreement. (3) Assurance from the mentor and protege firms that they will submit periodic reports and cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be required by the Department in order to determine the extent of compliance with the terms of their agreement. (b) Failure of the mentor to meet the terms of the Mentor-Protege Plan may have an adverse affect on future award fee evaluation plans. (c) Failure of the protege to meet the terms of the Mentor-Protege Plan may result in exclusion from future participation in the Mentor-Protege Program. J. Program Review At the conclusion of each year in the Mentor-Protege Initiative the mentor prime contractor and protege will formally brief the Department of Energy Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, the head of the contracting activity, and the contracting officer during a formal program review regarding program accomplishments as it pertains to the approved agreement. The Briefing may be held at either the Department of Energy Headquarters or the Mentor or Protege's site. Issued in Washington, DC on August 10, 1994. Corlis S. Moody, Director, Office of Economic Impact and Diversity. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20539 Filed 8&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
