FR940106-0-00109 FR940106-0-00021 (2) Annual State plans; when to file appeals from disapprovals. A Governor of a State may appeal ETA's disapproval of an annual State plan. Individual facilities in the State may file briefs as amici curiae. Appeals shall be in writing and shall be mailed by certified mail within 30 calendar days of the disapproval of the annual State plan. (3) Where to file appeals. Appeals made pursuant to this section shall be in writing and shall be mailed by certified mail to: Director, U.S. Employment Service, Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room N&hyph;4456, Washington, DC 20210. (4) Complaints. Appeals under this paragraph (a) shall not encompass questions of misrepresentation by a health care facility or nonperformance by such a facility of its attestation. Such complaints shall be filed with an office of the Wage and Hour Division, United States Department of Labor. (b) Transmittal to BALCA; case file. Upon receipt of an appeal pursuant to this section, the Certifying Officer (or, in the case of State plans, the Director, USES), shall send to BALCA a certified copy of the ETA case file, containing the attestation and supporting documentation and any other information or data considered by ETA in taking the action being appealed. The administrative law judge chairing BALCA shall assign a panel of one or more administrative law judges who serve on BALCA to review the record for legal sufficiency and to consider and rule on the appeal. (c) Consideration on the record; de novo hearings._ (1) General. BALCA shall not remand, dismiss, or stay the case, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, but may otherwise consider the appeal on the record or in a de novo hearing (on its own motion or on a party's request). Interested parties and amici curiae may submit briefs in accordance with a schedule set by BALCA. The ETA official making the determination from which the appeal was taken shall be represented by the Associate Solicitor for Employment and Training Legal Services, Office of the Solicitor, Department of Labor, or the Associate Solicitor's designee. If BALCA determines to hear the appeal on the record without a de novo hearing, BALCA shall render a decision within 30 calendar days after BALCA's receipt of the case file. If BALCA determines to hear the appeal through a de novo hearing, the procedures contained in 29 CFR part 18 shall apply to such hearings, except that: (i) The appeal shall not be considered to be a complaint to which an answer is required; (ii) BALCA shall ensure that, at the request of the appellant, the hearing is scheduled to take place within a reasonable period after BALCA's receipt of the case file (see also the time period described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section); (iii) Technical rules of evidence, such as the Federal Rules of Evidence and subpart B of the Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges (29 CFR part 18, subpart B), shall not apply to any hearing conducted pursuant to this subpart, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination shall be applied where reasonably necessary by BALCA in conducting the hearing; BALCA may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence; the certified copy of the case file transmitted to BALCA by the Certifying Officer (or, in the case of State plans, the Director, USES), shall be part of the evidentiary record of the case and need not be removed into evidence; and (iv) BALCA's decision shall be rendered within 120 calendar days after BALCA's receipt of the case file. (2) Dismissals and stays. If the BALCA determines that the appeal is solely a question of misrepresentation by the facility or is solely a complaint of the facility's nonperformance of the attestation, BALCA shall dismiss the case and refer the matter to the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, for action under subpart E. If the BALCA determines that the appeal is partially a question of misrepresentation by the facility or is partially a complaint of the facility's nonperformance of the attestation, BALCA shall refer the matter to the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, for action under Subpart E of this part and shall stay BALCA consideration of the case pending final agency action on such referral. During such stay, the 120-day period described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section shall be suspended. (d) BALCA's decision. After consideration on the record or a de novo hearing, BALCA shall either affirm or reverse ETA's decision, and shall so notify the appellant; the Director, if the affirmation or denial involves a State plan; Certifying Officer; Chief, Division of Foreign Labor Certifications; and any other parties. See ยง XXX .450 custody of the record of the appeal. (e) Decisions on attestations. With respect to an appeal of the acceptance, rejection, suspension or invalidation of an attestation, the decision of BALCA shall be the final decision of the Secretary, and no further review shall be given to the matter by any DOL official. (f) Decisions on annual State plans. With respect to an appeal of the disapproval of an annual State plan, the decision of BALCA shall be the final decision by the Secretary, unless a petition for review of the BALCA decision is filed with the Secretary and the Secretary determines to review the decision.
