FR940628-1-00084 FR940628-1-00014 NHTSA is proposing to make this new regulation effective on January 1, 1996, based on the presumption that this would give manufacturers at least one year to complete testing necessary to report the tilt table angle and/or critical sliding velocity for all vehicles following publication of a final rule. E. Benefits As stated previously, NHTSA anticipates that this consumer information regulation will result in a more informed public which, through purchasing and/or driving decisions, could improve motor vehicle safety. Similarly, consumer purchasing behavior could affect manufacturers' design and/or marketing of vehicles. The agency is unable to quantify at this time the benefits of this rulemaking. A more detailed discussion of the possible benefits of this rulemaking can be found in the Preliminary Regulatory Evaluation. F. Costs The costs associated with the proposed consumer information regulation would arise from three different activities: generating the stability metric for the label, printing the labels, and affixing labels to the vehicles. This rule would not require manufacturers to make vehicle changes. While such modifications are desirable, they are not mandated, and if they occurred, would be the indirect result of market forces and not a direct result of this rulemaking. As explained in detail in the Preliminary Regulatory Evaluation, NHTSA estimates that the total testing and labeling costs of a regulation based on critical sliding velocity would range from $4.71 to $6.35 million and the total cost of a regulation based on tilt table angle would range from $3.93 to $5.57 million. VIII. Final Stage Manufacturers and Alterers NHTSA requests comments on how final stage manufacturers and alterers would comply with the proposed consumer information regulation. Would final stage manufacturers and alterers have sufficient information on upcoming model year vehicles to report the tilt table angle and/or critical sliding velocity of the vehicles they will be producing by January 1 as required? How much information can incomplete vehicle manufacturers pass on to final stage manufacturers to assist them in predicting the tilt table angle or critical sliding velocity of the final vehicle, and when? NHTSA also asks for comment on how many vehicles in this category would have a GVWR of 4,536 kilograms or less. Given that many of these vehicles are manufactured for special uses, NHTSA requests comments on whether certain types of vehicles (e.g., walk-in van-type vehicles, campers, and motor homes) should be excluded from the consumer information requirement. Would consumer choice for these special-use vehicles be affected by the information provided by this proposed regulation?
