FR940412-1-00062 FR940412-1-00011 The American Trucking Association (ATA) recommended effective dates of December 31, 1999 for tractors and December 31, 2001 for trailers, claiming that this schedule would permit each fleet, through its own tests, to determine which ABS is best suited to its operations and to phase ABS in accordingly. In contrast, Advocates for Highway Safety (Advocates) favored the proposed implementation schedule and opposed any schedule that moved the compliance calendar to the next century. It believed that a delayed schedule would unreasonably postpone safety benefits for the public because ABS technology is both reliable and available. After reviewing the comments, NHTSA has tentatively determined that it may be appropriate to make the effective dates for the heavy vehicle stability and control requirements concurrent with the stopping distance requirements. This could facilitate a more orderly implementation process, avoid the need for manufacturers to redesign the brakes on individual vehicles twice, and reduce the development and compliance costs that manufacturers would face as a result of these regulations. Specifically, the agency is considering to adopt the following implementation schedule for both sets of requirements: Truck tractors 2 years after final rule (1996) Trailers 3 years after final rule (1997) Air-braked single unit trucks and buses 3 years after final rule (1997) Hydraulic-braked single unit trucks and buses 4 years after final rule (1998) This proposed implementation schedule, which would accelerate compliance for air-braked single unit trucks and buses and hydraulic-braked buses, is consistent with the recommendation of the heavy vehicle manufacturers, brake manufacturers, and the safety advocacy groups. The agency agrees with the manufacturers that reliable antilock systems can be developed within this time-frame. NHTSA tentatively concludes that the implementation schedule recommended by ATA is too protracted, especially in light of the widespread use of ABS in Europe, increased use of ABS in this country, and the comments by the brake and vehicle manufacturers. NHTSA requests comments about the implementation schedule being proposed in this supplemental notice. Specifically, commenters should respond to the following questions: 1. Is it appropriate to make the effective dates concurrent for the stopping distance and stability requirements for heavy vehicles? 2. Is it appropriate to accelerate the stability and control effective dates for air braked trucks and buses and hydraulic braked buses, and to delay the effective date for the proposed stopping distance requirements for some classes of vehicles? 3. Since hydraulic braked trucks and buses would have to be equipped with ABS one year later than air braked trucks and buses, would truck and bus fleets specify hydraulic brake systems for their new vehicles for that one year to avoid the additional cost of ABS on air braked trucks and buses? 4. The agency received comments to the stability and control NPRM from only one bus manufacturer. Do bus manufacturers have any specific concerns about the revised implementation dates proposed in this notice? 5. Do the heavy vehicle ABS suppliers have the manufacturing capacity to meet the demand for air braked antilock systems in 1996 and 1997? Antilock Brake System Wheel Control In the NPRM, NHTSA proposed to require that the antilock brake system monitor and control the wheels of the front axle and of at least one rear axle. NHTSA believed that this would ensure that the wheels on the steering axle are directly controlled by the antilock braking device. By ``directly controlled,'' the agency meant that the signal provided at the wheel or on the axle of the wheel directly modulates the braking forces of that wheel. The agency tentatively concluded that it is necessary to specify that the ABS directly control the steering axle because some ABS control only a vehicle's drive-axle, a situation which could result in the loss of steering control if the front wheels locked during braking.
