FR940404-2-00176 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Fifth Conference of the Contracting Parties to the (RAMSAR) Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Kushiro, Hokkaido, Japan, June 8&hyph;16, 1993 Representative Richard N. Smith, Acting Director, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior Alternate Representative Lawrence N. Mason, Chief, Office of International Affairs, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior Advisers Glenn A. Carowan, Jr., Manager, Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior Thomas E. Dahl, National Wetlands Inventory, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior Mary E. Kentula, Wetlands Research Center, Environmental Protection Agency John Vanderwalker, Office of Exology, Health and Conservation, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State John O. Willson, Office of Environment and Natural Resources, Agency for International Development Private Sector Adviser Marc Holmes, Save the San Francisco Bay Association, Oakland, California United States Delegation to the Meeting of Study Group 3 Telecommunication Standardization (TS) International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Geneva, June 14&hyph;18, 1993 Representative Earl S. Barbely, Director, Telecommunications and Information Standards, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Wendell Harris, Assistant Chief/International, Federal Communications Commission Thomas Wasilewski, Program Manager, National Telecommunication and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Donald P. Casey, Director, Regulatory, AT&T Easy Link, Parsippany, New Jersey Robert Madden, Manager, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, Morristown, New Jersey Philip Onstad, Consultant, International Communications Association, Edison, New Jersey Marcel Scheidegger, MCI International, Rye Brook, New York Richard W. Stone, Cable and Wireless Communications, Vienna, Virginia United States Delegation to the First Plenary Meeting of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), New York, June 14&hyph;25, 1993 Representatives The Honorable Bruce Babbitt, Secretary of the Interior The Honorable Elinor G. Constable, Assistant Secretary for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State The Honorable Timothy E. Wirth, Counselor of the Department, Department of State Alternate Representatives The Honorable Victor Marrero, United States Representative to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, New York Rafe Pomerance, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Environment, Health and Natural Resources, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Special Adviser The Honorable Carol Browner, Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency
