FR941019-0-00015 FR941019-0-00003 (i) Notices of intention to remove an institution-affiliated party from office or to prohibit an institution-affiliated party from further participation in the conduct of the affairs of an insured depository institution pursuant to sections 8(e)(1) and (2) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(e)(1) and (2)), and temporary orders of suspension pursuant to section 8(e)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(e)(3)); and (ii) Orders of removal, suspension or prohibition from participation in the conduct of the affairs of an insured depository institution where the institution-affiliated party consents to the issuance of such orders prior to the filing by an administrative law judge of proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and a recommended decision with the Executive Secretary of the FDIC. (2) The Director (DOS) and the Director (DCA) may issue joint notices and orders pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section where such notice or order addresses both safety and soundness and consumer compliance matters. A joint notice or order will require the signatures of both directors or their associate directors. (3) The authority delegated under paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section shall be exercised only upon concurrent certification by the Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement that the allegations contained in the notice of intent, if proven, constitute a basis for the issuance of a notice of intent pursuant to section 8(e) of the Act, or that the stipulated section 8(e) order is not inconsistent with section 8(e) of the Act, and, upon issuance, shall be an order which has become final for purposes of enforcement pursuant to the Act. (e) Actions pursuant to section 8(g) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(g)). (1) Authority is delegated to the Director (DOS), to the Director (DCA), and where confirmed in writing by either director, to an associate director, to issue orders of suspension or prohibition to an institution-affiliated party who is charged in any information, indictment, or complaint as set forth in section 8(g) of the Act when such institution-affiliated party consents to the suspension or prohibition. (2) The Director (DOS) and the Director (DCA) may issue joint orders pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section where such order addresses both safety and soundness and consumer compliance matters. A joint order will require the signatures of both directors or their associate directors. (3) The authority delegated under paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section shall be exercised only upon concurrent certification by the Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement that the action taken is not inconsistent with section 8(g) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(g)) and the order is enforceable in a United States District Court pursuant to sections 8(i) and 8(j) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818 (i) and (j)). (f) Actions pursuant to section 8(p) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(p)). (1) Authority is delegated to the Executive Secretary to issue consent orders terminating the insured status of insured depository institutions that have ceased to engage in the business of receiving deposits other than trust funds pursuant to section 8(p) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(p)). (2) The authority delegated under paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be exercised only upon the recommendation and concurrence of the Director (DOS) or associate director and the Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement that the action taken is not inconsistent with section 8(p) of the Act. (g) Civil money penalties. (1)(i) Except as provided for in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, authority is delegated to the Director (DOS), to the Director (DCA), and where confirmed in writing by either director, to an associate director, to issue notices of assessment of civil money penalties. (ii) The authority delegated under paragraph (g)(1)((i) of this section shall be exercised only upon concurrent certification by the Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement that the allegations contained in the notice of assessment, if proven, constitute a basis for assessment of civil money penalties. (2) The Director (DOS) and the Director (DCA) may issue joint notices pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section where such notice addresses both safety and soundness and consumer compliance matters. A joint notice will require the signatures of both directors or their associate directors. (3) Authority is delegated to the General Counsel or designee for the levying and enforcement of civil money penalties under section 7(a)(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(1)) for the late, inaccurate, false or misleading filing of Reports of Condition and Report of Income, and such other reports as the Board of Directors may require under the authority of that section. In the exercise of the delegated authority, the General Counsel or designee shall consult with the appropriate Director or associate director before imposing any penalty. (h) Directives and capital plans under section 38 of the Act (prompt corrective action) and part 325 of this chapter. (1) Authority is delegated to the Director (DOS), and where confirmed in writing by the director, to an associate director, or to the appropriate regional director or deputy regional director, to accept, to reject, to require new or revised capital restoration plans or to make any other determinations with respect to the implementation of capital restoration plans and, in accordance with subpart Q of part 308 of this chapter, to issue: (i) Notices of intent to issue capital directives; (ii) Directives to insured state nonmember banks that fail to maintain capital in accordance with the requirements contained in part 325 of this chapter; (iii) Notices of intent to issue prompt corrective action directives, except directives issued pursuant to section 38(f)(2)(F)(ii) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o(f)(2)(F)(ii)); (iv) Directives to insured depository institutions pursuant to section 38 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o), with or without the consent of the respondent bank to the issuance of the directive, except directives issued pursuant to section 38(f)(2)(F)(ii) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o(f)(2)(F)(ii)); (v) Directives to insured depository institutions requiring immediate action or imposing proscriptions pursuant to section 38 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o) and part 325 of this chapter, and in accordance with the requirements contained in ยง308.201(a)(2) of this chapter;
