FR941222-0-00059 FR941222-0-00006 EEI opposes case-by-case treatment of rate recovery of emissions allowances in coordination transactions. It argues that a case-by-case approach would unduly burden the Commission with hundreds of virtually identical proceedings that can be more efficiently addressed through the policy statement approach it advocates here. EEI maintains that it is not seeking to expand the meaning of defined contract terms, but simply to include in existing contract terms costs that are reasonable and contractually permissible. EEI recognizes the need for special treatment of generating units subject to the requirements of reduced utilization in the CAAA, and that exceptions to the use of the full incremental costs of emissions allowances associated with those generating units may take place. However, EEI believes that its proposal adequately responds to Wisconsin Electric's concerns in this area because it allows exceptions to full incremental costs as long as dispatch criteria and the coordination rates are consistent. EEI further states that the Commission should not designate any specific index because such action would hinder market competition in allowance trading. It characterizes as unnecessary and burdensome Clean Air's proposals that energy sellers certify an unaffiliated third party to provide allowances to a power purchaser, and that utilities be required to report the volume and price of allowance trades for publication by this Commission. Finally, EEI argues that this is not the appropriate proceeding to specify particular revenue credit treatment of allowance-related revenues. EEI submits that revenue credits with respect to coordination transactions are specified either in agreements between retail and wholesale customer groups and utility companies or are required under the retail and wholesale practices of state commissions or this Commission. Thus, EEI argues, revenue credits are appropriately dealt with in rate cases, rather than in a policy proceeding. Discussion Use of Incremental Costs We will allow the recovery of incremental costs of emission allowances in coordination rates whenever the coordination rate also provides for recovery of other variable costs on an incremental basis. EEI's proposal that the incremental cost of emissions allowances be recovered in coordination rates will ensure, under many coordination rate schedules, consistency with the way in which other costs ( e.g. , fuel) are recovered and with dispatch decisions. In response to APPA's concern that the scope of the transactions affected by the Policy Statement is not clearly defined in EEI's proposal, the Commission wishes to make clear that the policy adopted here will apply only when a coordination rate expressly provides for the recovery of incremental costs or if stated rates are designed to recover incremental costs. If a coordination rate does not reflect incremental cost pricing for other costs ( e.g. , coordination transactions that are designed as unit sales where the rates track the costs of a particular unit or coordination rates that are designed to recover average costs), the Commission will require the seller to propose an alternative costing method for emissions allowances, or demonstrate that any inconsistency between the proposed costing method and the coordination rate does not produce unreasonable results. The Commission finds that the cost to replace an allowance is an appropriate basis to establish incremental cost. 29 29 This is generally the method used to determine the incremental fuel cost for dispatching and pricing for coordination rates. Pennsylvania Power Company, Opinion No. 34, 6 FERC ¶61,036 (1979) ( Pennsylvania ). Use of Indices We will adopt EEI's proposal that sellers be permitted to choose their own index or a combination of indices. Because the emission allowance markets are still developing, the Commission cannot, at this time, conclude that any particular index should be utilized. Our primary concern in allowing the selling utility to choose the index or indices is that, if there are variations in the available indices, the seller will select the one with the highest price at the time of the transaction, rather than the index that best reflects the incremental cost. EEI's proposal guards against this practice because it provides the customer with the option to supply its own allowances rather than purchase allowances from a selling utility. Dispatch EEI's proposal is based on sellers' use of the same index for pricing coordination sales and making dispatch decisions. If the seller does not use the same index for both purposes, EEI proposes that the seller be required to reconcile the differences. The Commission will adopt this proposal. The purpose of any dispatch criterion is to meet each increment of load from the increment of generation with the lowest running costs (fuel, other variable operating expenses and, now, emissions allowances). If the seller is not using the same cost index in its dispatch decisions as it is proposing for pricing its coordination sales, we cannot rely upon the index to reflect incremental cost. 30 Accordingly, sellers must explain and justify any differences in their use of different incremental cost references for dispatch and pricing. 31 30 See Pennsylvania, supra n. 28. 31 In addition, Wisconsin Electric states that it needs to be able to charge and dispatch at less than the incremental cost of emissions allowances. Wisconsin Electric could comprehensively support its method in an individual rate filing.
