FR940106-1-00110 FR940106-1-00012 Service Response: The Service has substantially revised the primary constituent elements in this proposed rule to reflect more closely the historical placement of low salinity estuarine habitat in Suisun Bay. As part of the background for formulation of its proposed water quality standards, EPA analyzed the number of days that low salinity (2 ppt) water historically was located at the confluence of the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers, Chipps Island, and Roe Island in Suisun Bay. The Service has revised the primary constituent elements to include those features that provide temporal and spatial variability of low salinity waters that will deter further invasion of exotic species, produce high zooplankton densities for food, and simulate natural processes and historical conditions. The ``Primary Constituent Elements'' section of this revised proposed rule describes in detail the months that each delta smelt life stage requires protective habitat conditions. This revised proposal refines the primary constituent elements to more accurately replicate historical conditions that are needed to recover the delta smelt. Comment: One commenter stated that the Service does not have enough scientific data to substantiate the conclusions that the location of low salinity habitat in Suisun Bay is important to the recovery of the delta smelt, that delta smelt are associated with the saltwater-freshwater mixing zone, or that water exports could adversely affect delta smelt critical habitat as currently proposed. Service Response: Section 4(b)(B)(2) of the Act requires that critical habitat designations be based on the best scientific data available. As discussed in the ``Habitat Requirements'' and ``Primary Constituent Elements'' sections of this rule, the best available scientific evidence shows that when the entrapment zone is located in a broad geographic area with extensive shallow-water habitat within the euphotic zone, high densities of phytoplankton and zooplankton are produced (Arthur and Ball 1978, 1979, 1980) and larval and juvenile fish, including delta smelt, grow rapidly (Moyle et al. 1992, Sweetnam and Stevens 1993). When the entrapment zone is contained within Suisun Bay, young delta smelt are dispersed widely throughout a large expanse of shallow-water and marsh habitat (Harry Seraydarian, EPA, in litt ., 1993). Dispersion in areas downstream from the State and Federal water pumps and in-Delta agricultural diversions protects young smelt from entrainment (diverted into man-made structures or impinged on screens) and distributes them among the extensive, protective, and highly productive shoal regions of Suisun Bay. In contrast, high exports cause the entrapment zone to be pulled upstream into the deep river channels (Moyle et al. 1992). The large river channels are smaller in total surface area, contain fewer shoal areas, have swifter, more turbulent water currents, and lack high zooplankton densities. Because the Service seeks to coordinate its final actions with other interested Federal agencies and because the Service also has received new distributional information since the October 3, 1991, proposal to designate critical habitat for the delta smelt, the Service hereby revises the proposal to designate critical habitat. This proposed rule revision is based on materials received during the public comment period and information received during numerous meetings and discussions with State and Federal agency biologists, ichthyologists, engineers, and hydrologists. This new proposal supersedes the October 3, 1991, proposal. Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final action resulting from this proposal will be as accurate and as effective as possible. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this proposed rule are hereby solicited. Comments are particularly sought concerning: (1) The reasons why any habitat (either existing or additional areas) should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act; (2) Current or planned activities and their possible impacts on proposed critical habitat areas; (3) Any foreseeable economic or other impacts resulting from the proposed designation of critical habitat; (4) Economic values associated with benefits of designating critical habitat for the delta smelt; and (5) The methodology the Service might use, under section 4(b)(2) of the Act, in determining whether the benefits of excluding an area from critical habitat outweigh the benefits of specifying the area as critical habitat. Because the primary constituent elements used in determining which areas to propose as critical habitat for the delta smelt were determined in coordination with EPA in preparation of its proposed water quality standards, the Service also encourages the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party to provide comments or suggestions to EPA on its proposed rule to promulgate Water Quality Standards for Surface Waters of the Sacramento River, San Joaquin River, and San Francisco Bay and Delta of the State of California. The Fish and Wildlife Service will consider these comments also in developing its final rule. EPA's proposed rule is published in this same Federal Register separate part.
