FR940913-0-00068 FR940913-0-00027 (d) Requests for Treasury check advance payment shall be submitted on SF&hyph;270, ``Request for Advance or Reimbursement,'' or other forms as may be authorized by OMB. This form is not to be used when Treasury check advance payments are made to the recipient automatically through the use of a predetermined payment schedule or if precluded by special HUD instructions for electronic funds transfer. (e) Reimbursement is the preferred method when the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section cannot be met. HUD may also use this method on any construction agreement, or if the major portion of the construction project is accomplished through private market financing or Federal loans, and the Federal assistance constitutes a minor portion of the project. (1) When the reimbursement method is used, HUD shall make payment within 30 days after receipt of the billing, unless the billing is improper. (2) Recipients shall be authorized to submit request for reimbursement at least monthly when electronic funds transfers are not used. (f) If a recipient cannot meet the criteria for advance payments and HUD has determined that reimbursement is not feasible because the recipient lacks sufficient working capital, HUD may provide cash on a working capital advance basis. Under this procedure, HUD shall advance cash to the recipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for an initial period generally geared to the awardee's disbursing cycle. Thereafter, HUD shall reimburse the recipient for its actual cash disbursements. The working capital advance method of payment shall not be used for recipients unwilling or unable to provide timely advances to their subrecipient to meet the subrecipient's actual cash disbursements. (g) To the extent available, recipients shall disburse funds available from repayments to and interest earned on a revolving fund, program income, rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries and interest earned on such funds before requesting additional cash payments. (h) Unless otherwise required by statute, HUD shall not withhold payments for proper charges made by recipients at any time during the project period unless paragraphs (h)(1) or (h)(2) of this section apply. (1) A recipient has failed to comply with the project objectives, the terms and conditions of the award, or Federal reporting requirements. (2) The recipient or subrecipient is delinquent in a debt to the United States as defined in OMB Circular A&hyph;129, ``Managing Federal Credit Programs.'' Under such conditions, HUD may, upon reasonable notice, inform the recipient that payments shall not be made for obligations incurred after a specified date until the conditions are corrected or the indebtedness to the Federal Government is liquidated. (i) Standards governing the use of banks and other institutions as depositories of funds advanced under awards are as follows. (1) Except for situations described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, HUD shall not require separate depository accounts for funds provided to a recipient or establish any eligibility requirements for depositories for funds provided to a recipient. However, recipients must be able to account for the receipt, obligation and expenditure of funds. (2) Advances of Federal funds shall be deposited and maintained in insured accounts whenever possible. (j) Consistent with the national goal of expanding the opportunities for women-owned and minority-owned business enterprises, recipients shall be encouraged to use women- owned and minority-owned banks (a bank which is owned at least 50 percent by women or minority group members). (k) Recipients shall maintain advances of Federal funds in interest bearing accounts, unless paragraphs (k)(1), (k)(2), or (k)(3) of this section apply. (1) The recipient receives less than $120,000 in Federal awards per year. (2) The best reasonably available interest bearing account would not be expected to earn interest in excess of $250 per year on Federal cash balances. (3) The depository would require an average or minimum balance so high that it would not be feasible within the expected Federal and non-Federal cash resources. (l) For those entities where CMIA and its implementing regulations do not apply, interest earned on Federal advances deposited in interest bearing accounts shall be remitted annually to Department of Health and Human Services, Payment Management System, P.O. Box 6021, Rockville, MD 20852. In keeping with Electronic Funds Transfer rules (31 CFR part 206), interest should be remitted to the HHS Payment Management System through an electronic medium such as the FEDWIRE Deposit system. Recipients which do not have this capability should use a check. Interest amounts up to $250 per year may be retained by the recipient for administrative expense. State universities and hospitals shall comply with CMIA, as it pertains to interest. If an entity subject to CMIA uses its own funds to pay pre-award costs for discretionary awards without prior written approval from the Federal awarding agency, it waives its right to recover the interest under CMIA. (m) Except as noted elsewhere in this rule, only the following forms shall be authorized for the recipients in requesting advances and reimbursements. Federal agencies shall not require more than an original and two copies of these forms. (1) SF&hyph;270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement. HUD has adopted the SF&hyph;270 as a standard form for all nonconstruction programs when electronic funds transfer or predetermined advance methods are not used. HUD has the option of using this form for construction programs in lieu of the SF&hyph;271, ``Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs.'' (2) SF&hyph;271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. HUD has adopted the SF&hyph;271 as the standard form to be used for requesting reimbursement for construction programs. However, HUD may substitute the SF&hyph;270 when HUD determines that it provides adequate information to meet Federal needs. ยง84.23 Cost sharing or matching. (a) All contributions, including cash and third party in-kind, shall be accepted as part of the recipient's cost sharing or matching when such contributions meet all of the following criteria. (1) Are verifiable from the recipient's records. (2) Are not included as contributions for any other federally-assisted project or program. (3) Are necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient accomplishment of project or program objectives. (4) Are allowable under the applicable cost principles. (5) Are not paid by the Federal Government under another award, except where authorized by Federal statute to be used for cost sharing or matching. (6) Are provided for in the approved budget when required by HUD. (7) Conform to other provisions of this part, as applicable. (b) Unrecovered indirect costs may be included as part of cost sharing or matching only with the prior approval of HUD. (c) Values for recipient contributions of services and property shall be established in accordance with the applicable cost principles. If HUD authorizes recipients to donate buildings or land for construction/facilities acquisition projects or long-term use, the value of the donated property for cost sharing or matching shall be the lesser of paragraphs (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.
