FR940223-2-00064 FR940223-2-00036 Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To Aid Public Comment Columbia Hospital Corp. (Docket No. 9256) The Federal Trade Commission has accepted, subject to final approval, an agreement to a proposed consent order from Columbia Healthcare Corporation, successor to respondent Columbia Hospital Corporation (hereinafter collectively ``Columbia''). The agreement would settle charges by the Federal Trade Commission that Columbia's proposed acquisition of Medical Center Hospital, in Punta Gorda, Florida, violated section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and would also have violated section 7 of the Clayton Act if it had been carried out. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement or issue and serve the agreement's proposed order. The Complaint The Commission issued an administrative complaint against Columbia Hospital Corp. on February 18, 1993. According to the complaint, Columbia operates Fawcett Memorial Hospital, a general acute care hospital in Port Charlotte, Florida, and related health care facilities. Columbia agreed to acquire Medical Center Hospital, a general acute care hospital in Punta Gorda, Florida, about five miles south of Port Charlotte. The complaint alleges that Fawcett and Medical Center were competitors in the market for acute care inpatient hospital services in an area including all but the westernmost portions of Charlotte County, Florida, plus adjacent portions of DeSoto and Sarasota Counties in Florida. That market, according to the complaint, was already highly concentrated, and entry by new competitors would be difficult. The complaint charged that if Columbia carried out its agreement to acquire Medical Center, the effect of that acquisition would be substantially to lessen competition in the Charlotte County area hospital market, in violation of section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act and section 7 of the Clayton Act. The proposed acquisition challenged in the administrative complaint was never completed. After the Commission issued the complaint, the proposed acquisition was preliminarily enjoined by a Federal court, pursuant to section 13(b) of the FTC Act. Federal Trade Commission v. Columbia Hospital Corp., 93&hyph;30&hyph;Civ&hyph;FTM&hyph;23D (M.D. Fla., injunction issued May 21, 1993). The court's injunction prohibiting the acquisition will remain in effect until the Commission gives final approval to the proposed consent order, or until the Commission's administrative proceeding against Columbia is otherwise concluded.
