FR940503-1-00031 FR940503-1-00010 D. Program Implementation In addition to guidance on the penalty amounts assessed through the field citation program, EPA plans to issue guidance addressing a wide variety of other implementation issues. This guidance would be carefully designed to spell out and restrict the day-to-day practice under this program. EPA believes this approach will facilitate achievement of the goals for this program, and still provide the flexibility necessary for an enforcement program designed to address a wide variety of factual circumstances. This section describes EPA's current ideas on certain elements of this program guidance. Field citations may be issued either in the field or from an EPA office. Violations of reporting requirements, for example, will typically involve desk issuance since discovery of these violations normally occurs not in the field, but in an office designated to receive such reports. Even where a violation is discovered in the field, an inspector may elect to return to the office for further review or discussion with management prior to issuing a field citation. In order to promote consistency, inspectors will be encouraged to return to the office for clarification whenever there is any doubt regarding the nature of a violation or the appropriate penalty amount. During the initial phase of program implementation, the Agency anticipates that most field citations will be issued from an EPA office, based on field inspections. After a suitable period of experience with the program, it is expected that the majority of inspection-based citations will be issued on-site. The Agency will then establish guidelines for particular situations in which office-only issuance would still be recommended, e.g., based on penalties exceeding a specified dollar amount, or for other relevant considerations. Although State and local employees may not issue federal field citations pursuant to this regulation, EPA employees may rely on information gathered during State and local inspections as a basis for issuing field citations. Following discovery of a minor violation and issuance of a field citation, the respondent will have thirty days in which to either pay the assessed penalty or to request a hearing. EPA reserves the right to revoke a field citation, in whole or in part, at any time prior to payment of the assessed penalty. EPA believes this authority is a necessary safeguard in this program. It will allow a reevaluation, before the process has gone very far, of whether a citation should have been issued. For example, this could involve a reevaluation of whether a filed citation is the most appropriate enforcement tool, or could involve the early resolution of a citation issued in error. As noted above, EPA will prepare detailed guidance for the implementation of the field citation program. The guidance will cover such broad areas as coordination of inspections with State and local agencies, desk issuance as opposed to field issuance, determination of whether a violation is minor, and calculation of penalty amounts. The guidance will also cover such issues as how to revoke a field citation, and how field citations will be recorded and tracked. Finally, the guidance will include procedures for determining appropriate penalty amounts, and an actual sample of the design and format of the field citation. E. Field Citations as Distinguished From Other Enforcement Authorities Under section 113(b) of the Act, the Agency is authorized to commence civil judicial enforcement actions against certain violators to assess and recover civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day for each violation, and/or to seek temporary or permanent injunctions. Civil actions under section 113(b) are most advantageous when: (1) A compliance schedule or other injunctive relief is necessary and an administrative compliance order under section 113(a) is either unavailable or inappropriate; (2) The violator's compliance history indicates that the compliance schedule should be subject to court supervision and contempt remedies; or (3) Substantial civil penalties are appropriate. In 1990, Congress amended section 113 of the Act, providing new authority for the Administrator to issue administrative penalty orders under section 113(d)(1). These administrative penalty orders, which may assess civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day of violation, may be issued where: (1) The total penalty sought does not exceed $200,000; and
