FR940324-1-00049 FR940324-1-00018 The Service has been asked to add the USDA ports at Gulfport, MS, Portland, OR, and Vancouver, WA, to the list of designated ports for the importation of logs and lumber from trees listed as endangered or threatened under the Act or listed under CITES. Logs and lumber from listed trees may currently be imported through one of the designated ports for the importation of logs and lumber from trees listed as endangered or threatened or under CITES, or through one of the USDA ports designated for the importation, exportation, or reexportation of plants listed as endangered or threatened or under CITES. Currently, importers wishing to import logs and lumber from listed trees into a U.S. port on the Gulf of Mexico may use only Mobile, AL, New Orleans, LA, and Houston and Brownsville, TX. Importers wishing to import logs and lumber from listed trees into a port in the northwestern United States have only the port of Seattle, WA. After consultations with the USDA, the Service has determined that the USDA ports at Gulfport, MS, Portland, OR, and Vancouver, WA, possess adequate facilities and personnel to carry out enforcement activities related to the Act and CITES. Additionally, these locations appear to coincide with established patterns of trade. Therefore, the Service proposes to add these ports to the list of designated ports for the importation of logs and lumber from listed trees. Requests for Public Hearing Section 9(f)(1) of the Act provides that any person may request an opportunity to comment at a public hearing before the Secretary confers designated port status on any port. Accordingly, the Service will accept public hearing requests within 45 days of the publication of this proposed rule. These requests should be sent to the Office of Management Authority address listed in the ADDRESSES section of this document. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule was not subject to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) review under Executive Order 12866. The Service believes that adding the USDA ports at Gulfport, MS, Portland, OR, and Vancouver, WA, to the list of designated ports for the importation of logs and lumber from trees listed as endangered or threatened under the Act or listed under CITES would have a positive economic impact. These ports are significant ports of entry for logs and lumber, but they currently may not be used to import logs and lumber from listed trees. Currently, importers wishing to import logs and lumber from listed trees into a U.S. port on the Gulf of Mexico may use only Mobile, AL, New Orleans, LA, and Houston and Brownsville, TX. Importers wishing to import logs and lumber from listed trees into a port in the northwestern United States have only the port of Seattle, WA. Adding Gulfport, MS, Portland, OR, and Vancouver, WA, to the list of designated ports for the importation of logs and lumber from trees listed as endangered or threatened or under CITES would result in a savings in time and transportation costs for importers of logs and lumber. Under these circumstances, the Service has determined that this action would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, as described in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601). Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V.) Executive Order 12778 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. The Office of the Solicitor has determined that the requirements of Executive Order 12778 have been satisfied.
