FR941121-0-00015 FR941121-0-00001 (a) Rule When Statement and Crediting Periods Vary Four commenters, including a national trade association, stated that proposed comment 6(a)&hyph;3 implied that periodic statements were required for credit union accounts. The NCUA has revised comment 6(a)&hyph;1 to reflect that periodic statements are not required on credit union accounts. However, any statement setting forth information about an account (other than a term share or passbook account) that is provided to a member on a regular basis four or more times a year, is a periodic statement subject to ยง707.6. NCUA cautions credit unions that if transaction information is provided on a periodic statement on a passbook account, that the credit union runs the risk of having the account deemed a statement savings account subject to full periodic statement requirements. This position has been taken after consultation with FRB staff. Comment 6(a)&hyph;1 clarifies that if zero interest is earned during the period, institutions may disclose $0 for interest earned (and the annual percentage yield earned) or omit the disclosure, at their option. This change was made to conform to Regulation DD, and in response to one commenter's request. Seventeen commenters, including a national trade association commenter, requested that the issue of account status information in proposed comment 2(t)&hyph;4 be addressed. Commenters questioned whether accounts not expressly covered by the periodic statement requirement, such as term share and passbook accounts: (1) Were limited to account status information; or (2) were subject to full application of the advertising regulation (12 CFR 707.8); or (3) whether they could disclose any information on such accounts, including rate and APY information, as long as such information was accurate and not misleading. After consultation with the FRB, the proposed comment was moved to comment 6(a)&hyph;3 and clarified to indicate that a credit union may provide any information regarding passbook (unless the provision of transaction information on the account turns the passbook account into a statement share account covered by ยง707.6) and term share accounts on a periodic statement, as long as the information is accurate and not misleading. For definitional reasons, the periodic statement requirements do not apply. Also, since the information is provided on an existing account, and not as an inducement to open, maintain or renew an account, the advertising disclosures do not apply. One commenter also asked whether account status information on covered accounts could include joint accountholders' names, year-to-date earned dividends, transaction dates, and social security or tax identification numbers. These issues are addressed in comments 6(a)&hyph;3 and 4. (b) Statement Disclosures (b)(1) Annual Percentage Yield Earned A national trade association commenter requested a clarification that the ledger balance and collected balance are not methods to calculate the APYE, but rather methods to determine the balance upon which to pay dividends. This clarification has been made in comment 6(b)(1)&hyph;1. To provide more flexibility, and to conform to provisions in Regulation DD, the Board has deleted statements in comment 6(b)(1)&hyph;1 indicating that credit unions must use the same balance (collected or ledger) to accrue and pay dividends and to determine the annual percentage yield earned.
