FR941103-2-00115 FR941103-2-00068 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Employment and Training Administration Job Training Partnership Act: Title III_Job Development Broker Program AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and solicitation for grant application (SGA). SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), Employment and Training Administration (ETA), announces a demonstration program to identify job development brokers that will link specific job opportunities with the development of appropriate curricula and support mechanisms for eligible dislocated workers to be funded with Secretary's National Reserve funds appropriated through Title III of the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA). This notice describes the process that eligible entities must use to apply for demonstration funds, the subject area for which applications will be accepted for funding, how grantees are to be selected, and the responsibilities of grantees. Up to $2 million will be made available for funding the approximately three to five demonstration projects covered by this solicitation. Everything needed to apply is contained in this announcement. DATES: Applications for grant awards will be accepted commencing November 6, 1994. The closing date for receipt of applications will be December 16, 1994, at 2 p.m. (Eastern Time) at the address below. ADDRESSES: Applications shall be mailed to U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Attention: Ms. Brenda Banks, Reference: SGA/DAA 94&hyph;23, Constitution Avenue, NW., Room S&hyph;4203, Washington, DC 20210. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Brenda Banks, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;7300 (This is not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This announcement consists of five parts. Part I describes the authorities and purpose of the demonstration program, and identifies demonstration policy and topics. Part II describes the application process and provides detailed guidelines for use in applying for demonstration grants. There is no separate application package. Part III includes the statement of work for the demonstration projects. Part IV identifies and defines the selection criteria which will be used in reviewing and evaluating applications. Part V describes the reporting requirements.
