FR941116-0-00078 FR941116-0-00012 Petrochemical requests that the Commission publicly notice any oil pipeline rate filing in the Federal Register as further assurance that any notice of a proposed rate change is widely disseminated. It further asks the Commission to clarify that ``pursuant to proposed regulation ยง348.2(b), the copy of the letter of transmittal that is to be provided to shippers and subscribers on or before the day the application is filed, must be received by the shipper or subscriber prior to the date of the application. In other words, the deadline is an in-hand receipt date, not a posted for mailing date.'' 55 It contends that this is necessary to avoid erosion of the 15-day window for requesting a copy of the entire application. 55 Comments at 5. It has not been the Commission's practice to publicly notice oil pipeline tariff filings in the Federal Register because the oil pipeline must serve all affected persons. However, the Commission has modified the proposal in the NOPR to require written requests 20 days after the application was filed rather than 15 days. This should satisfy Petrochemical's concern about the deadline running from the date of application rather than receipt by the shipper. Alberta, Petrochemical, and Sinclair maintain that protestants need more time than 60 days after the filing of the application as proposed in the NOPR. Alberta and Petrochemical suggests that the deadline for filing protests be extended to 90 days. The Commission believes that protestants will be able to respond within 60 days of the filing of the application. However, if this period is insufficient in a particular case, then additional time can be requested from the Commission under Section 385.2008 of the Commission's regulations. The Commission will act liberally in connection with requests for an extension of time. Petrochemical requests clarification that a complete copy of the application provided to protestants will include the materials submitted in electronic format. It argues that the ``ability to obtain cost and other data in electronic form would save vast amounts of money that would otherwise be spent in the redundant task of taking a hard copy generated from computers and then reentering the data into computer format so that studies and analyses can be performed on the data.'' 56 The Commission clarifies, as requested by Petrochemical, that the complete copy of the application must include the materials submitted in electronic format. 56 Comments at 6. Davis submits that if ``electronic medium'' is defined as computer modem-based electronic equipment, the electronic filing requirement may be a hardship on small independent pipeline companies. Davis suggests the requirement be permissive. Davis also maintains that proposed sections 348.2 (b) and (c) are redundant to current procedure and place an additional burden on oil pipelines. The Commission is not modifying its requirement that applications must be submitted on an electronic medium. However, an oil pipeline may submit a waiver request. Last, with respect to Davis' redundancy argument, the Commission sees to harm in repetition as the new regulations merely reiterate in part current procedure for convenience. The Farmers maintain that the protestants have a right to a hearing where a case involves substantial issues of fact, law, or ratemaking policy. They argue that because the time for preparing a rebuttal is so short, shippers need the opportunity for normal prehearing and hearing procedures to present a meaningful response to an oil pipeline's case-in-chief and to obtain clarification or explanation of the applicant's evidence. Alberta also suggests that ``all proceedings must receive full hearing before an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) to ensure that all evidence is thoroughly tested and the Commission has a complete evidentiary record on which to base its decision.'' 57 57 Comments at 4.
