FR940603-1-00064 FR940603-1-00009 2. The prices of Equipment set forth herein shall include the cost of delivery to XXXX . Such delivery shall be made within XXXX days after the receipt of the written order of the Owner. 3. This Proposal is made pursuant to the provisions of the Notice and Instructions to Bidders, if any shall be attached hereto, and the Bidder agrees to the terms and conditions thereof. 4. The Bidder warrants the accuracy of all statements contained in the Bidder's Qualifications, if any shall be submitted, and agrees that the Owner shall rely upon such accuracy as a condition of the Contract in the event that this Proposal is accepted. 5. The Bidder warrants that this Proposal is made in good faith and without collusion or connection with any other person or persons bidding for the same work. 6. The Bidder agrees that, in the event this Proposal is accepted, it will execute a Contract in the form attached hereto. 7. The Bidder warrants that the Equipment will conform to the performance data and guarantees which are attached hereto and by this reference made a part hereof. 8. If, in submitting this Proposal, the Bidder has made any change in the form of Proposal or Contract furnished by the Owner, the Bidder understands that the Owner and the Administrator may evaluate the effect of such change as they see fit or they may exclude the Proposal from consideration in determining the award of the Contract. 9. The Bidder represents that: It has XXXX , does not have XXXX , 100 or more employees, and if it has, that it has XXXX , has not XXXX , furnished the Equal Employment Opportunity-Employers Information Report EEO&hyph;1, Standard Form 100, required of employers with 100 or more employees pursuant to Executive Order 11246 and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Bidder agrees that it will obtain, prior to the award of any subcontract for more than $10,000 hereunder to a subcontractor with 100 or more employees, a statement, signed by the proposed subcontractor, that the proposed subcontractor has filed a current report on Standard Form 100. The Bidder agrees that if it has 100 or more employees and has not submitted a report on Standard Form 100 for the current reporting year and that if this contract will amount to more than $10,000, the Bidder will file such report, as required by law, and notify the Owner in writing of such filing prior to the Owner's acceptance of this Proposal. 10. The Bidder certifies that it does not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Bidder certifies further that it will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Bidder agrees that a breach of this certification is a violation of the Equal Opportunity Clause in this contract. As used in this certification, the term ``segregated facilities'' means any waiting rooms, work areas, restrooms and washrooms, restaurants and other eating areas, timeclocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees which are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin, because of habit, local custom, or otherwise. The Bidder agrees that (except where it has obtained identical certifications from proposed subcontractors for specific time periods) it will obtain identical certifications from proposed subcontractors prior to the award of subcontracts exceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity Clause, and that it will retain such certifications in its files. XXXX Name of Bidder XXXX Address of Bidder By XXXX XXXX Title of Officer XXXX Date Equipment Contract AGREEMENT made XXXX 19 XXXX , between XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Purchaser'') and XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Seller''), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of XXXX .
