FR940110-1-00055 FR940110-1-00006 (2) Definitions of ``low- or moderate-income household'' and ``very low-income household''. Section 10(j)(13)(A) of the Act defines the term ``low- or moderate-income household'' as a household which has an income of 80 percent or less of the area median. 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(13)(A). Section 10(j)(13)(B) of the Act defines the term ``very low-income household'' as a household that has an income of 50 percent or less of the area median. Id. section 1430(j)(13)(B). Thus, the term low- or moderate-income household incorporates households that meet the definition of very low-income household. The Board's existing AHP regulation defines ``low- and moderate-income households'' as households for which the aggregate income is 80 percent or less of the area median income, and ``very low-income households'' as households for which the aggregate income is 50 percent or less of the area median income. See 12 CFR 960.1(g), (o). ``Median income'' is defined as ``the median family income for an area as determined and published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.'' Id. ยง960.1(h). ``Area'' is defined as ``a metropolitan statistical area, a county, or a nonmetropolitan area, as established by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget.'' Id. ยง960.1(c). (i) Adjustments of income limit. On November 5, 1993, the Board published a proposed rule to amend the definitions of these terms. See 58 FR 58988 (November 5, 1993). As discussed in the preamble to the proposed amendment, under section 3 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (Secretary) establishes income limits to be used in determining whether a family qualifies as a ``low-income family'' or as a ``very low-income family'' that is eligible to receive assistance under the Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) housing programs. See 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2). These income limits are calculated as a percentage of the median income of a four-person family living in a particular area. In general, the income limit for qualifying as a ``low-income family'' is set at 80 percent of the area median income, and the income limit for qualifying as a ``very low-income family'' is set at 50 percent of the area median income. The Secretary may adjust the income limits for very low-income families and low-income families upward or downward to take into account unusually high or low family incomes in an area. See id. In addition, the income limit for low-income families may be adjusted to take into account prevailing levels of construction costs. See id. Then an adjustment in this figure is made to establish the comparable income limits for larger and smaller families living in the area. See id. In 31 higher-income metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) and 18 counties, the Secretary adjusts the area-based income limit for a four-person, low-income family downward if it would otherwise exceed the U.S. median income for a four-person family. In these areas, the Secretary caps the income limit for a four-person, low-income family at the U.S. median income for a four-person family. In four MSAs and 107 counties, the Secretary adjusts the area-based income limit for four-person, very low- and low-income families downward because housing costs are low compared to incomes. Adjusting the income limit downward decreases the number of households in an area that are eligible to receive assistance under HUD's housing programs. As discussed in the proposed amendment, the Board believes that affordable housing financed through the AHP should be available to the greatest number of households possible, within the limits established by the Act. Further, households should not be excluded from affordable housing in a particular local market on the basis that housing costs are lower or household incomes are higher in that market than in other regions of the United States. Applying the income limits that have been adjusted downward for prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes for purposes of administering the AHP reduces the number of households eligible to live in affordable housing financed through the AHP. This limits a member's ability to use funds under the AHP to fulfill its obligation under the Community Reinvestment Act. See 12 U.S.C. 2901 et seq. It also limits a member's ability to use funds under the AHP to meet the ``community investment or service'' requirement of section 10(g) of the Act, 12 U.S.C. 1430(g), and the Board's Community Support Regulation, 12 CFR part 936. Accordingly, the Board is proposing that in administering the AHP and in defining the standards governing the ``community investment or service'' requirement of the Act, the income limits used to determine whether a household in a particular area qualifies as a ``very low-income household'' or as a ``low- or moderate-income household'' should not be adjusted downward based on prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes. Therefore, as set forth in the Board's proposed amendment, ยง960.1 of this proposed rule defines ``low- or moderate-income household'' as a household which has an income of 80 percent or less of the median income for the area, as adjusted and published by HUD, except in areas where the Secretary adjusts this figure downward because of prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes. For areas where the Secretary makes this downward adjustment, ``low- or moderate-income household'' would be defined to mean a household which has an income of 80 percent or less of the median income for the area, as published by HUD, with adjustment for household size, but without the adjustments made by the Secretary for prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes.
