FR940323-0-00057 FR940323-0-00020 (a) A program may provide a stipend for service activities for a participant who is a student if the provision of stipends in reasonable in the context of a program's design and objectives. (1) A program may not provide a stipend to a student who is receiving academic credit for service activities unless the service activities require a substantial time commitment beyond that expected for the credit earned. (2) A participant who is earning money for service activities under the work-study program described in §2519.200(e) may not receive an additional stipend from funds under this part. (b) Consistent with the AmeriCorps program requirements in §2522.100 of this chapter, a program with participants serving in approved full-time AmeriCorps positions must ensure the provision of a living allowance and, if necessary, health care and child care to those participants. A program may, but is not required to, provide a prorated living allowance to individuals participating in approved AmeriCorps positions on a part-time basis, consistent with the AmeriCorps program requirements in §2522.240 of this chapter. Subpart D_Application Contents §2519.400 What must an applicant include in an application for a grant? In order to apply to the Corporation for a grant, an applicant must submit the following: (a) A plan describing the goals and activities of the proposed program. (b) The specific program, budget, and other information and assurances specified by the Corporation in the grant application package. (c) Assurances that the applicant will_ (1) Keep such records and provide such information to the Corporation with respect to the program as may be required for fiscal audits and program evaluation; (2) Comply with the nonduplication, nondisplacement, and grievance procedure requirements of part 2540 of this chapter; (3) Prior to the placement of a participant in the program, consult with the appropriate local labor organization, if any, representing employees in the area who are engaged in the same or similar work as the work proposed to be carried out by the program, to prevent the displacement and protect the rights of those employees; and (4) Comply with any other assurances that the Corporation deems necessary. Subpart E_Application Review §2519.500 How does the Corporation review an application? (a) The Corporation will review an application submitted under this part on the basis of the quality, innovation, replicability, and sustainability of the proposed program and such other criteria as the Corporation establishes in an application package. (b) In addition, in reviewing an application submitted under this part, the Corporation will give a proposed program increased priority for each characteristic described in paragraphs (b) (1) through (7) of this section. Priority programs_ (1) Demonstrate the commitment of the institution of higher education, other than by demonstrating the commitment of its students, to supporting the community service projects carried out under the program; (2) Specify how the institution will promote faculty, administration, and staff participation in the community service projects; (3) Specify the manner in which the institution will provide service to the community through organized programs, including, where appropriate, clinical programs for students in professional schools; (4) Describe any higher education partnership that will participate in the community service projects, such as a higher education partnership comprised of the institution, a student organization, a community-based agency, a local government agency, or a nonprofit entity that serves or involves school-age youth or older adults; (5) Demonstrate community involvement in the development of the proposal; (6) Specify that the institution will use funds under this part to strengthen the infrastructure in institutions of higher education; or (7) With respect to projects involving delivery of service, specify projects that involve leadership development of school-age youth. (c) In addition, the Corporation may designate additional priorities in an application package that will be used in selecting programs. Subpart F_Distribution of Funds §2519.600 How are funds for Higher Education programs distributed? All funds under this part are distributed by the Corporation through grants or by contract. Subpart G_Funding Requirements §2519.700 Are matching funds required? (a) Yes. The Corporation share of the cost of carrying out a program funded under this part may not exceed 50 percent. (b) In providing for the remaining share of the cost of carrying out a program, each recipient of assistance must provide for that share through a payment in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including facilities, equipment, or services, and may provide for that share through State sources, local sources, of Federal sources (other than funds made available under the national service laws). (c) However, the Corporation may waive the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section in whole or in part with respect to any program in any fiscal year if the Corporation determines that the waiver would be equitable due to lack of available financial resources at the local level. §2519.710 Are there limits on the use of funds? Yes. The recipient of a grant under this part may spend no more than five percent of the grant funds on administrative costs. §2519.720 What is the length of a grant? A grant under this part is for a period of up to three years, subject to satisfactory performance and annual appropriations. §2519.730 May an applicant submit more than one application to the Corporation for the same project at the same time?
