FR940719-2-00004 FR940719-2-00003 Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Approval of American Agrisurance, Inc.'s Market Value Protection Supplemental Crop Insurance Program SUMMARY: The Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, (Pub. L. 101&hyph;624) (the 1990 Farm Bill) authorizes The Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) to develop new products for reinsurance. In accordance with the 1990 Farm Bill, FCIC has approved a Market Value Protection (MVP) supplemental crop insurance policy submitted by American Agrisurance, a managing general agency for Redland Insurance Company. FCIC herewith gives notice of the terms and conditions for MVP which will be available for use by private sector insurance companies. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mari L. Dunleavy, Regulatory and Procedural Development Staff, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Washington, DC 20250, telephone (202) 254&hyph;8319. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 508(b)(4) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508), as amended, FCIC is required to publish or make available to all persons contracting with or reinsured by FCIC any rates and provisions of policies approved by the Corporation for reinsurance in the same manner as FCIC's standard policies of insurance are published and made available. FCIC has available upon written request, MVP underwriting rules, and rate factors. Also available are the terms and conditions of the reinsurance agreement with American Agrisurance. Requests for such information should be sent to Mari L. Dunleavy, Regulatory and Procedural Development Staff, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Washington, DC 20250, telephone (202) 254&hyph;8319. Notice: The terms and provisions for the MVP policy of American Agrisurance, mandatory state endorsements, and crop endorsements are as follows: Market Value Protection Policy Article I_Insuring Agreement In return for the premium and compliance with all the terms and conditions set forth in this Policy, We will, on acceptance of Your application and receipt of Your premium payment by Us, provide the insurance described in this Policy for Your Crop(s). Article II_Companion Coverage This Market Value Protection Policy provides coverage in conjunction with the Multiple Peril Crop Insurance Policy specified in the Summary of Coverage (``MPCI Policy'') and provides the coverage described herein on the Crop(s) only in the event that a MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment is made to You in regard to such Crop(s). Article III_Terms and Conditions Cause of Loss A. Losses Insured Against. Subject to any and all other exceptions, exclusions, and limitations contained in this Policy, the insurance provided is against such losses as specifically set forth in the endorsements to this policy B. Losses Not Insured Against. We do not cover any loss, as determined by Us, resulting from the following: 1. Your neglect, mismanagement, malfeasance, or wrongdoing, including any member of Your household, Your tenants, Your agents, any independent contractor retained by You, or Your employees. 2. Any dishonest or fraudulent act by You or by any partner, joint venture, officer, director or trustee, agent, or employee of Yours, whether acting alone or with others. 3. Any Cause of Loss not specified as a Cause of Loss Insured Against under this Policy. Crop and Acreage Insured You must purchase coverage for all eligible acreage in the county of the Crop(s) insured. The insurance provided by this Policy shall not attach or be effective and no indemnity shall be payable if all the eligible acreage of the Crop(s) in the county is not insured under this Policy. Premium The premium for this Policy shall be calculated in accordance with Our rates, rules and underwriting guidelines with the applicable rate being the rate in effect for Us for the current growing season as a percentage of the MPCI Policy rate. In no event shall the premium be less than $100.00 which is the minimum premium payable by You. The premium is earned at the time Your application is accepted by Us. Total actual premium due will be calculated based upon the acreage report submitted by You to Us. We will invoice you for the total actual premium and the total actual premium owing under this policy shall be payable within 15 days after the due date for Your MPCI policy (October 1 for spring seeded crops; July 1 for fall seeded crops). Any amount owed to Us under this Policy may be deducted from any payments to You under the provisions of this Policy.
