FR940405-1-00079 FR940405-1-00013 F. Pharmacokinetic Modeling of ETS Exposure In developing a final rule, OSHA would like to consider the use of a physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model in an effort to develop a clear and complete picture of factors that may affect environmental exposure measurements, internal dose estimates and ultimately estimates of expected risk attributed to ETS exposure at the workplace. OSHA is seeking comment on appropriate methodology, available data, etc. The following discussion offers an explanation of OSHA's approach to this issue and an opportunity for the Agency to solicit comment on specific points of concern as they relate to the use of pharmacokinetics in estimating occupational risk from exposure to ETS. Estimating the risk from exposure to ETS requires the use of some measure of the extent of exposure. Possible measures, or metrics, can range from categorical ranking based on survey responses to direct measurement of ETS-related chemicals in the body fluids of exposed individuals. In general, the use of an internal measure of individual exposure would be preferred over measurements of environmental contamination, such as airborne chemical or particulate concentrations. In particular, considerable attention has been given in the scientific literature to the possible use of cotinine concentrations in body fluids as a biomarker of ETS exposure [Exs. 4&hyph;24, 4&hyph;146, 4&hyph;165, 4&hyph;263, 4&hyph;316]. However, obtaining a dependable estimate of exposure from measurements of a chemical's concentration in body fluids requires a quantitative understanding of the chemical's pharmacokinetics; its uptake, distribution, metabolism, and excretion. Following is a review of the evidence concerning the suitability of cotinine as an internal biomarker for ETS exposure. 1. Considerations for Selection of a Biomarker for ETS A biomarker should, to the greatest extent possible, accurately represent the individual's exposure to the substance of concern and have relevance to a specific endpoint. In the case of ETS, there are several relevant endpoints, with principal attention being given to heart disease and lung cancer. Each different endpoint may be mediated by a different subset of the components of ETS, and therefore the appropriate biomarker(s) for each endpoint could be different. 2. Cardiovascular Effects Cardiovascular effects resulting from exposure to ETS have been associated with carbon monoxide (CO), nicotine, and more recently with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) [Ex. 4&hyph;123]. Each of these is associated with a different fraction of ETS; CO is a gas phase constituent, nicotine is a low volatility vapor, and PAHs are absorbed on particulates. Because of the significant differences in physical fate and transport, a strategy for the use of biomarkers for cardiovascular effects of ETS would ideally make use of separate markers for CO, nicotine, and PAHs.
