FR941110-2-00098 FR941110-2-00058 Public Health Service Agency Forms Submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for Clearance The following request has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for clearance in compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 USC Chapter 35). Expedited review by OMB has been requested as described below. Call PHS Reports Clearance Officer on 202&hyph;690&hyph;7100 for a copy of the submission. Cosmetics Adverse Reaction Hotline Reports Guide_New_In support of the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Women's Health Initiatives Program, the agency is undertaking a consumer cosmetics adverse reaction program to enable the public to report directly to FDA any adverse reactions they encounter with cosmetic product usage. Both men and women will be able to report adverse rections encountered. Under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, cosmetics are defined as ``articles intended to be rubbed, poured, sprinkled, or sprayed on, introduced into, or otherwise applied to the human body or any part thereof for cleansing, beautifying, promoting attractiveness, or altering the appearance.'' Cosmetic products and ingredients are regulated after, not before, they are marketed and thus are not subject to premarket approval for safety or effectiveness for their intended use. They can only be removed from the market place when it can be demonstrated that they are adulterated or misbranded under sections 601 and 602 of the Act. Almost everyone uses some cosmetic products, and many people use a great many. The number of cosmetic products grows daily and there is great diversity of intended uses and a potential for consumer harm. In addition, product formulation technology has advanced to the point where manufacturers can put together highly sophisticated products that were unknown even a few years ago. With this vigorous activity in the cosmetic market place, there is considerable uncertainty about the prevalence and intensity of product problems being experienced by the public and there is limited capability to detect emerging problems due to new types of products or changing consumer usages. The agency currently has two monitoring systems in place, the Cosmetic Adverse Reaction Monitoring Program and the Voluntary Cosmetic Product Experience Program. However, both of these systems are passive in nature and each has limitations in terms of timeliness or completeness of reporting. The toll-free hotline program will allow consumers to report to the agency detailed information on the nature and severity of cosmetic adverse reactions that they experience. Direct entry of information reported into an on-line computer database will minimize possible errors and expedite the timeliness of data processing. Such information will enable the agency to know the magnitude of a problem in real time. The agency also intends to provide the cosmetic industry with a listing of their products which have adverse reaction rates greater than the norm for similar products. This will enable cosmetic companies to compare their products to the rest of the industry and to correct quickly a problem with a cosmetic product. The cosmetic adverse reaction reports received through the hotline will be used in conjunction with the cosmetic product ingredient registration program information received in accordance with 21 CFR 720. Correlation of hotline data with ingredient data from over 28,000 cosmetic product formulations will give FDA scientists a valuable insight into potentially unsafe ingredients in cosmetic products. OMB has been requested to review and approved the hotline reports guide on an expedited basis by Friday, December 2. This approval date is necessary in order to implement the national toll-free hotline service on December 7. This date is crucial because of the outreach program needed to promote consumer awareness of cosmetic adverse reactions and have the hotline available for the holiday season. In keeping with the requirements for expedited review, we are publishing the interview guide and associated instructions. It should be noted that the information will actually be collected using a computer assisted telephone interview program which presents to the interviewer screens containing the data items and associated instructions. Respondents: Individuals or households; Number of Respondents: 30,000; Number of Responses per Respondent; 1; Average Burden per Response: .25 hour; Estimated Annual Burden: 7,500 hours. OMB Desk Officer: Steve Semenuk. Because of the time frame in which OMB has been asked to act on this submission, any comments and recommendations for the proposed information collection should be provided directly to the OMB Desk Officer designated above by telephone at (202) 395&hyph;7316 or by express mail at the following address: Human Resources and Housing Branch, New Executive Office Building, Room 10235, Washington, D.C. 20503. Dated: November 7, 1994. James Scanlon, Director, Division of Data Policy, Office of Health Planning and Evaluation. BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;11&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEN10NO94.001 E:GRAPHICSEN10NO94.000 [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27888 Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;11&hyph;C
