FR941130-0-00115 FR941130-0-00016 •The final regulations have been revised to clarify that a borrower's loan proceeds disbursed via a master check are treated, for operational purposes, the same way as loan proceeds are treated that are disbursed via electronic funds transfer. These technical changes are reflected throughout the regulations. •The final regulations have been revised to provide that a loan made under a guaranty agency's lender-of-last-resort program are not included in the guaranty agency's reinsurance rate determined under §682.404. Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the NPRM, 129 parties submitted comments on the proposed regulations. An analysis of the comments and changes made to the regulations that differ from the NPRM follows. Major issues are grouped according to subject, with the reference to the appropriate sections of the regulations. Other substantive issues are discussed under the section of the regulations to which they pertain. Technical and other minor changes, and suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under the applicable statutory authority are generally not addressed. General Comments: Some commenters noted that the proposed regulations did not reflect other changes made to the HEA as a result of OBRA and the Technical Amendments. The commenters expressed concern that the Department's decision not to reflect these statutory changes in the regulations would result in a delay in their implementation under the master calendar provisions of the HEA. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the statutory changes noted by the commenters should be incorporated into the FFEL regulations and is preparing a regulations package of technical corrections and self-implementing changes that the Department plans to publish shortly. As self-implementing provisions of the statute, these requirements are currently in effect. Changes: None. Comments: Many commenters asked the Secretary not to implement proposed section 682.418, which would implement the requirement in section 428(n) of the HEA, which requires States to pay a share of the costs of defaults in the FFEL Program. Many of the commenters raised concerns or questions about a number of the proposed regulatory provisions. In addition, some commenters informed the Secretary that the implementation of this rule in fiscal year 1995 would not give the States enough time to appropriate money to pay their fees and to enact laws under which they could pass a portion of their fees on to schools. Further, the commenters argued that the States would not be able to develop any criteria for exceptional mitigating circumstances that could be approved by the Secretary before the fee is due to the Secretary. In addition, many commenters argued that the formula prescribed by section 428(n) of the HEA would impose undue penalties on States and schools. Discussion: Based on the comments received in response to the NPRM, the Secretary has determined that more time is needed to review and address the concerns raised by the commenters regarding implementation of section 428(n) of the HEA. Therefore, the Secretary has decided not to issue regulations implementing that provision at this time. The Secretary will further evaluate the statutory requirements and pursue further rulemaking during 1995 to implement section 428(n) of the HEA for fiscal year 1996. Moreover, the Secretary will exercise his authority under section 432(a)(5) and (6) of the HEA to waive any fee a State would be responsible to pay under section 428(n) of the HEA for fiscal year 1995. Changes: The Secretary has decided that more time is needed to review the concerns raised by the commenters and, therefore, is not publishing the final rule to implement section 428(n) of the HEA in these regulations. The Secretary expects to fully implement this provision in fiscal year 1996 and will publish the final regulations at a later date. Section 682.202␣Permissible Charges by Lenders to Borrowers Comments: Many commenters suggested that the Secretary calculate a borrower's refund of excess interest paid on a Federal Stafford loan based on the ending principal balance of the loan for the quarter instead of the daily principal balance. The commenter noted that using the average daily principal balance of the loan for the quarter would be more burdensome to a lender than using the ending principal balance. Other commenters noted that the guidance in the regulations was not consistent with guidance the Department has previously issued.
