FR941222-0-00112 FR941222-0-00016 Subsection (c)(1) deletes the 5% VOC content water-based spray limit provision. Subsection (d) deletes the 0.161 pound per tire emission limit, and adds the requirement that as an alternative to meeting the specified control level, an affected facility may develop and implement an alternative RACT control program if the program is approved by the PADER and EPA as a SIP revision. Section 129.71_Synthetic Organic Chemical and Polymer Manufacturing-Fugitive Sources Section 129.71(a) applies to surface active agent manufacturing facilities subject to §129.72 (relating to manufacturing of surface active agents) and to facilities with design capability to manufacture 1,000 tons per year (tpy) or more of one or a combination of synthetic organic chemicals listed in 40 CFR 60.489 (relating to list of chemicals provided by affected facilities), Methyl tert-butyl ether, polyethylene, polypropylene, or polystyrene. The previous 4,000 tpy applicability level was deleted. Subsection (c) requires the owner or operator of a newly affected facility to complete, develop and initiate a leak detection program including liquid leaks for pumps, valves, compressors, vessels, and safety pressure relief valves and a repair program for these components that cause a hydrocarbon detection instrument reading equal to or greater than 10,000 ppm not later than May 23, 1993. The leak detection and repair program shall include the following: a leak check during every quarter of all components, by methods referenced in §139.14; a waterproof identification tag is to be attached to the leaking component (that is causing the instrument to read greater than 10,000 ppm) with the identification number and the date which the leak was detected in a visible area; the repair and retest of a leaking component must be done within 15 days from the date of detection; and the identification tag must indicate if the component cannot be repaired until a process shutdown that will not occur within 15 days from the date of detection. Subsection (2)(iv) was revised to require a weekly visual check of all pumps in light liquid service for indications of leaks. The fugitive emission leak check requirements in §139.14 (relating to emissions of VOCs) were separated from subsection (2)(iv) and added as a new subsection, (2)(v). This new subsection specifies that safety relief valves are subject to the requirements for rechecking within 24 hours. The requirements for the recordkeeping and reporting of the leak detection and repair program were separated from subsection (2)(iv) and added as a new subsection, (2)(vi). Section 129.72_Manufacture of Surface Active Agents Section 129.72 requires a leak detection program (see §129.71 synthetic organic chemical and polymer manufacturing fugitive sources). Subsection (b) of this section was amended to clarify the emission control system efficiency requirements for surface active agent manufacturing facilities with potential VOC emissions of greater than 100 tpy. Emission of VOCs in ambient air from solvent wash tanks, reaction vessels, separators, distillation processes, solvent trippers and solvent storage tanks may not be caused or permitted by any person unless the emissions are exhausted through an emission reduction system which is designed and operated to recover or destroy at least 90% by weight of the VOC emissions exhausted to the emission reduction system. EPA is approving this SIP revision without prior publication of a notice of proposed rulemaking because the Agency views this as a noncontroversial amendment and anticipates no adverse comments. However, in a separate document in this Federal Register publication, EPA is proposing to approve the SIP revision should adverse or critical comments be filed. This action will be effective February 21, 1995, unless, within 30 days of publication, adverse or critical comments are received. If EPA receives such comments, this action will be withdrawn before the effective date by publishing a document that will withdraw the final action. All public comments received will then be addressed in a subsequent final rule based on this action serving as a proposed rule. EPA will not institute a second comment period on this action. Any parties interested in commenting on this action should do so at this time. If no such comments are received, the public is advised that this action will be effective on February 21, 1995. Final Action EPA is approving the addition of and revision to Pennsylvania's SIP to control VOCs from §129.52 - surface coating, §129.69 - pneumatic rubber tire manufacturing, §129.67 - graphic arts and §129.72 - synthetic organic chemical manufacturing industry equipment leaks which were submitted to EPA on December 31, 1985, June 29, 1988 and August 19, 1992. These revisions meet part of the RACT Fix-up requirement of the Act, as amended. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. Each request for revision to the SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq., EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. §§603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. SIP approvals under section 110 and subchapter I, Part D of the Clean Air Act do not create any new requirements but simply approve requirements that the Commonwealth is already imposing. Therefore, because the Federal SIP approval does not impose any new requirements, the Administrator certifies that it does not have a significant impact on any small entities affected. Moreover, due to the nature of the Federal-State relationship under the CAA, preparation of a flexibility analysis would constitute Federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of state action. The Clean Air Act forbids EPA to base its actions concerning SIPs on such grounds. Union Electric Co. v. U.S. EPA, 427 U.S. 246, 255&hyph;66 (1976); 42 U.S.C. §§7410(a)(2).
