FR941227-1-00030 FR941227-1-00007 (a) What technique do railroads use to record accidents, even those not reportable to the FRA? K. Data Elements 1. Ethnic and Gender Codes FRA proposed requiring the gender and ethnicity of the injured or ill person on Form FRA F 6180.55a (Railroad Injury and Illness (Continuation Sheet)), in an effort to help identify whether particular groups of individuals are more susceptible than others to certain injuries and illnesses, particularly as trespassers. (a) Are these elements (gender and ethnicity) necessary or desirable? Could an alternative be found that would serve the same purpose, such as ``ability to read or comprehend instructions, signs, or warnings in English'' or ``ability to interpret non-verbal instructions, signs, or warnings''? (b) Would the collection of gender and ethnicity be acceptable when reporting trespasser injuries and fatalities? 2. Cause Codes for Injuries (a) What additional codes could be used in the ``Cause Code'' block on the proposed Form FRA F 6180.55a? Is this block necessary or desirable? Why or why not? 3. Special Study Blocks (SSB) FRA proposes to establish three SSB's on Form FRA F 6180.54 (Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Report) for the purpose of temporarily collecting information on these issues of immediate safety concern. When one or more critical safety issues arise, FRA would notify the railroad reporting officers and request that they, for a specified time-frame, collect and report on the critical issues using the SSB. Upon expiration of the pre-defined time period, the SSB would not be used again until the next issues of immediate concern. (a) Are the SSB's necessary or desirable? (b) What limitations should be placed on the SSB usage? 4. SSB for Form FRA F 6180.57 (Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Accident/Incident Form (a) Should FRA add a similar special study block (SSB) to Form FRA F 6180.57 to capture data on unusual or special situations? How could it be utilized? 5. Motorist Impairment In order to collect more information on motorists involved in highway-rail grade crossing accidents, FRA proposed to amend Form FRA F 6180.57 (Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Accident/Incident Report) to require information under the heading ``Motorist,'' if known, on the motorist's age and gender, and whether the motorist was impaired by alcohol or drugs at the time of the accident/incident. (a) How readily available is this information? (b) How many times has a railroad been denied access to a police report? Please cite specific instances. (c) Does the claim department investigate every grade crossing accident? (d) Is there another source for this information? FHWA or NHTSA? Could the two data bases be linked? 6. Signal Failure and Whistle Bans FRA proposes to add two new questions to the Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Accident/Incident Report (Form FRA F 6180.57) to gather information on whistle bans and signal system failures. New block ``34'' asks whether a whistle ban was in effect and observed at the time of the accident/incident. New block ``35'' asks whether there was a signal system failure within the last seven calendar days up to and including the day of the accident. The codes for completing both items would be included in the FRA Guide. (a) Are the proposed blocks for ``Signal Failure'' and ``Whistle Ban'' necessary? Why or why not? (b) Should Form FRA F 6180.57 also collect responses for situations where the motorist is ``trapped by other motor vehicle traffic'' at the time of the highway-rail grade crossing accident? 7. Specific Location of the Accident (a) Would a requirement for additional accident location information (based on the host railroad's timetable, the division, sub-division, specific track segment name or timetable designation, and milepost number where the accident/incident occurred) provide sufficient information to pinpoint the accident site? (b) Would a requirement for the specific latitude and longitude of the accident site be beneficial? Why or why not? (c) Which of the above would prove least burdensome to the railroad industry? L. Access to Records (Proposed Section 225.41) FRA proposed in ยง225.41 that all reports, logs, plans, and records (including relevant claims and medical records) provided for in part 225 shall, upon request, be made available to any representative of the Federal Railroad Administration or of a State agency participating in investigative and surveillance activities under part 212 of this chapter, for examination and photocopying in a reasonable manner during normal business hours at a central location(s) identified pursuant to proposed ยง225.27(c). (1) What part(s) of a worker's medical records should be exempt from disclosure to the FRA inspector? (2) Does your railroad have a centralized claims department or individual claims offices scattered throughout the system? (3) Does your main claims office have all information that the individual claim representative has, or is the entire file forwarded only when closed? Issued in Washington, D.C., on December 20, 1994. Jolene M. Molitoris, Federal Railroad Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31738 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;06&hyph;M
