FR940523-2-00097 FR940523-2-00052 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 50&hyph;382] Entergy Operations, Inc. Waterford Steam Electric Station, Unit 3; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. NPF&hyph;38, issued to Entergy Operations, Inc. (the licensee), for operation of the Waterford Steam Electric Station, Unit 3 (Waterford), located in St. Charles Parish, Louisiana. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The proposed amendment would revise 10 CFR part 20 references to reflect the new section numbers, change administrative controls for reporting and recordkeeping to achieve compliance with the new part 20, and revise definitions to ensure consistency with 10 CFR part 20. The change would revise the limitations on concentrations of radioactive material released in liquid effluents and the limitations on the dose rate resulting from radioactive material released in gaseous effluents. The site boundary definition would be revised to exclude the areas over water as part of the unrestricted area, and the high-radiation area definition would be revised to meet the intent of the NRC draft generic letter, ``Guidance for Modification of Technical Specifications to Reflect (A) Revisions to 10 CFR Part 20, `Standards for Protection Against Radiation' and 10 CFR 50.36(a), `Technical Specifications of Effluents from Nuclear Power Reactors,' (B) Related Current Industry Initiatives, and (C) Miscellaneous Related Editorial Clarifications,''. These changes are in response to the licensee's application for amendment dated February 11, 1994, implementing the new 10 CFR part 20. The Need for the Proposed Action The proposed action is needed for the licensee to retain operational flexibility, as far as is consistent with 10 CFR part 50, appendix I, in implementing the revised 10 CFR part 20. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action With regard to the actual release rates (referenced in the Technical Specifications (TS) as a dose rate to the maximally exposed member of the public), the proposed revision will not increase the types or amounts of effluents that may be released offsite, nor increase individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposures. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed changes do not affect nonradiological effluents and have no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission concluded that there are no significant environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment to the TS, any alternative to the amendment will have either no significantly different environmental impact or will have greater environmental impact. The principal alternative would be to deny the requested amendment. Denying the amendment would not reduce environmental impacts as a result of plant operation. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not previously considered in the Final Environmental Statement related to the operation of Waterford, dated September 1991. Agencies and Persons Consulted The Commission's staff reviewed the licensee's request and did not consult other agencies or persons. Finding of No Significant Impact Based on the foregoing environmental assessment, we conclude that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed license amendment. For further details with respect to this action, see the application for amendment dated February 11, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC, and at the University of New Orleans Library, Louisiana Collection, Lakefront, New Orleans, Louisiana 70122. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 12th day of May 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. William D. Becker, Director, Project Directorate IV&hyph;1, Division of Reactor Projects_III/IV, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12502 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
