FR940428-2-00094 FR940428-2-00052 NRC Project Director: Ledyard B. Marsh. Northeast Nuclear Energy Company, et al., Docket No. 50&hyph;423, Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 3, New London County, Connecticut Date of Amendment Request: March 23, 1994. Description of Amendment Request: The licensee proposed to modify Technical Specification Table 3.7&hyph;6, Area Temperature Monitoring, by creating two zones for the main steam valve building (MSVB) and increasing the maximum normal excursion (MNE) temperature limit for this area from 120 ○F to 140 ○F. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The proposed change does not involve an SHC [significant hazards consideration] because the change would not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The increase of the MNE temperature from 120 ○F to 140 ○F for the main steam valve building has been evaluated. The equipment in the building has been shown to be qualified for continuous operation at 140oF. The effect of this temperature change has decreased slightly the qualified life of the components in the building. For those components with a qualified life of less than 40 years, they will be replaced as a scheduled maintenance item. An engineering review of the MSLB profile for this building was conducted and it was concluded that those components required to operate post accident, will continue to perform their safety function. Therefore, since the equipment will continue to operate as designed both during normal conditions and subsequent to a MSLB, the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated is not increased. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. The effect of increasing the MNE temperature to 140 ○F has been evaluated and judged acceptable. The possible failure of the equipment in this building due to the increase in temperature is no more likely than it was before, since the equipment has been shown to be qualified to 140 ○F. Failure of any equipment in this building at the new temperature will not create any new accidents or consequences that were not considered previously. Finally, since there are no changes in the way the plant is operated, there is no possibility of an accident of a new or different type than previously evaluated due to the proposed change. 3. Involve a significant reduction in margin of safety. The proposed change increases the MNE temperature within the MSVB. The equipment in the building has been reviewed to ensure operability. There is a slight decrease in the qualified life, but this was anticipated and scheduled previously and any such replacement of equipment will continue as a maintenance item. A review of the MSLB profile was performed for this area and it was shown that the required equipment will continue to operate as required. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: Learning Resource Center, Three Rivers Community-Technical College, Thames Valley Campus, 574 New London Turnpike, Norwich, Connecticut 06360. Attorney for Licensee: Gerald Garfield, Esquire, Day, Berry & Howard, City Place, Hartford, Connecticut 06103&hyph;3499. NRC Project Director: John F. Stolz. Maine Yankee Atomic Power Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;309, Maine Yankee Atomic Power Station, Lincoln County, Maine Date of Amendment Request: March 15, 1994.
