FR940928-2-00091 FR940928-2-00067 If the final determination is that the amendment request involves a significant hazards consideration, any hearing held would take place before the issuance of any amendment. A request for a hearing or a petition for leave to intervene must be filed with the Secretary of the Commission, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Services Branch, or may be delivered to the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, by the above date. Where petitions are filed during the last 10 days of the notice period, it is requested that the petitioner promptly so inform the Commission by a toll-free telephone call to Western Union at 1&hyph;(800) 248&hyph;5100 (in Missouri 1&hyph;(800) 342&hyph;6700). The Western Union operator should be given Datagram Identification Number N1023 and the following message addressed to ( Project Director ): petitioner's name and telephone number, date petition was mailed, plant name, and publication date and page number of this Federal Register notice. A copy of the petition should also be sent to the Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, and to the attorney for the licensee. Nontimely filings of petitions for leave to intervene, amended petitions, supplemental petitions and/or requests for a hearing will not be entertained absent a determination by the Commission, the presiding officer or the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board that the petition and/or request should be granted based upon a balancing of factors specified in 10 CFR 2.714(a)(l)(i)&hyph;(v) and 2.714(d). For further details with respect to this action, see the application for amendment which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the local public document room for the particular facility involved. Carolina Power & Light Company, et al., Docket No. 50&hyph;400, Shearon Harris Nuclear Power Plant, Unit 1, Wake and Chatham Counties, North Carolina Date of amendment request: August 25, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise Technical Specification Table 2.2&hyph;1, Reactor Trip System Instrumentation Trip Setpoints, and Table 3.3&hyph;4, Engineered Safety Actuation System Instrumentation Trip Setpoints, to reflect a revised steam generator [water] level process measurement accuracy. The steam generator level trip setpoints are not affected by the proposed amendment. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed amendment does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The Technical Specification Tables 2.2&hyph;1 and 3.3&hyph;4 which document Total Allowable, Z, and S values are being revised to reflect additional Process Measurement Error uncertainties based upon enhanced knowledge of steam generator performance provided by the Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS) vendor. There will be no physical changes to plant equipment, logic, or control as a result of the proposed amendment. The safety-related trip setpoints are not being changed. Therefore, there would be no increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed amendment does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The propose amendment does not introduce any new equipment, logic, or control functions. The steam generator water level protective setpoints are not being changed. No new common mode failure mechanism is being introduced. Therefore, the proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. 3. The proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The proposed amendment revises Technical Specification Tables 2.2&hyph;1 and 3.3&hyph;4 to more accurately reflect PMA uncertainties based upon enhanced knowledge of the steam generator performance provided by the NSSS vendor. The margin of safety as defined in the Technical Specifications is not reduced by the proposed changes to the Tables. Calculations demonstrate that this requirement is still satisfied with the new values based upon the enhanced understanding of PMA terms. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Cameron Village Regional Library, 1930 Clark Avenue, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605. Attorney for licensee: R. E. Jones, General Counsel, Carolina Power & Light Company, Post Office Box 1551, Raleigh, North Carolina 27602. NRC Project Director: David B. Matthews.
