FR940505-1-00216 FR940505-1-00012 b. Proposed enhanced in-use I/M standards. The table below (``Proposed Enhanced In-Use I/M Standards for LDVs and LDTs'') summarizes the enhanced in-use I/M standards proposed in this NPRM for 1999 and later model year LDVs and LDTs. Passage or failure of these standards will be used to determine compliance with the liability thresholds. These standards will also be used to determine the need for repairs and retesting after the liability threshold has been exceeded. Proposed Enhanced In-Use I/M Standards for LDVs and LDTs 1Vehicle class 1Category 1Exhaust THC a (g/mi) 1NO X (g/mi) 2Half life 2Full life LDVs & LDTs (0&hyph;3750 lbs LVW) Enhanced In-Use 0.20 0.30 0.45 ␣ Transitional 0.34 0.60 0.90 LDTs (3751&hyph;5750 lbs LVW) Enhanced In-Use 0.29 0.60 0.75 ␣ Transitional 0.44 1.05 1.35 a An evaporative system pressure/purge check will also be performed during the inspection. If the vehicle passes the pressure/purge check, the evaporative emissions system is assumed to be functioning properly. As mentioned above, under enhanced I/M, exhaust emissions will be measured over the I/M 240 test procedure, a shortened version of the certification test procedure. Emissions measured over the I/M 240 test procedure and the certification test procedure are somewhat different for a number of reasons. First, different vehicles with the same overall FTP emissions will perform differently over each segment of the FTP. Because only part of the certification driving cycle is used in the I/M 240 test, individual vehicles with the same FTP emissions may produce somewhat different I/M 240 emissions. Also, and most importantly for NMHC emissions, the absence of a cold start in the I/M test will tend to reduce variability and result in a lower g/mi value for the I/M test. Other factors contribute to greater variability between the full FTP ␣␣␣␣ and I/M 240 testing. These factors include the type of driving a vehicle encountered immediately previous to the test, the specific fuel in its tank, and numerous other environmental factors which can be controlled in certification and recall testing, but which cannot be controlled in I/M testing, such as temperature and humidity. Therefore, an important objective of the enhanced in-use I/M standards is to provide an incentive for manufacturers to design vehicles which do not have significant emissions increases when operated under such typical in-use conditions as compared to the highly standardized FTP. If vehicles continue to be produced with a high degree of emissions sensitivity, their increased emissions under typical use (versus the FTP) would substantially add to the emissions burden caused by light- and medium-duty vehicles. Considering the factors just described and non-vehicle related test variability, the enhanced in-use I/M standards in the table above (``Proposed Enhanced In-Use I/M Standards for LDVs and LDTs'') are being proposed. EPA believes these levels represent a reasonable balance between granting a cushion between certification and I/M emissions levels, and in establishing manufacturer liability and the need to provide a greater incentive for the design of emission controls systems which maintain low emissions under variations in typical in-use conditions. (For example, the proposed enhanced in-use THC I/M standard is 0.20 g/mi, 2.2 times higher than CARB's 100,000 mile certification NMHC standard for LDV LEVs of 0.9 g/mi.) Due to the fact that the I/M 240 test only measures warmed-up exhaust emissions, compliance with these standards should not be any more technologically challenging or costly than compliance with the recall standards already discussed in Section A.(3) above. The only issue could be a vehicle's emissions variability over the IM240 test relative to the full FTP, as mentioned above. There is no inherent technical reason for exhibiting this variabiity, except a lack of concern that vehicles' emission controls operate fully over all types of normal driving and not only over the exact driving sequence embodied in the FTP. In fact, many if not most vehicles already exhibit similar control over both tests. The enhanced in-use I/M standards for LDTs were derived using the same factors and methodology described above for LDVs. As with LDVs, EPA is also proposing a single THC I/M standard for each subclass of LDTs that will apply throughout the useful life of a LDT. EPA believes that the technology and emissions performance of LDTs will be similar to that of LDVs and therefore the same factors can be used for establishing the enhanced in-use I/M standards for LDTs. EPA requests comments on the reasonableness of this assumption. Similar factors were used to derive the transitional enhanced in-use I/M standards. As described in Section A.(2) above, these standards will apply to up to 25 percent of each manufacturer's sales of 1999 model year vehicles. EPA requests comments on these levels, as well. The table below (``Proposed Enhanced In-Use I/M Standards for MDVs'') contains the proposed enhanced in-use I/M standards for MDVs. These standards will apply to all California MDVs certified to chassis-based standards. (Those MDV engines certified to the engine-based standards are not subject to the enhanced in-use I/M provisions, as described in Section B. below.) The enhanced in-use I/M standards for MDVs provide essentially the same cushion between themselves and the enhanced in-use standards for MDVs as described above for the enhanced in- use I/M standards for LDVs and LDTs.
