FR941202-2-00175 FR941202-2-00098 (a) Copies of previous assessment reports and PE sample results; (b) General laboratory information such as laboratory submitted self-assessment forms, SOPs and Quality Assurance plan; (c) Correspondence with laboratory personnel; (d) Discussion with appropriate NELAP/State staff; (e) Available documents from recipients of reports from the laboratory; and (f) Relevant program documents such as NELAP/State guidelines or SOPs. 3.4.5␣Providing Advance Notification No fewer than two weeks prior to an announced assessment, the accrediting body will contact the responsible management official at the laboratory to schedule the assessment. The initial telephone notification will be confirmed by a notification letter. A copy of the notification letter also will be given to the lead assessor. An assessment assignment that gives the name and telephone number of the laboratory contact person and of each assessment team member, as well as other available information necessary to the planning and conduct of the assessment will also be provided to the lead assessor. Once the laboratory has been notified by the accrediting authority that an assessment will be conducted, the primary responsibility for the conduct of the assessment passes to the lead assessor. Any further communications with the laboratory personnel should be made by the lead assessor. The lead assessor should keep his/her supervisory personnel informed of the status of the assessment, and should consult with them on any substantive problems that may arise or changes that may be required. There are several items to be addressed in the advanced notification. The lead assessor should make note of when and to whom advance notification was provided. Written advance notification should do the following: (a) Introduce the lead assessor and team members to the laboratory; (b) Schedule the assessment, including establishing time of arrival; (c) Obtain verbal agreement for entry; (d) Confirm the appropriate address for the assessment, including identifying the location of necessary records, as specified in the assessment plan; (e) Ensure that laboratory personnel are available to accompany assessors during the assessment; (f) Encourage the laboratory to transfer all records to the assessment site before the assessment; (g) Obtain directions to the laboratory; and (h) Allow discussion of problems, concerns, or questions about the assessment or any other issues. Especially when the laboratory has not previously been assessed by the accrediting authority, the lead assessor should be certain that laboratory personnel are aware of what an assessment involves, what data and records should be made available and what personnel should be present. If the laboratory representative does not cooperate, the lead assessor's supervisor and the accrediting authority management should be consulted for instructions on how to proceed.
