FR941103-0-00038 FR941103-0-00007 V. Pricing Proposals That Do Not Conform to the Traditional Revenue Requirement The Commission clearly prefers pricing proposals that are designed not to exceed the traditional revenue requirement. As noted, we believe that given the current industry structure it will be difficult to justify non-conforming proposals. In addition, we believe that the flexibility permitted under this revised transmission pricing policy should be adequate to satisfy the needs of today's electric utility industry, particularly given the current structure of the industry. Nevertheless, the electric utility industry is continuing to evolve 37 and we must ensure that our policies do not impede the continued development of competitive bulk power markets, or the development of new market structures and transmission arrangements. The Commission will consider pricing proposals necessary to accommodate such developments. Some of the proposals discussed in this proceeding may exceed the traditional embedded cost revenue requirement. Such proposals will be considered provided they meet certain filing procedures and evaluative criteria. We will provide two procedural avenues for considering non-conforming proposals. We will also provide guidance on the type of evidentiary showing necessary to support such proposals. 37 In recent months, the pace of change in the electric industry has increased dramatically. Certain state proceedings on industry restructuring, as well as proceedings before this Commission, have contributed to the development of innovative proposals by both industry participants and academicians. These evolutionary changes support the need for flexibility and the need to permit non-conforming pricing proposals. A. Procedures for Proposals That Do Not Conform to the Traditional Revenue Requirement Any public utility that seeks non-conforming pricing must have on file with the Commission an open access transmission tariff offering comparable services. Such comparability tariff must have been accepted for filing by the Commission before a non-conforming pricing proposal will be considered. Moreover, utilities proposing non-conforming transmission pricing must submit such pricing proposals either: (a) in conjunction with a section 205 conforming transmission pricing proposal (the non-conforming proposal would be reflected as alternative ``pro forma'' rate sheets to the conforming proposal); or (b) in a petition for declaratory order. (1) Alternative ``Pro Forma'' Rate Sheets Under this procedure, the Commission and interested parties would review the non-conforming proposal in conjunction with review of a companion conforming pricing proposal. 38 The conforming proposal would be subject to the notice and suspension procedures of section 205. The non-conforming proposal would not. The non-conforming proposal would be litigated at the same time as the conforming proposal, but could not take effect, if at all, until the end of the proceeding. If, at the end of the proceeding, the Commission determines that the alternative, non-conforming rate proposal is acceptable under the FPA, the Commission will allow the utility to make a compliance rate filing, and the rates will be put into effect prospectively. 38 See Pacific Gas Transmission, 66 FERC ¶61,384, reh'g denied , 67 FERC ¶61,247 (1994), reh'g pending .
