FR940429-0-00158 FR940429-0-00014 (b) A previously designated eligible institution must apply to the Secretary if_ (1) The Secretary requests the institution to file an application so as to determine whether it continues to meet the requirements of this part; or (2) The institution satisfies one of the conditions contained in paragraph (c) of this section. (c) An institution must apply if it wishes to_ (1) Continue to be eligible beyond the scheduled expiration of its current eligibility designation; (2) Include in its eligibility designation a branch campus that is not currently included in that designation; (3) Include in its eligibility designation a location that is not currently included in that designation, if_ (i) The institution offers 100 percent of an educational program at that location; or (ii) The institution offers at least 50 percent of an educational program at that location, and the Secretary requires the institution to apply for eligibility under §600.21(c)(2); (4) Continue to be eligible following a change in its name, location, or address; (5) Continue to include in its eligibility designation a branch campus that has changed its name, location, or address; (6) Continue to include in its eligibility designation another location that has changed its name, location, or address, if_ (i) That location offers 100 percent of an educational program; or (ii) The Secretary requires the institution to apply for eligibility under §600.21(c)(2); or (7) Reestablish eligibility following a change in ownership that results in a change in control according to the provisions of §600.31. (d) An institution applying for designation as an eligible institution shall_ (1) Apply on the form prescribed by the Secretary; and (2) Provide all the information and documentation requested by the Secretary to make a determination of its eligibility. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088 and 1141) §600.21 Eligibility notification. (a) The Secretary notifies an institution in writing_ (1) Whether the applicant institution qualifies in whole or in part as an eligible institution under the appropriate provisions in §§600.4, 600.5, 600.6 and 600.7; (2) Whether the institution is certified to participate in the title IV, HEA programs if the institution applied to participate in those programs; and (3) Of the title IV, HEA programs in which it is eligible to participate, and the title IV, HEA programs for which it is eligible to apply to participate. (b) If only a portion of the applicant institution qualifies as an eligible institution, the Secretary specifies in the notice the locations or educational programs that qualify as the eligible institution. (c) If the Secretary receives a notice from an institution as a result of §600.30(a)(3), the Secretary_ (1) Notifies the institution that the location is an eligible location of that institution, identifies the HEA programs in which the institution may participate without further action, and indicates that the extension of eligibility and participation is effective on the date that the Secretary received the institution's notice; or (2) Notifies the institution that the institution must apply for eligibility of that location under §600.20. (d) The Secretary makes the determination in paragraph (c) of this section by evaluating the institution's ability to provide adequately education or training at the location. In making that evaluation, the Secretary uses such factors as_ (1) The percentage of an educational program offered at the location; and (2) The financial and administrative capability of the institution. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088, 1099c, and 1141) Subpart C_Maintaining Eligibility §600.30 Institutional notification requirements. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an eligible institution shall notify the Secretary in writing, at an address specified by the Secretary in a notice published in the Federal Register , no later than 10 days after the change occurs, of any change in the following information provided in the institution's eligibility application: (1) Its name. (2) Its address. (3) The name, number, and address of locations other than the main campus at which it offers at least 50 percent of an educational program and the percentages of the educational programs that it provides at each location. (4) The way it measures program length, e.g. clock hours or credit hours. (5) Its ownership, if that ownership change results in a change in control of the institution. (6) Its status as a proprietary, nonprofit, or public institution. (7) The exercise of a person's substantial control over the institution, if the person did not previously exercise that control. The Secretary generally considers that a person exercises substantial control over an institution if the person_ (i) Directly or indirectly holds at least a 25 percent ownership interest in the institution; (ii) Holds, together with another member or members of his or her family, at least a 25 percent ownership interest in the institution; (iii) Represents, either alone or together with other persons, under a voting trust, power of attorney, proxy, or similar agreement one or more persons who hold either individually or in combination with the other persons represented or the person representing them, at least a 25 percent ownership in the institution; or (iv) Is a member of the board of directors, a general partner, the chief executive officer, or other executive officer of_ (A) The institution; or (B) An entity that holds at least a 25 percent ownership interest in the institution. (b) An eligible institution that is owned by a publicly-traded corporation shall notify the Secretary in writing, at an address specified by the Secretary in a notice published in the Federal Register , of any change in the information that is described in paragraphs (a) (5) through (7) of this section at the same time that the institution notifies the institution's accrediting agency, but no later than 10 days after the corporation learns of the change. (c) The Secretary notifies the institution in writing if any reported change affects the institution's eligibility, and the effective date of that change. (d) The institution's failure to inform the Secretary of the information described in paragraph (a) of this section within the time period stated in that paragraph may result in adverse action against it, including its loss of eligibility.
