FR940217-1-00018 FR940217-1-00005 The prime broker, bank, or trust company acting only as custodian or nominee for all of the omnibus accounts ( i.e., the custodian or nominee large trader) would list such accounts, carrying broker-dealer, and the relevant controllers on reproposed Schedule 8. It should be noted that if the omnibus account custodian or nominee also controlled these accounts, in whole or in part, then it would complete Schedule 7b instead. 41 The custodian or nominee large trader would be in possession of the information required by Schedule 7b or 8, for the following reasons. First, it is the carrying broker-dealer's customer with respect to the omnibus accounts and, therefore, would be required to complete a new account application and provide all other information requested by the broker-dealer with respect to settlement instructions and the persons authorized to effect transactions through the accounts. Second, the various advisers and the trustee of the pension fund, to the extent that he or she controls transactions, would be required by the reproposed rule to disclose such information to the prime broker, bank, or trust company acting as custodian or nominee. 42 Finally, if the custodian bank or trust company was an issuer of publicly-traded securities, it may list Form 10&hyph;K or 10&hyph;Q in Item 2 and would not be required to complete Item 4 on its Form 13H. 41 Of course, if the pension trustee retained the prime broker, bank, or trust company to act only as agent for settlement of its fully disclosed accounts, then such agent would not be deemed to own such account and would not be a large trader required to file Form 13H and Schedule 8. 42 See infra Section III.B.3., with respect to this required disclosure under reproposed paragraph (b)(2)(ii). Another example of how the reproposed Schedules to Form 13H may be applied would be where a registered investment adviser for a mutual fund complex chooses to file one Form 13H, covering all of the accounts controlled for affiliated or unaffiliated investment companies. Assuming that each mutual fund independently would be a large trader, they would be listed in Item 5(a) of the adviser's Form 13H. The Form ADV of the adviser and each investment company's registration statement or periodic reports also would be listed in Item 2 of the adviser's Form 13H. If the accounts through which the adviser effects transactions are fully disclosed as to ownership by a particular investment company within the fund complex, the adviser would complete Schedule 7a. Alternatively, if such accounts do not disclose the particular investment company for whom the adviser is effecting transactions ( i.e., are maintained on an omnibus basis), then the adviser would complete Schedule 7b. The Commission believes that the revisions to the reproposed Form 13H and Instructions would dispel many of the misconceptions regarding the information that would be required to be disclosed on Form 13H. The revised Schedules to Form 13H also minimize the burdens of the reproposed rule by utilizing existing ID System practices and procedures for disclosure and maintenance of information among large traders and other parties to multi-layered accounts. The Commission specifically solicits comments on the appropriateness of all the changes found in reproposed Form 13H and Schedules. 3. Disclosure of Large Trader Status Many of the commenters expressed concerns that the proposed disclosure requirements would cause overlapping, confusing, or unnecessary disclosures by more than one large trader for a given account. The broker-dealer commenters also indicated that the cost of modifying automated brokerage accounting systems to maintain and report multiple LTIDs for a single account or trade would be substantial.
