FR940317-1-00058 FR940317-1-00013 (a) Conflict of interest. Government personnel are forbidden to represent any claimant or to receive any payment or gratuity for services rendered. They may not accept any share or interest in a claim or assist in its presentation, under penalty of Federal criminal law (18 U.S.C. 203, and 205). (b) Release of information. (1) Government personnel are prohibited from disclosing information that may be the basis of a claim or any evidence of record in any claims matter except as authorized by statutory of regulatory authority. Certain documents which would normally be privileged or exempt from release, such as unclassified statements, documents containing opinions, conclusions, or findings, may be released to a claimant or his or her attorney, whenever release may help settle a claim or avoid unnecessary litigation, unless such release is barred by statute. (2) All requests for records and information made pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) or the Privacy Act (PA) will be processed in accordance with the procedures set forth in AR 25&hyph;55 or AR 340&hyph;21. Requests submitted by a claimant or his or her attorney, which cite only the FOIA, will be processed under the time limits of the FOIA and the exceptions and fees of the PA and FOIA, as required by AR 25&hyph;55, paragraph 1&hyph;512c. Except for medical quality assurance records exempt from disclosure by 10 U.S.C. records protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, records within a category for which withholding of the record is discretionary (AR 25&hyph;55, paragraph 3&hyph;101) may be released to a claimant or his or her attorney, if no legitimate purpose exists for withholding it. (3) When it is determined that exempt information should not be released, the request will be forwarded to USARCS. For requests processed only under the FOIA, the commander, USARCS, may deny release of the records, acting on behalf of TJAG, the initial denial authority. The commander, USARCS will forward to TJAG all requests processed under the FOIA and PA. TJAG is the initial denial authority for PA requests (AR 340&hyph;21, paragraph 1&hyph;7i). (c) Claims assistance. The foregoing prohibitions do not apply to information and assistance provided in the performance of official duty. Any person who indicates a desire to file a claim against the United States cognizable under one of the chapters of this regulation will be instructed concerning the procedure to follow. The claimant will be furnished claim forms and, when necessary, will be assisted in completing claim forms and assembling evidence. He or she will not be assisted in determining what amount to claim. In the vicinity of a field exercise, maneuver, or disaster, information may be disseminated concerning the right to present claims, the procedure to be followed, and the names and location of claims officers and engineer repair teams. When the government of a foreign country in which U.S. Armed Forces are stationed has assumed responsibility for the settlement of certain claims against the United States, officials of that country will be furnished pertinent information and evidence so far as security considerations permit. ยง536.11 Single-service claims responsibility (DODD 5515.8).
