FR940603-0-00022 FR940603-0-00011 New paragraph 356.16(b)(2)(iii) has been added to clarify that, if awarded securities are to be delivered to an account of a clearing corporation at a depository institution, a delivery and payment agreement must be acknowledged by, and on file with, the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank prior to the submission of a tender for the securities. By entering into such an agreement, the submitter authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank to provide to the clearing corporation notice of the submitter's auction awards. Further, a clearing corporation entering into delivery and payment agreements with submitters must have an acknowledged autocharge agreement on file at the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the accounts of the clearing corporation's agent banks. By entering into an autocharge agreement, the clearing corporation authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank to provide the depository institution whose funds account will be charged on issuance notice of certain payment related information for securities to be delivered. Finally, paragraph 356.24(a) has been expanded to provide that, if securities are to be delivered to an account of a clearing corporation at a depository institution, notice of awards will be provided to the clearing corporation. Also, paragraph 356.24(c) has been modified to correspond to the expanded definition of autocharge agreement. II. Special Analysis This final rule does not meet the criteria for a ``significant regulatory action'' pursuant to Executive Order 12866. Because this rule relates to public contracts and procedures for United States securities, the notice, public comment, and delayed effective date provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act are inapplicable, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(a)(2). In addition, because this rule is in the public interest, expedites the handling and processing of government securities, offers a new option for delivery and payment of securities, and does not adversely affect holders of government securities, the Department has determined not to publish the rule for public comment and to make the rule effective immediately upon publication. As no notice of proposed rulemaking is required, the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601, et seq. ) do not apply. List of Subjects in 31 CFR Part 356 Bonds, Federal Reserve System, Government securities, Securities. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 31 CFR Chapter II, subchapter B, part 356, is hereby amended as follows: PART 356_SALE AND ISSUE OF MARKETABLE BOOK-ENTRY TREASURY BILLS, NOTES, AND BONDS (DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY CIRCULAR, PUBLIC DEBT SERIES NO. 1&hyph;93) 1. The authority citation for part 356 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 3102, et seq. 2. The heading for part 356 is revised as set forth above. 3. Section 356.2 is amended by revising the definition of ``Autocharge agreement'' and adding in alphabetical order the definitions of ``Clearing corporation'' and ``Delivery and payment agreement'' to read as follows: ยง356.2 Definitions. * * * * * Autocharge agreement means a written agreement between a submitter and a depository institution or between a clearing corporation and a depository institution, acknowledged by a Federal Reserve Bank, which authorizes a Federal Reserve Bank to deliver securities awarded at auction to the book-entry account of the depository institution or, when authorized, to a TREASURY DIRECT account, and to charge a funds account of the depository institution for the settlement amount of the securities. (See exhibit B for a sample autocharge agreement between a submitter and a depository institution.) * * * * * Clearing corporation means a clearing agency as defined in Section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)) that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules thereunder. * * * * * Delivery and payment agreement means a written agreement between a clearing corporation and a submitter, acknowledged by a Federal Reserve Bank, authorizing the Federal Reserve Bank, with respect to securities awarded to the submitter for its own account, to deliver such securities to, and accept payment from, a depository institution acting on behalf of the clearing corporation pursuant to an acknowledged autocharge agreement. * * * * * 4. Section 356.11 is amended by redesignating paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) as (b)(3) and (b)(4) and adding a new paragraph (b)(2) to read as follows: ยง356.11 Submission of bids. * * * * * (b) * * * (2) For competitive bids, if securities are to be delivered to more than one account, a separate paper tender must be submitted for each delivery instruction specified. * * * * *
