FR941222-1-00064 FR941222-1-00008 Information relevant to this discussion is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. Process waters from the manufacture of triarylmethane dyes and pigments containing high levels of aniline or other raw materials and solvents sometimes are sent to a distillation column for recovery of the material for reuse in the process. As expected, the bottoms generated from the distillation contain high concentrations of the material being recovered. The concentrations of aniline present in two samples collected exemplify the concentrations of solvent contaminants anticipated in these wastes. Information on the concentration of aniline observed is not presented at his time due to business confidentiality concerns. Based on data from the RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire, four facilities generated a total of 1700 metric tons of this waste in 1991. EPA has summarized the risk projections associated with this waste in Table II&hyph;11. The data presented in this table represent two samples from two facilities. These samples were collected from the two largest generators of this wastestream, both of which recover aniline from the wastewater. One of the remaining two facilities recovers other aniline derivatives ( i.e., N,N- dimethylaniline and N,N-diethylaniline) that are used as raw materials and solvents in the production of triarylmethane dyes. The second facility recovers chlorobenzene used as a solvent in the production of triarylmethane dyes and generates a still bottom waste that is reported to contain 50% chlorobenzene. This waste is already listed as F002, based on the use of the solvent chlorobenzene. Based on an evaluation of the processes generating these wastes and the contaminants reported to be present by industry, the Agency believes the risks posed are similar to those assessed in Table II&hyph;11. The data used to characterize these wastestreams, assess the risks posed by these wastes, and make a proposed listing determination on the waste grouping were obtained from the two samples collected by EPA and the 1991 RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire responses. Waste management information relevant to this discussion are not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. As discussed earlier in Section II.D, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, the Agency conducted the risk assessment on these wastestreams using the two most widely used practices, the on-site boiler and municipal landfill as the current management scenario, and an on-site boiler (for the air pathway) and on-site monofill (for the ground-water pathway) as the plausible management scenario. The risk posed by the presence of aniline in the concentrations found in the waste is estimated to be very high ( i.e., greater than 9E&hyph;3 for the ground-water pathway, and HQ=6 for the air pathway). Due to the imperfect nature of any recovery process, it is not unexpected that large quantities of aniline, or any other raw material or solvent being recovered, would be present in these still bottoms. Aniline was found in very high concentrations ( i.e., the low concentration was 1.9%) in both distillation bottom samples collected from triarylmethane pigment production. Information on the high concentration value is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. In addition to aniline, the two sets of coeluting constituents present in the wastewater treatment sludge and wastewaters from these operations ( i.e., 1,2-diphenylhydrazine and azobenzene, and N-nitrosodiphenylamine and diphenylamine) also are present in the distillation bottoms (K166). These compounds are all likely by-products arising from the oxidation of aniline. The MS curve representing 1,2-diphenylhydrazine and azobenzene was identified in both distillation bottom samples collected from triarylmethane pigment operations. For the reasons discussed in Section II.D, the Agency conducted the risk assessment for these coeluting compounds independently. The resulting high-end individual cancer-risk level for this first set of coeluting compounds is greater than 9E&hyph;3. Likewise, the risk assessment for N-nitrosodiphenylamine and diphenylamine was conducted independently, as discussed in Section II.D. The resulting high-end individual cancer-risk level for this second set of coeluting compounds is 6E&hyph;6. In addition to assessing the risks associated with the individual constituents found in the waste, the Agency considers the combined risks of constituents that co-exist in the wastestream. In the case of still bottoms from the production of triarylmethane dyes and pigments, all of the constituents are believed to co-exist in the wastestream. The distillation columns generating this residual process the same wastestream with each dye or pigment batch. As a result, the constituents detected are likely to be present simultaneously in the waste. The risk of each individual constituent is high, and the combined risks of these constituents are very high (greater than 9E&hyph;3 for the ground-water pathway and 6E&hyph;5 for the air pathway), both of which were considered in making this listing determination. In addition to the very high risks posed by the plausible management practice (on-site boiler for the air pathway and on-site monofill for the ground-water pathway), the risks posed by the baseline management practice (on-site boiler for the air pathway and municipal landfill for the ground-water pathway) are also very high. Specifically, the risks posed by the current management practices are greater than 9E&hyph;3 for the ground-water pathway, and 6E&hyph;5 (carcinogens) and HQ=6 (non-carcinogens) for the air pathway. In summary, the calculated risks associated with managing these still bottoms in on-site boilers, municipal landfills, and on-site monofills are all very high, based on each of the individual hazardous constituents in the wastestream and the combined risks due to carcinogens found in the wastestream as a whole. Therefore, based on the risks associated with both current management and plausible management practices for this waste, EPA is proposing to list as hazardous still bottoms or heavy ends from the production of triarylmethane dyes or pigments, designated EPA Hazardous Waste Number K166. For the reasons stated above, the Agency is proposing to add the following constituents to Appendix VII to Part 261_Basis for Listing: 1,2-diphenylhydrazine, azobenzene, aniline, diphenylamine, and N-nitrosodiphenylamine. In addition, azobenzene and N-nitrosodiphenylamine are proposed to be added to Appendix VIII to Part 261_Hazardous Constituents. 5.Wastes from the production of anthraquinone dyes and pigments. a. Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of anthraquinone dyes and pigments. Summary EPA is proposing to defer the proposed listing determination for wastewater treatment sludges from the production of anthraquinone dyes and pigments at this time. Based on analysis of the sludge samples collected by the Agency, no constituents attributable to anthraquinone processes were detected. However, data supplied by industry indicate the presence of two constituents on the target analyte list for which no health-based levels and no adequate surrogates exist. Based on this discrepancy and the need to identify surrogates for risk analysis, the Agency believes a deferral is appropriate for this wastestream. Discussion This sludge is generated from the treatment of wastewaters from anthraquinone dye and pigment manufacturing. Volume information reported by industry in the 1992 RCRA 3007 Questionnaire data is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns.
