FR941107-2-00144 FR941107-2-00084 C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. §552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;43 and should be submitted by [insert date 21 days from date of publication]. IV. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b). 6 Specifically, the Commission believes the Amex proposal is consistent with Section 6(b)(2) of the Act, 7 which requires that the rules of an exchange, subject to the provisions of Section 6(c) of the Act, 8 ensure that any registered broker or dealer or natural person associated with a registered broker or dealer may become a member of the exchange and any person may become associated with a member thereof. 6 15 U.S.C. §78f (1988). 7 15 U.S.C. §78f(b)(2) (1988). 8 15 U.S.C. §78f(c) (1988). The Amex currently allows individuals, partnerships, and corporations to become members of the Exchange. 9 The proposed rule change will enable entities with new organizational structures similar to corporations and partnerships to become Exchange members and be included in the Exchange's definition of a member organization. As in the case of a partnership or corporation applying for membership, the new entity will be subject to all other requirements for membership approval. 9 Article I, Section 3(f) of the Amex Constitution currently states that the term ``member organization'' includes ``member firms'' and ``member corporations.'' The term ``member firm'' typically is used to refer to a partnership. See, e.g., Article IV, Section 2 of the Amex Constitution. In File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;23, the Amex has proposed to amend Article I, Section 3(f) to specify that the term ``member organization'' means a partnership, corporation, trust or such other entity as the Exchange may, by Rule, permit to become a member organization and which meets certain qualifications. The Amex also has proposed to delete all references in its Constitution and Rules to the terms ``member firm'' and ``member corporation'' and to make revisions thereto that reflect more comprehensively the admission of these new entities. If File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;23 is not approved, the Commission would expect the Amex to submit a proposed rule change specifically addressing the definition of the term ``member organization'' and other issues related to the admission of new entities. The Commission believes that the amendment to the Amex Rules reasonably balances the Exchange's interest in having the flexibility to approve entities with new organizational structures for Exchange membership, with the regulatory interests in protecting the financial and structural integrity of a member organization. For example, although the proposal will permit the Exchange to approve business trusts, LLCs, or other organizational structures with characteristics of corporations or partnerships as member organizations, the Amex staff will review each Exchange member organization application on a case-by-case basis, and, prior to approving any such organization for membership, the Exchange must be satisfied that: (1) the Exchange legally would have appropriate jurisdiction over such an entity; and (2) the permanency of the entity's capital is consistent with that required of other member organizations. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof. This will permit the benefits of the proposed rule change to be realized as soon as possible. In addition, the Exchange's proposal is substantially identical to CHX and NYSE proposals that were published in the Federal Register for the full comment period and were approved by the Commission. 10 10 No comments were received in connection with the proposed rule changes that amended the comparable CHX and NYSE rules. See CHX and NYSE Approval Orders, supra, note 4. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) 11 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;43) is hereby approved. 11 15 U.S.C. §78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 12 12 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1991). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27440 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
