FR941110-1-00007 FR941110-1-00002 There are approximately 869 Model 747 series airplanes of the affected design in the worldwide fleet. The FAA estimates that 147 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD. It would take approximately 122 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed replacement of fuse pins with bulkhead style pins. The average labor rate is $60 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact on U.S. operators who replace fuse pins with bulkhead style pins is estimated to be $7,320 per airplane. It would take approximately 140 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed replacement of fuse pins with third generation pins. The average labor rate is $60 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact on U.S. operators who replace fuse pins with third generation pins is estimated to be $8,400 per airplane. It would take approximately 1.5 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed inspections (in addition to the work hours necessary for fuse pin replacement). The average labor rate is $60 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact on U.S. operators for the proposed inspections is estimated to be $90 per airplane per inspection. The cost of required replacement parts would vary from airplane to airplane, depending upon the current airplane configuration. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the proposed requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The number of required work hours, as indicated above, is presented as if the accomplishment of the proposed inspection and replacement actions were to be conducted as ``stand alone'' actions. However, in actual practice, these actions, for the most part, would be accomplished coincidentally or in combination with normally scheduled airplane inspections and other maintenance program tasks. Therefore, the actual number of necessary additional work hours would be minimal in many instances. Additionally, any costs associated with special airplane scheduling would be minimal. The FAA recognizes that the obligation to maintain aircraft in an airworthy condition is vital, but sometimes expensive. Because AD's require specific actions to address specific unsafe conditions, they appear to impose costs that would not otherwise be borne by operators. However, because of the general obligation of operators to maintain aircraft in an airworthy condition, this appearance is deceptive. Attributing those costs solely to the issuance of this AD is unrealistic because, in the interest of maintaining safe aircraft, prudent operators would accomplish the required actions even if they were not required to do so by the AD. A full cost-benefit analysis has not been accomplished for this proposed AD. As a matter of law, in order to be airworthy, an aircraft must conform to its type design and be in a condition for safe operation. The type design is approved only after the FAA makes a determination that it complies with all applicable airworthiness requirements. In adopting and maintaining those requirements, the FAA has already made the determination that they establish a level of safety that is cost-beneficial. When the FAA, as in this proposed AD, makes a finding of an unsafe condition, this means that the original cost-beneficial level of safety is no longer being achieved and that the proposed actions are necessary to restore that level of safety. Because this level of safety has already been determined to be cost-beneficial, a full cost-benefit analysis for this proposed AD would be redundant and unnecessary. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety. The Proposed Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration proposes to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89. ยง39.13 [Amended] 2. Section 39.13 is amended by adding the following new airworthiness directive: Boeing: Docket 94&hyph;NM&hyph;123&hyph;AD. Applicability: Model 747 series airplanes; line numbers 1 through 967 inclusive, and 969 through 992 inclusive; excluding airplanes equipped with Pratt & Whitney PW4000 or General Electric CF6&hyph;80C2 series engines; certificated in any category.
