FR941102-1-00050 FR941102-1-00013 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of the Secretary 43 CFR Part 11 RIN 1090&hyph;AA21 Natural Resource Damage Assessments: Type A Procedure for Great Lakes Environments AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule; extension of comment period. SUMMARY: On August 8, 1994, the Department of the Interior issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (59 FR 40319) to revise the natural resource damage assessment regulations. The natural resource damage assessment regulations establish procedures for assessing damages for injury to natural resources resulting from a discharge of oil into navigable waters under the Clean Water Act, or a release of a hazardous substance under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. The August 8, 1994 proposed rule describes a procedure for simplified assessments for relatively minor discharges or releases in Great Lakes environments. The Department is extending the period for comment on the proposed rule and soliciting comment on an additional aspect of the type A procedure. DATES: Comments will be accepted through February 6, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent in duplicate to the Office of Environmental Policy and Compliance, Attn: NRDA Rule_GLE, Room 2340, Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street, NW, Washington, DC 20240 (regular business hours 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m., Monday through Friday). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Stephen F. Specht at (202) 208&hyph;3301, or SSPECHT@IOS.DOI.GOV on Internet. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The natural resource damage assessment regulations establish procedures that Federal, State, and Tribal natural resource trustees may use to obtain compensation from liable parties for natural resource injuries under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.). The regulations provide an administrative process for conducting assessments as well as two types of technical procedures for the actual determination of injuries and damages. ``Type A'' procedures are standard procedures for simplified assessments requiring minimal field observation in cases of minor discharges or releases in certain environments. ``Type B'' procedures are site-specific procedures for detailed assessments in other cases. On August 8, 1994, the Department of the Interior published a proposed rule to amend the regulations to include an additional type A procedure for assessing natural resource damages in Great Lakes environments. The proposed procedure incorporates a computer model called the Natural Resource Damage Assessment Model for Great Lakes Environments Version 1.31 (NRDAM/GLE). The comment period on the August 8, 1994, proposed rule was originally set to close on November 7, 1994. The Department has received numerous requests for additional time to comment on the proposed rule. The requesters have emphasized the large volume of technical documentation accompanying the NRDAM/GLE, all of which is subject to public review and comment. Some requesters are assembling multidisciplinary teams to assist in the review of the model and associated databases. The Department appreciates the level of technical review that is underway and is therefore extending the comment period by 90 days. The Department also solicits comment on an additional aspect of the proposed type A procedure for Great Lakes environments. The proposed NRDAM/GLE is supported by a geographic information system (GIS) that supplies geographically distributed information to the submodels. The submodels divide the Great Lakes into a series of rectangular grids. The proposed NRDAM/GLE assigns a habitat type to each cell within the grids. Under the August 8, 1994 proposed rule, trustee officials would not be allowed to modify the habitat designations in the final version of the model if they wished to obtain a rebuttable presumption for their assessments. The Department specifically requested commenters to review the habitat designations and provide information about possible revisions that should be made in the final version of the model. 59 FR 40330. The Department remains committed to ensuring that the final version of the NRDAM/GLE reflects the most accurate habitat information available. However, the Department is now soliciting comment on whether to revise the rule to allow trustee officials to modify the habitat designations in the final version of the NRDAM/GLE and still obtain a rebuttable presumption. Allowing trustee officials to modify the habitat designations might enable fine-tuning of the model to better reflect reality. On the other hand, type A procedures are designed to simplify assessments, reduce fieldwork, and narrow the potential areas of dispute. Providing an option to modify the habitat designations could undermine these goals. Therefore, the Department solicits comment on whether the final rule should allow trustee officials to modify the habitat designations and, if so, under what conditions. Dated: October 28, 1994. Theresa Trujeque, Acting Assistant Secretary_Policy, Management, and Budget. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27225 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;RG&hyph;P&hyph;M
