FR941013-1-00054 FR941013-1-00010 B. Listing of Source Category C. Summary of Public Participation in Development of Proposed Rule D. Relationship of Proposed Rule to Other EPA Regulatory Actions III. Source Category Description A. Organic HAP Types B. Facility Types C. Nationwide Organic HAP Emissions IV. Development of Regulatory Alternatives A. Selection of Source Category and Pollutants for Control B. Subcategorization C. Selection of Emission Points D. Definition of Source E. Selection of MACT Floor F. Regulatory Alternatives for Existing Sources G. Regulatory Alternatives for New Sources H. Regulatory Alternative Impacts V. Selection of Basis for Proposed Standards A. Selection of Regulatory Alternative for Existing Sources B. Selection of Regulatory Alternative for New Sources C. Selection of Format for Proposed Standards D. Selection of Test Methods and Procedures E. Selection of Monitoring and Inspection Requirements F. Selection of Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements G. Emissions Averaging VI. Rule Implementation A. Effective Date for Compliance B. Modifications and Reconstruction C. Relationship to Operating Permit Program VII. Administrative Requirements VIII. Statutory Authority Additional Detailed Information The proposed regulatory text is not included in this Federal Register notice, but is available in Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;16 or by request from the EPA's Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center (see ADDRESSES ). This notice, the proposed regulatory text, and the BID are also available on the Technology Transfer Network (TTN), one of the EPA's electronic bulletin boards. The TTN provides information and technology exchange in various areas of air pollution control. The service is free, except for the cost of a telephone call. Dial (919) 541&hyph;5742 for up to a 14,400 bauds per second modem. If more information on TTN is needed, call the HELP line at (919) 541&hyph;5384. A limited number of copies of these documents are available on diskette. They can be obtained by writing or faxing a request to the EPA contact person designated earlier in this notice. I. Summary of Proposed Rule A. Summary of Rule Requirements Today's proposed rule would amend title 40, chapter I, part 63 of the Code of Federal Regulations by adding a new subpart DD_National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Off-site Waste and Recovery Operations. The following is a summary of the requirements proposed for the rule. The EPA is proposing to define ``waste'' for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP as any material generated from industrial, commercial, mining, or agricultural operations or from community activities that is discarded, discharged, or is being accumulated, stored, or physically, chemically, thermally, or biologically treated prior to being discarded or discharged. This definition would include all materials defined to be solid wastes under Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) rules including hazardous wastes. The EPA is proposing to define ``recoverable material'' for this rulemaking as any material generated from industrial, commercial, mining, or agricultural operations or from community activities that is recycled, reprocessed, reused, or is being accumulated, stored, or physically, chemically, thermally, or biologically treated prior to being recycled, reprocessed, or reused. Under this definition, secondary materials such as used, surplus, and scrap materials that are recycled or reprocessed to recover reusable materials or to create new products would be considered by the EPA to be recoverable materials subject to this NESHAP. Waste and recoverable material subject to the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP are collectively referred to in the proposed rule as ``regulated material.''
