FR941012-1-00020 FR941012-1-00004 The bankrupt firm sample used in the subtitle C corporate financial test analysis was also used for the subtitle D financial test analysis. That sample consisted of 31 firms, which were either known to operate hazardous waste facilities or were likely to do so. The Agency believed that this was the best sample of bankrupt firms available for the subtitle D analysis for several reasons. First, owning and operating MSWLFs entails a capital-intensive, long-term investment in engineering and construction for industrial activity, similar to the industrial activities of many firms in the subtitle C universe. Second, firms in the MSWLF industry, like firms in the subtitle C universe, are subject to environmental regulations and associated compliance costs. Third, the Agency could not identify bankruptcies of MSWLF firms, as they have not been subject to Federal regulatory requirements and, therefore, have not been identified like subtitle C facilities, which were required to notify EPA of their existence in 1980, thus providing the Agency with historical data. 2. Cost Estimates a. Closure and Post-Closure Care. The Agency's derived estimates of closure and post-closure care costs from data provided by the Regulatory Impacts Analysis (RIA) of the proposed subtitle D MSWLF criteria (56 FR 50978). Because the analysis predated the effective date of the landfill criteria, the Agency did not have site-specific cost estimates for firms that own or operate MSWLFs. Therefore, the Agency estimated the financial assurance obligations for each firm in the non-bankrupt firm sample, based on the number and size of landfills owned or operated by each firm, and the Agency's estimate of closure and post-closure care costs per landfill. b. Corrective Action. The Agency took a different approach to analyzing the impact of corrective action costs on the performance of alternative financial tests. As in the case of closure and post-closure care, the Agency did not have site-specific data on the cost of corrective action. However, unlike the costs of closure and post-closure, corrective action costs are not certain to occur. In addition to not having site-specific cost data, the Agency also did not have data on the probability of corrective action being necessary. Therefore, the Agency did not attempt to estimate site-specific costs to analyze the impact of corrective action costs on the performance of alternative financial tests; rather, the Agency conducted a sensitivity analysis, which is described later in this preamble. 3. Results of Evaluation of Candidate Financial Tests for Closure and Post-Closure Care The Agency calculated the public and private costs for the alternative financial test configurations, and selected a set of dominant tests. 3 Table 2 shows the results for the lowest cost tests. 3 Note that in the 1991 subtitle C analysis, the alternative financial tests were evaluated against the firm samples to establish a set of dominant tests, and the sum of public and private costs was then calculated for each dominant test. However, in the subtitle D analysis, the sample size of non-bankrupt firm sample was so small (13 firms) that directly calculating the sum of the public and private costs for each of the alternative test configurations was more analytically efficient. Table 2 ._Financial Tests With Lowest Public and Private Costs for Closure and Post-Closure Care [Dollars in millions] 1Test 1Requirements 1Private costs (thousands) 1Public costs (thousands) 1Total costs (thousands) 1562 Total Liabilities/Net Worth less than 1.5 $17.4 $8.8 $26.2 ␣ l␣␣OR ␣ l(Cash Flow_$10 million)/Total Liabilities greater than 0.1 ␣ l␣␣AND ␣ lNet worth of at least $10 million plus the amount of closure and post-closure care cost estimate 130 Total Liabilities/Net Worth less than 1.5 17.4 8.8 26.2 ␣ l␣␣OR ␣ l(Cash Flow_$10 million)/Total Liabilities greater than 0.1 ␣ l␣␣AND ␣ lNet worth of at least the amount of closure and post-closure care cost estimate 58 Total Liabilities/Net Worth less than 1.5 6.1 10.8 16.9 ␣ l␣␣OR ␣ l(Cash Flow_$10 million)/Total Liabilities less than 0.1 ␣ l␣␣AND ␣ lNo minimum net worth requirement 1Subtitle D Test 562 is identical to Subtitle C Test 902, which was selected for proposal under that program.
