FR940719-2-00022 FR940719-2-00003 1. Ninety-five percent (95%) of the June Average Daily Settlement Price for wheat to be delivered during the month of July, of the then current crop year, shall be established (hereinafter the ``Wheat Futures Price''); 2. The ``Wheat Base Price'' shall be established as the highest MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for Wheat available under the MPCI Policy for the then current crop year. 3. The Wheat Base Price shall be subtracted from the Wheat Futures Price to determine the ``Wheat Price Change''. 4. The ``Maximum Price Change'' per bushel shall be that amount selected by You ($1.00, $1.50, or $2.00 per bushel) on Your application for coverage and shown on the Summary of Coverage provided by Us to You. 5. The ``Indemnity Per Bushel'' shall be the lesser of: a. The Wheat Price Change; and b. The Maximum Price Change. 6. The MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment shall be divided by Your MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for wheat to determine the ``Wheat Production Loss'' in bushels. 7. The Indemnity Per Bushel shall be multiplied by the Wheat Production Loss to determine the total indemnity to be paid to You. B. ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' means the average derived by totaling the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for Wheat for each full active trading day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trading days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month, no indemnity shall be payable as to Your Wheat Crop. A full active trading day is any trading day on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market during which more than 50 Wheat futures contracts are traded. C. In the event that trading on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market for Wheat is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price there are fourteen (14) or less active trading days during the applicable month, no indemnity shall be payable under this Policy as to such Wheat Crop, and that portion of the Premium paid by You which is applicable to such Wheat Crop shall be refunded by Us. Article XIV_Definitions is amended by adding, after paragraph H, the following new paragraph I: I. ``Wheat'' is defined to include both a Wheat crop seeded during the fall months of the year, over wintered in the field and harvested the following season, as well as Wheat planted in the spring months of the year and harvested that same year. Pursuant to the ``Insurance Period'' Section of Article III of the Policy: The coverage provided by the policy and this endorsement for your wheat crop is not continuous. You must renew the coverage provided by the policy and this endorsement on your fall wheat crop no later than September 30 of each year for coverage to be effective for the succeeding year. Wheat Endorsement (Northwest) Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. How this endorsement effects your coverage: The Losses Insured Against under the ``Cause of Loss'' Section of Article III of the Policy shall included: Unavoidable financial loss resulting directly from an increase in the Portland Grain Exchange reported bid prices for soft white Wheat arriving at Portland, Oregon by rail, truck, or barge, as specifically set forth in this endorsement and the Policy, and provided that You sustain a Wheat production loss, during the Insurance Period, caused by an insured peril(s) under the MPCI Policy and an MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment is made to You. Under paragraph ``A'' of the ``Indemnity Payment'' Section of Article V of the Policy, the indemnity payable to You for loss to Your Wheat Crop shall be calculated as follows: A. As to any loss under the MPCI Policy, during the Insurance Period, to any Wheat Crop: 1. Ninety-five percent (95% of the August Average Daily Settlement Price for Wheat, of the then current crop year, shall be established (hereinafter the ``Wheat Futures Price''); 2. The ``Wheat Base Price'' shall be established as the highest MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for Wheat available under the MPCI Policy for the then current crop year. 3. The Wheat Base Price shall be subtracted from the Wheat Futures Price to determine the ``Wheat Price Change''. 4. The ``Maximum Price Change'' per bushel shall be that amount selected by You ($1.00, $1.50, or $2.00 per bushel) on Your application for coverage and shown on the Summary of Coverage provided by Us to You. 5. The ``Indemnity Per Bushel'' shall be the lesser of: a. The Wheat Price Change; and b. The Maximum Price Change. 6. The MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment shall be divided by Your MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for Wheat to determine the ``Wheat Production Loss'' in bushels.
