FR941110-1-00017 FR941110-1-00005 (b) If more than one application for extension is filed by a single applicant which seeks the extension of the term of two or more patents based upon the same regulatory review period, and the [applications or] > patents are < otherwise eligible for extension pursuant to the requirements of this subpart, in the absence of an election by the applicant, the certificate of extension of patent term, if appropriate, will be issued upon the application for extension of the patent > term < having the earliest date of issuance of those patents for which extension is sought. (c) If an application for extension is filed which seeks the extension of the term of a patent based upon the same regulatory review period as that relied upon in one or more applications for extension pursuant to the requirements of this subpart, the certificate of extension of patent term will be issued on the application only if [_ (1) The applicant for extension] > the patent owner or its agent < is the holder of the regulatory approval granted with respect to the regulatory review period [, or (2) The holder of the regulatory approval granted with respect to the regulatory review period is not an applicant and the applicant for extension holds express and exclusive authorization from the holder of the regulatory approval to rely upon the regulatory review period as the basis for the application for extension, or (3) The holder of the regulatory approval granted with respect to the regulatory review period is not an applicant and no applicant for extension holds an express and exclusive authorization from the holder of the regulatory approval to rely upon the regulatory review period as the basis for the application for extension and the application is for extension of the patent having the earliest date of issuance of those patents for which extension is sought based upon the same regulatory review period]. (d) An application for extension shall be considered complete and formal regardless of whether it contains the identification of the holder of the regulatory approval granted with respect to the regulatory review period [or express and exclusive authorization from the holder of the regulatory approval to rely on the regulatory review period for extension]. When an application contains such information, or is amended to contain such information, it will be considered in determining whether an application is eligible for an extension under this section. A request may be made of any applicant to supply such information within a non-extendable period of not less than one (1) month whenever multiple applications for extension of more than one patent are received and rely upon the same regulatory review period. Failure to provide such information within the period for response set shall be regarded as conclusively establishing that the applicant is not the holder of the regulatory approval [and is not expressly and exclusively authorized by the holder of the regulatory approval to seek the extension being sought]. (e) Determinations made under this section shall be included in the notice of final determination of eligibility for extension of the patent term pursuant to §1.750 and shall be regarded as part of that determination. 8. Section 1.790 is proposed to be added to read as follows: >§1.790 Interim extension of patent term under 35 U.S.C. 156(d)(5). (a) An owner of record of a patent or its agent who reasonably expects that the applicable regulatory review period described in paragraph (1)(B)(ii), (2)(B)(ii), (3)(B)(ii), (4)(B)(ii), or (5)(B)(ii) of subsection (g) of 35 U.S.C. 156 that began for a product that is the subject of such patent may extend beyond the expiration of the patent term in effect may submit one or more applications for interim extensions for periods of up to one year each. The initial application for interim extension must be filed during the period beginning 6 months and ending 15 days before the patent term is due to expire. Each subsequent application for interim extension must be filed during the period beginning 60 days before and ending 30 days before the expiration of the preceding interim extension. In no event will the interim extensions granted under this section be longer than the maximum period of extension to which the applicant would be entitled under 35 U.S.C. 156(c). (b) A complete application for interim extension under this section shall include all of the information required for a formal application under §1.740 and a complete application under §1.741. Sections (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(4), and (a)(6) through (a)(17) of §1.740 and §1.741 shall be read in the context of a product currently undergoing regulatory review. Paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(5) of §1.740 are not applicable to an application for interim extension under this section. (c) The content of each subsequent interim extension application may be limited to a request for a subsequent interim extension along with a statement that the regulatory review period has not been completed and any materials or information required under §1.740 and §1.741 not present in the preceding interim extension application.< 9. Section 1.791 is proposed to be added to read as follows: >§1.791 Termination of interim extension granted prior to regulatory approval of a product for commercial marketing or use. Any interim extension granted under 35 U.S.C. 156(d)(5) terminates at the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date on which the product involved receives permission for commercial marketing or use. If within that 60-day period the patent owner or its agent files an application for extension under §1.740 and §1.741 including any additional information required under 35 U.S.C. 156(d)(1) not contained in the application for interim extension, the patent shall be further extended in accordance with the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 156.< Dated: November 2, 1994. Bruce A. Lehman, Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27881 Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;16&hyph;M
