FR941202-2-00177 FR941202-2-00098 (a) Copies of NELAP/State requirements. Lead assessors should have copies of the applicable NELAP/State requirements available upon request. Having such data available can help improve the relationship between NELAP/State and the laboratory community, which can foster better laboratory compliance; (b) NELAP/State checklists for evaluations; (c) NELAP/State outreach materials. Lead assessors should provide current, relevant educational, and/or guidance information to laboratory officials upon request or as deemed appropriate by the lead assessor; and (d) Administrative information. Travel authorizations and telephone numbers of travel and procurement personnel who may need to be contacted should be taken by the lead assessor when on travel. 3.4.7.2␣Assessment Equipment The types of equipment that a lead assessor takes to an assessment site will vary from assessment to assessment, depending upon the nature and extent of the assessment and the type of testing laboratory to be inspected. Therefore, prior to each assessment, the lead assessor should check the equipment to make sure that it is in good working condition. Since each assessment is unique, no single list of equipment or forms can be devised that will fit every assessment situation. 3.4.8␣Confidential Business Information Considerations NELAP/State SOPs protect Confidential Business Information (CBI) from disclosure. CBI includes trade secrets (including process, formulation, or production data) and certain financial information, the uncontrolled disclosure of which could cause damage to a laboratory's competitive position. In general, disclosure of CBI is prohibited, except in certain limited situations. The lead assessor should keep in mind that information obtained from a laboratory during an assessment can, for the most part, be disclosed in response to a request from the public, or other requesting party, under Federal or State Freedom of Information requirements. However, if the data has been properly claimed as CBI, it may not generally be disclosed under these requirements. A lead assessor must present notice to laboratory representatives of their right to claim data at the laboratory as CBI and such claims are frequently made. Because the lead assessor is very likely to require access to CBI before (i.e., while preparing for an assessment), during, and after an assessment, the lead assessor must be knowledgeable of NELAP/State procedures governing access to, handling of, and disclosure of CBI. The lead assessor and others who may use the information must have CBI access authorization, since only authorized individuals may have access to CBI. A CBI-cleared lead assessor may obtain access to CBI documents from the accrediting authority by requesting access to the information from the appropriate official. Whether or not it is anticipated that CBI documents will be collected during an assessment, the lead assessor must provide a NELAP/State assessment confidentiality notice to the responsible laboratory official at the beginning of the assessment. This notice informs laboratory officials of their right to claim part of the assessment data as CBI. The lead assessor should be familiar with the procedures for asserting a CBI claim, and the criteria that the claimed information must meet. The lead assessor must take custody of all CBI documents before leaving the laboratory, and must maintain them in custody, using all proper procedures and safeguards, until they can be received by the accrediting authority. 3.5.␣Assessment Schedule/Format
