FR941021-0-00052 FR941021-0-00006 (i) The sum of_ (A) The standard deduction (including additional standard deductions on account of age or blindness); and (B) The aggregate amount of the deductions for personal exemptions allowed the taxpayer under section 151 in the taxable year in which such levy occurs; (ii) Divided by_ (A) 260 in the case of a daily pay period; (B) 26 in the case of a bi-weekly pay period; (C) 24 in the case of a semi-monthly pay period; and (D) 12 in the case of a monthly pay period. (3) Nonspecific pay periods. In the case of wages, salary, or other income paid to an individual on a one-time or a recurrent but irregular basis and which is not paid on the basis of an established calendar period regularly used by the employer or other person levied upon for payroll or payment purposes, the exempt amount of wages, salary, and other income payable to or received by an individual equals the exempt amount defined in paragraph (b) of this section multiplied by the number (but not more than 52) of full weeks (consisting of seven calendar days) to which such payment is attributable. The provisions of this paragraph (d)(3) may be illustrated by the following example: Example. Taxpayer A's exempt amount per week (as determined under paragraph (b) of this section) is $100. Taxpayer A is hired by Corporation X to perform a specific task for Corporation X at a flat fee of $1,500 which is to be paid at the completion of the task. Taxpayer A completes the task in 10 weeks. The total exempt amount is $1,000 and $500 is subject to levy. (e) Levies continuing into following years. The exempt amount is computed on the basis of the standard deduction (including additional standard deductions on account of age or blindness) for the taxpayer's filing status and the amount of the deduction for a personal exemption in effect in the taxable year in which the original notice of levy is served. Unless the taxpayer submits a new verified statement in accordance with §301.6334&hyph;4, the exempt amount remains the same for pay periods following the pay period in which the notice of levy is served even if there is a change in the taxpayer's factual situation or a change by operation of law (such as by indexing or otherwise) to the standard deduction or personal exemption amounts. (f) Effective date. These provisions are effective with respect to levies made on or after July 1, 1989. However, any reasonable attempt by a taxpayer to comply with the statutory amendments addressed by these regulations prior to February 21, 1995 will be considered as meeting the requirements of these regulations. §301.6334&hyph;4 Verified statements. (a) In general. For purposes of §§301.6334&hyph;2 and 301.6334&hyph;3, the amount of wages, salary, or other income that is exempt from levy must be determined on the basis of a written and properly verified statement submitted by the taxpayer to his or her employer for submission to the district director specifying the facts necessary to determine the standard deduction and the aggregate amount of the deductions for personal exemptions allowed the taxpayer under section 151 in the taxable year in which the levy is served. In the absence of submission of such statement, the amount that is exempt from levy must be determined as if the taxpayer were a married individual filing a separate return with only 1 personal exemption. (b) Content of statement. The statement in paragraph (a) of this section must be a written statement signed under penalty of perjury, and dated, containing the following information_ (1) The filing status of the taxpayer as either: (i) Single; (ii) Married filing a joint return; (iii) Married filing a separate return; (iv) Head of household; or (v) Qualifying widow or widower with dependent child; (2) The name, relationship, and Social Security Number of each individual whom the taxpayer can claim as a personal exemption on the taxpayer's income tax return; and (3) Any additional standard deductions that the taxpayer can claim on account of age (65 or older) or blindness on the taxpayer's income tax return.
