FR940916-1-00161 FR940916-1-00016 (b) Operation of long trains. Long trains shall not be operated at speeds greater than 79 mph. (c) Train make-up requirements. Except for locomotives, high speed freight trains shall be made up of zero slack equipment only. Subpart J_Tests and Procedures To Introduce New Train Brake System Technology ยง232.901 General. (a) A railroad or other person subject to this part shall adhere to the procedures prescribed in this subpart and receive FRA approval before using, hauling, or permitting to be used or hauled on its line any equipment that employs a new train brake system technology that complies with the statutory requirements contained at 49 U.S.C. 20102, 20301&hyph;20304, 20701&hyph;20703, 21302, and 21304, formerly codified in the Locomotive Inspection Act at 45 U.S.C. 22&hyph;34 and the Safety Appliance Acts at 45 U.S.C. 1&hyph;14, 16, but that is inconsistent with or is not specifically addressed by the safety standards contained in this part. (b) A railroad introducing new train brake system technology requiring an exemption from the requirements of the Safety Appliance Acts in order to be operated in revenue service shall follow the procedures stated in ยง117 of the Rock Island Railroad Transition and Employee Assistance Act, 45 U.S.C. 1001, 1013 et seq., and any procedural requirements contained in this chapter. (c) A railroad planning to introduce new train brake system technology may file a petition with FRA requesting to convert some of the design requirements used to develop the technology into performance-based safety standards to become part of the regulations in this part. (1) Such petitions shall contain the following information: (i) The proposed performance standard; (ii) The means by which compliance with the standard is to be measured or the means by which the standard can be enforced; and (iii) A technical analysis that demonstrates whether the performance standard is met and whether the train brake system will function as intended, for all possible brake applications and failure conditions, to safely stop the train. (2) FRA will treat the petition as either a waiver petition or a petition for rulemaking, depending upon the nature and scope of the petition, and will address the petition in accordance with the procedural requirements contained in this chapter. ยง232.903 Pre-revenue service tests for new train brake system technology. (a) Before a railroad uses a new train brake system technology in revenue service, the railroad shall plan and conduct pre-revenue service tests adequate to thoroughly demonstrate safe performance of the new train brake system technology. This pre-revenue service planning and testing shall include: (1) Design description. Nine months prior to the planned start of the pre-revenue service tests, the railroad shall submit to FRA a complete design description of the new technology to be tested. This design description shall include: (i) Design performance requirements, (ii) Description of how the new technology operates, (iii) Description of interfaces with other train systems, (iv) Engineering analysis of the performance of the new technology, and (v) Results of simulations or tests that demonstrate the performance of the new technology. (2) Test plan. Six months prior to the planned start of the pre-revenue service tests, the railroad shall submit to the FRA a detailed test plan that includes: (i) An identification of any waivers of FRA safety regulations required. (ii) A clear statement of test objectives. One of the test objectives shall be to demonstrate the new technology is safe and effective in the environment in which it is to be used. (iii) A planned schedule for conducting the tests. (iv) Stopping distances at various speeds up to the maximum expected revenue service operating speed and for each brake system separate and combined. (v) Tests of the required fail safe features of the new technology. (vi) A description of the railroad facilities or property to be used to conduct the tests. (vii) A detailed description of how the tests are to be conducted. (viii) A description of any special instrumentation to be used. (ix) A description of the information or data to be obtained. (x) A description of the criteria to be used to measure the success or failure of the tests. (xi) A description of any special safety precautions to be observed. (xii) A written set of standard operating procedures to be used by the people conducting the tests to ensure the tests are done safely.
