FR941222-1-00065 FR941222-1-00008 Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of anthraquinone dyes and pigments is generated at 11 facilities. Sludge generated from 9 of the 11 facilities, which represents over 98% of the anthraquinone dye and pigment production volume, is commingled with wastewater treatment sludge from the production of azo pigments and/or dyes. Over 98% of the commingled sludge currently is managed in municipal landfills or is disposed in on-site monofills. Small fractions of the commingled sludge are managed under Subtitle C. Waste management and waste volume information relevant to this discussion is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. Of the 11 facilities that generate this waste, the Agency collected samples from the three largest contributors to the wastestream and from one small contributor. Several compounds used in anthraquinone dye or pigment operations were expected to be present in the waste, based on facility production schedules, and were not detected. In addition, analysis of these samples did not produce any other contaminants attributable to anthraquinone dye or pigment operations (refer to the Background Document for this rulemaking located in the RCRA Docket for this rule (see ADDRESSES section) for the methodology used in identifying contaminants attributable to a process). Several compounds used in the manufacture of anthraquinone dyes and pigments were dropped from the Agency's target analyte list for dye and pigment wastes, due to the absence of any health effects information and because of low usage rates ( i.e ., the compound was used at only 1 or 2 facilities). Examples of anthraquinone-related compounds dropped from the target analyte list for these reasons include: 1-chloroanthraquinone, 1,4- dihydroxyanthraquinone-2-sulfonic acid, 1-amino-2-chloro-4- hydroxyanthraquinone, and 1-amino-4-bromo-2-anthraquinonesulfonic acid. As stated above, the Agency's analysis of wastewater treatment sludge samples collected from anthraquinone dye and pigment operations did not produce any contaminants attributable to anthraquinone dye or pigment operations. However, industry data submitted on 11 sludge samples confirmed the presence of two target analytes, 1-aminoanthraquinone, and leucoquinizarine, at average concentrations of 1.5, and 1.4 ppm, respectively. Each of the two analytes was detected in three of the 11 samples. The Agency did not find HBLs for either of the two compounds detected in this wastestream, 1-aminoanthraquinone and leucoquinizarine. In addition, the Agency was not able to identify any appropriate surrogate compounds to represent the toxicity of these compounds. If one or both of these compounds are potential carcinogens and behave in a similar manner to the potential carcinogen, 1-amino-2-methyl-anthraquinone, then the risk posed by the presence of the compounds in the waste would need to be examined further. The Agency is concerned about using this limited surrogate information as a basis for listing this waste as hazardous. In summary, the Agency is proposing to defer a listing determination for wastewater treatment sludge from the manufacture of anthraquinone dyes and pigments at this time, and is requesting data on the toxicity of 1-aminoanthraquinone and leucoquinizarine or information on suitable surrogates for these compounds. EPA also would be interested in submission of further characterization data. EPA will evaluate carefully all public comments and information received in response to this notice. Based on comments or data received, the Agency, rather than deferring, may choose to promulgate a final determination to either list or not to list this waste as hazardous under RCRA. b. Wastewaters from the production of anthraquinone dyes and pigments. Summary EPA is proposing not to list wastewaters from the production of anthraquinone dyes and pigments as hazardous. This wastestream is not considered to pose significant risks to human health and the environment, based on the analysis of samples of the waste. Several compounds used in the manufacture of anthraquinone dyes and pigments were expected to be present in the waste but were not detected. Only one compound attributable to anthraquinone processes, 3-aminoacetanilide, was detected in the waste, at low concentrations. Health effects information on this constituent does not currently exist, and risk estimates conducted using methylenephenylenediamine as a surrogate indicate no significant risks.
