FR941027-2-00013 FR941027-2-00010 CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL SERVICE AmeriCorps State and Direct Grant Program, Learn and Serve America K&hyph;12 Grant Program, and Learn and Serve America Higher Ed Grant Program 1995 Policies and Priorities action: Notice. summary: The Corporation for National and Community Service (the Corporation) is proposing changes and inviting comments with regard to three of its main programs: AmeriCorps*USA, Learn & Serve America K&hyph;12, and Learn & Serve America Higher Education. This notice is divided into three parts corresponding to these programs. The proposed changes_which would apply to the FY 1995 grant cycle_were developed in response to lessons learned with the completion of the Corporation's first grant cycle and are non-regulatory in nature. A broad range of areas is covered, including the following: a revised timeline; revised applications; proposed criteria for the renewal of grants; revised priorities within the main issue areas of education, public safety, human needs and the environment; guidelines for the continued improvement of programs; revisions to the selection criteria for programs; and additional priorities that will be given in the selection processes. The Corporation invites all interested parties to comment on the issues discussed in this notice. Any comments received will be given careful consideration in the development of final FY 1995 policies and grant applications. dates: Comments on the Corporation's AmeriCorps State and Direct Grant Program, and Learn and Serve America Higher Ed Grant Program 1995 policies and priorities must be received no later than November 28, 1994. Due to application deadlines, comments on the Learn and Serve America K&hyph;12 Grant Program 1995 policies and priorities must be received no later than November 14, 1994. addresses: Responses to this notice may be mailed to the Office of AmeriCorps Programs, The Corporation for National Service, 1110 Vermont Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20525, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. for further information contact: Rusty Greiff, General Counsel's office, at (202) 606&hyph;5000 x. 256 between the hours of 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. For individuals with disabilities, information will be made available in alternative formats, upon request. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Applications The Corporation invites comments on the following FY 1994 applications. Interested parties who do not have copies of these applications should obtain one through their State Commissions: AmeriCorps National Direct Application State Application Learn and Serve America_K&hyph;12 School-Based Programs_State Educational Agencies School-Based Programs_Grantmaking Entities School-Based Programs_Indian Tribes and U.S. Territories School-Based Programs_Chief Executive Officer's Fund for the Advancement of Service Learning School-Based Programs_Local Educational Agencies Community-Based Programs_State Commissions and Grantmaking Entities Learn and Serve America_Higher Education
