FR941020-2-00085 FR941020-2-00046 HUD/DEPT&hyph;2 System name: Accounting Records. * * * * * Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, other routine uses are as follows: (a) To the U.S. Treasury_for disbursements and adjustments thereof. (b) To the Internal Revenue Service_for reporting of sales commissions and for reporting of discharged indebtedness; (c) To the General Accounting Office, General Service Administration, Department of Labor, Labor housing authorities, and taxing authorities_for audit, accounting and financial reference purposes. (d) To mortgage lenders_for accounting and financial reference purposes, for verifying information provided by new loan applicants and evaluating creditworthiness. (e) To HUD contractors_for debt and/or mortgage note servicing. (f) To financial institutions that originated or serviced loans_to give notice of disposition of claims. (g) To title insurance companies_for payment of liens. (h) To local recording offices_for filing assignments of legal documents, satisfactions, etc. (i) To the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) of the Department of Defense and the U.S. Postal Service to conduct computer matching programs for the purpose of identifying and locating individuals who are receiving Federal salaries or benefit payments and are delinquent in their repayment of debts owed to the U.S. Government under certain programs administrated by HUD in order to collect the debts under the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97&hyph;365) by voluntary repayment, or by administrative or salary offset procedures. (j) To any other Federal agency for the purpose of effecting administrative or salary offset procedures against a person employed by that agency or receiving or eligible to receive some benefit payments from the agency when HUD as a creditor has a claim against that person. (k) With other agencies; such as, Departments of Agriculture, Education and Veteran Affairs, and the Small Business Administration_for use of HUD's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) to prescreen applicants for loans or loans guaranteed by the Federal Government to ascertain if the applicant is delinquent in paying a debt owed to or insured by the Government.
