FR940419-0-00115 FR940419-0-00020 (a) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (iii) The rent applicable to a unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be the lowest rent computed under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. * * * * * (5) Will remain affordable without regard to the term of any mortgage or the transfer of ownership, pursuant to deed restrictions, covenants running with the land, or other mechanisms approved by HUD, for not less than the appropriate period, beginning after project completion, as specified in the following table, except that the affordability restrictions may terminate upon foreclosure or transfer in lieu of foreclosure. The participating jurisdiction may use purchase options, rights of first refusal or other preemptive rights to purchase the housing before foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure to preserve affordability. The affordability restrictions shall be revived according to the original terms if, during the original affordability period, the owner of record before the foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, or any entity that includes the former owner or those with whom the former owner has or had family or business ties, obtains an ownership interest in the project or property. *␣*␣* * * * * * (d) Adjustment of qualifying rent. (1) Changes in fair market rents and in median income over time should be sufficient to maintain the financial viability of a project within the qualifying rent standards in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section. Regardless of changes in fair market rents and in median income over time, the qualifying rents are not required to be lower than the HOME rent for the project in effect at the time of project commitment. (2) HUD may adjust the qualifying rents established for a project under paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section, only if HUD finds that an adjustment is necessary to support the continued financial viability of the project and only by an amount that HUD determines is necessary to maintain continued financial viability of the project. HUD expects that this authority will be used sparingly. 22. In §92.254, paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(4) introductory text, (a)(4)(ii)(C) and (b)(1) are revised, and paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(D) is added to read as follows: §92.254 Qualification as affordable housing: homeownership. (a) *␣*␣* (1)(i) Has an initial purchase price that does not exceed 95% of the median purchase price for the type of single-family housing (1- to 4-family residence, condominium unit, cooperative unit, combination manufactured home and lot, or manufactured home lot) for the jurisdiction as determined by HUD, and which may be appealed in accordance with 24 CFR 203.18b; and * * * * * (4) Is subject_for minimum periods of: 5 years where the per unit amount of HOME funds provided is less than $15,000; 10 years where the per unit amount of HOME funds provided is $15,000 to $40,000; and 15 years where the per unit amount of HOME funds provided is greater than $40,000_to resale restrictions or recapture provisions that are established by the participating jurisdiction and determined by HUD to be appropriate to either: * * * * * (ii) *␣*␣* (C) The HOME investment that is subject to recapture is the HOME assistance that enabled the first-time homebuyer to buy the dwelling unit. This includes any HOME assistance, whether a direct subsidy to the homebuyer or a construction or development subsidy, that reduced the purchase price from fair market value to an affordable price. The recaptured funds must be used to assist other first-time homebuyers. If no HOME funds will be subject to recapture, the provisions at §92.254(a)(4)(i) apply. (D) Upon recapture of the HOME funds used in a single-family, first-time homebuyer project with two to four units, the affordability period on the rental units may be terminated at the discretion of the participating jurisdiction. (b) Rehabilitation not involving purchase. Housing that is currently owned by a family qualifies as affordable housing only if_ (1) The value of the property, after rehabilitation, does not exceed 95% of the median purchase price for the type of single-family housing (1- to 4-family residence, condominium unit, combination manufactured home and lot, or manufactured home lot) for the jurisdiction as determined by HUD, and which may be appealed in accordance with 24 CFR 203.18b; and * * * * * 23. Section 92.255 would be revised to read as follows: §92.255 Mixed-income project. (a) Housing that accounts for less than 100 percent of the dwelling units in a project qualifies as affordable housing if the housing meets the criteria of §92.252 or §92.254. Each building in the project must contain housing that meets the requirements of §92.252 or §92.254. See §92.219 for matching contribution requirements concerning mixed-income projects. (b) For purposes of meeting affordable housing requirements for a project, the dwelling units counted as affordable housing may be changed over the affordability period, so long as the total number of affordable housing units remains the same, and the substituted units are, at a minimum, comparable in terms of size, features, and number of bedrooms to the originally designated affordable housing units. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 2501&hyph;0013) 24. Section 92.256 would be revised to read as follows: §92.256 Mixed-use project.
