FR940404-0-00054 FR940404-0-00019 Federal awarding agencies and recipients shall comply with the nonprocurement debarment and suspension rule, 49 CFR part 29, ``Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants),'' implementing E.O.s 12549 and 12689, ``Debarment and Suspension.'' This rule restricts subawards and contracts with certain parties that are debarred, suspended or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in Federal assistance programs or activities. ยง19.14 Special award conditions. (a) Federal awarding agencies may impose additional requirements as needed, if an applicant or recipient: (1) Has a history of poor performance, (2) Is not financially stable, (3) Has a management system that does not meet the standards prescribed in this part, (4) Has not conformed to the terms and conditions of a previous award, or (5) Is not otherwise responsible. (b) Additional requirements may only be imposed provided that such applicant or recipient is notified in writing as to: (1) The nature of the additional requirements, (2) The reason why the additional requirements are being imposed, (3) The nature of the corrective action needed, (4) The time allowed for completing the corrective actions, and (5) The method for requesting reconsideration of the additional requirements imposed. (c) A copy of such notices shall be sent to the Assistant Secretary for Administration. Any special conditions shall be promptly removed once the conditions that prompted them have been corrected. ยง19.15 Metric system of measurement. The Metric Conversion Act, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act (15 U.S.C. 205), declares that the metric system is the preferred measurement system for U.S. trade and commerce. The Act requires each Federal agency to establish a date or dates in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, when the metric system of measurement will be used in the agency's procurements, grants, and other business-related activities. Metric implementation may take longer where the use of the system is initially impractical or likely to cause significant inefficiencies in the accomplishment of federally-funded activities. Federal awarding agencies shall follow the provisions of E.O. 12770, ``Metric Usage in Federal Government Programs.'' ยง19.16 Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Under the Act, any State agency or agency of a political subdivision of a State which is using appropriated Federal funds must comply with section 6002. Section 6002 requires that preference be given in procurement programs to the purchase of specific products containing recycled materials identified in guidelines developed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (40 CFR parts 247&hyph;254). Accordingly, State and local institutions of higher education, hospitals, and non-profit organizations that receive direct Federal awards or other Federal funds shall give preference in their procurement programs funded with Federal funds to the purchase of recycled products pursuant to the EPA guidelines. ยง19.17 Certifications and representations. Unless prohibited by statute or codified regulation, each Federal awarding agency is authorized and encouraged to allow recipients to submit certifications and representations required by statute, executive order, or regulation on an annual basis, if the recipients have ongoing and continuing relationships with the agency. Annual certifications and representations shall be signed by responsible officials with the authority to ensure recipients' compliance with the pertinent requirements.
