FR940810-1-00062 FR940810-1-00010 IV. Procedural Matters Federal Paperwork Reduction Act This rule does not contain collections of information which require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq . Executive Order 12866 This rule is not subject to Office of Management and Budget review under Executive Order 12866. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Department of the Interior has determined pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. , that this proposed rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because no small entities are expected to apply for permits under the Arizona Federal Program and the total number of permits applied for under the program is expected to be very small. National Environmental Policy Act Section 702(d) of SMCRA provides that promulgation of a Federal program shall not constitute a major Federal action under the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 433. Thus, no environmental assessment or environmental impact statement is required for this rulemaking. Executive Order 12778 (Civil Justice Reform) This proposed rule has been reviewed under the applicable standards of section 2(b)(2) of Executive Order 12778, ``Civil Justice Reform'' (56 FR 55195). In general, the requirements of section 2(b)(2) are covered by the preamble discussion of this rule. Individual elements of the order are addressed below: A. What would be the preemptive effect, if any, to be given to the regulation? As provided for under SMCRA, the proposed regulatory program would have a preemptive effect with respect to State laws and regulations less stringent than SMCRA, as provided for under SMCRA (see above under Discussion of Proposed Rule ). B. What would be the effect of the regulation on existing Federal law or regulation, if any, including all provisions repealed or modified? The proposed regulation would implement SMCRA in the State of Arizona, as described herein, and is not intended to modify the implementation of any other Federal statute. The preceding discussion of the proposed action specifies the Federal regulatory provisions that are affected by the proposed revision. C. Would the regulation provide a clear and certain legal standard for affected conduct rather than a general standard, while promoting simplification and burden reduction? The standards established by this rule are as clear and certain as practicable, given the complexity of the topics covered and the mandates of SMCRA. D. What would be the retroactive effect, if any, to be given to the regulation? There would be no retroactive effect to the proposed regulation. E. Are administrative proceedings required before parties may file suit in court? Which proceedings apply? Is the exhaustion of administrative remedies required? No administrative proceedings would be required before parties may file suit in court challenging the provisions of the proposed revision. Prior to any judicial challenge of the application of the rule, however, administrative procedures must be exhausted. Applicable administrative procedures may be found at 43 CFR Part 4. F. Would the proposed action define key terms, either explicitly or by reference to other regulations or statutes that explicitly define those items? Terms which are important to the understanding of the proposed action are set forth in 30 CFR 700.5 and 740.5. G. Would the regulation address other important issues affecting clarity and general draftsmanship of regulations set forth by the Attorney General, with the concurrence of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, that are determined to be in accordance with the purposes of the Executive Order? The Attorney General and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget have not issued any guidance on this requirement. Author The principal author of these proposed regulations is James B. Smith, Regulatory Programs Branch, Albuquerque Field Office, 500 Marquette Ave. NW., Suite 1200, Albuquerque, NM 87110. List of Subjects in 30 CFR Part 903 Coal mining, Intergovernmental relations, Surface mining, Underground mining, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: July 18, 1994. Bob Armstrong, Assistant Secretary, Land and Minerals Management. Accordingly, OSM proposes to amend 30 CFR Chapter VII, Subchapter T as set forth below:
