FR940628-1-00106 FR940628-1-00016 (d) The Council may delegate to the executive committee the authority of the Council under this subpart to hire and manage staff and conduct the routine business of the Council consistent with such policies as are determined by the Council. Activities of the Council §1208.40 Duties of the Council. The Council shall have the following duties, in addition to the duties specified in other sections of this subpart: (a) Administer this subpart in accordance with the terms and provisions of this subpart; (b) Make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart; (c) Appoint members of the Council to serve on the executive committee, as provided in §1208.37; (d) Employ such persons as the Council determines are necessary, and set the compensation and define the duties of the persons; (e) Develop budgets for the implementation of this subpart and submit the budgets to the Secretary for approval, and propose and develop (or receive and evaluate), approve, and submit to the Secretary for approval plans and projects for cut flowers and greens promotion, consumer information, or related research; (f) Implement plans and projects for cut flowers and greens promotion, consumer information, or related research, or contract or enter into agreements with appropriate persons to implement the plans and projects and pay the costs of the implementation of contracts and agreements with funds received under this subpart; (g) Keep minutes, books, and records which clearly reflect all of the acts and transactions of the Council. Minutes of all meetings shall be promptly provided to the Secretary; (h) Evaluate ongoing and completed plans and projects for cut flowers and greens promotion, consumer information, or related research; (i) Receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this subpart and direct that the staff of the Council periodically review the list of importers of cut flowers and greens provided by the Customs Service to determine whether persons on the list are subject to this subpart; (j) Recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart; (k) Invest, pending disbursement under a plan or project, funds collected through assessments only in: Obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States, general obligations of any State or any political subdivision of a State, any interest-bearing account or certificate of deposit of a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, or obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States. Income from any such invested funds may be used only for a purpose for which the invested funds may be used. (l) Prepare and submit to the Secretary such reports as may be prescribed for appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of funds entrusted to the Council monthly, or at such times as prescribed by the Secretary. Monthly financial statements shall be submitted to the Department and shall include at least: (1) A balance sheet, and (2) An expense budget comparison showing expenditures during the month, year-to-date expenditures, and an unexpended budget. Upon request, a summary of checks issued by the Council is to be made available. Reports shall be submitted within 30 days after the end of each month. (m) To cause the books of the Council to be audited by an independent certified public accountant at the end of each fiscal period, and at such other times as the Council or the Secretary may deem necessary. The report of each audit shall show the receipt and expenditure of funds collected pursuant to this part, and shall be submitted to the Secretary. (n) To give the Secretary the same notification, written or oral, as provided to Council members concerning all conference calls and meetings, including executive, advisory, subcommittee, and other meetings related to Council matters, and to grant the Secretary access to all such calls and meetings; (o) To follow the Department's equal opportunity/civil rights policies; and (p) Provide the Secretary such information as the Secretary may require. §1208.41 Budgets and expenses. (a) The Council shall promptly adopt and forward to the Secretary for approval its determination of the beginning and ending dates of an annual fiscal period to be used by the Council for budgeting and accounting purposes. (b) The Council shall submit annual budgets of its anticipated expenses and disbursement in the administration of this subpart, including the projected costs for the promotion of cut flowers and greens, consumer information, and related research plans and projects to the Secretary for approval. The first budget, which shall be submitted promptly after the effective date of this subpart, shall cover such period as may remain before the beginning of the next fiscal year. If such fiscal period is 90 days or less, the first budget shall cover such period, as well as the next fiscal year. Thereafter, the Council shall submit budgets for each succeeding fiscal year not less than 30 days before the beginning of such fiscal year. (c) The Council is authorized to incur such expenses (including provision for a reasonable reserve for operating contingencies) as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Council for its maintenance and functioning and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with this subpart. Expenses authorized in this paragraph shall be paid from assessments collected pursuant to §1208.50, or other funds available to the Council. (d) The Council shall reimburse the Secretary, from assessments collected pursuant to §1208.50, or from other funds available to the Council, for administrative costs incurred by the Department to carry out its responsibilities pursuant to this subpart after the effective date of this subpart.
