FR940830-2-00077 FR940830-2-00047 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Community Support Program: Cooperative Agreements for Employment Intervention Demonstration Program AGENCY: Center for Mental Health Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), HHS. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and request for applications. *§It is important to note that applications are invited based on the funding levels proposed in the President's budget for fiscal year 1995. However, this RFA is being announced prior to an appropriation of funds in order to allow applicants sufficient time to establish collaboration and coordination and prepare applications. Solicitation of applications in advance of an appropriation will also enable the award of appropriated grant funds in the most expeditious manner and allow prompt implementation and evaluation of promising employment intervention programs for adults with severe mental illnesses. All applicants should understand, however, that final appropriation action will be necessary in order for CMHS to fund any applications. Questions regarding the status of the appropriation of funds should be directed to the program official listed under Contacts for Additional Information in this notice. SUMMARY: The Center for Mental Health Services (CMHS) announces the availability of demonstration grants to document the effectiveness of programs designed to enhance competitive employment for adults with severe mental illnesses. Funds will be awarded through the Community Support Program (CSP) of the Division of Demonstration Programs of CMHS. This request for applications (RFA) solicits applications for two types of awards: Demonstration Sites and a Coordinating Center. This demonstration program addresses a priority mental health need: the enhancement of competitive employment for adults with severe mental illnesses. A collaborative, multisite approach is essential to test the effectiveness of different employment interventions and synthesize the intervention results. Because of the complexity of the program, requiring substantial programmatic involvement of CMHS staff to facilitate communication and coordination across projects, the cooperative agreement mechanism is being used. This notice consists of three parts: Part I covers information on the legislative authority and the applicable regulations and policies related to the Community Support Program: Cooperative Agreements for Employment Intervention Demonstration Program. Part II describes the target population, the issue, and the programmatic goal and discusses eligibility, availability of funds, period of support and the receipt date for applications. Part III describes special requirements of the program, the application process, the review and award criteria and lists contacts for additional information. Part I_Legislative Authority and Other Applicable Regulations and Policies Cooperative agreements awarded under this RFA are authorized under Section 520A of the Public Health Service Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 290bb&hyph;32). Federal regulations at Title 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92, generic requirements concerning the administration of grants, are applicable to these awards. Grants must be administered in accordance with the PHS Grants Policy Statement dated April 1, 1994 (DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94&hyph;50,000 (Rev)). This policy statement is effective for all grants with budget periods beginning on or after April 1, 1994. It also reflects policies with earlier effective dates. This document supersedes the PHS Grants Policy Statement dated October 1, 1990, as updated September 1, 1991. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number for this program is 93.125. Reporting Requirements: Interim and final progress reports and financial status reports will be required and specified to awardees in accord with PHS Grants Policy requirements.
