FR940106-2-00080 FR940106-2-00038 Definitions ` `Clinical Treatment or Training'' means direct, supervised participation in patient care by observation, examination and performance of procedures as are appropriate for the assigned role of the trainee on the rural health care team. ``Community Health Center'' means an entity as defined in section 330 (a) and (b) of the Act and in regulations at 42 CFR 51c.102(c). ``Community Mental Health Center'' means for purposes of this grant program a multiservice mental health facility which provides essential elements of comprehensive mental health services: (1) Inpatient services; (2) Outpatient services; (3) Partial hospitalization services_must include at least day care service; (4) Emergency services provided 24 hours per day_must be available within at least one of the first three services listed above; and/or (5) Consultation and education services available to community agencies and professions personnel. ``Indian Tribe'' or ``Tribal Organization'' means an organization or entity as defined in section 4(e) and 4(l) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b). ``Interdisciplinary Training'' means a planned and coordinated program of education or training aimed at preparation of functioning teams of two or more health care practitioners from different health disciplines who will coordinate their activities to provide services to a client or group of clients. ``Long-Term Care Facility'' is a facility which offers services designed to provide diagnostic, preventive, therapeutic, rehabilitative, supportive and maintenance services for individuals who have chronic physical or mental impairments. This facility may have a variety of institutional and non-institutional health settings, including the home, and the goal of the service provided is to promote the optimum level of physical, social and psychological functioning. ``Migrant Health Center'' means an entity as defined in section 329(a) of the Act and in regulations at 42 CFR 56.102(g)(1). ``Native Hawaiian Health Center'' means an entity as defined in the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100&hyph;579) (42 U.S.C. 11707(4)). ``Nonprofit'' as applied to any entity means one, no part of the net earnings of which inures, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. ``Postdoctoral Fellowship Program'' means a program of advanced academic or professional work, after the attainment of a doctoral degree, that is sponsored by a school of/or program that specializes in medicine, osteopathic medicine, nursing, dentistry, mental health practice, optometry, public health, pharmacy, podiatric medicine, physician assistant, chiropractic, or allied health. ``Rural'' means geographic areas that are located outside of standard metropolitan statistical areas. ``Rural Health Care Agency'' means a hospital, community health center, migrant health center, rural health clinic, community mental health center, long-term care facility, Native Hawaiian health center, or facility operated by the Indian Health Service or an Indian tribe or tribal organization or Indian organization under a contract with the Indian Health Service under the Indian Self-Determination Act. ``Rural Health Clinic'' means an entity as defined under section 1861(aa)(2) of the Social Security Act and in regulations at 42 CFR 491.2. ``State'' means, in addition to the 50 States, only the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (the Republic of Palau), the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.
