FR940425-2-00070 FR940425-2-00049 1. Screening for tuberculosis, including a tuberculosis skin test and a chest X-ray if a recent one is not available; 2. Public health history and review of current problems, including immunization needs; 3. Screening of pregnant women for hepatitis B; 4. Testing for intestinal parasites; 5. Testing for anemia; 6. Complete physical examination including: a. Oral inspection for dental problems; b. Height and weight measurement to assess pediatric nutritional status; c. Vision and hearing testing; and, d. Test for hypertension. D. Referrals for Health Problems Refer refugees with health problems identified during the health assessment to the appropriate health care provider for treatment. Establish a system for follow-up, based on the priority of the condition identified, to ensure appointments are kept. E. Health Education In order for the refugees to be successfully assimilated into the public health care system, the importance of preventive health should be taught as part of the health assessment process. Refugees should be informed, in their own language, about the tests they are receiving and what the results of the tests mean. The need for obtaining additional care, testing, and treatment for an identified health problem should also be carefully explained. Culturally competent and linguistically appropriate educational pamphlets, slides, or videos, and individual or group education sessions may be used to provide this information. The applicant may also provide or coordinate the provision of culturally sensitive training for staff working with refugees. F. Coordination with Other Agencies/Organizations To promote the national goals and use all existing resources to this end, place special emphasis on coordinating efforts with: 1. Voluntary agencies (VOLAGS); 2. Mutual assistance agencies (MAA); 3. State Department of Social Services; 4. State Advisory Council on Refugee Affairs; 5. Other State and Federally funded programs, such as Medicaid, and health department immunization and tuberculosis control programs; 6. Private providers of health care to refugees. Evaluation Conditions and Criteria A. Formula Conditions Eligible applicants meeting the following conditions will receive an award based on the formula described in the ``Availability of Funds'' section. 1. Has the applicant provided a budget justification and plan of operation and evaluation? 2. Does the application document the size of the refugee population, including secondary migrants? 3. Are the proposed objectives specific, measurable, realistic, time-phased, and related to the National Program Goals? 4. Does the application document coordination with the State Refugee Resettlement Coordinator? B. Discretionary Award Evaluation Criteria Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria, each carrying equal weight of 25 points: 1. Does the application document the need for support, including: a. The extent and distribution of unique refugee health problems; b. The extent and distribution of general refugee health problems; c. The relationship of the project to existing services? 2. Does the application include a plan for conducting project activities described in the program description that is consistent with the State Refugee Resettlement Plan and that will integrate refugees into existing health services? 3. Does the application include reasonable and appropriate methods for evaluating the project's effectiveness? In addition, in determining discretionary award amounts, CDC will consider the applicant's proposed use of project funds, program potential, other funding resources, past performance and funding, the quality of the data collection system, appropriateness and reasonableness of the budget request, and plans to provide tuberculosis preventive therapy and outreach services. Other Reviews The State Refugee Resettlement Coordinator should have an opportunity to review and comment on the application prior to its submission. Other Requirements Human Subjects If the proposed project involves research on human subjects, the applicant must comply with the Department of Health and Human Services Regulations (45 CFR part 46) regarding the protection of human subjects. Assurance must be provided to demonstrate that the project will be subject to initial and continuing review by an appropriate institutional review committee. The applicant will be responsible for providing assurance in accordance with the appropriate guidelines and form provided in the application kit. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC for each affected State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should send them to Elizabeth M. Taylor, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road NE., Mailstop E&hyph;16, Atlanta, GA 30305, no later than 60 days after the application deadline. The Program Announcement Number and Program Title should be referenced on the document. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' State process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number is 93.987, Health Programs for Refugees.
