FR941216-1-00152 FR941216-1-00012 (3) If detonation tests show that the cured propellant will detonate, all operations with cured or curing propellant shall be considered as exposed to class/division 1.1 hazards. (d) Safety information for all materials used in the formulation shall be available as required. Personnel shall be trained on the hazards involved in propellant process situations. ยง184.200 Quantity/distance (Q/D) requirements. New manufacturing and support facilities for processing of solid propellants and propellant loaded items shall be operated to conform to the latest Q/D requirements for the class/division of the material in the in-process condition. ยง184.201 Separation of operations and buildings. (a) Propellant and rocket motor manufacturing and processing shall be done in special areas_operating lines_whose boundaries are separated from all other areas outside the line in accordance with appropriate Q/D criteria. (b) Sequential operations on rocket motors can generally be treated as one process operation in one building. Exception examples are shown in Appendix A to this subpart. (c) The required separation between buildings (sites, pads, or other such locations), which form a single production or operating line, shall be in accordance with quantity/distance criteria. (d) When the hazard classification of a propellant has not been established, classify the propellant during site and construction planning as the most hazardous class/division that might possibly apply during manufacturing and processing. (e) Safety shelters, lunch rooms, convenience buildings, and private vehicle parking for personnel working in an operating building should be constructed and shall be sited in accordance with applicable Q/D criteria. ยง184.202 Equipment and facilities. (a) Except as provided for in other applicable documentation, the design, layout, and operation of facilities and equipment for solid propellant operations shall follow the mandatory provisions. Where guidance is not provided, operations should be governed by the results of hazard tests and analyses performed and documented to address specific operations. As some propellants can be sensitive to initiation by static electricity, bonding and grounding of equipment, tooling, and rocket motors along with other means of static elimination and control should be given special consideration. Conductive work surfaces and floors or floor mats shall be provided for assembly of igniters and igniter subassemblies. (b) Nonsparking and nonrusting materials, which are chemically compatible with the propellant material, shall be used for equipment, tooling, and machinery that will come in contact with propellant or propellant ingredients. (c) Certain solid propellant operations involve significant energy input which enhances the possibility of ignition. Examples are rolling mills, machining and drilling operations. In these situations, complete hazard analysis and evaluation shall be conducted prior to starting the operation. (d) Space heating, air conditioning, and propellant hot air cure oven equipment shall be designed and operated to prevent accumulation of solvent vapors (whether flammable or nonflammable), explosive dusts, and nitroglycerin vapors (or other nitroester vapors) that may present an ignition, explosion, or personnel hazard. Ovens shall have dual or redundant temperature controls. (e) Exposed radiant surfaces in the form of S-shaped smooth pipe or fin-type radiators, so positioned that they can be easily cleaned, are considered suitable types of radiators because of the ease with which they can be cleaned. Other types of radiators are acceptable, but are less desirable because of cleaning difficulties. (f) When mechanical ventilating equipment is used in operations involving potential concentrations of solvent vapors, dusts, and nitroester vapors, the electric motor and motor controls shall not be located directly in the potentially contaminated air stream and the system shall be provided with a suitable means of collecting condensate. (g) Air conditioning and cure oven air-circulating equipment of the closed system type shall be designed to prevent contaminated air from contacting the air motor and controls. Recirculated air shall be monitored to ensure concentration of vapors and dusts do not reach flammable (or explosive), or personnel threshold limits. Electric motors and controls shall be dustproof and vaporproof electrical equipment. Air mover blades should be nonmetallic. (h) The equipment shall be rigidly fixed and stable during mixing to preclude contact between fixed and movable parts. Any mix bowl lift-mechanism (elevator) is to be designed so blade-to-blade and blade-to-bowl clearances are assured during the complete operation cycle. (i) Positive controls shall be provided to physically block or stop bowl or mixer head movement in case of drive mechanism malfunction. Assure blade-to-blade and blade-to-bowl clearance is maintained at all times. (j) Mix blades and shaft shall be rigid and structurally strong to ensure minimum flex from viscosity of the mix and speed of the shaft. (k) Electrical components of all mixers shall meet the appropriate electrical classification, be remotely located, or shrouded and purged with inert gas. Purged systems shall be designed to provide automatic warning if gas pressure is lost. (l) Mixer blade shafts shall be equipped with seals or packing glands that prevent migration of liquids or solvent vapors into bearings. Submerged bearings and packing glands should be avoided. However, if used, they shall be periodically tested for contamination and cleaned. (m) A program shall be established to detect significant changes in blade/shaft position relative to mixer head. Clearances between mix blades and mixer bowls shall be checked at regular intervals based on operating time and experience to make sure the clearance is adequate. Maintain a record of such checks, mixer blade adjustments, and any damage to the mixer blades and bowls. (n) Mix bowl, blades, and drive unit are to be electrically bonded and grounded. (o) Inspect blades and other moving parts of new mixers and replacement parts for old mixers. Inspect (magnaflux and/or X-ray) for cracks, crevices, and other flaws. (p) Electric service to propellant mixers shall be interlocked with fire protection system controls so that the mixer cannot start when the fire protection system is inoperative. (q) All process equipment which applies energy to in-process propellant should be checked regularly for wear and misalignment. A record of these checks and maintenance performed should be maintained for the process equipment. (r) Equipment performing sequential operations on propellants, such as extrusion and cutting, shall be controlled to prevent interference. ยง184.203 In-process quantities and storage. (a) Only the amount of propellant and loaded subassemblies needed to ensure a safe and efficient workflow shall be present in an operating building when operations are being conducted. This does not preclude short-term storage of larger quantities in an operating building when not in use for other operations.
