FR940419-1-00076 FR940419-1-00009 (2) Stipends are not to be construed as salaries and should not be included as income for calculation of rents, and are not subject to conflict of interest requirements. (3) Funding provided by a HA to a duly elected resident council may be made only under a written agreement between the HA and a resident council, which includes a resident council budget and assurance that all resident council expenditures will not contravene provisions of law and will promote serviceability, efficiency, economy and stability in the operation of the local development. The agreement must require the local resident council to account to the HA for the use of the funds and permit the HA to inspect and audit the resident council's financial records related to the agreement. Subpart C_Tenant Opportunities Program ยง964.200 General. (a) The Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP) provides technical assistance for various activities including resident management for resident councils/resident management corporations as authorized by section 20 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937. The TOP provides opportunities for resident organizations to improve living conditions and resident satisfaction in public housing communities. (b) This subpart establishes the policies, procedures and requirements for participating in the TOP with respect to applications for funding for programs identified in this subpart. (c) This subpart contains the policies, procedures and requirements for the resident management program as authorized by section 20 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937. ยง964.205 Eligibility. (a) Resident councils/resident management corporations. Any eligible resident council/resident management corporation as defined in subpart B is eligible to participate in a program administered under this subpart. (b) Activities. Activities to be funded and carried out by an eligible resident council or resident management corporation, as defined in subpart B, must improve the living conditions and public housing operations and may include any combination of, but are not limited to, the following: (1) Resident Capacity Building. (i) Training Board members in community organizing, Board development, and leadership training; (ii) Determining the feasibility of resident management enablement for a specific project or projects; and (iii) Assisting in the actual creation of an RMC, such as consulting and legal assistance to incorporate, preparing by-laws and drafting a corporate charter. (2) Resident Management. (i) Training residents, as potential employees of an RMC, in skills directly related to the operation, management, maintenance and financial systems of a project; (ii) Training of residents with respect to fair housing requirements; and (iii) Gaining assistance in negotiating management contracts, and designing a long-range planning system. (3) Resident Management Business Development. (i) Training related to resident-owned business development and technical assistance for job training and placement in RMC developments; (ii) Technical assistance and training in resident managed business development through: (A) Feasibility and market studies; (B) Development of business plans; (C) Outreach activities; and (D) Innovative financing methods including revolving loan funds; and (iii) Legal advice in establishing resident managed business entity. (4) Social Support Needs (such as self-sufficiency and youth initiatives). (i) Feasibility studies to determine training and social services needs; (ii) Training in management-related trade skills, computer skills, etc.; (iii) Management-related employment training and counseling; (iv) Coordination of support services;
