FR940128-1-00130 FR940128-1-00006 Example 5 Process-Related Hazard and Control No. 11 Hazard No. 11 (Safety)_Pathogen Survival During Pasteurization Hazard Statement Survival of Clostridium botulinum ( C. botulinum type E) or other microorganisms of public health concern, through the pasteurization process is a food safety hazard for cooked, ready-to-eat products packed in hermetically sealed containers and held refrigerated. Pasteurization is a process applied to a fish or fishery product after that fish or fishery product has been placed in a final, hermetically sealed package. The process involves the application of sufficient heat (or other processes) for a sufficient time to cause the reduction of microorganisms of public health concern to levels that, under normal conditions of storage, are unlikely to cause disease. C. botulinum type E is a pathogenic microorganism that may be found in fish and fishery products. Botulism is a severe type of food poisoning caused by the ingestion of foods containing the potent neurotoxin formed during the growth of C. botulinum. C. botulinum type E can grow and produce toxin at temperatures as low as 3.3 ○C (38 ○F), and must, therefore, be eliminated from the hermetically sealed container during the pasteurization process. Pasteurized products that are stored, distributed, and displayed in the frozen state, and are so labeled, are not similarly at risk, and need not be subjected to the constraints of these control measures. For there to be assurance that the pasteurization step effectively eliminates the microorganisms of public health significance (e.g., C. botulinum type E), a minimum acceptable process should be scientifically established. This requires expert knowledge of thermal process calculations. Procedures used in establishing the minimum thermal process should be those that are generally recognized and accepted. Sometimes, thermal death time, heat penetration, and inoculated pack studies will be necessary to establish the minimum process. In other instances, existing literature is sufficient to provide the processor with a minimum process. In either case, characteristics of the process and/or the product will necessarily affect the ability of the cook step to effectively eliminate the microorganisms of public health significance. Such factors should be considered in the establishment of the process. Where control of those factors is necessary to consistently achieve that goal, the process authority should specify these to the processor. It is necessary that the pasteurizing equipment be designed and operated so that every unit of product receives the established minimum process. This will require that a competent process authority, who is thoroughly familiar with the dynamics of heat transfer in processing equipment, evaluate the design and operation of the type of equipment used by the processor. Sometimes temperature distribution studies will be necessary to establish the adequacy of the equipment. In other instances existing literature will be sufficient to establish the adequacy of the equipment. Critical Control Point: Pasteurization Control Measures 1. Make sure that the pasteurization process that is being used was designed to ensure an appropriate reduction in the numbers of viable microorganisms of public health concern. The adequacy of the pasteurization process should be established by a process authority. The pasteurization process that is being used should meet any factors of the process or of the product that are identified by the process authority as critical to achieving pathogen destruction. At a minimum, these critical factors should include pasteurizing times and temperatures. 2. Make sure that the pasteurization equipment being used is properly designed and operated to deliver the process established by the process authority. The engineering specifications of the equipment being used (e.g., pipe sizes, flow rates, loading pattern) should meet or exceed that of the equipment evaluated by a process authority. 3. Deliver the pasteurization process in a way that there is no deviation from the minimum established pasteurization critical factors. 4. Monitor the pasteurization temperature with a temperature recording device (i.e., temperature recorder). The temperature recorder should be installed where it can be easily read and the sensor for the device should be installed to ensure that it accurately measures the coldest temperature of the pasteurizing equipment. The temperature recorder must show a continuous record of the process. Computerized storage of temperature data may be used for a temperature recorder chart if the use of such a system has been validated and can be shown to be equivalent to the use of a temperature recorder. 5. Check the accuracy of each temperature recorder at the beginning and end of each production day and adjust it as necessary to agree as nearly as possible with a temperature indicating device (mercury-in-glass thermometer or equivalent device). The thermometer should be installed where it can be easily read and placed to ensure that it accurately measures the coldest temperature of the pasteurizing equipment. 6. Calibrate the thermometer at the pasteurizing temperature against an accurate standard thermometer. This should be done when the thermometer is installed and at least once a year after that, or more frequently, if necessary, to ensure its accuracy. 7. Monitor the length of the pasteurization cycle. 8. Monitor other critical factors (e.g., initial temperature, container size, product formulation) at the start of each shift or when the product changes during a shift.
