FR940630-0-00096 FR940630-0-00036 The commenters are correct that management, maintenance and administrative jobs created to undertake work in connection with the construction or rehabilitation project are covered by section 3, and the interim rule clarifies this coverage. However, management, maintenance or administrative jobs generated from the expenditure of housing assistance (excluding public and Indian housing assistance) or community development assistance, but which assistance is not expended for rehabilitation, construction, or other public construction (and thus is not section 3 covered assistance), are not subject to the section 3 preference requirements. To determine whether employment opportunities generated from the expenditure of HUD financial assistance are subject to the section 3 preference requirements, a determination must first be made if the HUD assistance is covered by section 3. As discussed previously, section 3 applies to the following public and Indian housing assistance: operating assistance, development assistance, and modernization assistance. All employment opportunities generated by the expenditure of this assistance are subject to the section 3 preference requirements. With respect to assistance other than public and Indian housing assistance, section 3 applies to housing assistance and community development assistance expended for housing rehabilitation (including reduction and abatement of lead-based paint hazards), housing construction or other public construction project. Thus, the section 3 preference requirements only apply to employment opportunities ``arising in connection with'' housing rehabilitation, housing construction or other public construction project. Therefore, HUD housing assistance that is expended for project operations (i.e., assistance that is operating assistance, but not operating assistance pursuant to section 9 of the 1937 Act) is not covered by section 3. Accordingly, a maintenance supervisory position that becomes available as a result of the expenditure of this assistance is not subject to the section 3 preference requirements. A maintenance supervisory position that becomes available as a result of work in connection with housing rehabilitation is subject to the section 3 preference requirements. Defining ``Employment Opportunities Generated From Section 3 Covered Assistance'' The interim rule provides a definition of ``employment generated by section 3 covered assistance'' to address the various types of employment opportunities that may arise in connection with the expenditure of section 3 covered assistance. Defining ``Other HUD Programs'' Additionally, the interim rule provides a definition of ``other HUD programs'' to distinguish between HUD public and Indian housing programs covered by section 3 and other HUD programs covered by section 3. The other HUD programs covered by section 3 are those that provide housing or community development assistance for housing rehabilitation, housing construction, or other public construction project. Clarification That in Covered Housing and Community Development Programs, ``Housing Rehabilitation'' Does Not Include Routine Maintenance and Repair In addition to clarifying the types of jobs that are covered by the statutory phrase ``arising in connection with,'' the interim rule also clarifies what constitutes ``housing rehabilitation.'' Routine maintenance and repair do not constitute ``housing rehabilitation.'' The parenthetical statement in the statute which follows the term ``housing rehabilitation'' provides that housing rehabilitation includes reduction and abatement of lead-based paint hazards. This language indicates that something more than routine maintenance and repair or replacement is contemplated by the term ``housing rehabilitation.'' As discussed in the preceding section, the Department notes that maintenance and repair undertaken in connection with housing rehabilitation (e.g., clean-up after rehabilitation has been performed) are covered by section 3.
