FR940419-1-00078 FR940419-1-00009 ยง964.220 Technical assistance. (a) Financial assistance . HUD will provide financial assistance, to the extent available, to resident councils or resident management corporations for technical assistance and training to further the activities under this subpart. (b) Requirements for a management specialist. If a resident council or resident management corporation seeks to manage a development, it must select, in consultation with the HA, a qualified housing management specialist to assist in determining the feasibility of, and to help establish, a resident management corporation and to provide training and other duties in connection with the daily operations of the project. ยง964.225 Resident management requirements. The following requirements apply when a HA and its residents are interested in providing for resident performance of several management functions in one or more projects. (a) Resident management corporation. Resident councils interested in contracting with a HA must establish a resident management corporation that meets the requirements for such a corporation, as specified in subpart B. The RMC and its employees must demonstrate their ability and skill to perform in the particular areas of management pursuant to the management contract. (b) HA responsibilities. HAs shall give full and serious consideration to resident management corporations seeking to enter into a management contract with the HA. A HA shall enter into good-faith negotiations with a corporation seeking to contract to provide management services. (c) Duty to bargain in good faith. If a HA refuses to negotiate with a resident management corporation in good faith or, after negotiations, refuses to enter into a contract, the corporation may file an informal appeal with HUD, setting out the circumstances and providing copies of relevant materials evidencing the corporation's efforts to negotiate a contract. HUD shall require the HA to respond with a report stating the HA's reasons for rejecting the corporation's contract offer or for refusing to negotiate. Thereafter, HUD shall require the parties (with or without the direct HUD participation) to undertake or to resume negotiations on a contract providing for resident management, and shall take such other actions as are necessary to resolve the conflicts between the parties. If no resolution is achieved within 90 days from the date HUD required the parties to undertake or resume such negotiations, HUD shall serve notice on both parties that administrative remedies have been exhausted (except that, pursuant to mutual agreement of the parties, the time for negotiations may be extended by no more than an additional 30 days). (d) Management contract . A management contract between the HA and a resident management corporation is required for property management. The HA and the resident management corporation may agree to the performance by the corporation of any or all management functions for which the HA is responsible to HUD under the ACC and any other functions not inconsistent with the ACC and applicable state and local laws, regulations and licensing requirements. (e) Procurement requirements. The management contract shall be treated as a contracting out of services, and must be subject to any provision of a collective bargaining agreement regarding the contracting out of services to which the HA is subject. Provisions on competitive bidding and requirements of prior written HUD approval of contracts contained in the ACC do not apply to the decision of a HA to contract with a RMC. (f) Prohibited activities. A HA may not contract for assumption by the resident management corporation of the HA's underlying responsibilities to HUD under the ACC. (g) Bonding and insurance. Before assuming any management responsibility under its contract, the RMC must provide fidelity bonding and insurance, or equivalent protection that is adequate (as determined by HUD and the HA) to protect HUD and the HA against loss, theft, embezzlement, or fraudulent acts on the part of the resident management corporation or its employees. (h) Waiver of HUD requirements. Upon the joint request of a resident management corporation and the HA, HUD may waive any requirement that HUD has established and that is not required by law, if HUD determines, after consultation with the resident management corporation and the HA, that the requirement unnecessarily increases the costs to the project or restricts the income of the project; and that the waiver would be consistent with the management contract and any applicable collective bargaining agreement. Any waiver granted to a resident management corporation under this section will apply as well to the HA to the extent the waiver affects the HA's remaining responsibilities relating to the resident management corporation's project. ยง964.230 Audit and administrative requirements. (a) TOP grant recipients. The HUD Inspector General, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any duly authorized representative shall have access to all records required to be retained by this subpart or by any agreement with HUD for the purpose of audit or other examinations. (1) Grant recipients must comply with the requirements of OMB Circulars A&hyph;110 and A&hyph;122, as applicable. (2) A final audit shall be required for the activities and expenditures made pursuant to this subpart by a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), in accordance with generally accepted government audit standards. A written report of the audit must be forwarded to HUD within 60 days of issuance. (b) Resident management corporations. Resident management corporations who have entered into a contract with a HA with respect to management of a development(s) must comply with the requirements of OMB Circulars A&hyph;110 and A&hyph;122, as applicable. Resident management corporations managing a development(s) must be audited annually by a licensed certified public accountant, designated by the corporation, in accordance with generally accepted government audit standards. Subpart D_Family Investment Centers (FIC) Program ยง964.300 General. The Family Investment Centers Program provides families living in public housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities by: (a) Developing facilities in or near public housing for training and support services; (b) Mobilizing public and private resources to expand and improve the delivery of such services; (c) Providing funding for such essential training and support services that cannot otherwise be funded; and (d) Improving the capacity of management to assess the training and service needs of families, coordinate the provision of training and services that meet such needs, and ensure the long-term provision of such training and services. FIC provides funding to HAs to access educational, housing, or other social service programs to assist public housing residents toward self-sufficiency.
