FR940407-2-00113 FR940407-2-00060 Trading in the U.S. in other markets would be included in the world-wide volume for the security, but not in the U.S. volume. The Exchange believes that allowing ELDS to be issued based on the value of eligible non-U.S. securities will provide significant benefits to investors and the capital markets by providing increased investment and corporate financing flexibility. The Exchange believes this flexibility will be achieved without compromising investor protection by ensuring that the linked security either has its primary market in the United States or that the Exchange has access to surveillance information from the primary exchange where the linked security is traded (and in the case of ADRs, with the primary exchange in the home country where the security underlying the ADR is traded). The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 6 of the Act, in general, and with section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NYSE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The Exchange has requested that the proposed rule change be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act. The Commission finds that the portion of the proposed rule change relating to the alternative minimum capitalization and trading volume requirements for securities underlying ELDS is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of section 6(b)(5) 8 in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and to protect investors and the public interest. Specifically, the Commission finds that the proposal will expand the universe of securities that can be linked to ELDS while maintaining the requirement that the linked security be an actively traded common stock issued by a highly capitalized issuer. While the proposal introduces an alternative, reducing by one-half the minimum market capitalization of the linked security, the stock of such an issuer could only be linked to ELDS if its trading volume for the prior 12-month period exceeds by eight times the current minimum trading volume set forth in Paragraph 703.21 of the Manual. Furthermore, the proposal does not alter any of the other listing requirements applicable to ELNs contained in Paragraph 703.21 of the Manual which the Commission has previously approved. 9 As a result, the Commission finds that the proposed amendment is consistent with the Act. 8 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 9 See Exchange Act Release No. 33468, supra note 3. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register in order to allow the Exchange to list ELDS linked to stocks satisfying the proposed alternative market capitalization and trading volume guidelines without delay. In addition, the Commission notes it has not been made aware of any adverse comments concerning the ELDS series currently listed and trading on the Exchange. Furthermore, the Commission believes that the NYSE proposal does not raise any new issues that were not addressed to the Commission's satisfaction when the listing and trading of ELDS was originally approved. Finally, the Commission has approved identical alternative listing standards with respect to equity linked term notes (``ELNs'') listed and traded on the American Stock Exchange (``Amex''). 10 The Commission notes that the Amex proposal with respect to the alternative listing standards applicable to ELNs was published for the full 21-day comment period and no comments opposing the proposal were received by the Commission. Accordingly, the Commission believes that good cause exists to approve the proposed rule change on an accelerated basis. 10 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33328 (December 13, 1993), 58 FR 66041 (December 17, 1993). IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;04 and should be submitted by April 28, 1994. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act 11 that the portion of the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;04) allowing securities underlying an ELDS issue to have a minimum capitalization of $1.5 billion and a trading volume in the 12 months prior to issuance of at least 20 million shares, in addition to satisfying the other requirements set forth in Paragraph 703.21 of the Manual, is hereby approved. 11 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 12 22 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8282 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
