FR941128-2-00019 FR941128-2-00010 B. European Social Fund (``ESF'') Grants The ESF was established by the 1957 European Economic Community Treaty to increase employment and help raise worker living standards. As described in Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel, the ESF receives its funds from the EC's general budget whose main revenue sources are customs duties, agricultural levies, value-added taxes collected by the member states, and other member state contributions. The member states are responsible for selecting the projects to be funded by the EC. The EC then disburses the grants to the member states which manage the funds and implement the projects. According to the EC, ESF grants are available to (1) people over 25 who have been unemployed for more than 12 months; (2) people under 25 who have reached the minimum school-leaving age and who are seeking a job; and (3) certain workers in rural areas and regions characterized by industrial decline or lagging development. The GOI has stated that the ESF grants received by Italy have been used for vocational training. Certain regions in the South are also eligible for private sector re-entry and retraining schemes. Since 1990, the vocational training grants have been available to unemployed youths and long-term unemployed adults all over Italy, according to the GOI. Before 1990, however, the GOI gave preference to certain regions in Italy. In Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel, we determined that this program was not regionally specific and not otherwise limited to a specific enterprise or industry, or group of enterprises or industries. Furthermore, we noted that to the extent there is a regional preference ( i.e., southern Italy) in the distribution of ESF benefits, it has not resulted in a countervailable benefit to the production of the subject merchandise, which is produced in northern Italy. The GOI's response in this investigation is consistent with the information provided in Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel. Therefore, we preliminarily determine that this program is not limited to a specific enterprise or industry, or group of enterprises or industries and, therefore, is not countervailable. C. ECSC Article 54 Loans Under Article 54 of the 1951 ECSC Treaty, the European Commission provides loans directly to iron and steel companies for modernization and the purchase of new equipment. The loans finance up to 50 percent of an investment project. The remaining financing needs must be met from other sources. The Article 54 loan program is financed by loans taken by the Commission, which are then re-lent to iron and steel companies in the member states at a slightly higher interest rate than that at which the Commission obtained them. Consistent with the Department's finding in Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel, we preliminarily determine that this program is limited to the iron and steel industry. As a result, loans under this program are specific. Of the Article 54 loans Dalmine had outstanding during the POI, some were denominated in U.S. dollars and others were in Dutch guilders (``NLG''). To determine whether the loans were provided on terms inconsistent with commercial considerations, we used benchmark interest rates for the currencies in which the loans were denominated. That is, for the U.S. dollar loans we used the average interest rate on long-term fixed-rate U.S. dollar loans obtained in the United States, as reported by the Federal Reserve. For the NLG denominated loan, we used the average long-term bond rate for private borrowers in the Netherlands, as reported by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (``OECD''). Because the interest rates paid on Dalmine's Article 54 loans are higher than the benchmark interest rates, the Department preliminarily determines that loans provided under this program are not preferential and, therefore, not countervailable. D. 1989 Provisional Payment in Connection With 1989 Equity Infusion In March 1989, ILVA made a payment to Dalmine in anticipation of purchasing new shares in Dalmine. The payment was provisional in nature because EC authorization of the capital increase was necessary, and if authorization was not granted, the money would have been repaid to ILVA. The capital increase was not finalized until November 1989, due to delays in EC approval. At that time, the payment became equity capital. Consistent with the Department's position in Final Affirmative Countervailing Duty Determination: Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel from Italy (Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel), 59 FR 18357 (April 18, 1994), we preliminarily determine that the funds provided by ILVA to Dalmine are countervailable. During the period March-November 1989, Dalmine had use of the money and paid no interest on it. Therefore, we have treated the funds provided by ILVA to Dalmine as an interest-free short-term loan from March 1989 to November 1989. Because any benefit from this interest-free loan would be allocable entirely to 1989, no benefit is attributable to the POI. III. Programs Preliminarily Determined to be Not Used Based on the information provided in the responses, we preliminarily determine that the following programs were not used. This determination is subject to verification. 1. Preferential IMI Export Financing Under Law 227/77 2. Preferential Insurance Under Law 227/77 3. Retraining Grants under Law 181/89 4. Benefits under ECSC Article 56
