FR940927-2-00040 FR940927-2-00027 IX. Comments The Department will not approve or disapprove a proposal for at least 30 days after the proposal has been received, in order to receive and consider comments. The Department will attempt, if feasible, to acknowledge receipt of all comments, but the Department will not provide written responses to comments. X. Findings The Department will prepare a decision memorandum at the time a demonstration proposal is granted or denied, discussing why the Department granted or denied the proposal and how an approved demonstration meets the criteria established by statute. XI. Administrative Record The Department will maintain an administrative record which will generally consist of: the formal demonstration application from the State; issue papers sent to the State and State responses; public and Congressional comments sent to the Department and any Department responses; the Department's decision memorandum regarding the granting or denial of a proposal; and the final terms and conditions, and waivers, sent to the State and the State acceptance of them. XII. Sub-state Demonstrations When a demonstration is to be implemented in only part of a State, the State will be required to provide information on the likely demographic composition of populations subject to and not subject to the demonstration in the State. When relevant, the Department will require that the evaluation component of a project address the impact of the project on particular subgroups of the population. XIII. Implementation Reviews As part of the terms and conditions of any demonstration proposal that is granted, the Department may require periodic evaluations of how the project is being implemented. The Department will review, and when appropriate investigate, documented complaints that a State is failing to comply with requirements specified in the terms and conditions and implementing waivers of any approved demonstration. XIV. Legal Effect This notice is intended to inform the public and the States regarding procedures the Department ordinarily will follow in exercising the Secretary's discretionary authority with respect to State demonstration proposals under section 1115. This notice does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity, by any person or entity, against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, the States, or any other person. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program, No. 93.779; Health Financing Research, Demonstrations and Experiments.) Dated: September 16, 1994. Bruce C. Vladeck, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration. Dated: September 16, 1994. Mary Jo Bane, Assistant Secretary for Children and Families. Dated: September 19, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23960 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
