FR941104-1-00011 FR941104-1-00002 §330.204 Eligibility due to compensable injury. (a) A competitive service employee in tenure group I or II who is separated (or who accepts a lower graded position in lieu of separation) because of a compensable injury or disability (as defined in part 353 of this chapter) who has fully recovered more than 1 year after compensation began is entitled to be placed on the RPL provided the individual applies within the timeframes addressed in §330.202. Part 353 of this chapter contains information on eligibility. * * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (3) Declines an offer or fails to respond to an inquiry of availability about a specific position that is the same as or equivalent to the position from which separated. (c) A former employee must request reemployment consideration within the time limits set in §330.202. 25. Section 330.205 is revised to read as follows: §330.205 Employment restrictions. (a) The restrictions in paragraph (b) of this section apply to the filling of all competitive service vacancies, regardless of whether an agency plans to make a temporary, term, or permanent appointment. This means an agency must consider RPL registrants for nonpermanent as well as permanent positions when they have indicated such interest on their RPL application. (b) When a qualified individual is available on an agency's RPL, the agency may not make a final commitment to an individual not on the RPL to fill a permanent or temporary competitive service position by: (1) A new appointment, unless the individual appointed is a qualified 10-point preference eligible; or (2) Transfer or reemployment, unless the individual appointed is a preference eligible, is exercising restoration rights under part 353 of this chapter based on return from military service or recovery from a compensable injury or disability within 1 year, or is exercising other statutory or regulatory reemployment rights. (c) Paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to actions involving employees on an agency's rolls, as authorized below, or in filling a specific position: (1) When all qualified individuals on the RPL decline an offer of a specific position or fail to respond to an official agency inquiry about their availability for it; or (2) By a current, qualified employee of the agency through: (i) Detail or position change (promotion, demotion, reassignment); or (ii) Conversion to competitive appointment of employees currently serving under appointments that carry a noncompetitive conversion eligibility (e.g., Veterans Readjustment Appointee, 30 percent disabled veterans, disabled employees under Schedule A appointment, Presidential Management Interns, cooperative education students under Schedule B appointment, and TAPERS); or (iii) Reappointment without a break in service to the same position currently held by an employee serving under a temporary appointment of 1 year or less (only to another temporary appointment not to exceed 1 year or less and not to a permanent appointment); or (iv) Extension of an employee's temporary appointment up to the maximum permitted by the appointment authority or as authorized by OPM. (3) By a 30-day special needs appointment or 700 hour temporary appointment of a severely disabled or mentally retarded individual, when the agency's staffing policies provide for these exceptions. (d) An agency must clear the RPL at the grade level at which it fills a position (regardless of the full performance level). Similarly, if an agency advertises a position at multiple grade levels, it must clear the RPL only at the grade level at which the position is ultimately filled. (e) Once an agency has cleared its RPL and made a final employment commitment to an individual, the later registration of another employee on the RPL does not prevent the fulfillment of the original commitment, regardless of when the individual actually enters on duty.
