FR941216-0-00031 FR941216-0-00011 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AB97 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Determination of Endangered Status for the Arroyo Southwestern Toad AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines endangered status for the arroyo southwestern toad ( Bufo microscaphus californicus ) pursuant to the provisions of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). The arroyo toad occurs exclusively in streams in southern California and northwestern Baja California, Mexico. The arroyo toad has been extirpated from an estimated 75 percent of its former range. Threats to the survival of this species include: habitat degradation, predation, and small population sizes. Only 6 of the 22 extant populations south of Ventura are known to contain more than a dozen adults. This rule implements the protection and recovery provisions provided by the Act for the arroyo southwestern toad. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 17, 1995. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this rule is available for inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the Ventura Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2140 Eastman Avenue, Suite 100, Ventura, California 93003. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Cathy R. Brown at the above address (805/644&hyph;1766). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The arroyo toad ( Bufo microscaphus californicus ) is a small toad in the family Bufonidae. This taxon was originally described as Bufo cognatus californicus from a specimen collected at Santa Paula, Ventura County (Camp 1915). Camp's specimen was later shown to differ in several respects from Bufo cognatus and was afforded specific status as Bufo californicus (Myers 1930). In the following two decades, this toad was considered a subspecies of Bufo compactilis (Linsdale 1940) and of B . woodhousei (Shannon 1949). The currently accepted taxonomy of the arroyo toad as a subspecies of Bufo microscaphus , the southwestern toad, is based on morphological similarities (Stebbins 1951, Price and Sullivan 1988). The arroyo toad ( B . microscaphus californicus ) is geographically isolated from the Arizona toad ( B . microscaphus microscaphus ) by the Mojave and Colorado Deserts. Work is now in progress to determine if the arroyo toad is genetically distinct at the species level (S. Sweet, Univ. of Calif., Santa Barbara, pers. comm., 1991). The arroyo toad is a small (5 to 8 centimeters (cm) (2 to 3 inches)), light greenish gray or tan toad with warty skin and dark spots. Its underside is buff colored and often without spots. A light- colored stripe crosses the head and eyelids, and a light area usually occurs on each sacral hump and in the middle of the back. Its movement consists of hopping rather than walking. Its courtship vocalization is a high trill, usually lasting 8 to 10 seconds. The arroyo toad is restricted to rivers that have shallow, gravelly pools adjacent to sandy terraces. Breeding occurs on large streams with persistent water from late March until mid-June (Sweet 1989). Eggs are deposited and larvae develop in shallow pools with minimal current and little or no emergent vegetation and with sand or pea gravel substrate overlain with flocculent silt. After metamorphosis (June or July), the juvenile toads remain on the bordering gravel bars until the pool no longer persists (3 to 8 weeks, depending on site and year) (Sweet 1992). Juveniles and adults forage for insects on sandy stream terraces that have nearly complete closure of cottonwoods ( Populus spp.), oaks ( Quercus spp.), or willows ( Salix spp.), and almost no grass and herbaceous cover at ground level. Adult toads excavate shallow burrows on the terraces where they shelter during the day when the surface is damp or during longer intervals in the dry season (Sweet 1989). Arroyo toads were historically found along the length of drainages in southern California from San Luis Obispo County to San Diego County, but now they survive primarily in the headwaters as small isolated populations (Sweet 1992, J. Stephenson, Cleveland National Forest, in litt ., 1993). Urbanization and dam construction beginning in the early 1900's in southern California caused most of the extensive habitat degradation. The species was formerly distributed southward along the northwestern coastal region of Baja California, Mexico, to the vicinity of San Quintin (ca. 30.5 ○ N Lat.). Most remaining populations in the United States occur on privately owned lands, primarily within or adjacent to the Cleveland National Forest. Less than 50 percent of the known extant populations of arroyo toad occur in areas owned or managed by the Forest Service (Los Padres, San Bernardino, and Cleveland National Forests) (Sweet 1992, J. Stephenson, in litt ., 1993). Due mostly to habitat destruction, only eight drainages remain where populations of this species may be viable (S. Sweet, pers. comm. 1993; J. Stephenson, in litt ., 1993). In 1990, only seven pairs of arroyo toads were known to have bred anywhere within the toad's range (Sweet 1992). Due to the isolation and the small sizes, almost all populations are at great risk of extinction.
