FR940927-2-00030 FR940927-2-00024 [File No. 932 3135] Chemopharm Laboratory Inc., d/b/a CP Industries; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis to Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed Consent Agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval. would prohibit, among other things, a Utah corporation that markets the ice melting product, Superior Sno-N-Ice, from making any environmental claim about any product unless it possesses and relies on competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate the claims. In addition, the respondent would be prohibited from misrepresenting the existence or contents of any test or study. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, Room 159, 6th St. and Pa. Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: C. Steven Baker, Chicago Regional Office, Federal Trade Commission, 55 East Monroe St., Suite 1437, Chicago, IL. 60603. (312) 353&hyph;8156. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to Section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 721, 15 U.S.C. 46 and Section 2.34 of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 2.34), notice is hereby given that the following consent agreement containing a consent order to cease and desist, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days. Public comment is invited. Such comments or views will be considered by the Commission and will be available for inspection and copying at its principal office in accordance with Section 4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 4.9(b)(6)(ii)). Agreement Containing Consent Order to Cease and Desist The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of Chemopharm Laboratory Inc., d/b/a CP Industries, a corporation (``proposed respondent''), and it now appearing that proposed respondent is willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the acts and practices being investigated. It is hereby agreed by and between Chemopharm Laboratory Inc., by its duly authorized officer, and its attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Chemopharm Laboratory Inc. is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Utah with its principal office or place of business at 503 North 400 West, Salt Lake City, Utah 84103. 2. Proposed respondent admits all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 3. Proposed respondent waives: a. Any further procedural steps; b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; c. All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and d. All claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act.
