FR940620-1-00046 FR940620-1-00009 (2) Studies, analyses, test data, or similar data produced in the performance of a contract when the study, analysis, test, or similar work was specified as an element of performance; (3) Created exclusively with government funds in the performance of a contract that does not require the development, manufacture, construction, or production of items, components, or processes. (4) Form, fit, and function data; (5) Necessary for installation, operation, maintenance, or training purposes (other than detailed manufacturing or process data); (6) Corrections or changes to technical data furnished to the contractor by the Government; (7) Publicly available or have been released or disclosed by the contractor or subcontractor without restrictions on further use, release or disclosure other than a release or disclosure resulting from the sale, transfer, or other assignment of interest in the software to another party or the sale or transfer of some or all of a business entity or its assets to another party; (8) Data in which the Government has obtained unlimited rights under another Government contract or as a result of negotiations; or, (9) Data furnished to the Government, under a Government contract or subcontract thereunder, with_ (i) Government purpose license rights or limited rights and the restrictive condition(s) has/have expired; or (ii) Government purpose rights and the contractor's exclusive right to use such data for commercial purposes has expired. (b) Government purpose rights . (1) The Government obtains government purpose rights in technical data_ (i) That pertain to items, components, or processes developed with mixed funding except when the Government is entitled to unlimited rights as provided in 227.403&hyph;5 (a)(2) and (a)(4) through (9); or, (ii) Created with mixed funding in the performance of a contract that does not require the development, manufacture, construction, or production of items, components, or processes. (2) The period during which government purpose rights are effective is negotiable. The clause at 252.227&hyph;7013 provides a nominal five year period. Either party may request a different period. Changes to the government purpose rights period may be made at any time prior to delivery of the technical data without consideration from either party. Longer periods should be negotiated when a five year period does not provide sufficient time to apply the data for commercial purposes or when necessary to recognize subcontractors' interests in the data. (3) The government purpose rights period commences upon execution of the contract, subcontract, letter contract (or similar contractual instrument), contract modification, or option exercise that required the development. Upon expiration of the Government rights period, the Government has unlimited rights in the data including the right to authorize others to use the data for commercial purposes. (4) During the government purpose rights period, the Government may not use, or authorize other persons to use, technical data marked with government purpose rights legends for commercial purposes. The Government shall not release or disclose data in which it has government purpose rights to any person, or authorize others to do so, unless_ (i) Prior to release or disclosure, the intended recipient is subject to the use and non-disclosure agreement at 227.403&hyph;7; or (ii) The intended recipient is a Government contractor receiving access to the data for performance of a Government contract that contains the clause at 252.227&hyph;7025, ``Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends.'' (5) When technical data marked with government purpose rights legends will be released or disclosed to a Government contractor performing a contract that does not include the clause at 252.227&hyph;7025, the contract may be modified, prior to release or disclosure, to include that clause in lieu of requiring the contractor to complete a use and non-disclosure agreement. (6) Contracting activities shall establish procedures to assure that technical data marked with government purpose rights legends are released or disclosed, including a release or disclosure through a government solicitation, only to persons subject to the use and non-disclosure restrictions. Public announcements in the Commerce Business Daily or other publications must provide notice of the use and non-disclosure requirements. Class use and non-disclosure agreements (e.g., agreements covering all solicitations received by the XYZ company within a reasonable period) are authorized and may be obtained at any time prior to release or disclosure of the government purpose rights data. Documents transmitting government purpose rights data to persons under class agreements shall identify the technical data subject to government purpose rights and the class agreement under which such data are provided. (c) Limited rights. (1) The Government obtains limited rights in technical data_ (i) That pertain to items, components, or processes developed exclusively at private expense except when the Government is entitled to unlimited rights as provided in 227.403&hyph;5 (a)(2) and (a)(4) through (9); or,
