FR941220-2-00061 FR941220-2-00037 A. Being subject to a statutory disqualification as defined in Section 3(a)(39) of the Act; 7 7 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39) (1988 & Supp. 1993). B. Being ordered to reenter the Regulatory Element by the Commission, an SRO, or state securities regulatory agency as a sanction in a disciplinary action; or C. Being subject to suspension or imposition of a fine of $5,000 or more for the violation of any securities law or regulation, or agreement with, or rule or standard of conduct of, any SRO or securities regulatory agency, or as imposed by any such SRO or regulatory agency in connection with a disciplinary proceeding. c. The Firm Element. Satisfaction of the Firm Element of the program would require SRO members to develop and administer training programs to enhance the securities knowledge, skills, and professionalism of their registered sales, trading, and investment banking personnel who have direct contact with customers, and for the immediate supervisors of such persons. Members would be required to prepare training plans taking into consideration the organization's size, organizational structure, and scope of business activities, as well as regulatory developments and the performance of covered persons in the Regulatory Element. At a minimum, programs used to implement a member's training plan must be appropriate for the business of the members and must cover the following matters concerning securities products, services, and strategies offered by the member: General investment features and associated risk factors; suitability and sales practice considerations; and applicable regulatory requirements. Members would be required to review and, if necessary, update their training plans annually. The SROs may require their members, either individually or as part of a group, to provide specific training in any areas the SROs deem necessary. Persons subject to the training plan would have an affirmative obligation to participate in the programs identified by the member. Finally, members would be required to maintain records documenting the content of their training programs and the completion of the program by registered persons covered under the plan. d. Effective Date. The SROs intend that the requirements of the Regulatory Element portion of the continuing education program become effective on July 1, 1995, and that the Firm Element be implement in two steps whereby members would be required to have completed their Firm Element plans by July 1, 1995, and have implemented their plans no later than January 1, 1996.
