FR940202-2-00173 FR940202-2-00074 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Paperwork Reduction Act Statement In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;220), the information collection requirements have been assigned OMB Control Number 2502&hyph;0462. I. Purpose and Substantive Description A. Authority Section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (the NAHA) (and as amended by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992) (HCD Act of 1992), authorized a new supportive housing program for persons with disabilities and replaced assistance for persons with disabilities previously covered by section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (section 202 continues, as amended by section 801 of the NAHA, and HCD Act of 1992, to authorize supportive housing for the elderly). The assistance is provided as capital advances and contracts for project rental assistance in accordance with 24 CFR part 890. Capital advances may be used to finance the construction, rehabilitation, or acquisition with or without rehabilitation, including acquisition from the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), of structures to be developed into a variety of housing options ranging from group homes and independent living facilities, to dwelling units in multifamily housing developments, condominium housing and cooperative housing. Acquisition without rehabilitation is permitted only for group homes or properties acquired from the RTC. This assistance may also cover the cost of real property acquisition, site improvement, conversion, demolition, relocation, and other expenses that the Secretary determines are necessary to expand the supply of supportive housing for persons with disabilities. For supportive housing for persons with disabilities, the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;124, enacted October 28, 1993, (Fiscal Year 1994 Appropriations Act) provides $387,000,000 for capital advances, for supportive housing for persons with disabilities, as authorized by section 811 of the NAHA, and for project rental assistance, and amendments to contracts for project rental assistance, for supportive housing for persons with disabilities as authorized by section 811 of the NAHA. Any unreserved balances provided in prior years for such purposes are to be merged with amounts provided in the Fiscal Year 1994 Appropriations Act. It should be noted that although section 623 of the HCD Act of 1992 authorizes tenant-based assistance for persons with disabilities, appropriations have not been provided. In accordance with an agreement between HUD and the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) which facilitates the coordination between the two agencies in administering their respective rental assistance programs, HUD is required to notify FmHA of applications for housing assistance it receives. The purpose of this notification is to give FmHA the opportunity to comment if it has concern about the demand for additional assisted housing and possible harm to existing projects in the same housing market area. HUD will consider the FmHA comments in its review and project selection process. B. Allocation Amounts In accordance with 24 CFR part 791, the Assistant Secretary will allocate the amounts available for capital advances for supportive housing for persons with disabilities. The Department reserves project rental assistance funds sufficient for 20-year project rental assistance contracts in support of the units selected for capital advances, consistent with current operating cost standards. The allocation formula for section 811 funds consists of the following two data elements: 1. A measure of the number of non-institutionalized persons age 16 or older with a work disability and a mobility or self-care limitation; and 2. A measure of the number of non-institutionalized persons age 16 or older having a mobility or self-care limitation but having no work disability. Based on this formula, the Department has allocated the available capital advance funds as shown on the following chart:
