FR940711-0-00010 FR940711-0-00002 (iii) Criminal penalties under sections 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 of title 18, United States code, or any other applicable statutory authority; (15) Any other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made; (16) That unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, amounts paid on or deducted for the debt, which are later waived or found not owed to the United States, will be promptly refunded to the employee; and (17) That proceedings with respect to such debt are governed by section 5 of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (5 U.S.C. 5514). (b) The Office is not required to comply with paragraph (a) of this section for any adjustment to pay arising from: (1) An employee's selection of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less; or (2) An employee's consent to make voluntary withholdings from his or her current pay account. ยง179.207 Hearing. (a) Request for hearing. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an employee who desires a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt or the proposed offset schedule must send such a request to the office designated in the notice of intent (ยง179.207(a)(10)). The request (or petition) for hearing must be received by the designated office not later than 15 calendar days following the employee's receipt of the notice. The employee's request (or petition) must: (1) Be signed by the employee; (2) Fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence and witnesses, if any, that the employee believes support his or her position; and (3) Specify whether an oral or paper hearing is requested. If an oral hearing is desired, the request should explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone (4 CFR 102.3(c)). (b) Failure to timely submit. (1) If the employee files a petition for a hearing after the expiration of the 15 calendar day period provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, the Office may accept the request if the employee can show that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond his of her control or failure to receive actual notice of the filing deadline (unless the employee had actual notice of the filing deadline). (2) An employee waives the right to a hearing, and will have his or her disposable pay offset in accordance with the Office offset schedule, if the employee: (i) Fails to file a timely request for a hearing unless such failure is excused; or (ii) Fails to appear at an oral hearing of which he or she was notified unless the hearing official determines that failure to appear was due to circumstances beyond the employee's control. (c) Representation at the hearing. The creditor agency may be represented by legal counsel. The employee may represent himself or herself or may be represented by an individual of his or her choice and at his or her expense. (d) Review of Office records related to the debt. (1) An employee who intends to inspect or copy creditor agency records related to the debt, as provided by ยง179.207(a)(5), must send a letter to the official designated in the notice of intent to offset stating his or her intention. The letter must be received within 15 calendar days after the employee's receipt of the notice. (2) In response to a timely request submitted by the debtor, the designated official will notify the employee of the location and time when the employee may inspect and copy records related to the debt. (3) If personal inspection is impractical, arrangements shall be made to end copies of such records to the employee. (e) Hearing official. The Office may request an administrative law judge to conduct the hearing, or the Office may obtain a hearing official who is not under the supervision or control of the Director of OPM. (f) Obtaining the services of a hearing official when OPM is the creditor agency. (1) When the debtor is not an OPM employee and the Office cannot provide a prompt and appropriate hearing before a hearing official furnished pursuant to another lawful arrangement, the Office may contact an agent of the paying agency designated in 5 CFR part 581, appendix A, or other individual designated by the paying agency, and request a hearing official. (2) When the debtor is an OPM employee, the Office may contact any agent of another agency designated in 5 CFR part 581, appendix A, or otherwise designated by that agency, to request a hearing official. (g) Procedure._ (1) General. After the employee requests a hearing, the hearing official shall notify the employee of the form of the hearing to be provided. If the hearing will be oral, the notice shall set forth the date, time and location of the hearing. If the hearing will be paper, the employee shall be notified that he or she should submit arguments in writing to the hearing official by a specified date after which the record shall be closed. This date shall give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation. (2) Oral hearing. An employee who requests an oral hearing shall be provided an oral hearing if the hearing official determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (e.g., when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved). The hearing is not an adversarial adjudication and need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing. Oral hearings may take the form of, but are not limited to: (i) Informal conferences with the hearing official, in which the employee and agency representative will be given full opportunity to present evidence, witnesses, and argument;
