FR941227-0-00102 FR941227-0-00020 (i) Benefit low- and moderate-income families; (ii) Aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight; or (iii) Be an activity which the grantee certifies is designed to meet other community development needs having a particular urgency because existing conditions pose a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of the community where other financial resources are not available to meet such needs. (2) In addition to the objectives described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, with respect to grants made through the Small Cities Program, not less than 70 percent of the total of grant funds from each grant and Section 108 loan guarantee funds received under subpart M of this part within a fiscal year must be expended for activities which benefit low- and moderate-income persons under the criteria of §570.208(a). In the case of multiyear plans, in New York State, not less than 70 percent of the total funding for grants approved pursuant to a multiyear plan for a time period of up to 3 years must be expended for activities which benefit low- and moderate-income persons. Thus, 70 percent of the grant for year 1 of a multiyear plan must meet the 70 percent requirement, 70 percent of the combined grants from years 1 and 2 must meet the requirement, and 70 percent of the combined grants from years 1, 2 and 3 must meet the requirement. In determining the percentage of funds expended for such activity, the provisions of §570.200(a)(3)(i), (iii), (iv) and (v) shall apply. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506&hyph;0060) §570.421 New York Small Cities Program Design. (a) Selection system. (1) Competitive applications. Each competitive application will be rated and scored against the following factors: (i) Need-absolute number of persons in poverty as further explained in the NOFA; (ii) Need-percent of persons in poverty as further explained in the NOFA; (iii) Program Impact, and (iv) Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity which may include assessment of the applicant's Section 3 plan and implementation efforts. The NOFA described in paragraph (b) of this section will contain a more detailed description of these factors, and the relative weight that each factor will be given. (2) In addition HUD reserves the right to establish minimal thresholds for selection factors and otherwise select grants in accordance with §570.425 and the applicable NOFA. (3) Multiyear Plans. The notice of funding availability may provide for a competition for applications that have multiyear plans. The plans will be rated and scored against factors in paragraph (a)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section. The action plan for each year of the multiyear plan must be a viable project on its own. If the multiyear plan is selected on a competitive basis, the first year will be funded and HUD may fund future years on a non-competitive basis subject to acceptable performance, submission of an acceptable application and certifications, and the provision of adequate appropriations for the HUD-administered Small Cities Program. (4) Imminent threats to public health and safety. The criteria for these grants are described in §570.424. (5) Repayment of section 108 loans. The criteria for these grants are described in §570.432. (6) Economic development grants. HUD intends to use the Section 108 loan guarantee program to the maximum extent feasible to fund economic development projects in the nonentitlement areas of New York. In the event that there are not enough Section 108 loan guarantee funds available to fund viable economic development projects, or if a project needs a grant in addition to a loan guarantee to make it viable, or if the project does not meet the requirements of the Section 108 program but is eligible for a grant under this subpart, HUD will fund Economic Development applications as they are determined to be fundable in a specific amount by HUD up to the sum set aside for economic development projects in the notice of funding availability. HUD also has the option in a NOFA of funding economic development activities on a competitive basis, as a competitive application as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In order for an applicant to receive Small Cities grant funds, the field office must determine that the economic development project will have a substantial impact on the needs identified by the applicant. (b) Notice of funding availability. HUD will issue one or more Notice(s) of Funding Availability (NOFA) each fiscal year which will indicate the amount of funds available, the annual grant limits per grantee, type of grants available, the application requirements, and the rating factors that will be used for those grants which are competitive. A NOFA may set forth, subject to the requirements of this subpart, additional selection criteria for all grants. (c) Eligible applicants. (1) Eligible applicants in New York are units of general local government, excluding: Metropolitan cities, urban counties, units of general local government which are participating in urban counties or metropolitan cities, even if only part of the participating unit of government is located in the urban county or metropolitan city. Indian tribes are also ineligible for assistance under this subpart. An application may be submitted individually or jointly by eligible applicants. (2) Counties, cities, towns, and villages may apply and receive funding for separate projects to be done in the same jurisdiction. Only one grant will be made under each funding round for the same type of project to be located within the jurisdiction of a unit of general local government (e.g. both the county and village cannot receive funding for a sewer system to be located in the same village, but the county can receive funding for a sewer system that is located in the same village as a rehabilitation project for which the village receives funding). The NOFA will contain additional information on applicant eligibility.
