FR940523-2-00062 FR940523-2-00040 NIH advised OHTA that guidelines specifying the types and conditions of xerostomia patients who would benefit from electrostimulation cannot be developed without further clinical studies of well-characterized patient populations. Given the single published study showing that only patients with residual salivary flow in an unstimulated state will respond to electrostimulation, NIH suspects that those individuals are likely to respond as well to other means of salivary stimulation. OHTA reviewed the published study, the preliminary investigation, and the study presented to the FDA. The 1988 study by M. Steller and associates (``Electrostimulation of Salivary Flow in Patients with Sjogren's Syndrome'' Journal of Dental Research 1988; 67(60): 1334 through 1337) revealed that only 3 of 13 patients using an active device showed a significant response in salivary production when compared to the response of the placebo device group. The 1986 preliminary investigation conducted by W. W. Weiss and associates (``Clinical Trial of an Electronic Stimulatory Device in the Management of Xerostomia'' Journal of Oral and Maxillo-facial Surgery November 1986: M10) did not include a control group or any quantitative assessment of salivary response, duration of response, or long-term assessment of efficacy. Moreover, 7 of the 9 patients tested had residual saliva production before treatment and may have been exhibiting a tactile response to the probe. The 1988 study by N. Talal and associates (``The Clinical Effects of Electrostimulation on Salivary Function of Sjogren's Syndrome Patients'' Rheumatology International June 1992; 12(12) 43 through 45), upon which the FDA based its approval, describes the clinical effects of electrostimulation in 77 patients. Salivary production was measured at the start of the study, at 2 weeks, and at 4 weeks. The researchers reported that salivation was higher among the group using an active device than the placebo device group. However, because of a misunderstanding about the length of the study, about half of the subjects dropped out of the study by the fourth week. Thus, OHTA concluded that additional, long-term studies with larger patient populations are needed to define the specific degrees of salivary dysfunction that would respond to electrostimulation and to determine how long it takes to determine if salivary glands have been regenerated. These studies could help determine whether a single salivary response to electrostimulation or some other test, such as a lip biopsy, should be used to help identify those patients who may benefit from electrostimulation. In addition, OHTA stated that to determine the effectiveness of electrostimulation, studies should include information regarding concomitant therapy and the duration of the salivary response to compare the device to other therapies. Studies and subsequent management should include quantitative assessment of salivary function, assessment of oral conditions, and subjective patient evaluations. The comments OHTA received from knowledgeable clinicians were inconsistent. Some clinicians state that electrostimulation is safe and effective while others suggest that the method has been inadequately tested and are not convinced that it is more effective than other simple, less costly stimulation techniques. After OHTA's published report, Biosonics requested review of additional data on the use of the Salitron System. On September 21, 1990, we submitted the data to OHTA. OHTA reported on October 26, 1990, that this data had been presented to the FDA and was included in the OHTA assessment of July 30, 1990. OHTA concluded that the treatment could be reassessed when additional data from a larger patient population is available to evaluate the long-term clinical effectiveness of electrostimulation and identify those xerostomia patients who would benefit from an electrostimulation device. On November 2, 1990, we submitted to OHTA another request for a review of data from Biosonics. On November 14, 1990, OHTA informed us that it had previously reviewed this data and referred us to its October 26, 1990, recommendation. On October 9, 1992, Biosonics requested a reassessment and submitted two new articles on electrostimulation for xerostomia published in ``Geriatric Consultant'' and ``Rheumatology International.'' One article reported a physician's experience in treating 33 patients for 6 months. The other article reported on the unpublished clinical study evaluated by the FDA in 1988. We have determined that the medical evidence and conclusions upon which OHTA's assessment is based are still accurate based on our own medical expertise and a thorough review of all the medical literature on the subject since the 1990 assessment.
