FR940516-2-00155 FR940516-2-00097 2. Management-Related Priorities a. Develop and test new management strategies that would enhance survival of a fishery in the continuous presence of disease, such as the establishment of brood stock sanctuaries, genetic selection programs, aquaculture techniques, and oyster reef research and development. b. Develop resource survey techniques that can be adopted to manage disease-affected oyster populations effectively and provide background data to support development of management options for resource rehabilitation. c. Evaluate the potential of a Geographic Information System approach for characterizing the transmission dynamics of oyster diseases throughout the Chesapeake Bay. B. Applications addressing the priorities should build upon, or take into account, any related past or current work. During FY 92 and FY 93, funds under this program were awarded for the following projects, at a total cost of $1.3 million, for each year. 1. FY 93: a. Role of Oyster Lysosomal Enzymes in Disease Resistance. b. Field and Laboratory Study of the Process and Dynamics of Perkinsus marinus Infection of the Eastern Oyster, Crassostrea virginica. c. Extracellular Protein from Perkinsus marinus : Analysis of Pathogenic Mechanisms and Development of Enhanced Diagnoses. d. Population Genetic Structure of Perkinsus marinus . e. Intertidal Oyster Reefs as a Tool for Estuarine Environmental Rehabilitation and Rejuvenation of the Virginia Oyster Fishery. f. Replenishment Strategies in the Continuous Presence of Disease. g. Infectivity of Cultured Perkinsus marinus : Effects of Parasite Life Stage and Delivery Method. h. Development of Haplosporidium nelsoni (MSX)-Specific DNA Probes for Diagnostic Applications and Life Cycle Studies. i. Hybridization of Eastern and Pacific Oysters Using Bridging Taxa. j. Development of Culture Strategies to Reduce Losses Due to Juvenile Oyster Mortalities in the Northeast. k. Physiological Responses of the Oyster Crassostrea virginica to Infections of Perkinsus marinus : Effects of Environmental Variables on Acid-base Status. l. ELISA Assay for Detection of Perkinsus marinus in Oyster Tissue. m. American Oyster Stock Assessment in Maryland. n. Technical Support for Maryland's Oyster Recovery Action Plan. o. Flow Cytometric Enumeration of P. marinus Cells in Chesapeake Bay Waters. p. Development and Evaluation of Nucleic Acid Probes for Diagnosis and Detection of Genetic Polymorphisms of Perkinsus marinus . q. Utilization of Genetically Selected Lines to Reduce the Impact of Juvenile Oyster Mortality. 2. FY 92: a. Use of Immuno-Stimulants to Augment the Resistance of the Eastern Oyster Crassostrea virginica to Infection by Perkinsus marinus . b. A Stock-Recruitment Model of the James River Oyster Fishery. c. Studies of Genetic Variation Between and Within Strains of the American Oyster Selected for Disease Resistance II. Analysis of Anonymous Nuclear Loci. d. Development of a Microcomputer-Based Geographic Information System (GIS) for the Visualization, Interpretation, and Analysis of Maryland Chesapeake Bay Oyster Disease and Population Information. e. American Oyster Stock Assessment in Maryland. f. In vitro Propagation of Perkinsus marinus. g. Resistance of Crassostrea virginica Races to Perkinsus marinus Isolates: A Foundation for Breeding and Management.
