FR940516-1-00064 FR940516-1-00005 The MACT floor is the least stringent level for MACT standards. For new sources, the standards for a source category or subcategory ``shall not be less stringent than the emission control that is achieved in practice by the best controlled similar source, as determined by the Administrator'' (section 112(d)(3)). Existing source standards should be no less stringent than the average emission limitation achieved by the best performing 12 percent of the existing sources for categories and subcategories with 30 or more sources or the average emission limitation achieved by the best performing 5 sources for categories or subcategories with fewer than 30 sources (section 112(d)(3)). In a March 9, 1994 Federal Register notice reopening the public comment period for determination of ``MACT floor'' for NESHAP source categories (59 FR 11018), the Agency considered more than one interpretation of the statutory language concerning the MACT floor for existing sources and solicited comment on them. The MACT floor decision that the EPA will make on the basis of this March 9, 1994 notice will have broad precedential effects, and will presumptively be followed by the Agency in any rulemakings subsequently promulgated under Title III of the Act. The MACT floor determinations proposed in today's rulemaking may therefore be affected by the Agency's final interpretation of ``MACT floor.'' IV. Summary of Proposed Standards A. Source Categories To Be Regulated The proposed standards would regulate HAP emissions from epoxy resins production (facilities that produce BLR), and from non-nylon polyamides production (facilities that produce WSR), that are determined to be major sources. The standards would apply to existing sources as well as new sources. B. Pollutants To Be Regulated Hazardous air pollutants emitted from existing BLR and wet strength resin production processes include epichlorohydrin, methanol, and hydrochloric acid. The proposed standards would regulate emissions of these compounds, as well as any other HAP that may be emitted. In addition, note that epichlorohydrin is listed under section 112(r) of the Act. The intent of section 112(r), Prevention of Accidental Releases, is to focus on chemicals that pose a significant hazard to the community should an accident occur, to prevent their accidental release, and to minimize consequences should a release occur. Epichlorohydrin, along with the other substances listed under section 112(r)(3), is listed because it is known to cause, or may be reasonably anticipated to cause death, injury, or serious adverse effects to human health or the environment (see 59 FR 4478, January 31, 1994). Sources that handle epichlorohydrin in greater quantities than the established threshold quantity under section 112(r)(5) will be subject to the risk management program requirements under Section 112(r)(7) (see 58 FR 54190, October 20, 1993). C. Affected Emission Points Emission points identified for BLR and wet strength resin production include process vents, equipment leaks, storage tanks, and wastewater. D. Format of the Standards The standards for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater for existing facilities are presented in an emission limit format in the units of pounds of HAP per 1 million pounds of product (lb HAP/MM lb product). Facilities will have the option of using any control technology or pollution prevention strategy, as long as the HAP production-based emission limits are achieved. An emission limit format cannot be used for the standard for new facilities because it would identify a specific facility's production level, which is claimed as confidential business information. Therefore, standards for new facilities are in the equipment standard format. Facilities would have to implement the controls specified in the standard, or demonstrate equivalency, to achieve compliance.
