FR941212-0-00026 FR941212-0-00013 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Public Health Service 42 CFR Part 57 RIN 0905&hyph;AE13 Grants for Faculty Training Projects in Geriatric Medicine and Dentistry AGENCY: Health Resources and Services Administration, HHS. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final regulation revises the existing regulations governing the program for Grants for Faculty Training Projects in Geriatric Medicine and Dentistry authorized by section 777(b) of the Public Health Service Act (the Act), to implement statutory amendments made by the Health Professions Extension Amendments of 1992 and to include other technical and ministerial changes to conform the existing regulations with the amendments made by the statute. The final rule also removes a section in the regulations to allow for less restrictive requirements for those individuals who may benefit from further fellowship or retraining experience in a lifetime. DATES: These regulations are effective December 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Neil H. Sampson, Director, Division of Associated, Dental and Public Health Professions, Bureau of Health Professions, HRSA, room 8&hyph;101, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857; telephone: (301) 443&hyph;6853. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On March 3, 1994, the Assistant Secretary for Health, with the approval of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, published in the Federal Register (59 FR 10104), a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to revise the regulations governing the program for Grants for Faculty Training Projects in Geriatric Medicine and Dentistry, authorized under section 777(b) of the Public Health Service Act (the Act) (42 U.S.C. 294o). The Health Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;408) amended and renumbered former section 789(b) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 295g&hyph;9(b)) to section 777(b). The NPRM proposed amendments to implement several statutory provisions by: (1) Adding a definition for the term ``Geriatric psychiatry'' to implement the requirement for the expansion of project support to include the training of physicians who plan to teach geriatric psychiatry, and by (2) adding a definition for the term ``Relevant advanced training or experience'' to implement the requirement for dentists who are awarded a 2-year internal medicine or family medicine fellowship. The NPRM also proposed to remove a section in the regulations regarding the period of time for appointment to fellowships to allow for less restrictive requirements for those individuals who may benefit from further fellowship or retraining experience in a lifetime. The public comment period on the proposed regulations closed on April 4, 1994. The Department received 4 public comments. The comments received on the proposed rule to section 777(b) and the Department's responses to the comments are discussed below according to the section numbers and headings of the regulation affected. Section 57.4102 ``Definitions'' The Department proposed the following definition for the term ``Geriatric psychiatry'': `` Geriatric psychiatry '' means the prevention, diagnosis, evaluation and treatment of mental disorders and disturbances seen in older adults. This definition was proposed to be added to the section to incorporate the statutory requirement for the expansion of project support to include the training of physicians who plan to teach geriatric psychiatry. The Department received positive responses to this definition. The Department also proposed the following definition for the term ``Relevant advanced training or experience'': `` Relevant advanced training or experience '' means at least one of the following: (1) Completion of at least a 12-month graduate training program in a health-related discipline, the basic sciences, or education; or (2) a minimum of 2 years of clinical practice, of which at least 12 months were devoted in part to managing older dental patients in a hospital, long-term care facility, or other setting. This definition was proposed to be added to the section to incorporate the statutory requirement for the expansion of fellowship eligibility of dental fellows in the program. One respondent found this definition ``extremely helpful in setting a high standard for the selection of highly motivated and qualified candidates''. The Department also received a request that dentists who have had ``relevant teaching experience in an accredited dental school'' be added to the definition. The Department accepts the general intent of this recommendation while noting that ``relevant'' alone is not explicit and is open to interpretation. In response to this concern, the Department has expanded the definition of ``Relevant advanced training or experience'' in the final regulations to include an additional experience, ``a minimum of 2 years of teaching experience in an accredited dental educational program of which at least 12 months were devoted in part to issues pertaining to the care of older adults.'' Section 57.4111 ``Duration of Fellowships'' The Department proposed to remove this section from the regulations to allow less restrictive requirements for those individuals who may benefit from further fellowship or retraining experience in a lifetime. The section language read: ``An appointment to a fellowship may be made for a period not to exceed 12 months. Fellowship assistance for participants in a 1-year fellowship program and a 1-year retraining program is limited to 12 months. Participants in 2-year fellowship programs may receive a second 12-month appointment for a total period of 24 months.''
