FR940811-2-00105 FR940811-2-00066 Example 6 Situation: As in Example 5, Gamma offers a license to every other manufacturer of Product X for the patented process that it uses to manufacture Product X. The license provides that each manufacturer has an exclusive right to sell Product X manufactured using the licensed technology in a designated geographic area, and that no manufacturer may sell Product X, however manufactured, outside its designated territory. As in Example 5, several manufacturers accept licenses. In this example, however, the licensed process is an advance over their previously used process. Furthermore, Gamma's licensed process is the sole technology used by the licensees. Discussion: The competitive relationships of the firms in this example are the same as in Example 5 and the licensing restraint has a similar effect on competition among the manufacturers of Product X. This example is distinguished from the previous example in that the licensed technology is useful, and, indeed, is used extensively by the licensees. As a consequence, the vertical dimension of the licensing agreement, and the benefits of the licensing restrictions in promoting the adoption of the technology, assume greater importance. Again, the key competitive issue is the effect of the territorial restraint in the licensing arrangement on competition in the goods market that includes Product X. The restraint applies to all sales of Product X, without regard to whether it was made using the licensed technology. Such a restraint could have a benefit in promoting manufacturing and marketing efforts on behalf of the licensed technology, in part by making it easier for Gamma to monitor use of its licensed technology. The benefits come at the cost of restricting competition that would have taken place in the absence of the licensing arrangement. If the restraint contributes to an efficiency-enhancing integration of economic activity, the Department would evaluate this arrangement under the rule of reason. It would take into account such factors as the share of the licensor and the licensees in the relevant markets affected by the licensing arrangement, the level of concentration and difficulty of entry in these markets, and the promotional benefits to be gained by focusing manufacturing and marketing efforts on the licensed technology. 4. General Principles Concerning the Department's Evaluation of Licensing Arrangements Under the Rule of Reason 4.1␣Antitrust ``Safety Zone'' Absent extraordinary circumstances, the Department will not challenge a restraint in a licensing arrangement if (1) The restraint is not of a type that normally warrants condemnation under the per se rule and (2) the licensor and its licensees collectively account for no more than twenty percent of each relevant market affected by the restraint. 13 This ``safety zone'' is designed to provide owners of intellectual property with a degree of certainty, so as to encourage procompetitive licensing arrangements. It is not intended to discourage parties falling outside the safety zone from adopting restrictions in their license arrangements that are reasonably necessary to achieve an efficiency-producing integration of economic activity. The Department will analyze arrangements falling outside the ``safety zone'' based on the considerations outlined in this section. 13 As stated in section 1.41 of the 1992 Horizontal Merger Guidelines, market shares for goods markets ``can be expressed either in dollar terms through sales, shipments, or production, or in physical terms through measurement of sales, shipments, production, capacity, or reserves.'' Special considerations affect the measurement of market shares in some technology markets. The measurement of market shares in that context is discussed in section 3.2.1. This ``safety zone'' does not apply to transactions that amount to mergers or acquisitions, which are governed by the 1992 Horizontal Merger Guidelines. The Department will include innovation market shares in its evaluation of whether a licensing arrangement falls within the safety zone only if the assets required to compete in research and development are specialized and identifiable. If not, the Department will confine its analysis to the goods and technology markets affected by the licensing arrangement. 4.2␣General Statement of the Rule of Reason In analyzing a restraint in a licensing arrangement under the rule of reason, the Department first inquires whether the restraint has an anticompetitive effect. If so, the Department next inquires whether the restraint is reasonably necessary to achieve procompetitive benefits that outweigh those anticompetitive effects. See NCAA v. Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma, 468 U.S. 85 (1984); see also 7 Phillip A. Areeda, Antitrust Law, §1502 (1986). In pursuing these inquiries, the Department will be guided by several general principles. These principles apply to both vertical and horizontal licensing restraints that are analyzed under the rule of reason. 4.3␣Analysis of Anticompetitive Effects The existence of anticompetitive effects resulting from a restraint in a licensing arrangement may be evaluated on the basis of a variety of factors taken together, including the following.
