FR940627-0-00220 FR940627-0-00019 (iii) For new products (pursuant to §79.51(c)(3)), manufacturers are strongly encouraged to notify EPA of an intent to obtain product registration by submitting the basic registration data as specified in §79.59(b) prior to starting Tiers 1 and 2. (2) The information specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall be submitted to the address in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at the conclusion of activities performed in compliance with Tiers 1 and 2 under the provisions of §§79.52 and 79.53, according to the time constraints specified in § 79.51 (c) through (d). (3) The information specified in paragraph (d) of this section shall be submitted to EPA at the address in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at the conclusion of activities performed in compliance with Tier 3 under the provisions of §79.54. (b) Basic Registration Data. Each manufacturer of a designated fuel or fuel additive shall submit the following data in regard to such fuel or fuel additive: (1) The information specified in §79.11 or §79.21. If such information has already been submitted to EPA in compliance with subpart B or C of this part, and if such previous information is accurate and up-to-date, the manufacturer need not resubmit this information. (2) Annual production volume of the fuel or fuel additive product, in units of gallons per year if most commonly sold in liquid form or kilograms per year if most commonly sold in solid form. For fuels and fuel additives already in production, the most recent annual production volume and the volume projected to be produced in the third subsequent year shall be provided. For products not yet in production, the best estimate of expected annual volume during the third year of production shall be provided. (3) Market distribution of the product. For fuels and bulk additives, this information shall be presented as the percent of total annual sales volume marketed in each Petroleum Administration for Defense District (PADD). The states comprising each PADD are listed in the following section. For aftermarket additives, the distribution data shall be presented as the percent of total annual sales volume marketed in each state. For a product not yet in production, the manufacturer shall present the distribution (by PADD or state, as applicable) projected to occur during the third year of production. (i) The following states and jurisdictions are included in PADD I: Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Maine Maryland Massachusetts New Hampshire New Jersey New York North Carolina Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina Vermont Virginia West Virginia (ii) The following states are included in PADD II: Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Michigan Minnesota Missouri Nebraska North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma South Dakota Tennessee Wisconsin (iii) The following states are included in PADD III: Alabama Arkansas Louisiana Mississippi New Mexico Texas (iv) The following states are included in PADD IV: Colorado Idaho Montana Utah Wyoming (v) The following states are included in PADD V: Alaska Arizona California Hawaii Nevada Oregon Washington
