FR940906-2-00122 FR940906-2-00083 a. Joint Operations Center (JOC). The JOC 1 is established by the LFA under the operational control of the Federal OSC, as the focal point for management and direction of onsite activities, establishment of State requirements and priorities, and coordination of the overall Federal response. The JOC may be established in a separate onscene location or collocated with an existing emergency operations facility. The following elements may be represented in the JOC: 1 For NRC reactor licensees, the JOC is within the Emergency Operations Facility (EOF). The EOF would be staffed in accordance with the owner/operator's site specific Emergency Plan. (a) LFA staff and onsite liaison; (b) FEMA/DFO liaison; (c) FRMAC liaison; (d) Advisory Team liaison; (e) Other Federal agency liaison, as needed; (f) LFA Public information liaison; (g) LFA Congressional liaison; and (h) State and local liaison. b. Disaster Field Office (DFO). The DFO is established by FEMA, under the operational control of the SFO, as the focal point for the coordination and provision of non-technical resource support based on coordinated State requirements/priorities. The DFO is established at an onscene location in coordination with State and local authorities and other Federal agencies. The following elements may be represented in the DFO: (a) LFA liaison, (b) Other appropriate Federal agency personnel, (c) State and local liaison, (d) Public information liaison, and (e) Congressional liaison. c. Federal Radiological Monitoring and Assessment Center (FRMAC). The FRMAC is established by DOE (with subsequent transfer to EPA for intermediate and long-term actions) for the coordination of Federal radiological monitoring and assessment activities with that of State and local agencies. The FRMAC is established at an onscene location in coordination with State and local authorities and other Federal agencies. The following elements may be represented in the FRMAC: (a) DOE/DOE contractor technical staff and capabilities; (b) EPA/EPA contractor technical staff and capabilities; (c) DOC technical staff and capabilities; (d) LFA technical liaison; (e) DOE public information liaison; (f) Other Federal agency liaisons, as needed; (g) State and local liaison; and (h) DFO liaison. d. Advisory Team on Environment, Food, and Health. The Advisory Team is established by representatives from EPA, LFA, USDA, HHS, and other Federal agencies as needed for the provision of interagency coordinated advice and recommendations to the LFA concerning environmental, food, and health matters. For the ease of transfer of radiological monitoring and assessment data and coordination with Federal, State, and local representatives, the Advisory Team is normally collocated with the FRMAC. e. Joint Information Center (JIC). The JIC 2 is established by the LFA, under the operational control of the LFA-designated Public Information Officer, as a focal point for the coordination and provision of information to the public and media concerning the Federal response to the emergency. The JIC is established at an onscene location in coordination with State and local agencies and other Federal agencies. The following elements should be represented at the JIC: 2 For NRC licensees, the Federal JIC is within the JIC established by the owner/operator. (a) LFA Public Information Officer and staff; (b) FEMA Public Information Officer and staff; (c) Other Federal agency Public Information, as needed; (d) State and local Public Information Officers; and (e) Owner/Operator Public Information Officers and staff.
