FR940505-1-00096 FR940505-1-00012 •Any boiler, furnace, oven, dryer, heater, incinerator, test cell and any solid, liquid or gaseous fueled equipment with a maximum rated capacity greater than or equal to 2 million Btu per hour; •Any internal combustion engine with rated brake horsepower (bhp) greater than or equal to 50 bhp, regardless of operating time; •Any gas turbine rated greater than or equal to 0.2 megawatts excluding any emergency standby equipment or peaking unit; •Any petroleum refinery fluid catalytic cracking unit; •Any petroleum refinery tail gas unit; •Any kiln or calciner; •Any equipment burning or incinerating solid fuels or materials; •Any sulfuric acid production unit; •Any portable combustion and process equipment; •Any emergency standby equipment or peaking unit; •Any NO X source for which NO X emissions reported to the State or local agency were equal to or greater than 2 tons per year for the calendar year 1990. Only those sources which emit greater than 4 tons per year of NO X or VOC are subject to the emission cap requirements found in the rules. Those sources which emit 2 tons per year but less than 4 tons per year in the above categories are exempt from the cap requirements provided that they maintain emissions below the 4 tons per year inclusion level. 67 However, EPA notes that the South Coast RECLAIM program could subject sources which emit less than 4 tons per year to the cap requirements to get additional necessary reductions. EPA encourages the South Coast to reduce its RECLAIM emissions threshold in order to achieve necessary reductions for attainment. 67 It is important to note that while sources which emit less than 4 tons per year of NO X and VOC are not required to comply with all of the elements in the FIP cap program, if a source which is classified as being in one of the categories listed emits greater than 2 tons per year but less than 4 tons per year, then that source will be subject to annual exemption verification requirements to ensure that it remains exempt from the other requirements of the FIP cap requirements. Rules for most of the source categories contain exemption levels to minimize potential impacts on small businesses. The proposed rules require owners or operators of exempt facilities to certify to the EPA by January 1, 2000, that they are exempt from the VOC and NO X limitations of the rules and to submit calculations which demonstrate the VOC and NO X emissions from their facility will not exceed the exemption level. If a facility exceeds the level on and after January 1, 2000, the source must notify EPA within thirty days that the exemption level was exceeded. The source would then comply with the VOC and NO X limitations of the rule beginning on January of the calendar year following the exemption level exceedance. Once an exempt facility exceeds the exemption level, it would always be subject to the VOC and NO X limitations of the rule.
