FR940617-2-00212 FR940617-2-00117 Section III. Eligible Applicants H. Who is eligible to submit pre-applications? Any local or tribal education agency, college or university, state education or environmental agency, not-for-profit organization, or noncommercial educational broadcasting entity may submit a pre-application. These terms are defined in Section 3 of the Act and 40 CFR 47.105. I. May an organization submit more than one pre-application for Fiscal Year 1995? Yes, an organization may submit more than one pre-application for Fiscal Year 1995, but only if the pre-applications are for completely different projects. For example, a national non-profit organization or a large university may wish to submit pre-applications from different chapters or departments for different projects. No organization will be awarded more than one grant for the same project during the same fiscal year. J. May I submit a pre-application for Fiscal Year 1995 even though I have been awarded funding under this program for Fiscal Years 1992, 1993, and/or 1994? Yes, applicants who were awarded funding previously may submit a pre-application for Fiscal Year 1995. The Fiscal Year 1995 pre-application may or may not have any relationship to the project funded in a previous year. Every pre-application for Fiscal Year 1995 will be evaluated based upon the merit of the proposed project in relation to the other Fiscal Year 1995 pre-applications and the new criteria set forth in this solicitation, regardless of whether the proposal would expand a project funded in a previous year. K. May a teacher or educator apply? No, an individual teacher or educator cannot apply. Only education agencies and organizations_not individuals_are eligible to apply for grants. For example, a teacher's school, school district, or state or local education agency or organization may apply. Section IV. Eligible Activities and Funding Priorities L. What type of activities are eligible for funding under this program? As specified in the Act, the environmental education activities that are eligible to receive funding under this program must include at least one of, but are not limited to, the following: 1. The design, demonstration, or dissemination of environmental curricula, including development of educational tools and material; 2. The design and demonstration of field methods, practices, and techniques, including assessment of environmental and ecological conditions and analysis of environmental pollution problems; 3. The assessment of a specific environmental issue or a specific environmental problem; 4. The provision of training or related education for teachers, faculty, or related personnel in a specific geographic area or region; and 5. The design and demonstration of projects to foster international cooperation in addressing environmental issues and problems involving the United States and Canada or Mexico. In reference to Section IV.L.1. above, EPA strongly encourages applicants to focus on the demonstration or dissemination of existing environmental curricula rather than the design or development of new curricula. Environmental educators and other experts have conveyed to EPA that the field needs to improve its use and dissemination of existing curricula more than it needs to develop new curricula. Focusing on demonstrating or disseminating existing curricula will also help ensure that federal funds are not used to duplicate already existing curricula. Nonetheless, EPA does recognize that there are gaps in the types of curricula that presently exist and that there is some difficulty in gaining access to quality materials. Thus, applicants who propose to design new curricula in their pre-applications must demonstrate that there is a need to develop these new materials. For example, the applicant may show that the curriculum proposed for development has not been designed for a particular target audience, that existing curricula cannot be adapted well to a particular local environmental concern, or that existing curricula are not otherwise readily accessible. In demonstrating the need for new curricula, the applicant must specify what steps they have taken to determine this need (e.g., the applicant may cite a conference where this need was discussed, the results of inquiries made within the community or with various educational institutions or organizations, or a published survey or research document). M. What activities are not eligible for funding under this program? Funds cannot be used for: 1. construction projects; 2. technical training of environmental management professionals; 3. non-educational research and development; and/or 4. environmental information projects.
