FR940114-2-00181 FR940114-2-00102 I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations. I. Availability of Reports Except for data determined to be confidential under 40 CFR part 2, all reports prepared in accordance with the terms of this permit shall be available for public inspection at the offices of the Director and ADEC. As required by the Act, permit applications, permits and effluent data shall not be considered confidential. J. Oil and Hazardous Substance Liability Nothing in this permit shall be construed to preclude the institution of any legal action or relieve the permittee from any responsibilities, liabilities, or penalties to which the permittee is or may be subject under section 311 of the Act. K. Property Rights The issuance of this permit does not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privileges, nor does it authorize any injury to private property or any invasion of personal rights, nor any infringement of federal, state or local laws or regulations. L. Severability The provisions of this permit are severable, and if any provision of this permit, or the application of any provision of this permit to any circumstance, is held invalid, the application of such provision to other circumstances, and the remainder of this permit, shall not be affected thereby. M. State Laws Nothing in this permit shall be construed to preclude the institution of any legal action or relieve the permittee from any responsibilities, liabilities, or penalties established pursuant to any applicable state law or regulation under authority preserved by section 510 of the Act. N. Paperwork Reduction Act EPA has reviewed the requirements imposed on regulated facilities in this draft general permit under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq . The information collection requirements of this permit have already been approved by the Office of Management and Budget in submission made for the NPDES permit program under the provisions of the CWA. VII. Reopener Clause If effluent limitations or requirements are established or modified in an approved State Water Quality Management Plan or Waste Load Allocation and if they are more stringent that those listed in this permit or control a pollutant not listed in this permit, this permit may be reopened to include those more stringent limits or requirements. VIII. Definitions A. ``Bypass'' means the intentional diversion of waste streams around any portion of a treatment facility. B.``Drainage Water'' means incidental surface waters from diverse sources such as rainfall, snow melt or permafrost melt. C. A ``Grab'' sample is a single sample or measurement taken at a specific time. D. ``Infiltration Water'' means that water which permeates through the earth into the plant site. E. ``Instantaneous Maximum'' means the maximum value measured at any time. F. ``Mine Drainage'' means any water, not associated with active sluice water, that is drained, pumped or siphoned from a mine. G. ``Monitoring Month'' means the period consisting of the calendar weeks which begin and end in a given calendar month. H. ``Natural Background'' means the level upstream from all mining and other man-made disturbances. I. ``NTU'' (Nephelometric Turbidity Unit) is an expression of the optical property that causes light to be scattered and absorbed rather than transmitted in a straight line through the water.
