FR940504-1-00007 FR940504-1-00002 (B) If the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt) and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive this restriction upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. * * * * * (d) Restrictions. An applicant will be considered ineligible for loan assistance under any of the following circumstances. A decision to deny a loan for any of these reasons is not appealable. (1) In accordance with the Food Security Act of 1985 (Pub. L. 99&hyph;198), after December 23, 1985, if an individual or any member, stockholder, partner, or joint operator of an entity is convicted under Federal or State law of planting, cultivating, growing, producing, harvesting, or storing a controlled substance (see 21 CFR part 1308, which is exhibit C of this subpart (available in any FmHA office) for the definition of ``controlled substance'') prior to loan approval in any crop year, the individual or entity shall be ineligible for a loan for the crop year in which the individual or member, stockholder, partner, or joint operator of the entity was convicted and the four succeeding crop years. Applicants will attest on Form FmHA 410&hyph;1, ``Application for FmHA Services,'' that as individuals or that its members, if an entity, have not been convicted of such crimes after December 23, 1985. (2) An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible for any Farmer Program loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. FmHA loan funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment. Questions about whether or not a judgment is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel. The Administrator may waive this restriction upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. PART 1942_ASSOCIATIONS 8. The authority citation for part 1942 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70. Subpart A_Community Facility Loans 9. Section 1942.2 is amended by redesignating paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(4) as (a)(3) through (a)(5), by adding a new paragraph (a)(2), and by revising newly redesignated paragraph (a)(3)(ii) to read as follows: §1942.2 Processing applications. (a) *␣*␣* (2) Delinquency on a Federal Debt (i) The District Office will check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), following the Forms Manual Insert for Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3, ``Record of Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) Inquiry,'' to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny credit can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the District Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (ii) An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. FmHA loan funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment. Questions about whether or not a judgment is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel. If the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive the rejection upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so.
