FR940323-2-00088 FR940323-2-00067 Applications will be considered to have met the deadline if they are either: (1) Received on or before the deadline date, or (2) postmarked on or before the deadline date and received in time for orderly processing. Applicants should request a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or the U.S. Postal Service, or obtain a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark. Private metered postmarks will not be accepted as proof of timely mailing. Late applications or those sent to an address other than specified in the ADDRESSES section will be returned to the applicant. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Requests for technical or programmatic information should be directed to: Audrey H. Nora, M.D., M.P.H., Director, Maternal and Child Health Bureau, HRSA, Room 18&hyph;05, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Requests for category-specific technical information should be directed to the contact persons identified below for each category covered by this notice. Requests for information concerning business management issues should be directed to: John Gallicchio, Grants Management Officer (GMO), Maternal and Child Health Bureau, at the address specified in the ADDRESSES section. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: To facilitate the use of this announcement, information in this section has been organized, as outlined in the Table of Contents below, into a discussion of: Program Background, Special Concerns, Overall Review Criteria, SPRANS Program, and Eligible Applicants. In addition, discussion of the SPRANS program is divided into specific funding categories and sub-categories and for each category and sub-category, information is presented under the following headings: •Application Deadline •Purpose •Priorities/Special Concerns •Grants/Amounts •Contact Table of Contents 1. Program Background and Objectives 2. Special Concerns 3. Project Review and Funding 3.1. Criteria for Review 3.2. Funding of Approved Applications 4. Special Projects of Regional and National Significance 4.1. Grants 4.1.1. Research 4.1.2. Training 4.1.2.1. Long Term Training 4.1.2.2. Continuing Education 4.1.3. Genetic Disease Testing, Counseling and Information 4.1.4. Maternal and Child Health Improvement Projects 4.1.4.1. Maternal, Infant, Child, and Adolescent Health 4.1.4.1.1 School Health Program 4.1.4.2. Health Care Reform for Children with Special Health Care Needs 4.1.4.3. Data Utilization and Enhancement 4.1.4.4. Healthy Tomorrows Partnerships for Children 4.1.4.5. Field-Initiated Projects 4.2. Cooperative Agreements 4.2.1 Children with Special Health Care Needs Child and Adolescent Service System Program (CASSP) 5. Eligible Applicants 6. Public Health System Reporting Requirements 7. Executive Order 12372 1. Program Background and Objectives Under Section 502 of the Social Security Act, as amended by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) of 1989, 12.75 percent of amounts appropriated for the Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant in excess of $600 million are set aside by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) for special Community Integrated Service Systems projects under Section 501(a)(3) of the Act. Of the remainder of the total appropriation, 15 percent of the funds are to be retained by the Secretary to support (through grants, contracts, or otherwise) special projects of regional and national significance, research, and training with respect to maternal and child health and children with special health care needs (including early intervention training and services development); for genetic disease testing, counseling, and information development and dissemination programs; for grants (including funding for comprehensive hemophilia diagnostic treatment centers) relating to hemophilia without regard to age; and for the screening of newborns for sickle cell anemia, and other genetic disorders and follow-up services. The MCH SPRANS set-aside was established in 1981. Support for projects covered by this announcement will come from the SPRANS set-aside. 2. Special Concerns In its administration of the MCH Services Block Grant, the MCHB places special emphasis on improving service delivery to women and children from culturally identifiable populations who have been disproportionately affected by barriers to accessible care. This means that SPRANS projects are expected to serve and appropriately involve in project activities members of ethnoculturally distinct groups, unless there are compelling programmatic or other justifications for not doing so. The MCHB s intent is to ensure that project outcomes are of benefit to culturally distinct populations and to ensure that the broadest possible representation of culturally distinct and historically underserved groups is supported through programs and projects sponsored by the MCHB.
