FR940204-1-00006 FR940204-1-00001 2. Electric Transmission Efficiency Section 503(c)(3)(A)(ii) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act requires DOE to take account of ``the national average electrical generation and transmission efficiencies.'' Since energy is lost in transmitting electricity, this factor has a negative effect on the equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy. The national average electrical transmission efficiency is 91.5 percent and is not expected to change significantly over the next several years. 3. Accessory Factor Sections 503(a)(3) (iii) and (iv) direct DOE to include ``the need *␣*␣* to conserve all forms of energy'' and ``specific driving patterns of electric vehicles as compared to petroleum-fueled vehicles'' in equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy. Accordingly, DOE considered the use of petroleum fueled accessories in the Petroleum Equivalency Factor calculations. This factor is directed exclusively at heater/defroster installations that are powered by petroleum fuels and has been assigned a usage factor (reduction) of approximately ten percent per accessory. This results in three possible accessory factor values_1.00, .900, or .810_corresponding to whether the electric vehicle is equipped with none, one, or two petroleum-powered accessories respectively. 4. Electricity Generation Efficiency and Relative Scarcity Factor The last term in the Petroleum Equivalency Factor formula takes account of the remaining parameters listed in the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act: The national average electricity generation efficiency and the relative scarcity and value to the Nation of all fuel used to generate electricity. The term is the ratio of total output electricity generation mix to input electricity generation, weighed by a relative scarcity factor. The derivation of values for this term, and therefore, for the Petroleum Equivalency Factor, depends on the availability of data for (1) total electricity generation, (2) energy sources used in electricity generation, (3) electricity generation mix, (4) fuel source reserves, and (5) consumption of electricity generation fuel sources. Section 503(a)(3)(A)(ii) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act requires DOE to take into account average electricity generation efficiency. Electricity generation efficiency is defined as the total output electricity generation mix (E total ) divided by the sum of the input electricity generation mix (I 2i ) values. The updated Petroleum Equivalency Factor equation includes the effects of off-peak electric vehicle charging in its calculation of average electricity generation efficiency. The input electricity generation mix values, based on off-peak electric vehicle charging, were multiplied by the ratio of electricity generation fuel source (quadrillion BTUs) output (E qi ) to input (I qi ) values (Table I), to obtain output electricity generation mix values (Table II).
