FR940930-0-00230 FR940930-0-00029 Section 234.235␣Insulated Rail Joints This provision provided that each insulated rail joint used to separate train detection circuits within the limits of a highway-rail grade crossing shall prevent current from flowing between rails separated by the insulation in an amount sufficient to cause a failure of any train detection circuit. The labor/management group, the only party commenting on this provision, recommended that the section be revised to reflect the requirement for maintenance of insulated rail joints. FRA agrees and the final rule is revised accordingly. Final Rule This section requires that each insulated rail joint used to separate train detection circuits of a highway-rail grade crossing be maintained to prevent current from flowing between rails separated by the insulation in an amount sufficient to cause a failure of the train detection circuit. Section 234.237␣Switch Equipped With Circuit Controller This section as proposed requires that when a switch equipped with a switch circuit controller connected to the point is interconnected with highway-rail grade crossing warning system circuitry, such switch shall be maintained so that the warning system can be cut out only when the point is within one-half inch of the full reverse position. The only party commenting on this section, the labor/management group, supported the proposal. Final Rule This section is adopted as proposed. Section 234.239␣Tagging of Wires and Interference of Wires or Tags With Signal Apparatus This section as proposed requires that each wire be tagged or otherwise so marked that it can be identified at each terminal. Tags and other marks of identification shall be made of insulating material and so arranged that tags and wires do not interfere with moving parts of the apparatus. The only party commenting on this section, the labor/management group, supported the proposal. Final Rule This section is adopted as proposed. Section 234.241␣Protection of Insulated Wire; Splice in Underground Wire This section as proposed requires that insulated wire be protected from mechanical injury. The rule prohibits insulation from being punctured for test purposes. A splice in underground wire will be required to have insulation resistance at least equal to the wire spliced. The only party commenting on this section, the labor/management group, supported the proposal. Final Rule This section is adopted as proposed. Section 234.243 Wire on pole line and aerial cable This section as proposed requires that wire on a pole line be securely attached to an insulator that is properly fastened to a crossarm or bracket supported by a pole or other support. The rule requires that the wire not interfere with, or be interfered with by, other wires on the pole line. Aerial cable is required to be supported by messenger wire. Open-wire transmission line operating at 750 volts or more shall not be placed less than 4 feet above the nearest crossarm carrying active warning system circuits. The only party commenting on this section, the labor/management group, supported the proposal. Final Rule This section is adopted as proposed. Section 234.245␣Signs The proposed rule requires that each sign mounted on a highway-rail grade crossing signal post be maintained in good condition and visible to the motorist. Signs mounted on the mast could include crossbucks, ``number of tracks'' etc. The proposal also stated that standards for such signs are found in Part VIII (``Traffic Control Systems for Railroad-Highway Grade Crossings'') of the MUTCD. After consideration, FRA is deleting from this section the informational reference to the MUTCD. It is sufficient that the information is available through this notice.
