FR940503-2-00148 FR940503-2-00096 Funding Organizations with less than four years of successful experience in managing international exchange programs are limited to $60,000. Competition for USIA funding support is keen. The final selection of a grantee institution will depend on assessment of proposals according to the review criteria delineated below. While applicants must provide an all-inclusive budget with the proposal, they are also encouraged to include separate sub-budgets for each program component, phase, location or activity. The recipient's proposal shall include the cost of an audit that: (1) Complies with the requirements of OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions; (2) Complies with the requirements of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 92&hyph;9; and (3) Includes review by the recipient's independent auditor of a recipient-prepared supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation, if such a rate is being proposed. The audit costs shall be identified separately for: (1) Preparation of basic financial statements and other accounting services; and (2) Preparation of the supplemental reports and schedules required by OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, AICPA SOP 92&hyph;9, and the review of the supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation. USIA will consider funding the following project costs: 1. International and domestic air fares; visas; transit costs (e.g., airport taxes); ground transportation costs. 2. Per diem: For the U.S. program, organizations have the option of using a flat $140/day for international participants or the published Federal Travel Regulations per diem rates for individual American cities. NOTE: U.S. escorting staff must use the published federal per diem rates, not the flat rate. For activities overseas, the Standard Government Travel Regulations per diem rates must be used. 3. Book and cultural allowance: Participants are entitled to a one-time cultural allowance of $150 per person, plus a book allowance of $50. Escorts are reimbursed for actual cultural expenses up to $150. U.S. staff do not get these benefits. 4. Consultants: May be used to provide specialized expertise or to make presentations. Honoraria generally do not exceed $250 per day. Subcontracting organizations may also be used, in which case the written contract(s) must be included in the proposal. 5. Room rental: generally should not exceed $250 per day. 6. Materials development: Proposals may contain costs to purchase, develop and translate materials for participants, in addition to the specialized support materials to be provided to African institutions. USIA reserves the rights to these materials for future use. 7. One working meal per project: Per capita cost may not exceed $5&hyph;8 per lunch and $14&hyph;20 per dinner, excluding room rental. The number of invited guests may not exceed the number of participants by more than a factor of two to one. 8. Return travel allowance: $70 for each participant which is to be used for incidental expenditures incurred during international travel. 9. Other costs necessary for the effective administration of the program, including salaries for grant organization employees, benefits, and other direct and indirect costs per detailed instructions in the application package. E/P encourages cost-sharing, which may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. E/P would be especially interested in proposals which demonstrate a program vision which goes well beyond that which can be supported by the requested USIA grant and which would try to use a USIA grant to leverage additional funding from other sources to support elements of the broader program plan. The Recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as costs to be paid by the Federal government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;110, Attachment E., ``Cost-sharing and Matching,'' and should be described in the proposal. In the event the Recipient does not meet the minimum amount of cost-sharing as stipulated in the Recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the Recipient's contribution. Please note: All delegates will be covered under the terms of a USIA-sponsored health insurance policy. The premium is paid by USIA directly to the insurance company.
