FR940617-1-00036 FR940617-1-00012 The agency is providing several examples of labeling for an antiseptic product containing povidone-iodine when labeled as a single-use or as a multiple-use product, as follows: 1. When labeled as a single-use product, i.e., patient preoperative skin preparation. a. Established name: povidone-iodine. b. Statement of identity (any of these is acceptable): (1) ``antiseptic''; (2) ``patient preoperative skin preparation''; (3) ``antiseptic/patient preoperative skin preparation.'' c. Indications: (1) When only ``antiseptic'' is used in the statement of identity: ``Patient preoperative skin preparation: Helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection.'' (2) When patient preoperative skin preparation is used as or included as part of the statement of identity: ``Helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection.'' d. Directions: (Insert directions in ยง333.460(d).) 2. When labeled as a multiple-use product, i.e., patient preoperative skin preparation, antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash, and surgical hand scrub. a. Established name: povidone-iodine. b. Statement of identity (any of these is acceptable): (1) ``antiseptic''; (2) ``patient preoperative skin preparation, antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash, and surgical hand scrub''; (3) ``antiseptic/patient preoperative skin preparation, antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash, and surgical hand scrub.'' c. Indications: Irrespective of which statement of identity is used, the following is required: ``Patient preoperative skin preparation: Helps to reduce bacteria that potentially can cause skin infection. Antiseptic handwash: For handwashing to reduce bacteria on the skin (which may be followed by one or more of the following: after changing diapers, after assisting ill persons, or before contact with a person under medical care or treatment). Health-care personnel handwash: Handwash to help reduce bacteria that potentially can cause disease or For handwashing to reduce bacteria on the skin (which may be followed by one or more of the following: after changing diapers, after assisting ill persons, or before contact with a person under medical care or treatment). Surgical hand scrub: Significantly reduces the number of micro-organisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care.'' d. Directions: The following is required: Patient preoperative skin preparation: (Insert directions in ยง333.460(d).) Antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash: (Insert directions in ยง333.455(c).) Surgical handscrub: (Insert directions in ยง333.465(c).)
