FR940602-2-00031 FR940602-2-00026 As a threshold matter, EPA notes that its responsibility under Section 184 of the Act is to approve or disapprove the OTC's LEV recommendation, and that Section 184 does not appear to authorize EPA to mandate alternatives. Nevertheless, EPA believes that the emergence of another approach to obtaining emissions reductions from new vehicles might conceivably affect the need for the OTC LEV program. EPA believes that threshold issues regarding such alternatives include how they might affect EPA's obligations regarding the OTC's recommendation now before EPA, and their legal consistency with Sections 177 and 209 of the Act. Thereafter, EPA expects that the discussion would turn to the specifics of the alternative proposals, which will carry over into the third meeting. The Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) has presented one such alternative. Under EDF's approach, the auto manufacturers would be responsible for achieving reductions commensurate with those that the OTC LEV program would achieve, and could do so by selling cars meeting LEV standards or by trading emissions reduction credits among themselves or with stationary sources. EPA expects to begin discussion of this alternative in the afternoon session. EPA recognizes that it may be ambitious to cover this entire topic at the second meeting, and may have to resume discussion of it at the third meeting. Further information pertaining to EDF's proposal is available in EDF's comments and testimony in the public docket. The agenda for the afternoon session is as follows: Relevance of New Motor Vehicle Standards Alternatives to EPA's Obligation to Approve or Disapprove the OTC LEV Recommendation 1. Should EPA disapprove the OTC LEV recommendation based on proposals to change that program or on different, more stringent new motor vehicle standards (e.g. The EDF proposal or the auto manufacturers proposal, discussed below)? 2. Must there be a mechanism for EPA to be assured that the States will adopt the different approach, and if so what would that mechanism be? EDF Trading Proposal 1. Mechanism for implementation. 2. Extent of trading: among auto companies; with stationary sources; across State boundaries. 3. Baseline for assessing whether reductions are surplus and can be traded to avoid otherwise applicable emissions reduction obligations. 4. Constraints on trading to ensure that areas reduce emissions that contribute to nonattainment downwind. 5. Need for discounting credits. 6. Role of ZEVs in a trading scheme. 7. Consistency with Sections 177 and 209. C. Third Meeting; New York, NY on July 13, 1994 EPA intends to dedicate the third meeting to continued discussion of other proposals for obtaining additional emissions reductions from new motor vehicles or other sources. EPA intends to first complete any remaining carryover discussion of the EDF proposal from the second meeting. EPA intends to then continue with a discussion of the auto manufacturers' proposed alternative known as the Federal LEV or FLEV program. EPA's proposal describes this alternative, 59 FR at 21732&hyph;33. Also in the morning session, the Agency intends to provide an opportunity for discussion of the proposal presented at EPA's May 2&hyph;3 public hearing by Texaco, Inc., Public Service Electric and Gas (PSE&G), and Merck & Company, Inc. Further information regarding this proposal is available in comments and testimony from these companies in the public docket. EPA expects that time will be left at the end of the third meeting to address previously unidentified topics, alternatives or issues that were not raised earlier. In addition, EPA expects that issues addressed in the earlier meetings might be revisited at this time in light of later discussions. The agenda for the third meeting is as follows: FLEV Proposal 1. Enforceability. 2. SIP creditability. 3. Consistency with Sections 177 and 209. 4. Emissions reductions, and comparison with LEV emissions reductions, including timing. 5. EPA's authority to disapprove the OTC LEV recommendation based on an alternative that States apparently could not adopt in their SIPs or otherwise into State law. NOx Cap Proposal from Texaco, PSE&G, and Merck Additional Topics Not Previously Addressed or to be Revisited Dated: May 24, 1994. Mary D. Nichols, Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13453 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
