FR940628-1-00085 FR940628-1-00014 IX. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices A. Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures NHTSA has examined the impact of this rulemaking action and determined that it is ``significant'' within the meaning of E.O. 12866 and the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. This rulemaking was reviewed under E.O. 12866. The agency's detailed analysis of the economic effects can be found in the Preliminary Regulatory Evaluation available in the docket for this rulemaking. The agency estimates that the proposed regulation would cost $3.93 to $6.35 million annually. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act NHTSA has also considered the impacts of this notice under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. I hereby certify that this proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. As explained above, NHTSA does not expect any significant economic impacts from this proposed rule. While the agency has asked questions regarding the availability of data to certain manufacturers who could be small businesses (final stage manufacturers and alterers), NHTSA believes that these manufacturers will be able to obtain sufficient information on the vehicles they complete or alter that this proposed regulation will not impose a significantly different burden on these manufacturers. C. Paperwork Reduction Act The reporting requirements associated with this proposed rule will be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for approval in accordance with 44 U.S.C. chapter 35. Administration: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Title: Vehicle Rollover Stability Consumer Information Regulation; Need for Information: To determine vehicle metric ranges for each model year; Proposed Use of Information: Metric ranges will be provided to manufacturers for inclusion on vehicle label; Frequency: Annual; Burden Estimate: 192 hours; Respondents: 24; Form(s): None; Average Burden Hours for Respondent: 8. D. National Environmental Policy Act NHTSA has also analyzed this proposed rule under the National Environmental Policy Act and determined that it would not have a significant impact on the human environment. E. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) NHTSA has analyzed this proposal in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in E.O. 12612, and has determined that this proposed rule would not have significant federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. F. Civil Justice Reform This proposed rule would not have any retroactive effect. There is no express statutory intent to preempt any State law. Section 105 of the Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 1394) sets forth a procedure for judicial review of final rules. That section does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. X. Effective Date of Final Rule If adopted, the proposed amendments would become effective on January 1, 1996. XI. Submission of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments on the proposal. It is requested but not required that 10 copies be submitted. All comments must not exceed 15 pages in length. (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in a concise fashion. If a commenter wishes to submit certain information under a claim of confidentiality, three copies of the complete submission, including purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the street address given above, and seven copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in the agency's confidential business information regulation. 49 CFR part 512. All comments received before the close of business on the comment closing date indicated above for the proposal will be considered, and will be available for examination in the docket at the above address both before and after that date. To the extent possible, comments filed after the closing date will also be considered. Comments received too late for consideration in regard to the final rule will be considered as suggestions for further rulemaking action. Comments on the proposal will be available for inspection in the docket. The NHTSA will continue to file relevant information as it becomes available in the docket after the closing date, and it is recommended that interested persons continue to examine the docket for new material. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the rules docket should enclose a self-addressed, stamped postcard in the envelope with their comments. Upon receiving the comments, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 575 Consumer protection, Incorporation by reference, Labeling, Motor vehicle safety, Motor vehicles. In consideration of the foregoing, it is proposed that 49 CFR part 575 be amended as follows: PART 575_CONSUMER INFORMATION REGULATIONS 1. The authority citation for part 575 of title 49 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 1392, 1401, 1407, 1421, and 1423; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50.
