FR940616-1-00003 FR940616-1-00002 LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION 45 CFR Part 1607 Governing Bodies AGENCY: Legal Services Corporation. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This proposed regulation would amend the Legal Services Corporation's (``LSC'' or ``Corporation'') regulations, relating to governing bodies of recipients of LSC funds. Many of the revisions are simply intended to clarify current Corporation policy or to interrelate this part to other LSC regulations. However, a number of the proposed revisions represent changes in Corporation policy or interpretations with respect to issues that arise under the regulation. The proposal also includes a number of technical revisions to make the rule easier to apply and use. DATES: Comments should be received by August 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be submitted to the Office of the General Counsel, Legal Services Corporation, 750 First Street, NE., 11th Floor, Washington, DC 20002&hyph;4250. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Victor Fortuno, General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel (202) 336&hyph;8810. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Operations and Regulations Committee of the LSC Board of Directors (``Committee'') held public hearings on April 15, 1994, in Washington, DC and on May 13, 1994, in Atlanta, Georgia, to consider drafts of proposed revisions to 45 CFR part 1607, LSC's regulation on recipient governing bodies. At the meeting in Atlanta, the Committee approved a draft to be published in the Federal Register as a proposed rule for public comment. The Corporation is extending the customary 30-day comment period to 60 days in order to allow bar associations and other organizations with a specific interest in this rule sufficient time to comment. Bar associations play a substantial role in the appointment of recipient board members, and the Committee encourages their involvement in this rulemaking process. The Committee recognizes that reauthorization of the Corporation is presently under consideration by Congress. Whenever Congress does reauthorize the Corporation, the Corporation's regulations will be revisited and revised accordingly. This proposed rule is intended to amend 45 CFR part 1607 and to supersede part 1607's interpretive guideline published at 48 FR 36820 (August 15, 1983). Section 1607.1␣Purpose No change is proposed for this section. Section 1607.2␣Definitions Most of the changes proposed for this section are technical and clarifying in nature. The section was reordered to put the definitions in alphabetical order. Also, definitions found in other parts of the regulations, but applicable to this part are included here for easier reference. In addition, language found in other sections of this part that, in fact, constitute definitions of terms are included here both for easier reference and to treat similar terms similarly. Some of the language has been clarified to make it consistent with past and current LSC interpretations. Section 1607.2(a). The definition of attorney member was added to make it clear that national support center board members do not have to be admitted to practice in a state where the center actually provides legal assistance. Section 1607.2(c). The definition of eligible client member has been changed in two principal ways. First, the language has been revised to make it clear that client board members must be eligible at the time of their appointment to each term of office. Thus, a client member who is financially eligible for services when first appointed to a recipient's board may not be reappointed to a second or subsequent term if, at the time of reappointment, the client board member is no longer financially eligible for LSC-funded services. However, nothing in the rule would require a client board member to resign during the course of a term if the client became ineligible subsequent to appointment. Second, language was added to deal with two additional, distinct issues. The proposed rule now makes it clear that the recipient should decide how client board member eligibility is determined. The proposed rule also makes it clear that the recipient should decide whether it or a particular group should make the determination, and that the recipient could decide, for some groups, the recipient will make the determination and for others it will leave the determination up to the appointing group.
