FR940706-2-00063 FR940706-2-00037 The proposed consent agreement aims to establish a new competitor in the U.S. dicyclomine market to replace the competition lost as a result of MMD's allegedly illegal acquisition. Specifically, MMD is required to license certain dicyclomine production technology to a Commission-approved licensee that avows a good faith intention to obtain FDA approval to independently manufacture dicyclomine for sale in the United States. Further, MMD must supply dicyclomine to the potential new entrant for up to seven years, until such time as the licensee has begun manufacturing dicyclomine on its own. I am concerned about the terms of this Commission-mandated supply agreement. The proposed consent order provides that the price at which MMD may contract to supply dicyclomine to the potential entrant may not exceed 48 percent of the average wholesale price charged by Rugby as of July 2, 1993. 2 This is in effect a form of government price regulation, and is apt to result in a significant misallocation of resources. It is particularly troubling that the maximum transfer price is fixed by the Commission's order for up to seven years, and (unlike market-based prices) does not vary with either changes in demand or changes in the costs of production. If the costs of production come to exceed the transfer price, then the licensee may have an incentive to delay the opening of its own production facility, and hence delay the return of true, market-based competition. 2 My view, based upon the evidence assembled during this investigation, is that the July 2, 1993 price did not reflect the exercise of any market power gained as a result of the then impending MMD/Rugby transaction, but reflected other factors. Furthermore, the fixed transfer price may actually be in effect for longer than seven years. For example, if the original licensee fails after seven years to obtain FDA approval, then a replacement licensee may be selected by a trustee. This second licensee is entitled to purchase dicyclomine from MMD at the same fixed price. Given the Commission's recent experience in the Institut Merieux (File No. C&hyph;3301) and Promodes (Docket No. 9228) matters, the prospect of another seemingly interminable and complicated compliance proceeding disturbs me. I hope that during the public comment period the Commission will receive advice on the wisdom and workability of the proposed supply agreement. In particular, I am interested in considering alternate ways of structuring the price term. Is there a practical way, under a revised order, to permit the price term to vary should the costs of production or demand vary? 3 Or would the uncertainties of future cost and demand changes be better accomodated if MMD and the licensee were free to negotiate a price term (perhaps subject to Commission approval)? Finally, what is the optimal duration for the supply agreement? Specifically, how long should it take a licensee, acting diligently, to obtain required FDA approvals and commence manufacturing dicyclomine? At this time, I am not confident that the appropriate maximum duration for the MMD supply agreement should be as long as seven years. Public comment on these issues may be of significant value to the Commission not only in this matter, but more generally as the agency seeks to devise effective antitrust remedies for the pharmaceutical, and other industries. 3 Would it be desirable to use the producer price index or some other index as a proxy for the costs of production?
