FR940713-2-00035 FR940713-2-00026 Environmental Impact Southeastern has reviewed the possible environmental impacts of this rate adjustment and has concluded that the increased rates would not significantly impact the quality of the human environment within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. The proposed rate adjustment is not a major Federal action for which preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement is required. Availability of Information Information regarding these rate schedules, including studies, and other supporting documentation is available for public review in the offices of Southeastern Power Administration, Samuel Elbert Building, Elberton, Georgia 30635, and in the Washington Liaison Office, James Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585. Submission to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission The rates hereinafter confirmed and approved on an interim basis, together with supporting documents, will be submitted promptly to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for confirmation and approval on a final basis for a period beginning July 1, 1994, and ending no later than June 30, 1999. Order In view of the foregoing and pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Secretary of Energy, I hereby confirm and approve on an interim basis, effective July 1, 1994, attached Wholesale Power Rate Schedules CBR&hyph;1&hyph;C, CSI&hyph;1&hyph;C, CEK&hyph;1&hyph;C, CC&hyph;1&hyph;D, CM&hyph;1&hyph;C, CK&hyph;1&hyph;C and CTV&hyph;1&hyph;C. The rate schedules shall remain in effect on an interim basis through June 30, 1999, unless such period is extended or until the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission confirms and approves it or substitute rate schedules on a final basis. Issued in Washington, DC, June 29, 1994. William H. White, Deputy Secretary. Wholesale Power Rate Schedule CTV&hyph;1&hyph;C Availability: This rate schedule shall be available to the Tennessee Valley Authority (hereinafter called TVA). Applicability: This rate schedule shall be applicable to electric capacity and energy generated at the Dale Hollow, Center Hill, Wolf Creek, Old Hickory, Cheatham, Barkley, J. Percy Priest, and Cordell Hull Projects (all of such projects being hereafter called collectively the ``Cumberland Projects'') and the Laurel Project sold under agreement between the Department of Energy and TVA. Character of Service: The electric capacity and energy supplied hereunder will be three-phase alternating current at a frequency of approximately 60 Hertz at the outgoing terminals of the Cumberland Projects' switchyards. Monthly Rates: The monthly rate for capacity and energy sold under this rate schedule shall be: Demand Charge: $1.668 per kilowatt/month of total demand as determined by the agreement between the Department of Energy and TVA.
