FR940505-2-00077 FR940505-2-00052 Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Mexican Long-Nosed Bat for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the Mexican long-nosed bat ( Leptonycteris nivalis ) which the Service listed as an endangered species on September 30, 1988 (53 FR 38460). This species is known to occur in central and northern Mexico, the Big Bend area of Texas, and Hildago County in southwestern New Mexico. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before July 5, 1994 to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ecological Services Field Office, 611 E. Sixth Street, room 407, Austin, Texas 78701; (512) 482&hyph;5436. Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the State Administrator at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Carol J. Beardmore, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Biologist, telephone (512) 482&hyph;5436 or at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened plant or animal to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe site specific management actions considered necessary for conservation and survival of the species, establish objective, measurable criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting species, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans.
