FR940826-0-00140 FR940826-0-00020 125. Discussion. The Commission adopted an upfront payment requirement in order to ensure that only serious, qualified bidders participate in our auctions. We reasoned that an upfront payment requirement would ensure the validity of the information generated during auctions and increase the likelihood that licenses will be awarded to the qualified bidders who value them the most, thus promoting the rapid deployment of new technology. Upfront payments will also provide the Commission with a source of available funds in the event a bid withdrawal penalty must be assessed. By requiring a substantial upfront payment amount, the Commission seeks to deter speculative and frivolous bidding by all bidders, including designated entities. Moreover, the standard upfront payment formula ($.02 per MHz per pop for the maximum MHz-pops a bidder intends to bid on in any single round of bidding), is based on the amount of spectrum and population coverage on which a bidder seeks to bid and therefore is directly linked to the expected value of the license and anticipated construction costs a licensee will incur. 126. Nevertheless, in the Second Report and Order we retained the flexibility to cap, reduce or modify the upfront payment amount for designated entities. 172 We indicated that such decisions would be made in the service-specific competitive bidding rules for individual services. In the Fifth Report and Order, recognizing that the standard upfront payment formula may create a barrier for smaller entities wishing to participate in auctions, we reduced by 25 percent the upfront payment amount required for designated entities bidding in the entrepreneur's blocks. 173 Given the varied spectrum costs of different services, we will continue to consider such reduced upfront payments for designated entities on a service-specific basis. Generally, we will only reduce the upfront payment amounts for designated entities in capital intensive services, such as broadband PCS, where the spectrum bandwidth will result in upfront payment amounts that may be prohibitive for some smaller entities. 172 See Second Report and Order at ¶ 178 n.37. 173 See Fifth Report and Order at ¶ 156. J. Installment Payments 127. In the Second Report and Order, we stated that, for some auctions, winning bidders that are small businesses would be eligible to use installment payments in paying for licenses. 174 We provided that for these winning bidders, a down payment of 10 percent would be due within five business days of the close of the auction, and that an additional 10 percent would be due within five days of grant of the license. 175 We stated that we would impose interest on installment payments at a rate equal to the rate for U.S. Treasury obligations of maturity equal to the license term. We stated that the schedule of installment payments would begin with interest-only payments for the first two years, and that thereafter principal and interest would be amortized over the remaining term of the license. 176 174 Id. at ¶ 233. 175 Id. at ¶ 238. 176 Id. at ¶ 239. 128. Upon reconsideration, we have decided that we may need to tailor installment payment provisions more precisely to needs of various groups of designated entities and the characteristics of particular services. In the Fifth Report and Order we provided installment payments for minorities and women in some blocks, and provided different installment provisions for small businesses of different sizes. 177 We will continue to establish different installment payment provisions on a service-specific basis. We may offer installment payments to minorities and women, in some circumstances, and may offer installment payments having differing terms to different classes of designated entities. We may vary the interest rate and the payment schedule for installment payments, including the amount and timing of the down payment and the schedule for amortization of principal and interest. Installment payment provisions for each service will be specified in Orders establishing auction rules for that service. We believe that this additional flexibility will allow us to take account of differences in capital requirements across services and license blocks, and to provide access to capital in ways that will give various groups of designated entities a realistic chance to participate in offering service. 177 Fifth Report and Order at ¶¶ 137&hyph;139. K. Eligibility Issues 129. Petitions. Black Entertainment Television Holdings, Inc. (BET) requests that the FCC reconsider the public company restriction on the availability of provisions for minority and women-owned companies in broadband PCS. BET argues that given the costs of acquiring spectrum and the construction expense, such a limitation would defeat realistic opportunities for a wide range of minority-owned firms. BET also requests that we clarify that provisions for minority and women-owned firms are separate and distinct from provisions for small businesses. Finally, BET argues that rights, privileges, options or other forms of ownership that do not affect the ability of a designated entity to control a company, or diminish a designated entity financial stake in a venture, should not be considered in the definitional analysis for purposes of determining eligibility.
