FR940805-1-00143 FR940805-1-00014 (2) Any property purchased, leased, rehabilitated, renovated, or converted with assistance under that program shall be operated for not less than 10 years for the purpose specified in the plan, or for a period of not less than three years in cases involving non-substantial rehabilitation or repair of a building or structure. ยง91.230 Monitoring. The plan must describe the standards and procedures that the jurisdiction will use to monitor activities carried out in furtherance of the plan and will use to ensure long-term compliance with requirements of the programs involved, including the comprehensive planning requirements. ยง91.235 Special case_abbreviated consolidated plan. (a) Who may submit an abbreviated plan? A jurisdiction that is not a CDBG entitlement community under 24 CFR part 570, subpart D, and is not expected to be a participating jurisdiction in the HOME program under 24 CFR part 92, may submit an abbreviated consolidated plan that is appropriate to the types and amounts of assistance sought from HUD. (b) When is an abbreviated plan necessary? (1) Jurisdiction. When a jurisdiction that is permitted to use an abbreviated plan applies to HUD for funds under a program that requires an approved consolidated plan (see ยง91.2), it must obtain approval of an abbreviated plan and submit a certification that the housing activities are consistent with the plan. (2) Other applicants. When an eligible applicant other than a jurisdiction (e.g., a public housing agency or nonprofit organization) seeks to apply for funding under a program requiring an approved consolidated plan, the jurisdiction_if it is permitted to use an abbreviated plan_may prepare an abbreviated plan appropriate to the project. (3) Limitation. For the HOME program, an abbreviated consolidated plan is only permitted with respect to reallocations to other than participating jurisdictions (see part 92, subpart J of this chapter). For the CDBG program, an abbreviated plan may be submitted only for the HUD-administered Small Cities program and for the Insular Areas program (only Palau is subject to this requirement). (c) What is an abbreviated plan? An abbreviated plan must contain sufficient information about needs, resources, and planned activities to address the needs to cover the type and amount of assistance anticipated to be funded by HUD. (d) Citizen participation. Prior to submission of the consolidated plan to HUD for funding, the applicant must conduct a citizen participation process as provided in section 107 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
