FR940114-2-00147 FR940114-2-00090 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement; Asotin County, WA AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Recission of notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that, based on environmental studies and comments received during the scoping process and public information meetings for the proposed project, it has been decided to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) in lieu of an Environmental Impact Statement. The Notice of Intent which appeared in the Federal Register /Vol. 58, No. 149/Thursday, August 5, 1993, regarding a proposed highway project in Asotin County, Washington, is hereby rescinded. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lynn Porter, Area Engineer, Federal Highway Administration, 711 S. Capitol Way, Evergreen Plaza Bldg., suite 501, Olympia, Washington 98501&hyph;1284, Telephone: (206) 753&hyph;2120. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: An EA for the proposed project was approved for circulation on December 28, 1993. Subsequent distribution included State and Federal agencies and interested parties identified during project planning and scoping. The EA discusses a proposal (build alternative) to construct a new 1.1 mile Fleshman Way roadway on a route north of 16th Avenue in Asotin County, Washington. The proposed improvements would also involve the reconstruction of the existing 15th Street between 16th Avenue and Bridge Street (U.S. Highway 12) for a distance of about 1.5 miles. It would also include a new interchange or intersection in the vicinity of 13th Street and a new intersection on 16th Avenue and Fleshman Way. Improvements to the corridor are considered necessary to address existing traffic operations problems, to meet projected traffic demand and to improve safety. Existing deficient features include lane and shoulder widths, horizontal and vertical alignments, and pavement structure. The proposed project is included in the Asotin County and the City of Clarkston Comprehensive Plans as a link between U.S. Highway 12 west of Clarkston and the Southway Bridge, and provides a southern connection between the Cities of Clarkston and Lewiston. Several alternatives were evaluated as part of the environmental studies conducted for the project. However, only one build alternative and the no-build are under consideration at present. The build alternative includes a four-lane roadway on a new location, generally north of 16th Avenue, as described above, and intersecting 15th Street south of Highland Avenue. It also includes widening 15th Street to three lanes (two travel lanes and a continuous left-turn lane). Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments, have been sent to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, and to private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed or are known to have interest in the proposal. A series of public meetings were held in Asotin County between January and August 1993. A public hearing has been scheduled for January 27, 1994. The EA is currently available for review and comments. Comments on the EA and the proposed action will be accepted until ten days after the public hearing. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and any significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EA should be directed to the FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal Programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on: January 4, 1993. Jose M. Miranda, Environmental Program Manager, Olympia. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;938 Filed 1&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
