FR940106-0-00007 FR940106-0-00003 Comment. Section 1773.9(c) states that pursuant to the terms of its audit agreement with the borrower, the CPA must immediately report, in writing, all irregularities and all indications or instances of illegal acts, whether material or not to: (1) The president of the borrower's board of directors; (2) the Director, Borrowers Accounting Division; and (3) the Office of Inspector General. This requirement goes beyond that of generally accepted government auditing standards (GAGAS) which limits reporting requirements for irregularities to material instances and instances that cumulatively could have a material effect on the financial statements. GAGAS further limits the reporting of illegal acts to only the top official of the entity arranging for the audit. REA should modify the requirements set forth in §1773.9(c) to correspond with the GAGAS requirements. Response. REA recognizes that certain procedures set forth in part 1773 exceed the requirements of a GAGAS audit and REA has acknowledged that fact in the rule. The Office of Inspector General, in Departmental Regulation No. 1700&hyph;1, Basic OIG Investigation/Audit Organization and Procedures, sets forth certain requirements that all Federal agencies within USDA must impose upon nonFederal auditors. One of these requirements is that all irregularities or illegal acts, regardless of materiality, discovered by nonFederal auditors be reported to the Federal agency requiring the audit and to OIG for appropriate action. For this reason, no revisions were made in the final rule. Comment. Section 1773.6(a)(2) states that ``The borrower and CPA acknowledge that REA regulations provide that if the borrower fails to have an audit performed and documented in compliance with GAGAS and this part, the borrower is in violation of its security instrument with REA''. This language exceeds the applicable mortgage covenant and the following language should be substituted: ``The borrower and CPA acknowledge that REA will consider the borrower to be in violation of its security instrument with REA if the borrower fails to have an audit performed and documented in compliance with GAGAS and 7 CFR part 1773. This acknowledgement shall not be considered a contractual admission against interest by either the borrower or the CPA.'' Response. REA's proposed rule published on September 23, 1993, did not include revisions to §1773.6(a)(2). Therefore, comments on this section went beyond the scope of the proposal. REA is planning a separate rulemaking procedures that will include changes in §1773.6(a)(2) and REA will be soliciting comments at that time. Comment. Certain disclosure and reporting requirements contained in §1773.34 should include some consideration of materiality. The concept of materiality is inherent in all audits. Strict compliance with the existing policy has, however, resulted in reporting of immaterial items of non-compliance. Response. As previously discussed, REA recognizes that certain procedures set forth in part 1773 exceed the requirements of a GAGAS audit and REA has acknowledged that fact in the rule. Section 1773.34 sets forth REA's requirement that the CPA must prepare a management letter and establishes the testing and reporting requirements for the management letter. Section 1773.34(e) sets forth certain provisions of REA's security instrument that REA has determined are essential to the security of its loans. CPAs auditing REA borrowers are, therefore, required to test for compliance with the security instrument provisions set forth in §1773.34. Because of the degree of reliance that REA places on the CPAs' testing in these areas, REA has determined that materiality should not be a factor upon which testing is based. REA has, however, through the publication of this final rule, revised and eliminated many of the unclear or burdensome requirements set forth in part 1773. For this reason, no additional revisions were made to §1773.34. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1773 Accounting, Electric power, Loan programs_communications, Loan programs_energy, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas, Telephone. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, REA hereby amends 7 CFR chapter XVII as follows: PART 1773_POLICY ON AUDITS OF REA BORROWERS 1. The authority citation for part 1773 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 901 et seq., 1921 et seq. ) 2. In §1773.3, paragraph (c) is revised to read as follows: §1773.3 Annual audit. * * * * *
