FR941007-0-00088 FR941007-0-00024 One comment recommended that the rule specify introductory text for use when a plan complies with both Regulation 26 and the OPA 90 vessel response plan (VRP) requirements. The Coast Guard disagrees; this rule does not establish requirements for plans required by ยง155.1030. Shipowners who wish to submit combined Regulation 26 and OPA 90 vessel response plans should refer to 33 CFR 155.1030(j). Preamble. One comment noted that the preamble is not clear on the meaning of ``other shore-based plans.'' Basically, the Coast Guard wants the owner and operator to be cognizant of existing State plans or other municipal plans, and plans of other countries which may be applicable. They should consider if their Regulation 26 plan works well with other plans in the system. Another comment recommends amending the preamble to make Regulation 26 plans consistent with area plans. The Coast Guard maintains that shipboard oil pollution emergency plans are consistent with separate area plans. National and local coordination is discussed in ยง151.26(b)(5) which requires that information be provided to assist the master initiate action by the coastal state, local government, or other involved party. The plan must include guidance to assist the master in organizing a response, should there be no organized response by shore authorities. Reporting Requirements. Six comments recommended that the Coast Guard require an Oil Spill Removal Organization (OSRO) or some other type of approved spill response contractor. They argued that these organizations will respond to an oil pollution incident more effectively than cooperatives, individually contracted by shipowners. Three comments suggested that ship owners or operators identify an individual qualified to respond. They contended that it will ensure that someone is authorized to make decisions for the owner or operator on an immediate basis. The Coast Guard has determined that, although it can not require this information, inclusion would enhance the plan and make it more effective. Further, this concept is consistent with guidance contained in IMO Resolution A.741(18). Therefore, the Coast Guard has added the identification of such persons and equipment to the list of non-mandatory provisions in ยง151.26(b)(7). Two comments recommended that the Coast Guard consider an umbrella plan which covers multiple vessels. This approach would allow incoming vessels to pay a fee to be covered by a State approved contingency plan and to have a primary contractor immediately available. The Coast Guard disagrees with the concept of a ``model plan'' approach because it is important for owners or operators to produce their own plans so that they are familiar with the process and the associated risks involved. However, we agree that owners or operators should be able to utilize a standard plan covering similar types of ships in their fleet. Accordingly, ยง151.27(c) has been added to incorporate this change. Consistent with IMO guidelines, plan writers should consider the many variables in determining whether ships can be grouped under the same plan. These variables may include type and size of ship, cargo, route, and shore based management structure. For example single skinned oil tankers could be grouped in one plan, while double hulled tankers should be grouped in another. It is important to note that although one plan can cover similar ships in an owner or operator's fleet, an approved plan must be on board each ship. Because multiple ships can be grouped under a single plan, and consistent with IMO guidelines, each plan must clearly identify each ship to which the plan applies. The Coast Guard has determined that the ship's name, call sign, official number, International Maritime Organization (IMO) international number, and principal characteristics are important details that ensure that the plan applies to the particular ship for which it was intended. Section 151.26(b)(1)(ii)(A) has been added to incorporate this requirement.
