FR940106-1-00035 FR940106-1-00008 Appendix_Text of Oil and Gas Order No. 5 Note. _This appendix will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations. Onshore Oil and Gas Order No. 5 Measurement of Gas I. Introduction A. Authority B. Purpose C. Scope II. Definitions III. Requirements A. Required Recordkeeping B. General C. Primary Element_Orifice Meters D. Secondary Element E. Other Requirements F. Gas Measurement by Other Methods or at Other Locations Acceptable to the Authorized Officer IV. Variances from Minimum Standards Attachment I. Sections from 43 CFR Subparts 3163 and 3165 Onshore Oil and Gas Order No. 5 Measurement of Gas on Federal and Indian Oil and Gas Leases I. Introduction A. Authority This Order is established pursuant to the authority granted to the Secretary of the Interior under various Federal and Indian mineral leasing statutes and the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982. This authority has been delegated to the Bureau of Land Management and is implemented by the onshore oil and gas operating regulations contained in 43 CFR part 3160. Section 3164.1 thereof specifically authorizes the Director to issue Onshore Oil and Gas Orders when necessary to implement or supplement the operating regulations and provides that all such Orders shall be binding on the lessees and operators of Federal and restricted Indian oil and gas leases which have been, or may hereafter, be issued. Specific authority for the provisions contained in this Order is found at: section 3162.4&hyph;1, Well records and reports; section 3162.4&hyph;2, Samples, tests, and surveys; section 3162.7&hyph;1, Disposition of production; section 3162.7&hyph;3, Measurement of gas; and subpart 3163, Noncompliance, Assessments, and Penalties. B. Purpose One purpose of this Order is to establish requirements and minimum standards for the accurate measurement of gas by the methods authorized in 43 CFR 3162.7&hyph;3, i.e., measurement by orifice meter or other methods acceptable to the authorized officer. Accurate gas measurement ensures that the Federal Government, the general public, State Governments that share in the proceeds, and Indian mineral owners receive the royalties due, as specified in the governing oil and gas leases. Another purpose of this Order is to establish abatement periods for corrective action when noncompliance with the minimum standards is detected. This Order also serves as notice to any party cited for noncompliance that it may request from the authorized officer an extension of the abatement period for any violation, provided that the request for extension is applied for and granted prior to the expiration of the abatement period previously allowed. C. Scope This Order is applicable to all Federal and Indian (except Osage) oil and gas leases. In addition, this Order is also applicable to all wells and facilities on State or privately owned mineral lands committed to a unit or communitization agreement that affects Federal or Indian interests, notwithstanding any provision of a unit or communitization agreement to the contrary. II. Definitions
