FR940920-1-00122 FR940920-1-00012 §152.8 Competitive evaluation criteria. Each grant application/program proposal received will be competitively assessed against the following criteria: (a) The degree to which the proposal is seen to address the targeted goal or each goal in a combination of goals; (b) The scope and effect of the proposed initiative in relation to the proposed program cost; (c) The degree to which the proposed activity supports a ``model program initiative'' suitable for replication in other jurisdictions; (d) The degree to which the proposed activity demonstrates an effective and efficient integration of a variety of program resources; (e) The degree to which the proposed activity could sustain itself upon the completion of the grant performance period; (f) The degree to which the proposed activity would target intervention strategies addressing high risk groups, properties, or specific conditions. (g) The degree to which the activity proposed would produce a lasting anti-arson program, initiative, or other such appropriate outcome; (h) The degree to which the proposed activity promotes the introduction of new technology, innovative techniques, or non-traditional approaches to reduce the nation's arson problem; (i) The degree to which the proposed activity relies upon the development of inter-governmental, inter-organizational, or community involving ``partnerships'' to promote goal attainment; and (j) The degree to which the proposed activity supports the enhanced ability to collect arson data. §152.9 Reporting requirements. (a) Each State, or consortium of States, which is the recipient of a grant under this authority, by acceptance of the award, agrees to provide to the satisfaction of the Administrator and in timely fashion, any and all such documentation as may be requested or required to detail the methods and amounts of grant funds disbursement and such other recordkeeping, retention of records and the additional provision of information by the Grantee as may be required by the awarding Agency and applicable regulation. (b) The reporting requirements will consist of primarily the two following types: (1) Quarterly progress and financial status reports; and (2) Final progress report and financial status report. The final progress report will include a summary evaluation of the program related activities under the grant. It will identify the evaluation methodology and the assessment values applied to critique the grant's effectiveness in relation to achieving the targeted goal(s). Subpart C_Administration §152.10 Extension. The Administrator has discretionary authority to extend the duration of grants made under this regulation for one or more additional periods. Grant recipients desiring an extension of the grant performance period, will request such extensions in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the grant period. The request will include the reason for the requested extension, a description of the effect(s) on the program if the extension is not granted, and a statement that no additional federal funds would be necessary to support the grant activities during the extension period. Grant extension requests may not be utilized to request additional funding. §152.11 Technical assistance. The Administrator shall provide technical assistance to States in carrying out the program(s) funded by grants under the Act. This assistance will consist of providing the customary and usual information on the application process, deadlines, program and financial reporting requirements, and related grant program activities support. This provision is not intended to suggest that USFA will provide other than grant related support and technical assistance. Grant proposals should not suggest or rely upon other program related services, staff support or monies from USFA to be any part of the proposed grant activities, except as provided herein. §152.12 Consultation and cooperation. The Administrator would consult and cooperate with other Federal agencies to enhance program effectiveness and avoid duplication of effort, including the conduct of regular meetings initiated by the Administrator with representatives of other Federal agencies concerned with arson and concerned with efforts to develop a more comprehensive profile of the magnitude of the national arson problem. §152.13 Audits. In accordance with applicable regulations, all the grants awarded under part 152 of 44 CFR and all records of the recipient would be subject to audit by appropriate Federal Emergency Management Agency staff or other responsible authority. §152.14 Penalties. The recipient designated responsible official or others who provide information or documentation to federal officials in connection with the activities or funds authorized by or expended through these grants are subject to, among other laws, the criminal penalties of 18 U.S.C. 287 and 1001, which punish the submission of false, fictitious or fraudulent claims and the making of false, fictitious or fraudulent statements. Such actions are punishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $10,000.00 or imprisonment for not more than five (5) years, or both. Such a violation may also subject the responsible official to the civil penalties set out in 31 U.S.C. 3729 and 3730. Dated: September 14, 1994. James L. Witt, Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23304 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6718&hyph;26&hyph;P
