FR940713-1-00027 FR940713-1-00001 ( 7 ) Resume random time subgroup testing as set forth in actions to be taken when the process is in control. (B) Inspector action. The inspector shall monitor product and the effectiveness of process corrective actions by making spot-check observations to ensure that all program requirements are met. (iv) Off-line rework of product. (A) When the product has been identified as having been produced when the process was not in control, off-line product corrective actions must take place. All corrective actions such as identifying affected product, segregating product, and maintaining control through rework actions are the establishment's responsibility. (B) The inspector shall spot check the establishment's identification, segregation, and control of reworked product to ensure that program requirements are met. If the establishment fails in its responsibilities, the inspector shall identify, segregate, and retain affected product to prevent adulterated product from reaching consumers. (C) Reworked product must be tested by the establishment with a randomly selected subgroup test of the accumulated reworked lot. Before product is released, the subgroup test must be less than or equal to tolerance. If the subgroup test of the reworked lot exceeds tolerance, the lot must be reworked again before another subgroup test is selected. The following actions are required. ( 1 ) Establishment actions. The establishment shall: ( i ) Select the 10-bird subgroup from throughout the lot only after the total lot has been reworked. ( ii ) Conduct the 10-bird test. ( iii ) Release the lot if the subgroup test is less than or equal to tolerance. ( iv ) Identify and control the lot to be reworked again if the subgroup again exceeds tolerance. ( 2 ) Inspector actions. The inspector shall spot check the rework procedure and testing to ensure that establishment monitoring and production meet the requirements of the program. (3) Trimmable Lesion/Condition Testing and Actions. The trimmable lesion/condition test is designed to monitor the establishment's ability to remove trimmable lesions and conditions from inspected and passed carcasses. The trimmable lesions and conditions in this category include, but are not limited to, the definition of trimmable lesion/condition nonconformances (see Table 1). A 300-bird test is conducted on-line at the reinspection collection site at the end of the slaughter process. The test follows the same random schedule selected for FPS category testing and is conducted immediately following the FPS 10-bird test. Zero tolerance for trimmable lesion/condition nonconformances is met through testing and actions independent of the other FPS nonconformance categories. Trimmable lesions and conditions detected on carcasses through the FPS 10-bird test are removed before carcasses are returned to product flow. All product identified through the 300-bird on-line test as having trimmable lesions or conditions is retained, reworked, and retested before proceeding into commerce.
