FR940429-0-00202 FR940429-0-00015 Discussion: The Secretary believes that a four month period provides ample opportunity for an institution to accomplish the preparation and audit of fiscal year end financial statements. The reliability of any financial statement, as a fair representation of the institution's true financial condition, is largely dependent on the timeliness of the financial report. The Secretary believes that four months is reasonable and notes that many thousands of publicly traded corporations make timely submissions under the 3 month time frame set by the Securities and Exchange Commission for the submission of annual audited financial statements. The Secretary may, however, grant an extension on an individual basis where the institution demonstrates a sufficient basis for the extension. An institution that is required to report in accordance with OMB circular A&hyph;128 or A&hyph;133 under the Single Audit Act will continue to be governed by the reporting requirements specified under that act. Changes: The Secretary has added §668.15(e)(3) to show that audits submitted in accordance with the Single Audit Act meet the reporting requirements under this section. Section 668.16␣Standards of Administrative Capability Comments: Proposed changes to this section generated many comments. Some commenters asserted that many of the proposed standards go far beyond the issue of administrative capability. Some argued that the Secretary would exceed the authority of the HEA if the proposed revisions were retained in final regulations. Some commenters argued that some of the issues addressed in this section were subject to review by accrediting agencies or SPREs and inclusion in these standards would result in duplication of effort on the part of the Triad agencies and institutions. Some commenters believed the proposed standards to be needlessly detailed and complex. Some commenters stated that the proposed standards were too broad. Some commenters strongly opposed the clarification that institutions would be expected to comply with all the standards in order to be fully certified. Some commenters noted that there was no effort to weigh the relative importance of the various proposed elements of administrative capability and recommended that the section be revised to prioritize the various standards. Some commenters recommend that the elements of administrative capability in §668.16 be considered indicators, not absolutes. Some commenters requested that the Secretary provide more specificity in the regulations so that institutions would know precisely what was requested of them and when. Discussion: The Secretary appreciates the many thoughtful comments on the various aspects of regulating in the area of administrative capability. The Secretary found many of the constructive recommendations made by commenters to be useful in modifying some standards, crafting more precise language for other standards, and understanding why some proposed standards are unnecessary or should not be imposed at this time. Based on the comments, the Secretary has modified the proposed administrative standards significantly. While specific changes are discussed in detail in connection with the applicable section, the Secretary believes it may be useful to note some of the principles and rationale which guided the refinement of the administrative standards. The Secretary made many changes in sections where commenters pointed out that the same goal could be reached by requiring less detail or action by those institutions that demonstrated a history of compliance with regulations governing the Title IV, HEA programs and imposing more on requirements or restrictions on institutions that have either no track record or have a record of problems administering the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary also made adjustments in those proposed standards where there was overlap with the responsibilities of accrediting agencies or SPREs. The Secretary did not find persuasive the comments of those who urged that the elements be considered as indicators of administrative capability instead of absolutes, or that the standards be prioritized to indicate relative importance. Requiring that institutions meet each and every standard is critical to successful enforcement by the Secretary. If institutions were not required to do so, institutions could argue that they had substantially complied with the administrative capability standards and it would be difficult for the Department to enforce compliance. The Secretary has determined that only way to become a more effective gatekeeper is to select critical standards, put institutions on notice that they are responsible for adhering to them_by requiring that each standard of administrative capability be met_and taking action when they are not. Changes: None. Comments: The majority of commenters believed the Secretary should clarify that an institution must administer the Title IV, HEA programs in accordance with all statutory provisions, regulatory provisions, or applicable special arrangement, agreement or limitation. Two commenters believed the paragraph to be overly broad and unnecessary. Discussion: The Secretary appreciates the support of those commenters who understand the importance of making it clear that an institution is expected to comply with all applicable statutes, regulations, and any special agreement or arrangement into which the institution has entered with the Secretary. The Secretary agrees to clarify that special agreements, limitations, or arrangements are those entered into under statutes applicable to Title IV of the HEA. Changes: Section 668.16(a) is amended to clarify that an institution must administer the Title IV, HEA programs in accordance with all statutory provisions, regulatory provisions, or applicable special arrangements, agreements or limitations entered into under the authority of statutes applicable to Title IV of the HEA. A conforming change has been made to §668.14(b)(1). Comments: Many commenters supported the idea that the Department recognize quality training provided by State, regional, or national financial aid administrators or guaranty agencies as a factor in the determination of a designated individual's ability to administer the Title IV, HEA programs at an institution. One commenter noted that while attendance at training workshops may be beneficial, the workshops have no means of assessing whether attendees have achieved a given level of knowledge. While a few commenters acknowledged that the caliber of training varies and suggested a system that recognizes a variety of training options, no one responded to the Secretary's request for criteria to consider in approving non-Federal training. A majority of the commenters recommended that to be deemed a ``capable individual'' an aid administrator should be required to satisfy a training or certification requirement. Many commenters noted that a continuing education requirement might be appropriate, also. Some of the commenters who advocated a continuing education requirement recommended that such training be required to be reported to the Secretary or be attested to by the institution's auditor. Of those commenters who advocated a certification requirement, most opposed national certification because they felt it would be costly and might duplicate State certification efforts. However, two commenters did advocate national certification or credentials. A few commenters opposed certification and noted that one State had discarded certification several years ago; one commenter noted that the Secretary has not shown any evidence that State-certified training leads to or correlates with improved administration of the Title IV, HEA programs. One commenter who recommended that experience, training, or certification be required specified that the requirement should apply to ``at least'' the individual operationally in charge of the financial aid office.
