FR940523-1-00014 FR940523-1-00005 Application Process To apply for PAVE certification, eligible presort product developers would complete the order form shown as Exhibit A of this notice. Only one form would be necessary regardless of the number of presort categories being applied for. The completed form would be sent to the following address: Pave Certification Program, National Customer Support Center, United States Postal Service, 6060 Primacy Pky Ste 101, Memphis, TN 38188&hyph;0001. PAVE Test Files PAVE test files would vary in record quantity and ZIP Code variety depending on the presort category being tested. However, all the address records in the files would consist of randomly selected primary street records appropriate for the ZIP Code, ZIP+4 code range, or delivery point code numerics used (the correction character numerics would not be included). This use of error-free addresses would eliminate problems arising from presort products that incorporate some address verification mechanisms prior to sortation. The test files would be configured in the following media: •Magnetic Tape: _6250 BPI EBCDIC. _6250 BPI ASCII. _1600 BPI EBCDIC. _1600 BPI ASCII. •Cartridge: _IBM 3480 38K. •Diskette: _3&hyph;1/2 ’ ’, 1.44 Megabyte MS-DOS. _5&hyph;1/4 ’ ’, 1.2 Megabyte MS-DOS. •Physical Test Deck (for OCR software/hardware developers only) _Standard # 10 white window envelopes (4&hyph;1/8 ’ ’ x 9&hyph;1/2 ’ ’) made of 24 pound basis weight paper stock with inserts preprinted with OCR-readable addresses and POSTNET barcodes. Processing Test Files and Providing Documentation Once received, the developer would sort the test file(s) at its location with its presort product according to the presort category being examined. The developer would generate hard copy documentation to support the accurate sortation and rate application of the addresses on the test file. This would include such information as the following: •Documentation required to accompany the mailing statement (if applicable). •Tray/package audit trails. •Tray, sack, label generation (samples of each type). •Summary reports. •Parameter reports (parameters used to run the test file). In addition, the developer would generate (as an output of this test run) and submit for PAVE evaluation other forms of documentation available to users of the product, such as: •Mailing statement facsimiles (if mailing statement facsimiles are not generated by the software product, the manufacturer would have to provide rate qualification totals for PAVE certification). •Other postal forms facsimiles. At previous commenters' requests, the Postal Service considered the possibility of having developers send their products to the Postal Service for PAVE testing rather than providing test files to be processed at developers' locations. After initial review, this was felt to be inefficient or inappropriate for the following reasons: •Various operating platforms/systems might not be available for the Postal Service to run all the products. •Postal Service examiners would likely require in-depth training on many products in order to evaluate their capabilities properly. •Tests might become too subjective given examiner's varying knowledge of different products. •Security and liability issues might arise given the receipt and usage of presort software programs not otherwise available to the general public or in advance of their commercial release. Evaluating PAVE Tests Evaluating a returned test would consist of the Postal Service examining the required hard copy reports returned by the presort product developer and, for OCR evaluation, the physical test deck. This evaluation would focus primarily on proper sortation according to DMM standards but would also include an examination of the content and clarity of supporting documentation (required to accompany mailing statements), the content, format, and clarity of facsimile postal forms, as well as the accuracy of other computer-generated documentation submitted. To be PAVE-certified, the examination would have to conclude that the results were in complete accord with the DMM standards that were applicable at the time of the test. In many cases DMM presort standards allow for a range of correct answers to a specific sortation. As an example, the precise number of pieces to a tray or sack is not mandated by standard. Changing this parameter can create different mailings from the same address list and yet still satisfy DMM standards. For this reason, no one specific (or optimum) answer would be mandated under PAVE certification unless only one answer was correct on a specific issue. PAVE Certification PAVE certification would be valid for 1 year or until the next PAVE cycle. For those choosing to test during the normal test cycle, PAVE certification would be valid from January to January. Upon successful test evaluation, developers would be contacted by the Postal Service in writing and issued a PAVE certificate noting the specific software tested, the categories tested, the date of certification, and the date of certification expiration. A list of all PAVE-certified presort product developers would be published in the Postal Bulletin or a similar publication/listing as is currently used for CASS/MASS-certified listings. This list would include the developers name, product name, version numbers, certified presort categories, and a company contact name and telephone number. PAVE certification would not remain valid if a presort product developer made significant changes to its product within the 12 months following certification. Developers initiating such product changes would need to apply for certification for this new, changed product. A significant change would be a key alteration of the product's basic sortation logic; a major change in the content, layout, format, or availability of computer generated documentation or facsimiles, or a modification that results in significant differences in software operator use.
