FR941006-1-00128 FR941006-1-00016 (2) ``She (the mother) said that she did not think he (the victim) had taken very many pills at the time, and that she was unaware of the danger of iron overdose'' (Ref. 21, case report No. 20). (3) ``The mother stated that she called her sister and asked if iron tablets could hurt the victim. The mother stated, that her sister told her that the tablets were just vitamins and would not hurt the victim'' (Ref. 21, case report No. 37). (4) ``The mother thought at the most if her son had taken more than a couple of the vitamins he would simply throw up and that would be the end of it. She had no idea what a dangerous situation her child was in'' (Ref. 22, case report No. 62). (5) ``Later in the day (after child had ingested 30&hyph;40 iron tablets) the mother went to the pharmacy to get a prescription for the daughter's ear infection and she asked the pharmacist about the possible ingestion of iron tablets'' (Ref. 22, case report No. 73). In addition, as stated above, the data presented by the AG petition show that few, if any, of the commonly available iron-containing products have carried label statements using terms such as ``WARNING'' or ``CAUTION.'' Because these terms are universally accepted as connoting danger, they could be expected to promote awareness among adults of the danger that these products pose to young children and of the importance of preventing children from gaining access to these products. Therefore, because the data demonstrate that: (1) Iron-containing products of all types can cause injury or death when small children gain access to them, (2) more than 2,000 poisonings have occurred over approximately 7 years and continue to occur, (3) a small child is at risk of injury any time he or she gains unlimited access to any iron-containing product, and (4) many adults are not aware of the potential for serious harm posed by iron-containing products, FDA tentatively concludes that it should require label warning statements for iron-containing products to ensure that adults are fully informed as to the potential of these products to cause devastating outcomes and, thus, to promote the safe handling and storage of these products. b. FDA's legal authority to require label warning statements on foods. FDA's authority to require label warning statements on food products derives from sections 201(n), 403(a)(1), and 701(a) of the act (21 U.S.C. 321(n), 343(a)(1), and 371(a)). Under section 403(a)(1) of the act, a food is misbranded if its labeling is false or misleading in any particular. Section 201(n) of the act states, ``If an article (e.g., a food product) is alleged to be misbranded because the labeling or advertising is misleading, then in determining whether the labeling or advertising is misleading there shall be taken into account (among other things) not only representations made or suggested by statement, word, design, device, or any combination thereof, but also the extent to which the labeling or advertising fails to reveal facts material in the light of such representations or material with respect to consequences which may result from the use of the article to which the labeling or advertising relates under the conditions of use prescribed in the labeling or advertising thereof or under such conditions of use as are customary or usual.'' These statutory provisions, combined with section 701(a) of the act, which grants the agency authority to promulgate regulations for the efficient enforcement of the act, clearly authorize FDA to promulgate a regulation designed to ensure that persons using iron-containing multi-vitamin/mineral products and iron supplements will receive information that is material with respect to consequences that may result from the use of the product under its labeled conditions or under conditions that are customary or usual. FDA requires label warning statements on certain types of protein products represented for use in reducing weight. The agency adopted this requirement in response to a series of sudden deaths of individuals, mostly young women, who consumed high protein, very low calorie diets (ยง101.70(d)(21 CFR 101.17(d)). Use of such diets was intended to achieve rapid weight loss. As a result of these deaths, which occurred in the late 1970's, FDA promulgated the warning requirement for such products to ensure that users of these products are aware of the potential adverse consequences of very low calorie protein diets, to indicate the necessity for appropriate medical supervision for persons on such diets, and to identify individuals, i.e., infants, children, or pregnant or nursing women, who should not use these products (49 FR 13679, April 6, 1984).
