FR940505-1-00326 FR940505-1-00012 Standard industrial code (SIC) is the classification number assigned to a facility based on its primary economic activity as specified in the ``Standard Industrial Classification Manual,'' published by the Office of Management and Budget, dated 1987. Stationary emission source and Stationary source mean an emission source which is not self-propelled. Throughput means a measure of activity including, but not limited to: weight of glass pulled for a glass melting furnace, weight of clinker for cement kilns, amount of nitric acid used in metal stripping processes, amount of nitric acid manufactured for nitric acid manufacturing processes, weight of aluminum produced for aluminum production and/or fuel usage for all other sources as reported. (4) Test Methods and Procedures. (i) Emissions monitoring and testing. Major sources as defined under the CAA shall install CEMS that meet the quality assurance and quality control requirements of appendix A of the Enhanced Monitoring Program. 27 The test methods and procedures found in ยง52.2961(m), (n), (o), (u), and (v) apply to all NO X emission sources defined in paragraph (b) of this section. EPA-approved calculational methods shall be used in conjunction with the appropriate test methods found in ยง52.2961 to determine mass emissions if conversion from a rate-based emissions result to a mass-based emissions result is necessary. [See additional discussion in section III.C.5.a.(5)(c) of the Supplementary Information section.] 27 Proposed rule published in the Federal Register of October 22, 1993 (58 FR 54648). (ii) Baseline Emissions. Unless otherwise specified in paragraph (b) of this section, baseline NO X emissions shall be calculated for each emissions source in accordance with one of the procedures specified below: (A) If daily emissions records which are consistent with the emission inventory data submitted by the State for the control area on November 15, 1992 are available for the calendar years 1989 and 1990, baseline emissions shall be based on the median value of daily emissions recorded for the two-year period. (B) If daily emissions records are not available for the calendar years 1989 and 1990 or are inconsistent with the emission inventory data submitted by the State for the control area on November 15, 1992 or were not submitted, baseline emissions shall be based on the average daily emissions value calculated for the two-year period. The average daily emissions value shall be calculated by dividing emissions for the two-year period by the operating or usage time for the two-year period. If emissions data are not available, emissions associated with fuel usage may be estimated from purchase records. The operating or usage time for the two-year period shall be based on one of the criteria specified as follows: (1) The number of days specified in a federally enforceable permit if the emissions source operated under the conditions of a federally enforceable permit which restricted operating times during the two-year period, (2) The average number of days that the emissions source was operated or used over the two-year period if documentation is available to support the number, or (3) 730 days if documentation of the number of days that the emissions source was operated or used over the two-year period is not available. (iii) Implementation Year Monthly Baseline Emissions. Baseline emissions as defined in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section shall be adjusted prior to the implementation year (2001) of the FIP cap program in the control area as follows: (A) The reductions that are projected to occur as a result of both SIP and FIP measures between 1990 and 2001 shall be subtracted from the baseline emissions. This value shall be defined as the reduced daily baseline emissions and is denoted in pounds of NO X /day. (B) The reduced daily baseline emissions shall be annualized by multiplying the daily value by 365. This value shall be defined as the reduced annual baseline emissions and is denoted in pounds of NO X /year. (C) The reduced annual baseline emissions shall be converted into a monthly value by dividing by 12. This value shall be defined as the implementation year monthly baseline. (5) Enforcement.
