FR940830-2-00021 FR940830-2-00009 D. The Secretary's Determination The Secretary has carefully reviewed the plan submitted by Idaho and other relevant documentation. Based upon that review, the Secretary has determined that the conditions under section 456 of GEPA have been met. These determinations are based upon the best information available to the Secretary at the present time. If this information is not accurate or complete, the Secretary is not precluded from taking appropriate administrative action at a later date. In finding that the conditions of section 456 of GEPA have been met, the Secretary makes no determination concerning any pending audit recommendations or final audit determinations. E. Notice of the Secretary's Intent to Enter into a Grantback Arrangement Section 456(d) of GEPA requires that, at least 30 days before entering into an arrangement to award funds under a grantback, the Secretary must publish in the Federal Register a notice of intent to do so, and the terms and conditions under which the payment will be made. In accordance with section 456(d) of GEPA, notice is hereby given that the Secretary intends to make funds available to the Idaho State Division of Vocational Education under a grantback arrangement. The grantback award would be in the amount of $86,250 which is 75 percent_the maximum percentage authorized by the statute_of the principal recovered to date by the Department as a result of the final audit determination and the settlement in this matter. F. Terms and Conditions Under Which Payments Under a Grantback Arrangement Would Be Made Idaho agrees to comply with the following terms and conditions under which payment under a grantback arrangement would be made: (1) Idaho will expend the funds awarded under the grantback in accordance with_ (a) All applicable statutory and regulatory requirements; (b) The plan that was submitted and any amendments in that plan that are approved in advance of the grantback by the Secretary; and (c) The budget that was submitted with the plan and any amendments to the budget that are approved in advance of the grantback by the Secretary. (2) All funds received under the grantback arrangement must be obligated by September 30, 1994, in accordance with section 456(c) of GEPA and Idaho's plan. (3) Idaho will, no later than January 1, 1995, submit a report to the Secretary which_ (a) Indicates that the funds awarded under the grantback have been spent in accordance with the proposed plan and approved budget; and (b) Describes the results and effectiveness of the project for which the funds were spent. (4) Separate accounting records must be maintained documenting the expenditures of funds awarded under the grantback arrangement. Dated: August 24, 1994. Patricia W. McNeil, Acting Assistant Secretary for Vocational and Adult Education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.048, Basic State Grants for Vocational Education) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21434 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
