FR940804-2-00151 FR940804-2-00083 Identification of seller Identification of buyer Trade date CUSIP number of security traded Trade type ( e.g., syndicate takedown, new issue or regular way) Par value (quantity) traded Price, in one of the following formats: Dollar price of security ``Final money'' (total dollar amount of the transaction) Yield or basis of concession, if any Settlement date, if not ``regular way'' As noted above, dealers already are required to provide this information to a registered clearing agency as part of the automated comparison process required under rule G&hyph;12(f)(i). Currently, the accrued interest is an optional data element for the purpose of the automated comparison process, ie., it can be submitted, but is not required to match or compare a transaction. However, accrued interest will be a mandatory submission for the purpose of transaction reporting pursuant to the Rule G&hyph;14 Transaction Reporting Procedures. This requirement is necessary for accurate computation of dollar price in certain circumstances (see ``Price Computation,'' infra ). Timing. In the current comparison cycle, dealers submit required information to a registered clearing agency by the evening of trade date (``T''). NSCC, as the central facilities provider for the comparison system, accepts this submitted data, compares the submissions of the parties on the night of T and reports the results back to the dealers on T+1. Trades that are successfully compared on T will be the basis of the daily report produced by the Board's proposed program. Accordingly, trades that are not successfully compared on the night of the trade will not be subject to reporting on T+1. 9 As an indication of the reliability of the data in the daily report, the percentage of submissions that were successfully compared (``comparison rate'') will be shown in each day's report. 10 9 It was determined to use data for compared trades rather than data for both compared and uncompared trades because the compared data is more reliable than uncompared data. If uncompared data were reported, this might cause the daily report to include erroneous prices or to include duplicate trades. Uncompared submissions eventually are resolved as trades or as mistakes. Those that are resolved as trades will be entered in the transaction reporting database after T+1 and thus will be made available to the enforcement agencies. 10 The Board has previously stated its concern about the need to increase the comparison rate to obtain improvements as a prerequisite to implementing T+3 settlement for municipal securities. The Daily Report. The daily report will be provided to subscribers for public use by approximately 6:00 a.m. on T+1. This will make the data available prior to the beginning of trading activity. The daily report will be available both as a computer-readable file and as a printed report. The computer-readable file will be electronically disseminated by an automated interface between Board computers and those of subscribers or by magnetic tape delivered by a courier service. The Daily Report. The daily report will include aggregate information for each day of trade, as follows:
