FR941005-2-00070 FR941005-2-00043 For additional information, please contact the appropriate Regional EJ Coordinator listed at the end of this notice. Working Definitions • Affected communities _individuals or groups of individuals which are subject to an actual or potential health, economic, or environmental threat arising from, or which arose from, polluting source(s), or proposed polluting source(s). An example of affected parties include individuals who live near polluting sources and whose health is or may be endangered or whose economic interest are directly threatened or harmed. • Education agency _any education agency as defined in section 198 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 3381) and shall include any tribal education agency. • Environmental justice _refer to definition provided on page 3. • Geographic protection _efforts to manage environmental problems that are specific to the characteristics of a geographic region. • Low-income community _a population that is classified by the U.S. Bureau of the Census as having an aggregated mean income level for a family of four that correlates to $13,359, adjusted through the poverty index using a standard of living percentage change where applicable, and whose composition is at least 25% of the total population of a defined area or jurisdiction. • Non-profit organization _an organization, association, or institution described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, which is exempt from taxation pursuant to the provisions of section 501(a) of such Code. • People of color community _a population that is classified by the U.S. Bureau of the Census as African American, Hispanic American, Asian and Pacific American, American Indian, Eskimo, Aleut and other non-white persons, whose composition is at least 25% of the total population of a defined area or jurisdiction. • Pollution prevention _the reduction or elimination of pollutants through increased efficiency in the use of raw materials, energy water, or other resources; or the protection of natural resources by conservation. Pollution prevention measures may reduce the amount of pollutants released into the environment as well as the hazards to public health and the environment from such releases. • Risk reduction _the process of estimating and comparing the dimensions and characteristics of risks, and determining the feasibility and costs of reducing them, to determine which future actions to take to achieve the greatest reduction of the most serious threats. • Tribe _all federally recognized American Indian tribes (including ``Alaskan Native Villages''), pueblos, and rancherios. Although, as used in this notice, the term tribe refers to only ``federally recognized'' indigenous peoples, ``state recognized'' indigenous peoples are able to apply for grants as ``other eligible grass-roots organizations'' as long as they are incorporated. Jonathan Z. Cannon, Assistant Administrator, Office of Administration and Resources Management.
