FR940203-2-00040 FR940203-2-00017 This guidance concerns application of the Section 404(b)(1) Guidelines to projects with minor impacts. Projects which may cause more than minor impacts on the aquatic environment, either individually or cumulatively, should be subjected to a proportionately more detailed level of analysis to determine compliance or noncompliance with the Guidelines. Projects which cause substantial impacts, in particular, must be thoroughly evaluated through the standard permit evaluation process to determine compliance with all provisions of the Guidelines. b. Relationship Between the Scope of Analysis and the Scope/Cost of the Proposed Project The Guidelines provide the Corps and EPA with discretion for determining the necessary level of analysis to support a conclusion as to whether or not an alternative is practicable. Practicable alternatives are those alternatives that are ``available and capable of being done after taking into consideration cost, existing technology, and logistics in light of overall project purposes.'' 40 CFR 230.10(a)(2). The preamble to the Guidelines provides clarification on how cost is to be considered in the determination of practicability: Our intent is to consider those alternatives which are reasonable in terms of the overall scope/cost of the proposed project. The term economic [for which the term ``cost'' was substituted in the final rule] might be construed to include consideration of the applicant's financial standing, or investment, or market share, a cumbersome inquiry which is not necessarily material to the objectives of the Guidelines. Guidelines Preamble, ``Alternatives'', 45 FR 85339 (December 24, 1980) (emphasis added). Therefore, the level of analysis required for determining which alternatives are practicable will vary depending on the type of project proposed. The determination of what constitutes an unreasonable expense should generally consider whether the projected cost is substantially greater than the costs normally associated with the particular type of project. Generally, as the scope/cost of the project increases, the level of analysis should also increase. To the extent the Corps obtains information on the costs associated with the project, such information may be considered when making a determination of what constitutes an unreasonable expense. The preamble to the Guidelines also states that ``[i]f an alleged alternative is unreasonably expensive to the applicant, the alternative is not `practicable.''' Guidelines Preamble, ``Economic Factors'', 45 FR 85343 (December 24, 1980). Therefore, to the extent that individual homeowners and small businesses may typically be associated with small projects with minor impacts, the nature of the applicant may also be a relevant consideration in determining what constitutes a practicable alternative. It is important to emphasize, however, that it is not a particular applicant's financial standing that is the primary consideration for determining practicability, but rather characteristics of the project and what constitutes a reasonable expense for these projects that are most relevant to practicability determinations. 4. The burden of proof to demonstrate compliance with the Guidelines rests with the applicant; where insufficient information is provided to determine compliance, the Guidelines require that no permit be issued. 40 CFR 230.12(a)(3)(iv). 5. A reasonable, common sense approach in applying the requirements of the Guidelines' alternatives analysis is fully consistent with sound environmental protection. The Guidelines clearly contemplate that reasonable discretion should be applied based on the nature of the aquatic resource and potential impacts of a proposed activity in determining compliance with the alternatives test. Such an approach encourages effective decisionmaking and fosters a better understanding and enhanced confidence in the Section 404 program. 6. This guidance is consistent with the February 6, 1990 ``Memorandum of Agreement Between the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of the Army Concerning the Determination of Mitigation under the Clean Water Act Section 404(b)(1) Guidelines.'' Signed: August 23, 1993. Robert H. Wayland, III, Director, Office of Wetlands, Oceans, and Watersheds, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Michael L. Davis, Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), Department of the Army. Memorandum to the Field Subject: Establishment and Use of Wetland Mitigation Banks in the Clean Water Act Section 404 (Regulatory Program 1. This memorandum provides general guidelines for the establishment and use of wetland mitigation banks in the Clean Water Act Section 404 regulatory program. This memorandum serves as interim guidance pending completion of Phase I by the Corps of Engineer's Institute for Water Resources study on wetland mitigation banking, 2 at which time this guidance will be reviewed and any appropriate revisions will be incorporated into final guidelines. 2 The Corps of Engineers Institute for Water Resources, under the authority of Section 307(d) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1990, is undertaking a comprehensive two-year review and evaluation of wetland mitigation banking to assist in the development of a national policy on this issue. The interim summary report documenting the results of the first phase of the study is scheduled for completion in the fall of 1993. 2. For purposes of this guidance, wetland mitigation banking refers to the restoration, creation, enhancement, and, in exceptional circumstances, preservation of wetlands or other aquatic habitats expressly for the purpose of providing compensatory mitigation in advance of discharges into wetlands permitted under the Section 404 regulatory program. Wetland mitigation banks can have several advantages over individual mitigation projects, some of which are listed below: (a) Compensatory mitigation can be implemented and functioning in advance of project impacts, thereby reducing temporal losses of wetland functions and uncertainty over whether the mitigation will be successful in offsetting wetland losses. (b) It may be more ecologically advantageous for maintaining the integrity of the aquatic ecosystem to consolidate compensatory mitigation for impacts to many smaller, isolated or fragmented habitats into a single large parcel or contiguous parcels.
