FR941230-0-00055 FR941230-0-00011 33 CFR Part 151 [CGD 94&hyph;003] RIN 2115&hyph;AE76 Ballast Water Management for Vessels Entering the Hudson River AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is issuing regulations to implement an amendment to the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 (the Act). The regulations require ballast water management practices for each vessel entering the Hudson River, north of the George Washington Bridge, after operating on waters beyond the Exclusive Economic Zone. These rules will help to prevent the additional introduction of nonindigenous aquatic nuisance species into the Great Lakes through the ballast water of vessels operating on the Hudson River. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 30, 1995. ADDRESSES: Unless otherwise indicated, documents referred to in this preamble are available for inspection or copying at the office of the Executive Secretary, Marine Safety Council (G&hyph;LRA/3406), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street SW., room 3406, Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001 between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The telephone number is (202) 267&hyph;1477. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant Jonathan C. Burton, Project Manager, Marine Environmental Protection Division (G&hyph;MEP&hyph;1), (202) 267&hyph;6714. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Lieutenant Jonathan C. Burton, Project Manager, Marine Environmental Protection Division, and Ms. Helen Boutrous, Project Counsel, Office of Chief Counsel. Regulatory History On June 21, 1994, the Coast Guard published a notice of proposed rulemaking entitled ``Ballast Water Management for Vessels Entering the Hudson River'' in the Federal Register (59 FR 31959). The Coast Guard received no letters commenting on the proposal. No public hearing was requested, and none was held. Background and Purpose Historical records suggest that over 100 non-native species have been introduced into the Great Lakes and its tributaries. The primary medium for their introduction is believed to be ballast water from vessels. Many vessels take on water in foreign harbors or in the near shore waters which are often rich in living organisms. When these vessels arrive to take on cargo, they discharge ballast water and any organisms contained in the water enter the local ecosystem. While many of these species do not survive in this new environment, those that do quickly adapt, and in some instances thrive, particularly where there are no natural predators. The Zebra Mussel provides a good example of the harmful effects of a newly introduced species. In 1988, this small bivalve mollusk native to the Black, Azov, and Caspian Seas in the Ukraine and southern Russia, was discovered in the Western Basin of Lake Erie. Scientists believe that it was introduced in 1986 by the discharge of freshwater ballast of a vessel from Northern Europe. Hundreds of millions of Zebra Mussels can now be found on and in pipes, screens, conduits, boat bottoms, floats, buoys, rocks, submerged objects, and native animals and plants. As a filter feeding organism, it removes vast quantities of microscopic organisms from the water, the same organisms that fish larvae and young fish rely upon for their food supply. It also completely covers rocks and other substances normally used by native fish for laying eggs. Since its introduction into the Great Lakes the Zebra Mussel has reproduced and spread throughout the Great Lakes and its tributaries and has been found as far south as New Orleans.
