FR940812-2-00206 FR940812-2-00074 [Release No. IC&hyph;20447; 812&hyph;8500] Defined Asset Funds_Equity Income Fund, et al.; Notice of Application August 5, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: Defined Asset Funds_Equity Income Fund, and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (``Merrill Lynch''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under sections 6(c) and 17(b) from section 17(a). SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants request an order to permit a terminating series of a unit investment trust to sell portfolio securities to a new series of the trust. FILING DATE: The application was filed on July 26, 1993 and amended July 15, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on August 30, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's request, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Unit Investment Trusts, P.O. Box 9051, Princeton, NJ 08543&hyph;9051, Attn: Teresa Koncick, Esq. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. Defined Asset Funds_Equity Income Fund, a unit investment trust registered under the Act, consists of a number of series (each a ``Series'') that include each of the Select Ten Series. All of the Series currently outstanding are Select Ten Series. Merrill Lynch is the agent for the sponsors of the Series. Applicants request that the relief sought herein apply to future Series for which Merrill Lynch serves as agent for the sponsors. 2. The investment objective of each Select Ten Series is to seek a greater total return than the stocks comprising an entire related published index ( e.g., the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the Hang Seng Index, or the Financial Times Industrial Ordinary Share Index) (each an ``Index''). Certain Series of the Select Ten Series acquire approximately equal values of the ten stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average having the highest dividend yields as of a specified date and holds those stocks for approximately one year (each a ``Dow Series''). The other Select Ten Series create their portfolios in a similar manner using securities that are included in other Indexes. The sponsors of the Series intend that, as each Select Ten Series terminates, a new Series based on the appropriate Index will be offered for the next year. 3. Each Series has a contemplated date (a ``Rollover Date'') on which holders of units in that Series (a ``Rollover Series'') may at their option redeem their units in the Rollover Series and receive in return units of a subsequent Series of the same type (a ``New Series'') which is created on or about the Rollover Date, and has a portfolio which contains securities (``Qualified Securities'') which are (i) actively traded ( i.e., have had an average daily trading volume in the preceding six months of at least 500 shares equal in value to at least 25,000 United States dollars) on an average (a ``Qualified Exchange'') which is either (a) A national securities exchange which meets the qualifications of section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or (b) a foreign securities exchange that meets the qualifications set out in the proposed amendment to rule 12d3&hyph;1(d)(6) under the Act as proposed by the Commission and that releases daily closing prices, and (ii) included in an Index.
