FR940104-1-00006 FR940104-1-00001 (iv) The pounds of other solids received times the other solids price for the month; (v) Less any payment made pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and (vi) Less proper authorized deductions. (e) In making payments for producer milk pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(2) of this section, each handler shall furnish each producer or cooperative association to whom such payment is made a supporting statement in such form that it may be retained by the recipient. Such statement shall show: (1) The month and the identity of the producer; (2) The daily and total pounds of milk for each producer; (3) The total pounds of butterfat contained in the producer's milk; (4) The total pounds of protein contained in the producer's milk; (5) The total pounds of other solids contained in the producer's milk; (6) The minimum rate or rates (for total pounds and components) at which payment to the producer is required pursuant to the order; (7) The rate that is used in making the payment if such rate is other than the applicable minimum rate; (8) The amount, or the rate per hundredweight, or rate per pound of component, and nature of each deduction claimed by the handler; and (9) The net amount of payment to such producer or cooperative association. Revise §1030.74 to read as follows: §1030.74 Butterfat differential. The butterfat differential shall be .138 times the butter price less .0028 times the average price per hundredweight, at test, for manufacturing grade milk, f.o.b. plants in Minnesota and Wisconsin, as reported by the Department for the month. The butter price means the simple average for the month of the daily prices per pound of Grade A (92 score) butter. The prices used shall be those of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as reported and published weekly by the Dairy Division, Agricultural Marketing Service. The average shall be computed by the Director of the Dairy Division, using the price reported each week as the daily price for that day and for each following day until the next price is reported. Proposed by Land O' Lakes, Inc.: Proposal No. 2 Adopt Proposal Number 1 for the Nebraska-Western Iowa and Eastern South Dakota Federal milk orders (Orders 65 and 76) in addition to the three orders included in Proposal No. 1. Proposal No. 3 In §1030.73, add a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: §1030.73 Payments to producers and to cooperative associations. * * * * * (e) In making payments to producers, deductions may be made to individual producers for variations in quality or volume of milk relative to an announced norm of up to 10 percent, provided that such deductions are offset by premiums paid to other individual producers of equal or greater value. Proposed by Central Milk Producers Cooperative and supported by Mid-America Dairymen, Inc., and Associated Milk Producers, Inc.: Proposal No. 4 Adopt Proposal No. 2 with the following modifications: a. Compute the protein price by multiplying the barrel cheddar cheese price, instead of the cheddar cheese price for 40-pound blocks, by 1.32, and eliminate the plus adjustment based on the whey protein concentrate price. b. Include an adjustment for the somatic cell count of producer milk and for milk used in Classes II, III, and III&hyph;A. Class I milk would not have a somatic cell adjustment. The adjustment for somatic cells would be on a hundredweight basis and would be a positive adjustment beginning with a somatic cell count of 500,000, increasing as the somatic cell count approaches zero. No adjustment would be applied for somatic cell counts greater than 500,000. The somatic cell adjustment would be computed by subtracting the actual somatic cell count (in thousands) from 500 and multiplying by .0005 times the barrel cheese price. Formula: Somatic cell adjustment=(500^SCC)×(.0005×CP) SCC=actual somatic cell count in thousands CP^National Cheese Exchange monthly average barrel cheese price. Proposed by Kraft General Foods: Proposal No. 5 Adjust the protein or other component price on the basis of somatic cell content (and any other relevant quality characteristic) of producer milk. Proposed by Wagner's Weyauwega Milk Products, Inc.: Proposal No. 6 Modify Proposal No. 4 to include negative somatic cell adjustments for somatic cell levels between 500,000 and 750,000. Proposed by the Wisconsin Cheese Makers Association: Proposal No. 7 Adopt Proposal No. 4 with the following modifications: a. Apply the somatic cell adjustment contained in Proposal No. 4 to all milk, including Class I.
