FR940607-0-00076 FR940607-0-00017 COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY 12 CFR Chapter I Authority and Issuance For the reasons set out in the joint preamble, part 34 of chapter I of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as set forth below: PART 34_REAL ESTATE LENDING AND APPRAISALS 1. The authority citation for part 34 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1 et seq., 93a, 371, 1701j-3, 1828(o), and 3331 et seq. 2. In ยง34.42, existing paragraphs (d) through (l) are redesignated as paragraphs (e) through (m), respectively, and a new paragraph (d) is added to read as follows: ยง34.42 Definitions. * * * * * (d) Business loan means a loan or extension of credit to any corporation, general or limited partnership, business trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, sole proprietorship, or other business entity. * * * * * 3. In ยง34.43, paragraph (a) is revised, paragraphs (b) through (d) are redesignated as paragraphs (d) through (f), respectively, and new paragraphs (b) and (c) are added to read as follows: ยง34.43 Appraisals required; transactions requiring a State certified or licensed appraiser. (a) Appraisals required. An appraisal performed by a State certified or licensed appraiser is required for all real estate-related financial transactions except those in which: (1) The transaction value is $250,000 or less; (2) A lien on real estate has been taken as collateral in an abundance of caution; (3) The transaction is not secured by real estate; (4) A lien on real estate has been taken for purposes other than the real estate's value; (5) The transaction is a business loan that: (i) Has a transaction value of $1 million or less; and (ii) Is not dependent on the sale of, or rental income derived from, real estate as the primary source of repayment; (6) A lease of real estate is entered into, unless the lease is the economic equivalent of a purchase or sale of the leased real estate; (7) The transaction involves an existing extension of credit at the lending institution, provided that: (i) There has been no obvious and material change in market conditions or physical aspects of the property that threatens the adequacy of the institution's real estate collateral protection after the transaction, even with the advancement of new monies; or (ii) There is no advancement of new monies, other than funds necessary to cover reasonable closing costs; (8) The transaction involves the purchase, sale, investment in, exchange of, or extension of credit secured by, a loan or interest in a loan, pooled loans, or interests in real property, including mortgaged-backed securities, and each loan or interest in a loan, pooled loan, or real property interest met OCC regulatory requirements for appraisals at the time of origination; (9) The transaction is wholly or partially insured or guaranteed by a United States government agency or United States government sponsored agency; (10) The transaction either: (i) Qualifies for sale to a United States government agency or United States government sponsored agency; or (ii) Involves a residential real estate transaction in which the appraisal conforms to the Federal National Mortgage Association or Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation appraisal standards applicable to that category of real estate; (11) The regulated institution is acting in a fiduciary capacity and is not required to obtain an appraisal under other law; or (12) The OCC determines that the services of an appraiser are not necessary in order to protect Federal financial and public policy interests in real estate-related financial transactions or to protect the safety and soundness of the institution. (b) Evaluations required. For a transaction that does not require the services of a State certified or licensed appraiser under paragraph (a)(1), (a)(5) or (a)(7) of this section, the institution shall obtain an appropriate evaluation of real property collateral that is consistent with safe and sound banking practices. (c) Appraisals to address safety and soundness concerns. The OCC reserves the right to require an appraisal under this subpart whenever the agency believes it is necessary to address safety and soundness concerns. * * * * *
