FR940428-2-00161 FR940428-2-00072 The test methods to follow are those recommended by EPA for the particular discharge in: Weber, C.I. et al., 1989, Short Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Water to Freshwater Organisms, Second Edition. Office of Research and Development, Cincinnati, OH, EPA&hyph;600/4&hyph;89/001; Peltier, W., and Weber, C.I., 1985. Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine Organisms, Third Edition. Office of Research and Development, Cincinnati, OH. EPA/600/4&hyph;85/013; Weber, C.I. et al., 1988. Short Term Methods for Estimating the Chronic Toxicity of Effluents and Receiving Waters to Marine and Estuarine Organisms, Office of Research and Development, Cincinnati, OH. EPA&hyph;600/4&hyph;87/028. B. State Permit Conditions 1. The Permittee shall comply with the following conditions which are included as State Certification requirements: a. The pH for class B waters shall be 6.5&hyph;8.0 S.U. or as naturally occurs in the receiving water. The 6.5&hyph;8.0 S.U. range must be achieved in the final effluent unless the permittee can demonstrate to the Division that: (1) The range should be widened due to naturally occurring conditions in the receiving water or (2) the naturally occurring source water pH is unaltered by the permittees operations. The scope of any demonstration project must receive prior approval from the Division. In no case shall the above procedure result in pH limits less restrictive than any applicable federal effluent limitation guidelines. 2. This NPDES Discharge Permit is issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under Federal and State law. Upon final issuance by the EPA, the New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, Water Supply and Pollution Control Division may adopt this Permit, including all terms and conditions, as a state permit pursuant to RSA 485&hyph;A:13. Each Agency shall have the independent right to enforce the terms and conditions of this Permit. Any modification, suspension or revocation of this Permit shall be effective only with respect to the Agency taking such action, and shall not affect the validity or status of the Permit as issued by the other Agency, unless and until each Agency has concurred in writing with such modification, suspension or revocation. In the event any portion of this Permit is declared invalid, illegal or otherwise in violation of State law, such permit shall remain in full force and effect under Federal law as an NPDES Permit issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In the event this Permit is declared invalid, illegal or otherwise issued in violation of Federal law, this Permit, if adopted as a state permit, shall remain in full force and effect under State law as a Permit issued by the State of New Hampshire. C. Common Elements for All Permits: Monitoring and Reporting Requirements Maine and Massachusetts: Monitoring results obtained during the previous 6 months shall be summarized for each quarter and reported on separate Discharge Monitoring Report Form(s) postmarked no later than the 15th day of the month following the completed reporting period. The reports are due on the 15th day of January and July. The first report may include less than 6 months information. New Hampshire: Monitoring results obtained during the previous month shall be summarized for each month and reported on separate Discharge Monitoring Report Form(s) postmarked no later than the 15th day of the month following the completed reporting period. The reports are due on the 15th day of the month following the reporting period. Signed copies of these, and all other reports required herein, shall be submitted to the Director and the appropriate State at the following addresses: 1. EPA Shall Receive a Copy of All Reports Required Herein U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, NPDES Program Operations Section, Post Office Box 8127, Boston, MA 02114 2. Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection a. The Regional offices wherein the discharge occurs, shall receive a copy of all reports required herein: Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Water Pollution Control, Western Regional Office, Post Office Box 2410, Springfield, MA 01101 Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Water Pollution Control, Southeastern Regional Office, 20 Riverside Drive, Lakeville, MA 02347 Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Water Pollution Control, Northeastern Regional Office, 10 Commerce Way, Woburn, MA 01801 Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Water Pollution Control, Central Regional Office, 75 Grove Street, Worcester, MA 01605 b. All notifications and reports required by this permit shall also be submitted to the State at: Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, Office of Watershed Management, P.O. Box 116, North Grafton, MA 01536 3. Maine Department of Environmental Protection Signed copies of all reports required by this permit shall be sent to the State at: Maine Department of Environmental Protection, Operation and Maintenance Division, State House, Station 17, Augusta, ME 04333 4. New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services Signed copies of all reports required by this permit shall be sent to the State at: New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, Permits and Compliance Section, P.O. Box 95, 6 Hazen Drive, Concord, New Hampshire 03302&hyph;0095 D. Additional General Permit Conditions 1. Notification Requirements a. Written notification of commencement of operations, including the legal name and address of the owner and operator and the locations, number and type of facilities and/or operations covered shall be submitted: (1) For existing discharges within 180 days after the effective date of this permit, by operators whose facilities and/or operations are discharging into the general permit area on the effective date of the permit; or
