FR940613-1-00027 FR940613-1-00003 5. Depositor Voting/Running Proxies Several commenters stated that the FDIC should not provide ``voting rights'' to depositors in connection with conversions of mutual savings banks in states that do not provide such voting rights. One state bank asserted that ``voting rights should be left to state law. To impose some sort of depositor approval requirement in a state that does not have depositor voting could lead to expanded ownership claims by depositors that could operate to the detriment of mutuals.'' One state banking and thrift regulator (of a state that does not provide a depositor voting right) asserted that ``any FDIC requirement of a depositor vote in a mutual-to-stock conversion *␣*␣* [would be] wholly unsupported by any expressly preemptive federal statute.'' Many banks in Massachusetts commented that any depositor voting right requirements imposed by the FDIC would put undue pressure on mutuals in that state to convert to stock ownership. An individual noted that general proxies should be prohibited and that all conversions should be subject to a special proxy, or proxies should be entirely eliminated in favor of a majority-rules scheme. A national banking and thrift industry trade group noted that the use of general proxies is reasonable under the OTS' rules. 6. Management Benefits Many of the commenters discussed the issue of management benefits in conversions. Several of them stated that insiders should share in the benefits of conversions because the insiders managed the institution in a safe-and-sound manner. One state thrift regulator (and other commenters) suggested that MRPs be based on the size of the institution and not on ``straight across-the-board percentages.'' One national banking and thrift industry trade group noted that ``avoiding the use of across-the-board percentages for MRPs and tailoring their availability more to the size of the institution and their specific business plan objectives and needs would be a reasonable approach.'' One mutual savings bank noted that MRPs, stock option plans and employee stock ownership plans ``all encourage more stock ownership and cement an identity among outside shareholders and those who run and work for the company.'' It also noted that OTS rules are workable in this regard and should be adopted by the FDIC. Another savings association commented that conversions should not be permitted where there is excessive compensation for insiders, but ``without benefits to insiders there will be no conversions.'' An individual commented that the FDIC should not regulate director remuneration in conversions of healthy mutuals because those conversions do not place the insurance fund at risk and shareholders' votes are dispositive under the ``corporate waste'' doctrine. A law firm, commenting on behalf of a state thrift industry trade group, also noted that compensation benefits are not a safety-and-soundness concern if the institution meets the applicable capital requirements. In addition, it stated that a ``uniformity of benefits between state- and OTS-regulated conversions'' is necessary to assure the end of ``regulatory arbitrage.'' A state bank and thrift regulator (and several other commenters) suggested that the FDIC and OTS publish joint MRP guidelines permitting or prohibiting MRPs, along with specific rules therefore. It noted that ``proper resolution of the MRP issue will have a substantial impact on fairness to depositors in conversions.'' One savings bank commented that ``when an institution contemplates going public for the right reasons (expansion, market share, competitive advantage) the benefits should go to those willing to risk their careers (board and management team) or their capital (shareholders) not to the faceless non-entity group known as the existing depositors.'' 7. Appraisals A state savings association noted that one of the basic problems with conversions is the appraisal of the institution. It stated that ``the FDIC needs to be satisfied that the various states are as well equipped [as the ``qualified'' OTS staff] to perform a definitive analysis of institution appraisals as well as know with certainty that the appraiser is qualified to assess a financial institution's value.'' The commenter also noted that fairness and moderation are the keys to governing stock conversions. An individual commented that the FDIC should not regulate the offer price for healthy mutuals because those conversions do not place the insurance fund at risk. An individual suggested that the applicable regulator should retain its own appraiser to assure fair valuation of the converting entity. A state bank and thrift regulator stated that appraisal rules required by the FDIC should be specifically stated in the Interim Rule. 8. Other Comments An attorney commented that the Interim Rule should allow depositors full access to all papers filed in connection with proposed merger/conversions, as well as standard conversions. He also suggested that depositors be permitted to file with the FDIC objections to such proposed transactions. A few commenters noted that the FDIC should clarify that the Interim Rule applies to mutual holding company formations and merger/conversions. An individual suggested that, to protect the insurance fund, a converting institution should prepare a business plan regarding the proposed use of the new capital. The plan should be reviewed by the applicable state; however, if the FDIC feels state review will be insufficient, the FDIC is empowered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) to assume jurisdiction.
