FR940803-2-00058 FR940803-2-00048 In addition to costs, the Department will consider geographic diversity (distribution) in making grant awards. IV. Demonstration Program Overview This Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGA) is extended to States who are committed to the goals and objectives of NEW. It asks them to develop, enhance and implement demonstration and exemplary programs to train and place women in nontraditional occupations (NTOs). For women, NTOs are occupations where less than 25 percent of the persons employed in an occupation or field of work are women. NTOs are generally characterized by employment growth and the potential for above average earnings individualized for each local labor market. The ultimate goal of the NEW Act is to increase the earnings of women and, thereby, the self-sufficiency of women and their families. To examine ways of accomplishing that goal, the New Act provides funding incentives in its demonstration and exemplary program grants. States shall develop and implement projects/programs that illustrate, by their example, effective ways to incorporate and sustain systemic change in the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) service delivery system_the Private Industry Councils' (PICs) procedures and programming_to promote the training and placement of women in NTOs to increase their employment and earnings. States applying for funds may develop new initiatives or enhancements to existing job training programs and services. Grant funds are to develop and/or supplement, not supplant current funding to train and place women in NTOs. Grant funds must not be used as ``replacement'' funds for activities that are currently funded through other Federal programs; i.e., JTPA or Carl Perkins Vocational *␣*␣* NEW grant funds can be used in addition to, but not instead of, other Federal funds to expand or enhance programs. Grantee projects serve as models and should be disseminated for replication throughout the JTPA systems and within other education, training and employment programs in the State. States have completed the development of their second two-year Governor's Coordination and Special Services Plans (GCSSP). The GCSSP must include measurable goals for women in nontraditional training and placement, with particular attention to implementation through the JTPA system as required by NEW. All States that apply for NEW grant funds must have and describe the measurable State goals for the implementation of training and placing women in NTOs to be responsive to this SGA. In addition, a high priority will be given to State proposals that provide evidence (in measurable outcomes for women) of the State's prior and ongoing commitment to the goals and objectives of NEW to train and place women in local area-specific nontraditional employment with above average earnings. Such commitment can be measured, in part, from State proposals with (1) greater than average (15 percent of more) proportion of women's JTPA training for NTOs; (2) substantial employment placement rate (85 percent or greater); and (3) wage rates above the local average. As required by the NEW Act's demonstration and exemplary programs legislation, the Women's Bureau will also consider the following: (1) the level of coordination between the JTPA and other resources available for training women in nontraditional employment, i.e., Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act, Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA), Department of Housing and Urban, etc., and other Federal, State and local job training resources; (2) the extent of private sector involvement in the development and implementation of training programs under the JTPA; (3) the extent to which the initiatives proposed by a State supplement or build upon existing efforts in a State to train and place women in nontraditional employment; (4) the extent to which a State is prepared to disseminate information on its demonstration training programs, and (5) the extent to which a State is prepared to produce materials that allow for replication of such State's demonstration training program. A State's operating entity for JTPA (as described above in II. Eligible Applicants) interested in submitting a grant application for review under the FY 1994 competition should request a copy of SGA # 94&hyph;02 from the Office of Procurement Services, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Room S&hyph;5220, Washington, D.C. 20210, Attention: Ms. Lisa Harvey. Signed at Washington, DC, this 28th day of July 1994. Karen Nussbaum, Director, Women's Bureau. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18852 Filed 8&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;23&hyph;M
