FR940425-1-00024 FR940425-1-00007 27. What are current equipment and per test costs to measure temperature resistance according to UTQGS? Rolling resistance according to SAE guidelines? 28. Is it necessary to replace all 4 tires to achieve the benefits of lower rolling resistance tires? What are the fuel savings if fewer than 4 tires are replaced? 29. What is the frequency with which consumers replace 4 tires at once? Three tires? Two tires? 30. Are there other or additional measures NHTSA should consider to aid in reducing greenhouse gasses? What are the costs and benefits of these measures? V. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices A. Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Analysis and Review) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures. This notice was not reviewed under E.O. 12866. NHTSA has considered the impacts associated with this request for comments and has concluded that it is not significant under DOT's Regulatory Policies and Procedures. As explained above, this document requests comments to aid the agency in determining whether to propose improvements in the UTQGS and whether to propose either adding a rolling resistance grade or substituting a rolling resistance grade for the currently-required temperature resistance grade. Improvements in the UTQGS would make them more meaningful and understandable to consumers and contribute to energy conservation in accordance with the President's Climate Change Action Plan. B. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) NHTSA has analyzed this action under the principles and criteria of E.O. 12612. The agency has determined that this request for comments does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. VI. Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments. It is requested, but not required, that comments be submitted in 10 copies. Comments must not exceed 15 pages in length (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to such submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to state their primary arguments in a concise fashion. All comments are retained in the NHTSA Docket Section and are open and available to the public for review and copying. If a commenter wishes to submit certain information under a claim of confidentiality, 3 copies of the complete submission, including the business information for which confidentiality is requested, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the address shown above. Seven copies from which the purportedly confidential business information has been deleted should be submitted to the NHTSA Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in 49 CFR part 512, Confidential Business Information. Those commenters desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the NHTSA Docket Section should enclose a self-addressed stamped postcard in the envelope with their comment. Upon receipt of the comment in the Docket Section, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 575 Consumer Information Regulations: Vehicle stopping distance, Truck-camper loading, Uniform tire quality grading standards, Utility vehicles. Issued on April 20, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9916 Filed 4&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
