FR940404-2-00184 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Subcommittee on Safety of Navigation, 39th Session, International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, September 6&hyph;10, 1993 Representative Leo J. Black, Captain, Chief, Short Range Aids to Navigation Division, Office of Navigation, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Edward J. LaRue, Jr., Short Range Aids to Navigation Division, Office of Navigation, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers Charles B. Mosher, Short Range Aids to Navigation Division, Office of Navigation, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Joseph A. Roach, Attorney-Adviser, Office of the Legal Adviser, Department of State Linda Sue Johnson, Attorney Adviser, Office of International Environmental Law, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce James E. Ayres, Scientific Adviser for Hydrography, Defense Mapping Agency Frederick K. Ganjon, Deputy Chief, Nautical Charting Division, Coast and Geodetic Survey, National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce John T. Oliver, Commander, Head, Law of the Sea Branch, International Law Division, Office of the Judge Advocate General, United States Navy Christopher M. Young, Merchant Vessel Personnel Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Private Sector Adviser Mortimer Rogoff, Digital Directions Corporation, Washington, District of Columbia United States Delegation to the First Plenary Meeting of Telecommunication Standardization Study Group 15 (ITU&hyph;TS 15), International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, September 7&hyph;17, 1993 Representative Gary M. Fereno, Director for CITEL and ITU&hyph;TS Standards Policy, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Victor Muller, Standards Adviser, Department of Defense Gary Rekstad, Electronics Engineer, National Communications System Private Sector Advisers James A. Dahl, Member of Technical Staff, U.S. West Advanced Technologies, Englewood, Colorado Fred W. Huffman, Standards Engineer, MCI Communications Corporation, Piscataway, New Jersey William T. Kane, Manager, Standards, Corning Incorporated, Corning, New York Bruce R. Kravitz, Standards Engineer, VTEL, Austin, Texas Ronald R. Murphy, Member of Technical Staff, Bellcore, Red Bank, New Jersey Marshall G. Schactman, Consultant, Kohl Group, Morristown, New Jersey Richard Schaphorst, President, Delta Information Systems, Horsham, Pennsylvania Anthony Schiano, Senior Engineer, AT&T, Bedminster, New Jersey
