FR940223-2-00239 FR940223-2-00104 7. Knowledge of the location of destination points such as medical facilities, supermarkets, recreational facilities, etc. c. Priorities for Operation Lifesaver Program: 1. Knowledge of railroad and road network in geographical areas. 2. Demonstrated ability to network with other organizations, including local law enforcement units and proposed coordination and collaboration with other organizations. 3. Ability to coordinate and implement a training and certification program, along with local law enforcement departments, and appropriate education departments. 4. Feasibility of the proposed approach or work plan and the extent to which the project addresses traffic safety objectives. 5. Administrative capabilities and staff expertise required to successfully complete the proposed project. 6. Past and present organizational experience in the performance of similar projects. 7. Ability to provide sound evaluative information. d. Priorities for Hazardous Materials Transportation Assistance Program: 1. Feasibility and utility of work program planned for National Service participants. 2. Ability of program to assist local agencies responsible for hazardous materials planning and training. 3. Ability of program to address the National Service priorities of Environment and Education, and the DOT Strategic Goals of promoting safe and secure transportation and enhancing the environment through wise transportation decisions. 4. Ability of program to address currently unmet hazardous materials needs. 5. Demonstrated strength of current state or local planning and response structure to effectively use national service participation to its full advantage. e. Priorities for Youth Traffic Safety Education Programs: 1. Knowledge of basic traffic safety issues and status of related state and community efforts within designated locality. 2. Demonstrated ability to network with other organizations including local law enforcement units and proposed coordination and collaboration with other organizations. 3. Ability to coordinate and implement a training and certification program along with local law enforcement departments. 4.4␣Preferences Applying to Urban Youth Corps Programs Preferences will be given to the following types of projects if urban youth corps are used to implement the projects: a. Projects that will provide long-term public benefits b. Projects that will instill in the participant a work ethic and a sense of public responsibility. c. Projects that will be labor intensive. d. Projects that can be planned and initiated promptly. e. Projects that will provide academic, experiential, or community education opportunities.
