FR940802-0-00088 FR940802-0-00018 (B) Result in a limited loss of income to the HA; and (C) Not result in a significant reduction of units available for residence by Eligible Families. (2) Certifications by HA. Only upon making the determination described in §905.308(d)(1)(iv) of this part will the Department approve a plan. Further, the Department will not make this determination unless the plan contains a written statement, signed by an authorized officer or other agent of the HA, certifying that: (i) The dwelling units proposed to be allocated to Officers are situated so as to place the Officers in close physical proximity to other residents; (ii) No resident families will have to be transferred to other dwelling units in order to make available the units proposed to be allocated to Officers; (iii) The dwelling units proposed to be allocated to Officers will be rented under a lease that contains the terms described in §905.308(e) of this part; and (iv) The number of dwelling units proposed to be allocated to Officers under the plan does not exceed the limits set forth in §905.308(d)(3) of this part or, in the alternative, any units so allocated in excess of the applicable maximum number are vacant units for which there are no Eligible Families. This certification on the part of the HA satisfies the requirements of §§905.308(d)(1)(iv) (B) and (C) of this part. (3) Unit allocation table. For purposes of the certification required by §905.308(d)(2) of this part, the following table sets forth the maximum number of units to be allocated to Officers as a function of the total number of units under management by the HA: Unit Allocation Table 1Total units under management 1Units to be allocated ␣␣500&hyph;999␣ ␣5 ␣1000&hyph;4999 10 ␣5000&hyph;9999 15 10,000+␣␣␣ 20 The maximum number of units to be allocated by HAs with less than 500 units under management will be determined by the Office of Native American Programs on a case by case basis. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 2577&hyph;0185.) (e) Special rent requirements and other terms and conditions. The HA shall lease units to Officers under a lease agreement, which must be submitted as a part of the plan, containing terms that provide as follows: (1) Reasonable rent. The lease shall provide for a reasonable rent, which may be a flat amount not related to the Officer's income. The HA should attempt to establish a rent that will provide an incentive to Officers to reside in the units but that is also consistent with the limited loss of income requirement of §905.308(d)(1)(iv)(B) of this part. As required in §905.308(d)(1)(i) of this part, the plan must state facts and circumstances (such as, the rent that would ordinarily be charged for the unit, the HA's annual maintenance cost for the unit, the degree of difficulty in attracting Officers to reside in the unit, the extent of the crime problem in the development, and the anticipated benefits of the Officer's presence) that demonstrate the reasonableness of the rent amount. (2) Responsibility for damage and overall condition. The Officer shall be responsible for physical damage to the interior of the leased unit, hallway and entrance, if any, and exterior area bordering the unit. The lease also shall require the Officer to maintain the overall condition of the leased unit, including control of litter in the area of the development immediately around the unit. (3) Responsibility for normal facility management. The lease shall impose on the HA responsibility for routine facility management relating to the leased unit, including ongoing maintenance and repair of equipment, trash collection and similar areas of responsibility. (4) Continued employment. The lease shall provide that the Officer's right of occupancy is dependent on the continuation of employment as an Officer. The lease also shall provide that the Officer will move out of the leased unit within a reasonably prompt time, to be established by the lease, after termination of employment as an Officer. (5) Prohibition on subletting. The lease shall prohibit the Officer from subletting the unit, and provide that the unit must be the Officer's primary residence. (f) Applicability of the annual contributions contract; effect on the performance funding system. (1) Annual contributions contract. Except to the extent that an exemption from eligibility requirements is provided under §905.308(c) of this part, Indian housing units occupied by Officers in accordance with a plan submitted and approved under this section will be subject to the terms and conditions of the annual contributions contract (ACC) between the HA and the United States of America. This section does not override any of the terms and conditions of the ACC except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of this section. (2) Performance funding system. For purposes of the operating subsidy under the Performance Funding System (PFS) described in subpart J of this part, dwelling units allocated to Officers in accordance with this section are excluded from the total unit months available, as defined in §905.102 of this part. Also for purposes of the operating subsidy under the PFS, the full amount of any rent paid by Officers in accordance with this section is included in other income, as defined in §905.102 of this part. HAs may receive operating subsidy for one unit per housing development to promote economic self-sufficiency services or anti-drug programs, including housing police officers and security personnel. An HA may request consideration of such units in its calculation of operating subsidy eligibility through the appropriate local HUD Office of Native American Programs. PART 960_ADMISSION TO, AND OCCUPANCY OF, PUBLIC HOUSING 3. The authority citation for 24 CFR part 960 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437a, 1437a&hyph;1, 1437c, 1437d, 1437n, 3535(d).
