FR940617-1-00018 FR940617-1-00006 5. Proposed changes to A010.5.1 should minimize the problems associated with dual addresses. Dual addresses, which typically include both a street address and a post office box, can lead to confusion for USPS employees identifying to which location the Postal Service is expected to make delivery despite the existing standards that the address immediately above the city-state-ZIP Code line takes precedence. Dual addressing can result in a potential for misdelivery (to the unintended address) as well as the potential for confusion and dissatisfaction on the part of the sender, addressee, or both. (Under the proposed rule, for those ZIP Code areas having no delivery service other than by post office box service, the correct address will be to the intended recipient's post office box address.) Accurate delivery to the intended addressee is always important, but more so when the item has been identified by the sender as having exceptional value through the level of service selected (e.g., Express Mail or Priority Mail, or registered, certified, restricted delivery, or special delivery mail). Therefore, under the proposed rule, dual addresses are prohibited in the delivery and return addresses on those types of mail. Although this change may cause occasional inconvenience for some customers, the Postal Service believes that any inconvenience is more than offset by elimination of the ambiguity and delay potentially associated with dual addressing. This benefit is particularly true because the sender has invested a relatively large sum to ensure safe and accurate delivery. The proposed rule also prohibits dual addresses on any mail claimed at a bulk or presort rate. Because of the problems described above, allowing dual addressing on this mail would be inconsistent with the Postal Service's ongoing efforts to improve address quality in volume mailings. Whereas this prohibition may have the appearance of a sweeping new requirement, its net affect should be minimal. Most mailers who use bulk or presort rates have enough awareness of addressing standards to know why dual addresses are not advisable and, therefore, seldom use them. The majority of those same mailers are already involved in ongoing address management to improve the quality of their addressing practices. Mail sent at single-piece First-, third-, or fourth-class rates, without the special services mentioned earlier, is not subject to the proposed rule's prohibitions though mailers are advised not to use dual addresses on this mail to ensure delivery to the intended address. Miscellaneous organizational and technical revisions are also being proposed for clarity and consistency. Although exempt from the notice and comment requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553(b), (c)) regarding proposed rulemaking by 39 U.S.C. 410(a), the Postal Service invites comments on the following proposed revisions of the DMM, incorporated by reference in the Code of Federal Regulations. See 39 CFR Part 111. List of Subjects in 39 CFR Part 111 Postal Service. PART 111_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for 39 CFR part 111 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552(a); 39 U.S.C. 101, 401, 403, 404, 3001&hyph;3011, 3201&hyph;3219, 3403&hyph;3406, 3621, 5001. 2. Revise the following units of the Domestic Mail Manual as follows: A010␣General Information 1.0 Address Content and Placement * * * * * 1.2 Address Elements * * * * * d. ZIP Code (5-digit or ZIP+4) where required. A ZIP Code or ZIP+4 code is required on Presorted First-Class Mail; mail claimed at an automation rate; postal cards and postcards mailed under specific First-Class standards; second-class mail; bulk third-class mail; fourth-class mail; business reply mail; mail sent using merchandise return service; mail sent to military addresses within the United States; penalty mail; and personalized envelopes.
