FR940630-2-00179 FR940630-2-00128 (1) Organizational support. Organizational support assistance may be made available to community housing development organizations to cover operational expenses and to cover expenses for training and technical, legal, engineering and other assistance to the board of directors, staff, and members of the community housing development organization. (2) Housing education. Housing education assistance may be made available to community housing development organizations to cover expenses for providing or administering programs for educating, counseling, or organizing homeowners and tenants who are eligible to receive assistance under other provisions of this part. (3) Program-wide support of nonprofit development and management. Technical assistance, training, and continuing support may be made available to eligible community housing development organizations for managing and conserving properties developed under this part. (4) Benevolent loan funds. Technical assistance may be made available to increase the investment of private capital in housing for very low-income families, particularly by encouraging the establishment of benevolent loan funds through which private financial institutions will accept deposits at below-market interest rates and make those funds available at favorable rates to developers of low-income housing and to low-income homebuyers. (5) Community development banks and credit unions. Technical assistance may be made available to establish privately owned, local community development banks and credit unions to finance affordable housing. (6) Community Land Trusts (CLTs). HOME funds may be made available to CLTs for organizational support, technical assistance, education and training, and continuing support; and to community groups for the establishment of CLTs. A community land trust is a community housing development organization that: (i) Is not sponsored by a for-profit organization; (ii) Is established, and undertakes activities to: (A) Acquire parcels of land, held in perpetuity, primarily for conveyance under long-term ground leases; (B) Transfer ownership of any structural improvements located on such leased parcels to the lessees; and (C) Retain a preemptive option to purchase any such structural improvement at a price determined by formula that is designed to ensure that the improvement remains affordable to low- and moderate-income families in perpetuity; (iii) Has a corporate membership open to any adult resident of a particular geographic area specified in the bylaws of the organization; (iv) Whose board of directors includes a majority of members who are elected by the corporate membership and is composed of equal numbers of lessees, corporate members who are not lessees, and any other category of persons described in the bylaws of the organization; and (v) Is not required to have a demonstrated capacity for carrying out HOME activities or a history of serving the local community within which HOME-assisted housing is to be located. (7) Facilitating women in homebuilding professions. Technical assistance may be made available to businesses, unions, and organizations involved in construction and rehabilitation of housing in low- and moderate-income areas to assist women residing in the area to obtain jobs involving such activities. This might include facilitating access by women to, and providing, apprenticeship and other training programs regarding non-traditional skills, recruiting women to participate in such programs, providing support for women at job sites, counseling and educating businesses regarding suitable work environments for women, providing information to such women regarding opportunities for establishing small housing construction and rehabilitation businesses. Up to ten percent of the funds made available for this activity may be used to provide materials and tools for training such women. (d) Limitations. Contracts under this section with any one contractor for a fiscal year may not_ (1) Exceed 20 percent of the amount appropriated for this section for such fiscal year; or (2) Provide more than 20 percent of the operating budget (which may not include funds that are passed through to community housing development organizations) of the contracting organization for any one year. (e) Single-state contractors. Not less than 40 percent of the funds made available for this section in an appropriations Act in any fiscal year must be made available for eligible contractors that have worked primarily in one state. HUD shall provide assistance under this section, to the extent applications are submitted and approved, to contractors in each of the geographic regions having a HUD regional office. (f) Notice of funding. HUD will publish a notice in the Federal Register announcing the availability of funding under this section, as appropriate. The notice need not include funding for each of the eligible activities, but may target funding from among the eligible activities.
