FR940727-0-00032 FR940727-0-00015 TAMRA's amendments to the Code were in response to United States v. Air Florida, Inc. , 56 B.R. 732 (S.D. Fla. 1985). In that case, the IRS filed its Notice of Federal Tax Lien with the clerk of the county circuit court, but the court held that under section 6323(f)(1) the IRS was instead required to file its Notice of Federal Tax Lien in the office of the clerk of the United States district court. The court found that the State of Florida had designated not one, but two offices for the filing of Federal tax liens against personal property: The office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which the personal property was located and, because the state had adopted the U.S. government's national filing system for civil aircraft, the F.A.A.'s offices in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. The final regulations revise §301.6323(f)&hyph;1 by providing that state law that conforms to or reenacts a federal law establishing a national filing system does not constitute a second office for filing; by providing that the filing of liens is not subject to federal laws (other than the Code) establishing a national filing system for liens; and by adding two examples, one of which resembles the fact pattern of the Air Florida case. Special Analyses It has been determined that this Treasury Decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, the notice of proposed rulemaking was submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these proposed regulations is Robert A. Walker, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel (General Litigation), IRS. However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects in 26 CFR Part 301 Employment taxes, Estate taxes, Excise taxes, Gift taxes, Income taxes, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR part 301 is amended as follows: Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 301 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣*. Par. 2. Section 301.6323(f)&hyph;1 is amended as follows: 1. Two sentences are added at the end of paragraph (a)(2). 2. Paragraphs (c) and (d) are redesignated as paragraphs (d) and (e), respectively. 3. A new paragraph (c) is added. 4. Newly designated paragraph (e) is amended by adding Example 5 and Example 6. 5. The additions and revisions read as follows: §301.6323(f)&hyph;1 Place for filing notice; form. (a) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* A state law that conforms to or reenacts a federal law establishing a national filing system does not constitute a designation by state law of an office for filing liens against personal property. Thus, if state law provides that a notice of lien affecting personal property must be filed in the office of the county clerk for the county in which the taxpayer resides and also adopts a federal law that requires a notice of lien to be filed in another location in order to attach to a specific type of property, the state is considered to have designated only one office for the filing of the notice of lien, and to protect its lien the Internal Revenue Service need only file its notice in the office of the county clerk for the county in which the taxpayer resides. * * * * *
