FR940913-2-00051 FR940913-2-00036 [FRL&hyph;5065&hyph;7] California State Motor Vehicle Pollution Control Standards; Waiver of Federal preemption; Decision AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice regarding waiver of Federal preemption. SUMMARY: EPA is granting California a waiver of Federal Preemption pursuant to section 209(b) of the Clean Air Act to enforce amendments to its motor vehicle emission standards and test procedures to require more stringent evaporative emission standards, durability requirements, and testing procedures for 1995 model year passenger cars, light-duty trucks, medium-duty vehicles, and heavy-duty vehicles and engines, except petroleum-fueled diesel vehicles. California also amended its corresponding regulations. ADDRESSES: A copy of the above standards, durability requirements, testing procedures, the decision document containing an explanation of the Administrator's determination, and the record of those documents used in arriving at this decision, are available for public inspection during the working hours of 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, at: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center (Docket # A&hyph;92&hyph;05), room M1500, First Floor Waterside Mall, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, Telephone: (202) 260&hyph;9256. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David J. Dickinson, Attorney/Advisor, Manufacturers Operations Division (6405J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 233&hyph;9256. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I have decided to grant California a waiver of Federal preemption pursuant to section 209(b) of the Clean Air Act, as amended (Act), 42 U.S.C. 7543(b), for amendments to its evaporative emission standards, durability requirements, and test procedures for 1995 model year passenger cars, light-duty trucks, medium-duty vehicles, and heavy-duty vehicles and engines. 1 A comprehensive description of the California evaporative emission regulations can be found in the decision document for this waiver and in materials submitted to the Docket by California. 1 California's initial waiver request included a request for waiver of Federal preemption for model years 1995 and thereafter. In a revised waiver request California limited the applicability of its new amendments to model year 1995. EPA anticipates California to revise its evaporative emission test procedure for model year 1996 and thereafter, and to submit an additional waiver request for such test, in order to produce a more closely aligned test procedure with EPA's new test procedure commencing in 1996. Section 209(b) of the Act provides that, if certain criteria are met, the Administrator shall waive Federal preemption for California to enforce new motor vehicle emission standards and accompanying enforcement procedures. The criteria include consideration of whether California arbitrarily and capriciously determined that its standards are, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as the applicable Federal standards; whether California needs State standards to meet compelling and extraordinary conditions; and whether California's amendments are consistent with section 202(a) of the Act. The California Air Resources Board (CARB) determined that these standards and accompanying enforcement procedures do not cause California's standards, in the aggregate, to be less protective of public health and welfare than the applicable Federal standards. No information was presented to me by any parties to demonstrate that CARB arbitrarily or capriciously reached this protectiveness determination. Therefore, I cannot find CARB's determination to be arbitrary and capricious. CARB has continually demonstrated the existence of compelling and extraordinary conditions justifying the need for its own motor vehicle emission control program, which includes the subject standards and procedures. No information has been submitted to demonstrate that California no longer has a compelling and extraordinary need for its own program. Therefore, I agree that California continues to have compelling and extraordinary conditions which require its own program, and, thus, I cannot deny the waiver on the basis of the lack of compelling and extraordinary conditions. CARB has submitted information that its emission standards and durability requirements are technologically feasible and present no inconsistency with Federal requirements and are, therefore, consistent with section 202(a) of the Act. Additionally, CARB determined that certain differences exist between California and Federal test procedures but that any vehicle that satisfies California's requirements can be presumed to meet the Federal requirements. Because of the test procedure inconsistencies described by CARB, EPA agrees that a manufacturer would be unable to demonstrate compliance with both California and Federal requirements with the same test vehicle in the course of a single test sequence. Therefore, EPA will accept the data used to successfully certify under CARB's 1995 model year evaporative emissions test procedures as demonstrating compliance with applicable EPA standards. Accordingly, I hereby grant the waiver requested by California. My decision will affect not only persons in California but also the manufacturers outside the State who must comply with California's requirements in order to produce motor vehicles for sale in California. For this reason, I hereby determine and find that this is a final action of national applicability. Under section 307(b)(1) of the Act, judicial review of this final action may be sought only in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Petitions for review must be filed by November 14, 1994. Under section 307(b)(2) of the Act, judicial review of this final action may not be obtained in subsequent enforcement proceedings. As with past waiver decisions, this action is not a rule as defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601(2). Therefore, EPA has not prepared a supporting regulatory flexibility analysis addressing the impact of this action on small business entities. Dated: August 25, 1994. Ann E. Goode, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22585 Filed 9&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
