FR940217-1-00085 FR940217-1-00014 Section 668.94␣Termination. The Secretary proposes to add references to third-party servicers in this section to conform to proposed changes governing termination proceedings in other sections of this subpart. The Secretary proposes to specify that a termination of a third-party servicer's eligibility to contract with an institution to administer a Title IV, HEA program ends the authority of the servicer to administer that program under any existing contract between an institution and the servicer. In addition, if a third-party servicer's eligibility is terminated, the servicer would be required to return to each institution (or otherwise dispose of according to the Secretary's instructions) any funds received by the servicer under that program for that institution or the institution's students. The servicer also would be required to return to the institution all records pertaining to the servicer's administration of the institution's participation in that program. The Secretary believes that the termination of a third-party servicer's eligibility to contract with an institution should be treated like the termination of an institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. Not only should new contracts with an institution be prohibited, but the servicer's existing activities involving the administration of that program also should cease. Further, a third-party servicer may possess unexpended funds under that program for an institution's students at the time that termination takes effect. The servicer should be required to return those funds to the institution so that those students may receive their aid. The return of records to the institution is needed because of the recordkeeping requirements that the various Title IV, HEA program requirements that the various Title IV, HEA program regulations apply to institutions. Section 668.95␣Reimbursements, refunds, and offsets. This section would be amended to add references to third-party servicers to conform to the proposed changes in the scope of this subpart. Section 668.96␣Reinstatement after termination. The Secretary proposes to add references to third-party servicers to conform to proposed changes in the scope of this subpart. The Secretary also proposes to eliminate the provision that permits an institution to apply for reinstatement of its participation after three months if the institution's participation has been terminated for engaging in substantial misrepresentation. Like institutions whose participation is terminated for other violations, the institution would be able to apply for reinstatement only after 18 months from the date of the termination, unless the institution also was debarred or suspended under E.O. 12549 or the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), 48 CFR subpart 9.4. The Secretary further proposes to extend these criteria to apply to a termination of a third-party servicer's eligibility to contract with an institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs if the basis for that termination was engaging in substantial misrepresentation. The Title IV, HEA programs are most effective only if students, other members of the public, and governmental and other bodies can rely on the honesty of the representations of an institution or the institution's agents. The harm that substantial misrepresentation does to the integrity of the Title IV, HEA programs, to those who rely on the programs to help meet educational costs, and to the taxpayers who pay for the programs should carry equal weight with the harm done by any other violation of a Title IV, HEA program requirement. If an institution's participation or third-party servicer's eligibility is terminated because the institution or servicer engaged in substantial misrepresentation, the consequence of that termination should be no less than the consequence of a termination for other reasons. Section 668.97␣Removal of limitation. The Secretary proposes to provide that an institution may not apply for removal of a limitation before the later of (1) 12 months from the effective date of the limitation, or (2) the expiration of a debarment or suspension under E.O. 12549 or the FAR, 48 CFR subpart 9.4. Parallel to the requirement for institutions, a third-party servicer would be able to apply for removal of a limitation only after 12 months from the date of the limitation, unless the servicer was also debarred or suspended.
