FR940513-0-00002 FR940513-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 92 [Docket No. 93&hyph;086&hyph;2] Cattle from Mexico AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are prohibiting the importation of Holstein steers and Holstein spayed heifers from Mexico into the United States. The incidence of tuberculosis in these cattle is significantly higher than in other breeds. Since 1991, Holstein steers and Holstein spayed heifers traced back to Mexico have accounted for more than half of the tuberculosis-infected Mexican-origin cattle identified at slaughter in the United States. This action will prevent tuberculosis-exposed Holstein steers and Holstein spayed heifers from Mexico from spreading the disease to U.S. cattle. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 13, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Ronald A. Stenseng, Senior Staff Veterinarian, Cattle Diseases and Surveillance Staff, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 729, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;8715. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 92 (referred to below as the regulations) prohibit or restrict the importation of certain animals, including cattle from Mexico, to prevent the introduction into the United States of bovine tuberculosis (referred to below as tuberculosis) and other communicable diseases of livestock. On December 22, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 67709&hyph;67710, Docket No. 93&hyph;086&hyph;1) a proposal to amend the regulations by prohibiting the importation of Holstein and Holstein cross-bred steers and Holstein and Holstein cross-bred spayed heifers from Mexico into the United States. We proposed this action because of the disproportionately high incidence of tuberculosis in these cattle. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 60-day comment period ending February 22, 1994. We received 7 comments by that date. They were from two dairies, a ranch, a veterinary medical association, a State animal health agency, a dairy industry association, and the Mexican government. Four commenters supported our proposal and one commenter suggested changes to the wording of the proposed amendment. That suggestion, plus the remarks of the two commenters who opposed the proposed rule, are discussed below. Comment: The wording of the proposed amendment should be changed so that the amendment prohibits not only Holsteins from Mexico, but any cattle or breeds of cattle normally held in close confinement, such as Holstein dairy cattle, from any country that does not have a tuberculosis control program equivalent to that of the United States, or that has a higher incidence of tuberculosis than the United States. By singling out Mexico, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) is leaving the regulation open to being struck down as a ``trade barrier'' under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Response: NAFTA Article 712 requires that all sanitary and phytosanitary measures be based on scientific principles and a risk assessment; our proposed rule was based on data gathered during APHIS' epidemiological investigation of the 1,090 cases of tuberculosis-infected cattle detected at slaughter in the United States during the 18-month period ending March 31, 1993. Consequently, we believe that our prohibition on the importation of certain cattle from Mexico is allowable under NAFTA. Conversely, the wide-ranging and ambiguously worded prohibition suggested by the commenter is not supported by available data and could not be justified under NAFTA. Therefore, we are making no changes in response to this comment. Comment: The proposal supports the importation of tuberculosis from Mexico by allowing infected and exposed cattle to be imported from Mexico. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's current regulations and the proposed rule defy rational thinking if one is truly concerned about protecting American cattle, wildlife, and humans from tuberculosis imported from Mexico. Response: It appears that the commenter is seeking an outright prohibition on the importation of all cattle from Mexico, although he did not offer any justification for such a ban. As we stated in the proposed rule, 713 tuberculosis-infected cattle were identified as being of Mexican origin during the 18-month period ending March 31, 1993; of those infected cattle, 67 percent were identified as Holstein or Holstein cross-bred steers or Holstein or Holstein cross-bred spayed heifers. Based on that information, we proposed to ban the importation of what appears to be the largest single source of tuberculosis-infected cattle among cattle imported into the United States from Mexico. Any actions of the type suggested by the commenter would have to be based on verifiable data and would have to be proposed as part of a separate rulemaking proceeding. Comment: In its Fiscal Year (FY) 1993 report on the State-Federal Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication Program, APHIS stated that epidemiologic investigations involving Mexican steers have shown that approximately 67 percent of the infected imports are of the Holstein breed. APHIS has not, however, produced data indicating a similarly high incidence of tuberculosis in Holstein cross-bred cattle. In the absence of data showing that the incidence of tuberculosis in Holstein cross-bred steers and spayed heifers is at an unacceptably high level, it would not be appropriate to impose further restrictions on their importation.
