FR940825-0-00131 FR940825-0-00022 Comments: One commenter suggested that the consideration of information relevant to the previous five years of funding prior to the fiscal year under funding consideration provided an insufficient time frame to determine the relative success of projects in encouraging students to enter doctoral study. The commenter suggested that seven to ten years was a more accurate indicator of success in this area. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that seven to ten years may provide a more comprehensive picture of the success of a project's endeavors to assure that students enter or complete a program of study leading to a doctoral degree. However, for the purposes of prior experience, the most recent years' experience of the project is considered adequate, and thus the rationale for the five-year cap, since that is the maximum grant award period allowed under current legislation. To ensure the consistent application of this policy, §647.22(a) has been revised to clearly state that the period to be considered is the performance period under an expiring McNair grant. Changes: Section 647.22(a) has been modified. What are Allowable Costs? (Section 647.30) Comments: Several commenters objected to the provision that restricted the $2,400 stipend to the ``summer'' research internships. They felt that this provision was overly restrictive and did not allow the applicants flexibility in designing programs that most appropriately meet the unique needs of the students to be served. Discussion: The Secretary has reconsidered the provision that ties the payment of the $2,400 stipend to summer research internships. The Secretary will allow the payment of stipends for research internships that take place other than in the summer. Changes: Section 647.30(b) has been modified. Also, language has been added to §647.30(c) to clarify that tuition, room and board, and transportation costs are allowable only for summer internships involving research. What are Unallowable Costs? (Section 647.31) Comments: Several commenters suggested that allowable costs should include student fees for test preparation workshops, colloquia or other courses that directly increase the likelihood of a student entering a doctoral program. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the commenters because this payment would constitute a form of direct student aid that is not allowed under this program except as provided for in §647.30. The provision of the workshops, colloquia or courses under the project for all interested participants is, however, allowable. Changes: None. What Other Requirements Must A Grantee Meet? (Section 647.32) Comments: One commenter suggested that the phrase ``as a result of the services'' be deleted from §647.32(b)(4) since the causal connection between services and outcomes is often difficult to make. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the phrase in the proposed regulations may cause an undue hardship on grantees to demonstrate that such a relationship exists. Changes: A change has been made in paragraph §647.32(b)(4) to eliminate the phrase ``as a result of the services.'' Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Sections 647.21, 647.22, and 647.32 contain information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Department of Education will submit a copy of these sections to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review. (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)) Institutions of higher education and combinations of those institutions are eligible to apply for grants to carry out McNair Program projects. The Department needs and uses the information to make grants. Annual public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 20 hours per response for 68 respondents, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirement should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, Room 10235, New Executive Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20503; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Assessment of Educational Impact In the notice of proposed rulemaking, the Secretary requested comments on whether the proposed regulations would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. Based on the response to the proposed rules and on its own review, the Department has determined that the regulations in this document do not require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 647 Colleges and universities, Disadvantaged students, Discretionary grants, Educational programs, Graduate education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirement. Dated: August 17, 1994. David A. Longanecker, Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.217 Ronald E. McNair Postbaccalaureate Achievement Program.
