FR941230-2-00056 FR941230-2-00046 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Antitrust Division United States v. Classic Care Network, Inc., North Shore University Hospital, North Shore University Hospital at Glen Cove, Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center, Central Suffolk Hospital, Good Samaritan Hospital, Huntington Hospital, John T. Mather Memorial Hospital and South Nassau Communities Hospital, No. CV 94 5566 (E.D.N.Y., filed December 5, 1994) Notice is hereby given pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16 (b)&hyph;(h), that a proposed Final Judgment, Stipulation and Competitive Impact Statement have been filed with the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York in the above-captioned case. On November 29, 1994, the United States filed a complaint to prevent and restrain the defendants from violating Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The complaint alleges that the defendants created a joint sales agency, the purpose and effect of which was to eliminate discounting on inpatient hospital rates to licensed health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and to limit discounting on outpatient hospital rates to HMOs and managed care plans. Consequently, HMOs that operated in Nassau and Suffolk Counties in New York were prevented from contracting with the defendants for competitive rates for inpatient hospital services, and both HMOs and managed care plans were limited to contractual discounts on outpatient rates of no more than 10% off any defendant hospital's established rate for any outpatient procedure. The proposed Final Judgment prohibits the defendants from entering into or continuing to participate in any unlawful agreements between themselves or with any competing hospitals that would restrain price competition for the delivery of inpatient or outpatient hospital services to purchases of those services, such as HMOs and third-party payers, and that would ultimately raise the prices that individual consumers pay for health insurance coverage. Public comment is invited within the statutory 60-day period. Such comments will be published in the Federal Register and filed with Court. Comments should be addressed to Ralph T. Giordano, Chief, New York Office, U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, 26 Federal Plaza, Room 3630, New York, New York 10278 (telephone 212/264&hyph;0390). Constance K. Robinson, Director of Operations, Antitrust Division.
