FR940325-1-00050 FR940325-1-00008 Under this alternative, at least one member of the resource team must also be a member of the Multiple Resource Advisory Council. Other team members could also serve as members of the Multiple Resource Advisory Council_but such dual appointment would not be required. For purposes of this section, residency means two years. Functions The primary function of Rangeland Resource Teams is to encourage good stewardship, collaborative solutions and healthy rangeland ecosystem management through collaboration and by providing recommendations and information to the Multiple Resource Advisory Councils. These teams would encourage community and public participation and problem-solving on the ground. Rangeland Resource Teams could have authority to spend the 12.5% range improvement monies currently under the authority of grazing advisory boards, according to state law. Rangeland Resource Teams would also be empowered to develop proposed solutions for local rangeland problems and make recommendations to Multiple Resource Advisory Councils. These teams would participate in developing resource management plans, act as fact finding bodies and make recommendations on rangeland improvement monies. The Multiple Resource Advisory Councils shall give careful consideration to the recommendations, options and information provided by the Rangeland Resource Teams. Rangeland Resource Teams could be charged with assisting in monitoring rangeland health and reporting on the full scope of their activities to the Multiple Resource Advisory Councils on a regular basis. In addition, Rangeland Resource Teams could be charged with assisting in implementing programs such as the Rangeland Ecosystem Course of Instruction. In cases where Rangeland Resource Teams disagree with a management decision by the federal land manager, the team could petition the Multiple Resource Advisory Council for an opinion or create a Technical Review Team (see below) to make recommendations on specific issues. This does not preempt the ability of any citizen to challenge a management or planning decision through the existing administrative and legal appeal process. Although federal or state land managers would not be members of the Rangeland Resource Teams, open communication and collaboration with federal land managers would be expected and encouraged. Federal land managers should be ex-officio members of the boards. Rangeland Resource Teams could petition the Secretary for recognition as advisory bodies under FACA. In such cases, these teams would be authorized to directly advise federal land managers. III. Technical Review Teams Technical Review Teams (TRTs) can be established on an as needed basis by Multiple Resource Advisory Councils or Rangeland Resource Teams if they are operating as a FACA body (see above). The Rangeland Resource Teams may request the Multiple Resource Advisory Councils to establish TRTs. In some instances, the need for the TRT may be negated by the Rangeland Resource Team performing a fact-finding role. Bodies that create TRTs (Multiple Resource Advisory Councils or Rangeland Resource Teams that are functioning as FACA advisory bodies) must have at least one member on those TRTs. TRTs could be empowered to investigate and develop proposed solutions to specific resource issues which may arise in the local area. Such teams may also participate in the development of resource management plans by providing information and options to the Multiple Resource Advisory Councils. TRTs can function as ``fact finding'' teams. Selection of TRT members should be at the discretion of the Council and may be based on the recommendations of the Rangeland Resource Team, but members should possess sufficient knowledge and expertise about the resource issues in the area. Federal land managers as well as members of other governmental agencies could be ex-officio members of these teams.
