FR940318-0-00174 FR940318-0-00023 c. Substitutes acceptable subject to narrowed use limits. (1) Metals Cleaning. (None). (2) Electronics Cleaning. (a) Perfluorocarbons. Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are acceptable substitutes for CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in the electronics cleaning sector for high-performance, precision-engineering cleaning applications only where reasonable efforts have been made to ascertain that other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements. PFCs covered by this determination are C5F12, C6F12, C6F14, C7F16, C8F18, C5F11NO, C6F13NO, C7F15NO, and C8F16O. The uses of PFCs in solvent cleaning are restricted due to global warming concerns. PFCs display intrinsic properties that point to their potential to be contributors to global warming. All PFCs, for instance, have very long atmospheric lifetimes. As an example, C5F12 (perfluoropentane) has a lifetime of approximately 4,100 years. This means that for practical purposes, any global warming effects from PFCs are irreversible. In contrast, the lifetime of CFC&hyph;113 is, at 110 years, 40 times smaller. Since greenhouse gases come from many diverse sources, even small emissions of PFCs warrant controls if global warming is to be successfully mitigated. The risk screen for the solvent cleaning sector discusses the atmospheric properties of PFCs and provides a more detailed discussion of why PFCs merit being listed as acceptable only for narrowed uses. Despite concerns about the global warming potential of PFCs, the Agency has listed this niche application as an acceptable use of perfluorocarbons because, for certain high-performance, precision-engineered components and equipment, a PFC-based cleaning system may be the only viable alternative available to replace use of class I or II compounds. The characteristics of components or equipment that may require PFC-based cleaning are if the part: •Requires extremely low levels of remaining particulate and residue for adequate performance (as opposed to cosmetic appearance). •Possesses complex geometric configurations and or capillary spaces (as small as 1 micron) which greatly hinder cleaning and drying. •Contains or is made of materials sensitive to corrosion, oxidation or other damage from water (such as ceramics, gallium arsenide, silicon nitride, or magnesium), where that damage would degrade subsequent performance of the product. •Contains temperature-sensitive materials that cannot maintain their integrity at the high drying temperatures of alternative systems. •Contains materials that are hydrophilic or otherwise impaired by contact with water. •Is extremely fragile, requiring the use of a low viscosity, very low surface tension fluid. •Is contaminated with specialized halogenated lubricants or damping fluids such as perfluoropolyethers. •Is a low-volume prototype under development for research, testing and evaluation purposes. Users should note that the presence of one of these parameters alone does not necessarily indicate the need to use a PFC. For instance, a water-sensitive part could potentially also be cleaned using a solvent wash, solvent rinse without PFCs. Examples of components where PFCs may be necessary are: •Precision optical and electro-optical systems such as components for highpowered lasers or weapon targeting systems. •Specialized electrical, semiconductor and electronic components, connectors and assemblies such as precision electronic components used for military and avionics applications. •Sensitive medical devices and medical equipment components such as electronic circuitry for pacemakers (does not include prosthetic devices). •Precision telecommunications and communications components such as microwave hybrid components for electronic warfare. •High-performance computer components and computer electro-mechanical assemblies such as direct access storage devices. Other examples are listed in the section on precision cleaning. Examples of parts where alternatives other than PFCs exist are electronic parts for low-value, mass-produced consumer or standard machined metal parts. A specific example under electronics cleaning where PFCs may be necessary exists in manufacture of certain direct access storage devices (DASDs) for computers. To make the technical improvements demanded of the storage devices, such as faster access times and higher recording densities, companies have been required to use magnetically superior materials. These materials are extremely prone to corrosion from water and are vulnerable to any contamination introduced in the manufacturing process, such as organic or particulate matter. Consequently, the storage device itself must be a miniature ``clean room'' if it is to perform correctly. Manufacturers of some DASDs can use water-based cleaners in much of the production process, but may need to rely on the PFCs as water-displacement agents to achieve the required high degree of cleanliness while protecting the water-sensitive materials in the device. As the acceptability determination states, before users adopt PFCs as part of a substitute cleaning system, they must ascertain that ``other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements.'' This statement implies users will undertake a thorough technical investigation of alternatives before implementing the PFCs. A determination, for instance, that PFCs are necessary simply ``because my parts cannot tolerate water,'' is insufficient. Similarly, companies should avoid rejecting an alternative simply because it is flammable or toxic, since equipment now exists which may be feasible for some uses that makes it possible for a broad spectrum of alternatives to meet performance and safety standards. Users may contact vendors of alternatives to explore with experts on these alternatives whether or not they would work. This effort may involve a detailed discussion of the type of parts, e.g., function, substrate, geometry, and cleanliness standards. A possible approach is to actually arrange for the parts to be tested with other cleaning alternatives. For example, a concern regarding the flammability of isopropyl alcohol is not sufficient reason to reject this alternative, unless the user has contacted vendors and examined the newer styles of equipment and found them insufficiently safe. To assist users in their evaluation, EPA has prepared a list of vendors selling substitutes for cleaning solvents. Although EPA does not require users to report their test results in a certification to the Agency, companies must keep these results on file for future reference. In cases where users must rely on PFCs due to lack of other options, they should make every effort to: •Adopt closed systems and recover, recycle and destroy where possible. •Pre-clean where possible with other alternatives so as to avoid unnecessary use of PFCs. •Reduce emissions to a minimum through equipment features and conservation practices that address idling losses, liquid dragout, and operator variables (adequate freeboard, chillers, welded piping, programmable hoists, operator training, etc.). •Continue to search for long-term alternatives. The Agency believes that it is reasonable to expect users to achieve favorable CFC/PFC replacement ratios since PFCs have relatively higher boiling points. In addition, the high price of PFCs makes additional containment cost-effective. Companies forced to use PFCs due to lack of other alternatives may use the PFC-based equipment to clean and dry other precision parts, but only if the amount of PFCs needed to stock the equipment does not increase.
