FR940805-1-00077 FR940805-1-00013 (ii) documented legal authority to detain the juvenile; (iii) health and suicide screening forms; (iv) dates of court appearances; (v) signed release of information forms; (vi) an on-going record of cash and valuables; (vii) dates and times of temporary releases; (viii) names of visitors and dates of visits; (ix) facility rules and disciplinary policy signed by the juvenile; (x) classification interview and subsequent classification actions; (xi) reports of major disciplinary actions, significant incidents or crimes committed while in custody; (xii) records of program participation, including temporary release programs; and (xiii) final release or transfer report. (10) Admission information. The administrator or designee shall record intake admission information for every juvenile admitted to the facility. The record shall include at least the following data: (i) booking number; (ii) name and known aliases; (iii) current or last known address; (iv) date and time of confinement; (v) a copy of the court order or other legal basis for detention; (vi) name, title, agency and signature of arresting officer; (vii) name of parent, guardian or legal custodian; (viii) charge or charges; (ix) date and place of birth; (x) ethnic origin or tribal affiliation; (xi) present or last place of employment; (xii) emergency contact name, relationship, address and phone number; (xiii) record of telephone calls made by juvenile at time of admission; (xiv) driver's license and social security number; (xv) identifying information, including height, weight, gender and identifying marks such as birthmarks, scars or tattoos; (xvi) notation of cash and all property; (xvii) initial classification and special needs; (xviii) an indication that the health and suicide screening was completed; (xix) name of legal representative if any; and (xx) name of admitting officer. (11) Conducting research. All research conducted shall comply with federal and tribal regulations pertaining to conducting and disseminating research findings as well as professional and scientific ethics. The administrator, the Agency Superintendent and the Area Director shall approve all research prior to implementation. The administrator shall regulate voluntary juvenile participation in research. (f) Citizen involvement and volunteers _(1) Volunteer coordinator. The administrator shall encourage citizen participation in volunteer programs by designating a staff member as volunteer coordinator. (2) Volunteer plan. The volunteer coordinator shall develop and implement a written plan for volunteer services. The volunteer coordinator and administrator shall update the plan as necessary and review it at least annually. The plan shall include: (i) lines of authority; (ii) responsibility and accountability for volunteer services; (iii) procedures for the screening and selection of volunteers; (iv) a volunteer orientation or training program, which is appropriate to the nature of the assignments; (v) a requirement that volunteers shall agree in writing to abide by all facility rules, policies, procedures and practices, particularly those related to security and confidentiality of information; and (vi) a statement that the administrator may discontinue a volunteer activity at any time by written notice. ยง10.22 Physical plant. (a) Code compliance _(1) Building and safety code compliance. If owned by the Bureau, the facility shall comply with 29 CFR Part 1910, Subparts D, E, G and L. If owned by a tribe, the facility shall comply with the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Life Safety Code 101 Chapters 2, 4 through 7, and 14 (if new detention occupancy) or 15 (if existing detention occupancy), or comparable tribal regulations. (2) Zoning. The facility shall comply with applicable zoning and land use requirements. (3) Accessibility. The facility shall comply with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17. (4) OSHA compliance. The facility shall comply with 29 CFR Part 1910, Subparts C through E, G, K, L and S (Occupational Health and Safety Standards) or comparable tribal regulations. If other activities governed by sections of 29 CFR Part 1910 not identified in this standard are carried out in the facility, the section(s) of 29 CFR Part 1910 governing that activity or comparable tribal regulations apply. (5) Health and safety inspection. In compliance with 29 CFR Part 1960, Subparts B through D, the facility shall receive at least one inspection each year by a qualified safety and health inspector and Environmental Health Specialist and/or Sanitarian. Any request for inspection shall be directed to the Area Safety Manager or Officer through the Agency Superintendent. (6) Furnishings and equipment code compliance. The administrator shall maintain documentation by an independent, qualified source that the interior furnishing materials in inmate living areas, exit areas and places of public assembly shall be in accordance with NFPA Life Safety Code Section 6&hyph;5 or comparable tribal regulations. (b) Facility organization _(1) Design for supervision. Physical plant design shall facilitate continuous personal contact and interaction between staff and juveniles.
