FR940214-0-00094 FR940214-0-00015 The Act also provides that an individual who is determined to be ineligible to purchase a handgun under the waiting period provision may request that the chief law enforcement officer who made the determination provide reasons for that determination. The officer must provide such reasons to the individual in writing within 20 business days after receipt of the request. Alternatives to the Waiting Period The statute provides the following alternatives to the waiting period provision: (1) The transferee provides a written statement issued within the last 10 days by the chief law enforcement officer of the transferee's place of residence that the transferee requires a handgun because of a threat to the life of the transferee or any member of the transferee's household; (2) The transferee presents to the licensee a permit issued by the State within the past 5 years to possess a handgun and the law of the State requires verification that the transferee is not prohibited by law from possessing the handgun; (3) Purchases in States which require that, before any licensee transfers a handgun to an individual, an authorized government official has verified that possession of the handgun by the transferee would not violate the law (e.g., a background check); (4) Purchases of handguns which are subject to the National Firearms Act and which have been approved for transfer under 27 CFR part 179 (Machine Guns, Destructive Devices, and Certain Other Firearms); (5) Purchases of handguns for which the Secretary has certified that compliance with the 5-day waiting period procedure is impracticable because the purchaser resides in a rural area, the premises of the licensee are remote in relation to the chief law enforcement officer of the area, and there is an absence of telecommunications facilities in the geographical area in which the business premises are located. Additional Provisions of Public Law 103&hyph;159 Titles II and III of Public Law 103&hyph;159 provide additional amendments to the GCA. These provisions, which became effective on November 30, 1993, are as follows: (1) Multiple sales reports. In addition to furnishing reports of multiple handgun sales to ATF, licensees are required to submit such reports to the ``department of State police or State law enforcement agency of the State or local law enforcement agency of the jurisdiction in which the sale or other disposition took place.'' (2) Common carriers. Common or contract carriers are prohibited from requiring or causing any label or other written notice to be placed on the outside of any package, luggage, or other container indicating that such package contains a firearm. In addition, common or contract carriers who deliver firearms in interstate or foreign commerce are required to obtain written acknowledgement of receipt from the recipient of the package or other container. (3) Theft of firearms. It is unlawful for any person to steal from the person or premises of a Federal firearms licensee any firearm in the licensee's business inventory which has been shipped or transported in interstate or foreign commerce. (4) License fees. License fees for all dealers in firearms (other than destructive devices), including pawnbrokers, have been increased to $200 for 3 years, except that the fee for renewal of a license is $90 for 3 years.
