FR940916-1-00167 FR940916-1-00017 In 1992, the harmonization effort was undertaken by the Aviation Regulatory Advisory Committee (ARAC). A working group of industry and governmental structural loads specialists of Europe, the United States, and Canada was chartered by notice in the Federal Register (58 FR 13819, March 15, 1993). The harmonization effort has now progressed to a point where some specific proposals have been developed by the working group for the discrete gust requirements and these proposals have been recommended to FAA by letter dated October 15, 1993. The FAA is also considering other proposals for future rulemaking. Discussion The continued evolution of gust design requirements among the various world aviation authorities has resulted in many separate gust load design criteria with which the transport airplane manufacturer must comply in order to export its product. Recent efforts between the FAA and the Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA) of Europe in cooperation with the transport manufacturers has resulted in a proposal to refine the criteria and consolidate them into a common set of gust requirements. A review was made of analytical methods to find a single method that would simulate both discrete gusts and continuous turbulence and produce design loads that could be used directly for structural analysis. However, no single method was found to be satisfactory for accounting for both the discrete gust and continuous turbulence; therefore, separate criteria for these conditions will be retained in the requirements. This notice addresses only the discrete gust criteria. If revisions to the continuous turbulence criteria are deemed necessary, they will be proposed in a future notice. A tuned discrete gust methodology would replace the current discrete gust requirement of §25.341 in order to provide a more rational basis that accounts for the aerodynamic and structural dynamic characteristics of the airplane. This methodology would take into account the expected operation of the airplane by allowing multiplying factors, based on fuel loading and maximum operating altitude, to be used to adjust the required design gust velocities. This method is considered to be more rational in that it more accurately reflects the actual conditions experienced by the airplane and is therefore less likely to lead to either overdesigning or undesigning of structure. An effort has been undertaken by the industries and governments of the United States and Europe to evaluate the new proposed criteria and ensure that the provide reasonable design loads for current conventional transport airplanes as well as for new technology airplanes that may include systems that react in a nonlinear manner. Furthermore, the proposed gust gradient distance and design gust velocity distributions are believed to represent the best available measurements of the gust environment in which the airplane is likely to be operated. In this regard, the CAADRP gust measurement data (CAA, Safety Regulation Group, Research Note Number 74, November 30, 1990, ``Investigation of Derived Gust Velocities from CAADRP Data'') have been used to support the design gust velocity and gradient distance distributions for the new proposed discrete gust design criteria. The method for establishing the minimum value of the design speed for maximum gust intensity, V B , which is currently predicated on the discrete gust criteria of the current §25.341, would also be revised. The proposed tuned gust criteria would replace the static discrete gust criteria of §25.341 which are used in the calculation of the minimum value of V B . Therefore, a revised criterion for the minimum V B is also proposed. The proposal does not include a discrete gust design condition at V B , although the speed V B would continue to be used in determining the criteria for continuous turbulence. The design gust velocity and gradient distances established for the gust design conditions at V C , ``structural design cruising speed,'' and V D , ``structural design diving speed,'' were developed in consideration of the full operational envelope so that a specific discrete gust condition at V B is not considered necessary, provided an adequate speed margin is retained between V B and V C , and provided the current practices for operating in severe turbulence are continued. In this regard, it is also proposed that the recommended operational turbulence penetration speed of §25.1585(a)(8) be based on a new operational rough air speed, V RA , which would be no greater than the V B chosen for structural design. In the interest of developing a common requirement for part 25 and JAR&hyph;25, the current JAR requirement (JAR 25.1517) for a rough air speed, V RA , for which there is a satisfactory service history, would be the basis for the new proposed §25.1517. The FAA considers the level of safety provided in this notice to be the same as in the current rules. Several changes are also proposed to other related rules to implement the new criteria and to consolidate the general gust requirements into a single section. Gust requirements are located in several different sections of part 25 that pertain to continuous turbulence, lateral gusts, etc. This proposal would consolidate many of these gust requirements into a revised §25.341. In this regard, several changes to other sections are proposed to transfer requirements and to revise references to these requirements. These include the relocation of §25.305(d) to §25.341(b) and the transfer of §§25.331(a)(1) and 25.331(a)(2) to §25.321 ``General'' and changing the title of §25.331 to ``Symmetric maneuvering conditions.'' Also the lateral gust requirements of §25.351 would be removed since the proposed §25.341 addresses both vertical and lateral gusts. The gust envelope would no longer be needed with the proposed criteria so it would be eliminated from §25.333 and the title of this section would be changed to ``Flight maneuvering envelope.'' Changes are also proposed to adapt the tuned gust criteria to the cases of unsymmetrical loads in §25.349 ``rolling conditions,'' §25.427 ``Unsymmetrical loads,'' and to §25.445 ``Outboard fins.'' These rules would be revised in order to provide criteria for calculating unsymmetrical external airloads for dynamic discrete gust conditions and to provide for the effects of lateral gusts acting on auxiliary aerodynamic surfaces such as winglets and outboard fins. To be more general, it is proposed to change the title of §25.445 from ``Outboard fins'' to ``Auxiliary aerodynamic surfaces.'' Regulatory Evaluation Summary Preliminary Regulatory Evaluation, Initial Regulatory Flexibility Determination, and Trade Impact Assessment Proposed changes to Federal regulations must undergo several economic analyses. First, Executive Order 12866 directs that each Federal agency shall propose or adopt a regulation only upon a reasoned determination that the benefits of the intended regulation justify its costs. Second, the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 requires agencies to analyze the economic effect of regulatory changes on small entities. Third, the Office of Management and Budget directs agencies to assess the effects of regulatory changes on international trade. In conducting these analyses, the FAA has determined that this rule: (1) Would generate benefits that justify its costs and is not a ``significant regulatory action'' as defined in the Executive Order; (2) is not significant as defined in DOT's Policies and Procedures; (3) would not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities; (4) would not constitute a barrier to international trade. These analyses, available in the docket, are summarized below. Cost-Benefit Analysis The proposed changes would have economic consequences. The costs would be the incremental costs of meeting the tuned discrete gust requirements rather than the current static discrete gust requirements. The benefits would be the savings from not meeting two different sets of discrete gust requirements, i.e., the requirements in the current FAR and the requirements in the JAR. In order to sell their transport category airplanes in a global marketplace, manufacturers usually certify their products under both sets of regulations. Harmonizing these discrete gust requirements would result in a net cost savings. Industry sources provided information on the additional costs and cost savings that would result from the proposed rule. Based on this information a range of representative certification costs and savings are shown below. The costs and savings per certification are those related to meeting discrete gust load requirements, including related provisions of the proposed rule. Per Certification Costs and Savings Associated With Proposed Discrete Gust Load Requirements [In thousands of dollars] 1␣ 1␣ Costs of current FAA certification $29&hyph;$115 Costs of current JAA certification 70&hyph;145 Costs of current joint certification 100&hyph;150 Costs of proposed FAA certification 70&hyph;145 Costs of proposed joint certification 70&hyph;145 Savings (current joint certification costs minus proposed joint certification costs) 5&hyph;29 The costs and cost savings of specific certifications may vary from these estimates. In all cases where a manufacturer seeks both FAA and JAA certification, however, the cost savings realized through harmonizing the requirements would outweigh the expected incremental costs of the proposal. The FAA solicits information from manufacturers and other interested parties concerning the costs and savings associated with this proposal.
