FR941121-0-00009 FR941121-0-00001 Comment 3(b)&hyph;2 provides guidance on the specificity required when time periods are disclosed. For example, the FRB believes slight variations in compounding cycles are consistent with the notion of ``monthly'' cycles, which are often not based on an actual calendar month. Many FRB commenters generally supported the FRB's approach, but expressed concern about the proposal's limitation of 28&hyph;33 days to describe a month. The FRB decided to adopt a standard of roughly equivalent intervals occurring during a calendar year. The FRB believes this standard is consistent with TISA, provides flexibility, and eases compliance. For the reasons provided by the FRB, the NCUA Board also adopts this approach. (d) Multiple Members Proposed comment 3(d)&hyph;1 permitted credit unions to give a disclosure to a nonmember joint accountholder. Four commenters, including national trade association commenter, noted that the proposed interpretation was incorrect. Under ยง707.2(q)(2), nonmember joint accountholders are deemed to be members for purposes of part 707. Therefore, the distinction made was an invalid one, and has been deleted from the commentary. (e) Oral Responses to Inquiries Comment 3(e)&hyph;1 reflects that disclosures need only be made as appropriate. Therefore, if a member telephones a credit union for information, the credit union need not disclose a telephone number to call, as the member would obviously already have that information. This clarification, requested by seven commenters, is added to comment 3(e)&hyph;1. Another commenter requested that the Board clarify that this requirement applies only to employees and volunteers acting in the course of credit union business. This change has also been adopted by the Board in comment 3(e)&hyph;1, to reflect the unique nature and position of volunteers in credit unions. Seven commenters requested that the oral response to inquires disclosures be simplified, such as by eliminating any reference to past or prospective rates. To do so would require a change in ยง707.3(e) of the regulation and is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. Also, NCUA must stress that the need to disclose that rates are either past or prospective is important to provide accurate, nonmisleading information to credit union members to reflect the facts concerning share accounts. A national trade association commenter noted that proposed comment 3(e)&hyph;3 did not closely parallel the language of ยง707.3(e). The Board agrees with the commenter, and, on further reflection and to eliminate confusion, has deleted references in comment 3(e)&hyph;3 repetitive of ยง707.3(e). Comment 3(e)&hyph;3 has been added to conform to a change made in Regulation DD, as requested by five commenters, including a national trade association commenter. It clarifies that this paragraph does not apply to responses to requests for rate information on an existing term share account or on an account not currently offered to members and potential members, such as obsolete accounts. (f) Rounding and Accuracy Rules for Rates and Yields (f)(1) Rounding In response to a national trade association commenter, comment 3(f)(1)&hyph;1 has been amended to reflect that account disclosures, unlike advertising and other disclosures, may show the dividend rate to more than two decimal places.
