FR940919-2-00092 FR940919-2-00046 Scope of Duties The broad scope of the disability claim manager's duties and responsibilities, as outlined above and discussed in more detail in the following sections, presupposes a well-trained, skilled, and highly motivated workforce that has the program tools and technological support to issue quality decisions. Although disability claim managers will work exclusively within the disability programs, they will perform multiple tasks instead of singular activities, enabling them to experience the direct relationship between their actions and the final product. Varying levels of job complexity provide the opportunity for personal development, growth, and learning. In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, disability claim managers will work in a team environment with internal medical and nonmedical experts, who provide advice and assistance for complex case adjudication, as well as technical and other clerical personnel who may handle more routine aspects of case development and payment effectuation. Where disability team members cannot be physically co-located, they can share information via the automated claim processing system and remain in communication using telephones or videoconferencing. Each disability team member will have at least a basic familiarity with all the steps in the process and an understanding of how he or she complements another's efforts; team members will be able to draw upon each other's expertise on complex issues. In this team environment, and with the proper training, program tools (a simplified decision methodology and one set of standards for decisionmaking) and technological support, one individual should be able to handle the duties and responsibilities of the disability claim manager. An individual employee as the disability claim manager is basic to the objective of a single point of Agency contact for claimants. However, in the near term, it may be necessary to consider whether the duties of a disability claim manager may be more appropriately carried out by more than one individual and, therefore, whether it is necessary to expand the ``disability team'' described above to include additional employees. Claim complexity, customer service needs, and service area location may dictate a need for flexibility in delineating the specific duties of the individuals who comprise the members of the disability team. In the near term, apprentice positions will be developed in which employees perform one or more duties of the disability claim manager while gaining experience and qualifying for greater responsibility. As the program tools and technological support, which are the underpinnings of the new process, are fully implemented, it is envisioned that team duties and positions will be modified and consolidated as necessary to fully realize the goal of an individual employee as disability claim manager. Process Flexibility The disability claim manager will conduct a thorough screening of the claimant's medical and nonmedical eligibility factors. If the claimant appears ineligible for either disability program based on the claimant's allegations and evidence presented or available at the time of the claim intake interview, the disability claim manager will explain this to the claimant. However, the decision regarding whether to file an application will be the claimant's alone and the disability claim manager will not discourage a claimant from filing an application. If the claimant decides not to file a claim, the disability claim manager will follow existing procedures for closing out an oral inquiry. If the claimant decides to file, the disability claim manager will complete appropriate application screens from the automated and fully integrated (DI and SSI) claim processing and decision support system. Impairment-specific questions will assist the disability claim manager in obtaining information that is relevant and necessary to a disability decision. Based on the claimant's statements and the evidence that is available at the interview, the disability claim manager will determine the most effective way to process the claim. If the evidence is sufficient to decide the claim, the disability claim manager will take necessary action to issue a decision and, if necessary, effectuate payment. The disability claim manager will determine what additional evidence is required to adjudicate the claim and will take steps to obtain that evidence. Such steps may include asking the claimant to obtain further medical or nonmedical evidence if the claimant is able to do so, requesting medical evidence directly from treating sources, or ordering further medical evaluations. As in the current process, SSA will pay for the reasonable cost of providing existing medical evidence. If the claimant has a formal representative, the representative will have the responsibility to develop medical and nonmedical evidence. The disability claim manager will decide whether to defer nonmedical development (e.g., requesting SSI income and resource information, or developing DI dependents' claims) or do it simultaneously with development of the medical aspects of the claim. In making this decision, the disability claim manager will take into account the type of disability alleged, evidence and other information presented by the claimant, and other relevant circumstances, e.g., terminal illness, homelessness or difficulty in recontacting the claimant. Because the disability claim manager maintains ownership of the claim throughout the initial decision-making process, the disability claim manager will be in the best position to choose the most efficient and effective manner of providing claimants with timely and accurate decisions while meeting claimants' individual service needs.
