FR940930-0-00213 FR940930-0-00029 As stated in the NPRM, persons needing to be appropriately equipped are railroad employees other than a train crewmember, or others acting on behalf of the railroad, who flag highway traffic at grade crossings with malfunctioning warning systems. The requirement that persons be appropriately equipped does not apply to train crewmembers who dismount from a locomotive to flag the train through a crossing in an emergency situation, or to uniformed law enforcement officers. Final Rule The definition of ``appropriately equipped flagger'' is adopted as proposed. ``Credible report of system malfunction.'' As proposed, ``credible report of system malfunction'' means specific information regarding a malfunction at an identified highway-rail grade crossing, supplied by a railroad employee, law enforcement officer, highway traffic official, or an employee of a public agency acting in an official capacity. APTA and LIRR stated that given the high frequency of commuter rail operations, commuter railroads consider all reports of malfunction as credible and respond accordingly. The American Trucking Associations, Inc. (ATA) objected to the definition of ``credible report'' as too narrow. The ATA believes that reports from individual citizens should be given the same weight by the railroad as reports from railroad employees and the police. FRA believes that a reporting system in which citizens notify their local police or highway department of malfunctions will be more efficient. Providing this initial screening process will reduce frivolous or fraudulent notifications in which members of the public may attempt to harass a railroad or individual railroad employee. Additionally, as discussed below in the analysis of §234.101, certain situations requiring repair or adjustment of the warning system do not trigger a railroad response under §§234.105 and 234.107. Although those situations, such as dirty roundels, a burnt out bulb, a broken reflector, or a broken gate arm tip, although important, are not the type of situations in which the railroad should be expected to take the actions required under this rule, it is likely that such reports would be made to the railroad. Providing an initial screening process will better enable a railroad to quickly respond to those situations which safety factors clearly require the speedy response. FRA, of course, has no objection to railroads acting on reports from individuals and, indeed, as we stated in the preamble to the NPRM, ``we expect that railroads will, as they have traditionally done, investigate reports of malfunctions received from the public. After determining the accuracy of the report a railroad would then take appropriate action in accordance with regulations.'' The rules issued today do not prohibit a railroad from adopting internal rules that would trigger specific responses to an individual's complaint, but would only mandate the required responses to reports from ``official'' sources. FRA is including within the definition of ``credible report'' information generated by an automatic reporting device. FRA has considered this inclusion in light of possible ``scope of notice'' problems. However, after consideration, FRA is of the opinion that even without this clarifying language, railroads would be required to respond to such reports under the rule as proposed. Section 234.101 mandates rules requiring employees to report instances of malfunctions. The employee responsible for monitoring such automatic devices must report such malfunctions under section 234.101. Such reports are within the definition of ``credible report.'' By adding ``generated by an automatic reporting device'' to the definition, FRA will avoid any confusion in the industry as to what is expected when automatic reporting devices are used. In a comment related to credible reports, the ATA further recommended that railroads be required to post at the crossing the railroad's name, crossing identification number, and a telephone number for reporting malfunctions similar to the system now in place in Texas. The railroads have cooperated in establishing such systems in three States (Texas, Delaware and Connecticut), and FRA is finalizing a report reviewing the results of the Texas program. FRA agrees that establishment of a notification system is a desirable objective. The Department's Rail-Highway Grade Crossing Action Plan specifies that this issue will be further examined through a special safety inquiry. Public/private cooperation is needed to make this type of system workable. It is important that initial notification go to a public authority or an entity operating on behalf of the public. This procedure helps prevent the misuse of the notification system, while providing immediate notice to public authorities where steps should be taken to protect highway traffic pending the railroad response. Where citizens making reports do not note the inventory number or it is not posted due to vandalism, knowledge of the street or highway system may be necessary to identification of the railroad company and specific crossing.
