FR941207-2-00082 FR941207-2-00062 Immediately prior to the match, all orders for a particular security first will be sorted into groups and then each group will be prioritized for execution. Except for orders that are part of CHX's quote, which will receive the highest priority for execution, a group will consist of either all buy orders or all sell orders in a security that have the same liquidity fee or credit. Groups will be prioritized by liquidity fee or credit. Groups will be matched starting with the group of buy orders with the highest priority. This group will be matched with the group of sell orders with the highest priority. If the aggregate size of all orders in both groups is the same, all orders in both groups will be matched. If the aggregate size of all orders in both groups is not the same, orders in the group with the smaller aggregate size will be allocated among orders in the group with the larger size on a pro-rata basis, except that orders that are represented as part of the CHX quote will be entitled to complete execution before the remaining orders are allocated on a pro rata basis. If this results in any order receiving an odd lot or a mixed lot ( e.g., 265 shares), the amount of shares that order receives shall be rounded down to the nearest round lot ( e.g., 200 shares). All the odd lots for a particular group shall be aggregated and then allocated to the largest order in the group. If, after matching orders in a buy group with orders in a sell group, unmatched orders remain in the group of buy orders, Chicago Match will continue to process of matching this group with successively lower priority groups of sell orders until all of the orders in the group of buy orders are either matched or are unable to be matched. After completion of the match described above, Chicago Match will continue to process of matching groups and orders within those groups, in accordance with the rules described above, starting with successively lower priority buy order groups until no more matches can be made. Once all of the matches are made, Chicago Match will determine whether any matched orders are conditional orders and if so, whether their conditions are fully satisfied. A user may enter conditional orders specified in proposed Rule 6(e) of Article XXXVII of the CHX Rules. 27 The possible conditions include, inter alia, a limit price, linked order condition, minimum size, and/or names of excluded users. 28 In the event that certain conditions are not fully satisfied, Chicago Match will remove that order (and any other orders whose conditions are not fully satisfied). Chicago Match will then erase the match for all orders in that security and will restart the matching process excluding all conditional orders whose conditions are not fully satisfied in the last matching process. 27 The Chicago Match rules provide that conditional orders can be displayed orders. There will not be any notation on the displayed order screen to indicate which, if any, displayed order is also a conditional order. 28 Pursuant to proposed Rule 6(e)(8) of Article XXXVIII of the CHX Rules a user may enter the name of an ``excluded user'' only if a match with such user could result in a ``prohibited transaction'' as that term is defined in ERISA. The Exchange states that proposed CHX Rule 6(e)(7) of Article XXXVII also permits a user to exclude an entire category of contra parties such as market makers or specialists. E. Near Match Procedures and Floor Broker Participation The Chicago Match will allow users to send orders that are not executed in the match to a broker in the event of a ``near match.'' A ``near match'' occurs when a buyer and seller in the system did not match merely because their required liquidity fees and credits differed. 29 In the event of a ``near match,'' the user will receive an administrative message over the system asking whether the user wants a predetermined broker to negotiate a trade with another user that has entered similar ``near match'' parameters. If both parties of the near match wish to negotiate, then the broker (or brokers) will receive a negotiate message. 30 Users enter their specific ``near match'' parameters when they sign on to the system. 29 The term ``near match'' refers to two orders for a particular security in which the number of shares of each order equals or exceeds the minimum size specified by the other order and the liquidity credit required by one side is greater than the liquidity fee offered by the other side. Each user will set its own ``near match'' parameters when it signs on to the system. An individual user's ``near match'' parameters allow users to decide under what circumstances it should be contacted by a broker to negotiate a trade which did not match because of varying liquidity fees and credits. 30 The Exchange states that because the broker or brokers do not learn anything about the order unless both parties to the near match have given their approval, the users of the Chicago Match retain complete control during this process. In addition, the Chicago Match provides another function similar to the ``near match'' function. The system allows floor brokers to enter a message that, after the daily match, will tell the users of unexecuted orders in a particular stock of an indication of continuing interest in buying or selling that stock. 31 A user would then be free to contact the floor broker to negotiate a trade. Users will have the ability to prevent indications from appearing on their screens. 32 31 ``Indications of interest'' would be entered by floor brokers before the cross. The floor broker's ``indication'' would not constitute an order entered into Chicago Match but it would merely indicate that a particular broker may be interested in negotiating a trade in a particular security. 32 If the user does not screen out ``indications of interest,'' they would be made known to those users whose orders were not executed during the matching process. F. Fees Users other than Chicago Match market makers will have the option of having their orders displayed to other users of the system. If a non-market maker user elects to have its order displayed, the order will be displayed under certain circumstances. 33 Orders entered by Chicago Match market makers and orders that are part of CHX's quote will not be charged a transaction fee. Users who display orders will be charged 1/2 cent per share, and all other users will pay 2 cents per share. The Exchange fee is separate from any liquidity fees and credits. 33 See proposed Rule 8(b) of Article XXXVI dealing with display-eligible orders. Non-Display eligible orders are charged transaction fees four times the fee charged display eligible orders. See discussion infra.
