FR940304-0-00015 FR940304-0-00006 The FAA concurs with the commenters' request to exclude the actions described in the service bulletins specified in the second ``NOTE'' in paragraph (d) of the proposal, since this was the intent of that ``NOTE.'' The FAA clarifies that the material that appears in a ``NOTE'' is simply explanatory or informational. The FAA has removed the ``NOTE'' from the final rule and has revised paragraphs (a) and (d) to provide an exclusion of the actions described in the first three service bulletins referenced from the requirements of this AD. In addition, the actions specified in the fourth service bulletin referenced in the ``NOTE'' are addressed in another existing AD; this information has been specified in paragraph (d) of the final rule. Two commenters request that paragraphs (a) and (b) of the proposal be revised to reference Table II of Lockheed Service Bulletin 093&hyph;51&hyph;035, in addition to Table I, since Table II contains interim inspection requirements. The FAA concurs, as its intent was to include these interim inspection requirements in the AD. Paragraphs (a) and (b) of the final rule have been revised accordingly. Two commenters request that the proposed rule be revised to permit repairs to be accomplished ``in accordance with FAA-approved repair procedures'' and that paragraph (g) of the proposal be revised to explain the Designated Engineering Representative's (DER) authority, including any limitations, to approve minor changes to repairs done in accordance with the proposal. One commenter states that obtaining approval from the FAA often requires extended down time and unnecessary interruptions of scheduled service. The commenter believes that operators with in-house resources for obtaining FAA approval of repairs (i.e., DER's or organizations that hold a Special Federal Aviation Regulation (SFAR) 36 authorization) should be allowed to use those sources of FAA approval to return aircraft to service in an expeditious manner, particularly when repetitive inspections are being accomplished. The second commenter indicates that the CSB references approval of deviations to repairs and modifications by normal non-AD approval procedures. The FAA does not concur. While DER's and SFAR 36-authorized organizations are authorized to determine whether a design or repair method complies with a specific requirement, they are not authorized currently to make the discretionary determination as to what the applicable requirement is. Further, where repair data do not exist, it is essential that the FAA have feedback as to the type of repairs being made. The FAA has determined that the Manager of the Atlanta Aircraft Certification Office should approve any such deviations to the AD's requirements. Given that possible new relevant issues might be revealed during this process, it is imperative that the FAA, at this level, have such feedback. Only by reviewing deviation approvals can the FAA be assured of this feedback and of the adequacy of the repair methods. However, the FAA is currently conducting a review of this policy and may consider revising it based upon the results of that review. One commenter requests that the FAA revise paragraph (b) of the proposal to allow inspections to continue in accordance with the service bulletin revision levels specified in the original issue of the CSB, except for those inspections for which the procedures have been revised substantively in Revision 1 of the CSB. The commenter suggests that the excepted inspections should be addressed in a separate paragraph of the proposal and should be phased in over a period of time, rather than required as of the effective date of this AD. The commenter adds that any new inspection procedures required by this AD should have been discussed with the Airworthiness Assurance Working Group (AAWG) for these airplanes. The FAA concurs partially. The intent of paragraph (b) is to require that, after the effective date of this AD, inspections be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin revision levels listed in Revision 1 of the CSB. The AAWG endorsed that revision of the CSB at a conference held in November 1991. However, upon reconsideration, the FAA has determined that an acceptable level of safety can be maintained if operators are allowed a ``phase-in'' period to change over from accomplishing inspection procedures in accordance with the original issue of the CSB to accomplishing the updated inspection procedures specified in Revision 1 of the CSB. Therefore, the FAA has revised paragraph (b) of the final rule to allow a phase-in period of 12 months for operators with airplanes that are being inspected as of the effective date of this AD to make this change. One commenter requests that the modification requirement specified in Lockheed Service Bulletin 093&hyph;53&hyph;237 be specifically excluded from the requirements of this AD, as recommended by the AAWG. The FAA concurs. Paragraphs (b) and (d) of the final rule have been revised to reference L&hyph;1011 Service Bulletin Change Notification 093&hyph;51&hyph;035, R1&hyph;CN1, dated October 27, 1992, which eliminates the modification specified in Lockheed Service Bulletin 093&hyph;53&hyph;237.
