FR940913-1-00041 FR940913-1-00013 (e) Metallic enclosures and frames of electrical equipment must be grounded. §28.850 Main source of electrical power. (a) Applicability: Each vessel that relies on electricity to power any of the following essential loads must have at least two electrical generators to supply: (1) The propulsion system and its necessary auxiliaries and controls; (2) Interior lighting; (3) Steering systems; (4) Communication systems; (5) Navigation equipment and navigation lights; (6) Fire protection or detection equipment; (7) Bilge pumps; and (8) General alarm system. (b) Each generator must be attached to an independent prime mover. §28.855 Electrical distribution systems. (a) Each electrical distribution system which has a neutral bus or conductor must have the neutral bus or conductor grounded. (b) A grounded electrical distribution system must have only one connection to ground. This ground connection must be at the switchboard. §28.860 Overcurrent protection and switched circuits. (a) Each power source must be protected against overcurrent. Overcurrent devices for generators must be set at a value not exceeding 115 percent of the generators full load rating. (b) Except for a steering circuit, each circuit must be protected against both overload and short circuit. Each overcurrent device in a steering system power and control circuit must provide short circuit protection only. (c) Each ungrounded current carrying conductor must be protected in accordance with its current carrying capacity by a circuit breaker or fuse at the connection to the switchboard or distribution panel bus. (d) Each circuit breaker and each switch must simultaneously open all ungrounded conductors. (e) The grounded conductor of a circuit must not be disconnected by a switch or an overcurrent device unless all ungrounded conductors of the circuit are simultaneously disconnected. (f) Navigation light circuits must be separate, switched circuits having fused disconnect switches or circuit breakers so that only the appropriate navigation lights can be switched on. (g) A separate circuit with overcurrent protection at the main distribution panel or switchboard must be provided for each radio installation. §28.865 Wiring methods and materials. (a) All cable and wire must have insulated, stranded copper conductors of the appropriate size and voltage rating of the circuit. (b) Each conductor must be No.22 AWG or larger. Conductors in power and lighting circuits must be No.14 AWG or larger. Conductors must be sized so that the voltage drop at the load terminals is not more than 10 percent. (c) Cable and wiring not serving equipment in high risk fire areas such as a galley, laundry, or machinery space must be routed as far as practicable from these spaces. As far as practicable, cables serving duplicated essential equipment must be separated so that a casualty that affects one cable does not affect the other. Existing cables and wires may remain as routed; however, any replacement wiring, new cabling and/or alterations must be routed as specified above. (d) No unused or dead ended cables may remain after the permanent removal or alteration of an electrical device. (e) Cable and wire for power and lighting circuits must: (1) For circuits of less than 50 volts, meet 33 CFR 183.425 and 183.430; and (2) For circuits of 50 volts or greater: (i) Meet sections 310&hyph;13 and 310&hyph;15 of NFPA 70, except that asbestos insulated cable and dry location cable must not be used; (ii) Be listed by Underwriters Laboratories Inc. as UL Marine Boat or UL Marine Shipboard cable; or (iii) Meet §111.60 of this chapter. (f) All metallic cable armor must be electrically continuous and grounded to the metal hull or the common ground point at each end of the cable run, except that final sub-circuits (those supplying loads) may be grounded at the supply end only. (g) Wiring terminations and connections must be made in a fire retardant enclosure such as a junction box, fixture enclosure, or panel enclosure. (h) Existing cable and wire may remain in place and continue in use as long as it is deemed serviceable to the satisfaction of Coast Guard Representative. Any new installation, replacement, modification or alteration must be done in accordance with the requirements of this section. §28.870 Emergency source of electrical power. (a) The following electrical loads must be connected to an independent emergency source of power capable of supplying all connected loads continuously for at least three hours: (1) Navigation lights; (2) Fire protection and detection systems; (3) Communications equipment; (4) General alarm system; and (5) Emergency lighting; (b) The emergency power source must be aft of the collision bulkhead, outside of the machinery space, and above the uppermost continuous deck. (c) An emergency source of power supplied solely by storage battery must also meet the following requirements: (1) Each battery must be a lead-acid or alkaline type and be able to withstand vessel pitch, vibration, roll, and exposure to a salt water atmosphere; (2) A battery cell must not spill electrolyte when the battery is inclined at 30 degrees from the vertical; (3) Each battery installation must be in a battery room, in a box on deck, or in a well ventilated compartment. The batteries must be protected from falling objects;
