FR940930-2-00063 FR940930-2-00035 Purpose The purpose of the HIV-related conference support cooperative agreement is to provide partial support for non-Federal conferences to stimulate efforts to prevent the transmission of HIV. CDC will collaborate on conferences that specifically focus on preventing HIV transmission. Because conference support by CDC creates the appearance of CDC co-sponsorship, there will be active participation by CDC in the development and approval of those portions of the agenda supported by CDC funds. CDC funds may not be expended for unsupported portions of conferences. Contingency awards will be made allowing usage of only 25% of the total amount to be awarded until a final full agenda is approved by CDC. This will provide funds for costs associated with preparation of the agenda. The remainder of funds will be released only upon acceptance of the final full agenda. CDC reserves the right to terminate co-sponsorship if it does not approve the final agenda. Program Requirements CDC will provide support for conferences that are: (1) regional (more than one State), national, or international in scope and target professionals contributing to HIV prevention efforts; and (2) focused on the transfer of HIV prevention research and evaluation findings to intervention efforts or the application of these prevention efforts to service providers and health professional who provide service to individuals whose behaviors place them at increased risk for HIV infection. Topics concerned with issues and areas other than HIV prevention should be directed to other public health agencies or in accordance with current Federal Register Notices (see Federal Register Notice 501 published on April 19, 1994, 59 FR 18561). Current recipients of CDC HIV funding must provide the award number and title of the funded program (see the Section Program Requirements, C. Letter of Intent). The activities related to the development of HIV prevention conferences require substantial CDC collaboration and involvement. In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of the program, the recipient shall be responsible for conducting activities listed in section A, and CDC will be responsible for conducting activities listed in section B: A. Recipient Activities 1. Manage all activities related to program content (e.g., objectives, topics, attenders, session design, workshops, special exhibits, speakers, fees, agenda composition, and printing). Many of these items may be developed in concert with assigned CDC project personnel. 2. Provide draft copies of the agenda and proposed ancillary activities to CDC for acceptance. Submit a copy of the final agenda and proposed ancillary activities to CDC for acceptance. 3. Determine and manage all promotional activities (e.g., title, logo, announcements, mailers, press). CDC must review and approve the use of any materials with reference to CDC involvement or support. 4. Manage all registration processes with participants, invitees, and registrants (e.g., travel, reservations, correspondence, conference materials and hand-outs, badges, registration procedures). 5. Plan, negotiate, and manage conference site arrangements, including all audio-visual needs. 6. Develop and conduct education and training programs on HIV prevention. 7. Collaborate with CDC staff in reporting and disseminating results and relevant HIV prevention education and training information to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, health-care providers, HIV/AIDS prevention and service organizations, and the general public. B. CDC Activities 1. Provide technical assistance through telephone calls, correspondence, and site visits in the areas of program agenda development, implementation, and priority setting related to the cooperative agreement.
