FR940228-2-00073 FR940228-2-00045 (OLC) Office of Legal Counsel Justice/OLC&hyph;003 System name: Office of Legal Counsel, Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Files (Justice/OLC&hyph;003). System location: U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Legal Counsel, 10th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20530. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Persons who request disclosure of records pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, and persons who request access to or correction of records pertaining to themselves contained in Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) systems of records pursuant to the Privacy Act (PA), 5 U.S.C. 552a. Categories of records in the system: The system contains copies of (1) FOIA/PA requests received by OLC; (2) copies of OLC responses to requesters; (3) copies of document responsive to the requests; (4) copies of documents withheld; (5) internal memoranda and correspondence related to the requests; (6) records relating to administrative appeals and/or litigation; and (7) disclosure accounting records. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101 et seq. ; 44 U.S.C. 3301 et seq. ; 5 U.S.C. 552, 552a. Purposes: This system is maintained for the purpose of processing access requests, administrative appeals and litigation under the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act and to comply with the reporting requirements of those Acts. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: a. A record may be disclosed to a Federal agency that has furnished the record to the Department, in order to permit that agency to make a decision as to access or correction or to consult with that agency as to the propriety of access or correction. b. A record may be disclosed to any appropriate Federal, State, local, or foreign agency to verify the accuracy of information submitted by an individual who has requested amendment or correction or records. c. A record may be disclosed to the news media and the public pursuant to 28 CFR 50.2 unless it is determined that release of the specific information in the context of a particular case would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. d. A record may be disclosed as necessary to respond to inquiries by congressional offices on behalf of individual constituents who are subjects of OLC records. e. A record may be disclosed to the National Archives and Records Administration and to the General Services Administration during a records management inspection conducted under the authority of 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: These records are stored in file folders in cabinets.
