FR940819-1-00018 FR940819-1-00005 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 100 [CGD07&hyph;94&hyph;017] Special Local Regulations; City of Charleston, SC AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is proposing to adopt permanent special local regulations for the annual Festival on the Fourth. This event is held each year on July 4 on the Ashley River, at Charleston, South Carolina. In the past, the Coast Guard established temporary special local regulations each year to protect the safety of life on the navigable waters during the effective times. However, because the event recurs annually, the Coast Guard is proposing a permanent description of the event and establishment of permanent regulations in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) to better serve the boating public by creating a permanent reference. DATES: Comments must be received on or before October 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Commander, U.S. Coast Guard Group, 196 Tradd Street, Charleston, South Carolina 29401. The comments and other materials referenced in this notice will be available for inspection and copying at this same address. Normal office hours are between 7:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Comments may also be hand-delivered to this address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: CDR E. P. Boyle, Coast Guard Group Charleston, at (803) 724&hyph;7619. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Interested persons are invited to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written views, data or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this notice [CCGD07&hyph;94&hyph;017] and the specific section of the proposal to which their comments apply, and give reasons for each comment. The regulations may be changed in light of comments received. All comments received before the expiration of the comment period will be considered before final action is taken on this proposal. No public hearing is planned, but one may be held if written requests for a hearing are received and it is determined that the opportunity to make oral presentations will aid the rulemaking process. Drafting Information The drafters of these regulations are LTJG J. M. SICARD, Assistant Operations Officer, Coast Guard Group Charleston, project officer, and LT J. M. LOSEGO, project attorney, Seventh Coast Guard District Legal Office. Discussion of Proposed Regulations Charleston Water Festival, Inc., sponsors the Festival on the Fourth celebration. Approximately, two towboats, one pick-up boat, forty waterskiers, and five jet skiers conduct various exhibitions during the Festival on the Fourth event, including ski jumping, kite skiing and jet ski maneuvering. The event also closes with a fireworks display on that portion of the Ashley River in Charleston, South Carolina, between Brittle Bank Park and the main river channel. The event's exhibitions, coupled with the fireworks display, create an extra hazard in the navigable waters and require these regulations. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. The regulated area encompasses less than one nautical mile on the Ashley River from Brittle Bank Park to the main river channel in Charleston, South Carolina, entry into which is prohibited for eleven and a half hours on the day of the event. Since the impact of this proposal is expected to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies that, if adopted, it will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Federalism This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this rulemaking does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
