FR940516-2-00157 FR940516-2-00097 The non-Federal share may include funds received from private sources or from state or local governments or the value of in-kind contributions. Federal funds may not be used to meet the non-Federal share of matching funds, except as provided by Federal statute. In-kind contributions may be in the form of, but are not limited to, personal services rendered in carrying out functions related to the project, and permission to use real or personal property owned by others (for which consideration is not required) in carrying out the project. The total cost of a project begins on the effective date of a cooperative agreement between the applicant and an authorized representative of the U.S. Government and ends on the date specified in the award. Accordingly, the time expended and costs incurred in either the development of a project or the financial assistance application, or in any subsequent discussions or negotiations prior to the award, are neither reimbursable nor recognizable as part of the recipient's cost share. D. Format 1. Applications for project funding must be complete. Applicants must identify the specific research priority or priorities to which they are responding. For applications containing more than one project, each project component must be identified individually using the format specified in this section. If an application is not in response to a priority, it should be so stated. Applicants should not assume prior knowledge on the part of NMFS as to the relative merits of the project described in the application. Applications are not to be bound in any manner and should be one-sided. All incomplete applications will be returned to the applicant. Applicants must submit one signed original and two copies of the complete application. 2. Applications must be submitted in the following format: a. Cover Sheet: An applicant must use OMB Standard Form 424 (revised 4/92) as the cover sheet for each project. Applicants may obtain copies of these forms from the NOAA Grants Management Division or the NOAA Chesapeake Bay Office (see ADDRESSES ). b. Project Summary: Each proposal must contain a summary of not more than one page that provides the following: (1) Project title. (2) Project status (new). (3) Project duration (beginning and ending dates). (4) Name, address, and telephone number of applicant. (5) Principal Investigator(s). (6) Project objectives. (7) Summary of work to be performed. (8) Total Federal funds requested. (9) Cost-sharing to be provided from non-Federal sources, if any. Specify whether contributions are project-related cash or in-kind. (10) Total project cost. c. Project Description: Each project must be completely and accurately described. Each project description may be up to 15 pages in length. If an application is awarded, NMFS will make all portions of the project description available to the public for review; therefore, NMFS cannot guarantee the confidentiality of any information submitted as part of any project, nor will NMFS accept for consideration any project requesting confidentiality of any part of the project. Each project must be described as follows: (1) Identification of Problem(s): Describe the specific problem to be addressed and the area of emphasis to which the project responds (see section II above). (2) Project Objectives: This is one of the most important parts of the Project Proposal. Use the following guidelines for stating the objective of the project. (a) Keep it simple and easily understandable. (b) Be as specific and quantitative as possible. (c) Specify the ``what and when;'' avoid the ``how and why.'' (d) Keep it attainable within the time, money, and manpower available.
