FR940902-1-00052 FR940902-1-00011 Drafting Information These regulations were drafted by William Knauer under the guidance of Richard S. Pospahala, of the Office of Subsistence Management, Alaska Regional Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Anchorage, Alaska. Additional guidance was provided by Thomas H. Boyd, Alaska State Office, Bureau of Land Management; John Hiscock, Alaska Regional Office, National Park Service; John Borbridge, Alaska Area Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs; and Norman Howse, USDA-Forest Service. List of Subjects 36 CFR Part 242 Administrative practice and procedure, Alaska, Fish, National forests, Public lands, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Wildlife. 50 CFR Part 100 Administrative practice and procedure, Alaska, Fish, Public lands, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Wildlife. For the reasons set out in the preamble, Title 36, Part 242, and Title 50, Part 100, of the Code of Federal Regulations, are proposed to be amended as set forth below. PART XXX _SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR FEDERAL PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA 1. The authority citation for both 36 CFR Part 242 and 50 CFR Part 100 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 3, 472, 551, 668dd, 3101&hyph;3126; 18 U.S.C. 3551&hyph;3586; 43 U.S.C. 1733. 2. In Subpart D of 36 CFR part 242 and 50 CFR part 100, ยง XXX .25 is proposed to be revised to read: Subpart D_Subsistence Taking of Fish and Wildlife ยง XXX .25 Subsistence taking of wildlife. (a) Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to all regulations contained in this section. ADF&G means the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. Aircraft means any kind of airplane, glider, or other device used to transport people or equipment through the air, excluding helicopters. Airport means an airport listed in the Federal Aviation Administration, Alaska Airman's Guide and chart supplement. Animal means those species with a vertebral column (backbone). Antler means one or more solid, horn-like appendages protruding from the head of a caribou, deer, or moose. Antlered means any caribou, deer, or moose having at least one visible antler. Antlerless means any caribou, deer, or moose not having visible antlers attached to the skull. Bear means black bear, or brown or grizzly bear. Bow means a longbow, recurve bow, or compound bow, excluding a crossbow, or any bow equipped with a mechanical device that holds arrows at full draw. Broadhead means an arrowhead that is not barbed and has two or more steel cutting edges having a minimum cutting diameter of not less than seven-eighths inch. Brow tine means a tine on the front portion of a moose antler, typically projecting forward from the base of the antler toward the nose. Buck means any male deer. Bull means any male moose, caribou, or musk oxen. Closed season means the time when wildlife may not be taken. Cub bear means a brown or grizzly bear in its first or second year of life, or a black bear (including cinnamon and blue phases) in its first year of life. Designated hunter means a Federally qualified, licensed hunter who may take all or a portion of another Federally qualified, licensed hunter's harvest limit(s) only under situations approved by the Board. Edible meat means the breast meat of ptarmigan and grouse, and, those parts of black bear, brown and grizzly bear, caribou, deer, mountain goat, moose, musk oxen, and Dall sheep that are typically used for human consumption which are: The meat of the ribs, neck, brisket, front quarters as far as the juncture of the humerus and radius-ulna (elbow), hindquarters as far as the distal joint (bottom) of the tibia-fibula (hock) and that portion of the animal between the front and hindquarters; however, edible meat of species listed above does not include: Meat of the head, meat that has been damaged and made inedible by the method of taking, bones, sinew, and incidental meat reasonably lost as a result of boning or close trimming of the bones, or viscera. Fifty-inch (50-inch) moose means a bull moose with an antler spread of 50 inches or more. Full curl horn means the horn of a Dall sheep ram; the tip of which has grown through 360 degrees of a circle described by the outer surface of the horn, as viewed from the side, or that both horns are broken, or that the sheep is at least 8 years of age as determined by horn growth annuli. Furbearer means a beaver, coyote, arctic fox, red fox, lynx, marten, mink, weasel, muskrat, river (land) otter, red squirrel, flying squirrel, ground squirrel, marmot, wolf or wolverine. Grouse collectively refers to all species found in Alaska, including spruce grouse, ruffed grouse, blue grouse and sharp-tailed grouse. Hare or hares collectively refers to all species of hares (commonly called rabbits) in Alaska and includes snowshoe hare and tundra hare. Harvest limit means the number of any one species permitted to be taken by any one person in a Unit or portion of a Unit in which the taking occurs. Highway means the driveable surface of any constructed road. Household means that group of people residing in the same residence. Hunting means the taking of wildlife within established hunting seasons with archery equipment or firearms, and as authorized by a required hunting license. Marmot collectively refers to all species of marmot that occur in Alaska including the hoary marmot, Alaska marmot, and the woodchuck. Motorized vehicle means a motor-driven land, air or water conveyance. Open season means the time when wildlife may be taken by hunting or trapping; an open season includes the first and last days of the prescribed season period. Otter means river or land otter only, excluding sea otter. Permit hunt means a hunt for which State or Federal permits are issued by registration or other means. Poison means any substance which is toxic, or poisonous upon contact or ingestion. Possession means having direct physical control of wildlife at a given time or having both the power and intention to exercise dominion or control of wildlife either directly or through another person or persons. Ptarmigan collectively refers to all species found in Alaska, including white-tailed ptarmigan, rock ptarmigan, and willow ptarmigan. Ram means a male Dall sheep. Registration permit means a permit which authorizes hunting and is issued to a person who agrees to the specified hunting conditions. Hunting permitted by a registration permit begins on an announced date and continues throughout the open season, or until the season is closed by Board action. Registration permits are issued in the order applications are received and/or are based on priorities as determined by 50 CFR 100.17 and 36 CFR 242.17. Sealing means placing a mark or tag on a portion of a harvested animal by an authorized representative of the ADF&G; sealing includes collecting and recording information about the conditions under which the animal was harvested, and measurements of the specimen submitted for sealing, or surrendering a specific portion of the animal for biological information. Seven-eighths curl horn means the horn of a male Dall sheep, the tip of which has grown through seven-eights (315 degrees) of a circle, described by the outer surface of the horn, as viewed from the side, or with both horns broken. Skin, hide, pelt or fur mean any tanned or untanned external covering of an animal's body; excluding bear. The skin, hide, fur or pelt of a bear shall mean the entire external covering with claws attached. Spike-fork moose means a bull moose with only one or two tines on either antler; male calves are not spike-fork bulls. Take or Taking means to pursue, hunt, shoot, trap, net, capture, collect, kill, harm, or attempt to engage in any such conduct. Tine or antler point refers to any point on an antler, the length of which is greater than its width and is at least one inch. Transportation means to ship, convey, carry or transport by any means whatever, and deliver or receive for such shipment, conveyance, carriage, or transportation. Trapping means the taking of furbearers within established trapping seasons and with a required trapping license.
