FR941206-2-00069 FR941206-2-00051 Nothing in this revocation and redelegation of authority affects the power and authority previously redelegated to the Directors of the HUD&hyph;FHA Debt Management Centers in Albany, NY, Seattle, WA, and Chicago, IL, including the redelegation of authority published in the Federal Register on July 7, 1994 at 59 FR 34857 (which superseded in its entirety the redelegation of authority signed on October 25, 1991 and published in the Federal Register on November 1, 1991 at 56 FR 56236). Accordingly, the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner revokes and redelegates authority as follows: Section A. Authority Revoked The Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner revokes all authority currently redelegated from the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner to and through Regional Housing Directors to Housing Development Division Directors and Housing Management Division Directors in Regional Offices and in Category A and B Field Offices, and to Housing Division Directors in the Anchorage, AK, and Charleston, WV Field Offices, and to housing officials in Category C Field Offices, including any powers and authorities further redelegated. Section B. Authority Redelegated I. To Whom Authority Redelegaged a. The Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner redelegates to the Office of Housing Directors in the following Category AA (Double A) offices the powers and authorities needed to carry out those program functions listed in Part III of this redelegation for the Office of Housing_FHA single family housing programs, multifamily housing programs, and nursing home and hospital mortgaged insurance programs. These programs are listed below within Part II of this section. With regard to carrying out multifamily housing functions, in most cases, each Office of Housing Director may exercise his or her authority only on multifamily properties located within the office's geographic boundaries. However, in the few exceptions noted below in parentheses within the list of Category AA offices, the Office of Housing Director is also given the authority to carry out specified multifamily housing functions for properties located in other geographic areas. The geographic areas that constitute the specific jurisdictions of each field office will be further addressed in a notice to be published and distributed separately from this redelegation. (1) Category AA (Double A) Field Offices Boston, MA New York, NY (includes all Multifamily Asset Disposition functions for Buffalo, NY, and Newark, NJ) Philadelphia, PA (includes Multifamily Asset Disposition functions 1&hyph;3 and 9&hyph;13, from the Multifamily Asset Disposition functions list for Baltimore, MD, Pittsburgh, PA Richmond, VA, Washington, DC, and Charleston, WV) Atlanta, GA Jacksonville, FL Chicago, IL Detroit, MI Kansas City, KS St. Louis, MO Denver, CO Ft. Worth, TX (includes all Multifamily Asset Management and Asset Disposition functions for C+ offices Albuquerque, NM, and Dallas, TX, and all Multifamily Asset Disposition functions for A offices Little Rock, AR, and San Antonio, TX, and all Multifamily Asset Management functions for C+ office Shreveport, LA) San Francisco, CA (includes all Multifamily Asset Management and Asset Disposition functions for C+ offices Las Vegas, NV, and San Diego, CA) Los Angeles, CA Seattle, WA
