FR941110-0-00051 FR941110-0-00016 If both HCFA and the State find that a facility has not met all requirements and neither find that the failure immediately jeopardizes the health or safety of its residents, the following procedures would apply: •If both HCFA and the State find that a facility's participation should be terminated, the State's timing of any termination (as specified in proposed §431.153(c)) would control so long as the termination date does not occur later than 6 months after the date of the finding to terminate (§488.234(b)). •If HCFA, but not the State finds that a facility's participation should be terminated, HCFA's decision to terminate would prevail and HCFA would permit continuation of payment during the period prior to the effective date of termination, not to exceed 6 months from the last day of survey (§488.234(b)(l)). •If the State, but not HCFA finds that a facility's participation should be terminated, the State's decision to terminate and the timing of the termination (as specified in proposed section 431.153(c)) would control (§488.234(b)(2)). •If HCFA or the State, but not both, would impose one or more remedies that are additional or alternative to termination, the additional or alternative remedies would also be applied (§488.234(d)(l)). •If both HFCA and the State would impose one or more remedies that are additional or alternative to termination, only the additional or alternative remedies of HCFA would apply (§488.234(d)(2)). 17. Termination of Provider Agreements and Discontinuation of FFP At §488.238, we said that termination of the provider agreement would end payment to the facility and any alternative remedy. We proposed that HCFA and the State may terminate a facility's provider agreement if a facility_ •Fails to correct deficiencies within the specified time; •Fails to submit a plan of correction within the time specified by HCFA; or •Does not meet the eligibility criteria for continuation of payment. We said that HCFA and the State would terminate a facility's provider agreement if a facility with immediate and serious threat deficiencies refuses temporary management, if that remedy is offered by HCFA or the Medicaid agency. In addition, we proposed that, before terminating a provider agreement, HCFA does and the State must notify the facility and the public_ •At least 2 and not more than 4 calendar days before termination for a facility with immediate and serious threat deficiencies; and •At least 15 calendar days before termination for a facility with non-immediate and serious threat deficiencies. The current termination notification requirement at §489.53(c)(1) requires HCFA to give notice to any provider at least 15 days before the actual effective date of a termination of a provider agreement, irrespective of whether the situation poses an immediate and serious threat, except in the case of Medicare SNFs. Section 489.53(c)(2) provides that SNFs with deficiencies that pose an immediate and serious threat are entitled to notice of the termination at least 2 days before the effective date of the termination of the provider agreement. Since the existing regulations do not discriminate between immediate and serious and nonimmediate and serious threat situations except in the case of Medicare SNFs, we proposed to amend §489.53(c)(2) to require at least 2 and not more than 4 calendar days notice to all providers of a termination action involving an immediate and serious threat.
