FR940127-2-00089 FR940127-2-00064 An exemption from 10 CFR 73.55(d)(8) is required to permit the licensee to relax containment access controls during the recovery of Browns Ferry Units 1 and 3. The proposed exemption will not reduce requirements for containment access controls for Browns Ferry Unit 2. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The licensee has indicated that during the period of the exemption, the reactors will be maintained in a defueled condition. Postulated radiological sabotage within the containment in this condition cannot result in significant offsite radiation doses. Therefore, the environmental impact of this sabotage is negligible. There is no other change in environmental impact while the reactors are defueled. The licensee has also indicated that, as the reactors are refueled and returned to service, it will perform extensive testing and inspections which will detect latent sabotage which could adversely impact plant operations. The licensee will test safety-related systems as they are returned to service to assure they are capable of fulfilling their design functions. The licensee will also perform security inspections to determine if unauthorized and potentially dangerous materials such as explosives have been introduced. These measures provide confidence that the reactors will operate as intended by their design. Therefore, the environmental impact of plant operations after the period of the exemption is unchanged from normally anticipated conditions. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that granting the proposed exemption would result in no significant radiological environmental impact. With regard to potential non-radiological impacts the proposed exemption does not affect non-radiolgical plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant non-radiological impacts associated with the proposed exemption. Alternative to the Proposed Action Because the staff has concluded that there is no significant environmental impact associated with the proposed exemption, any alternative to the exemption will have either no significantly different environmental impact, or greater environmental impact. The principal alternative would be to deny the requested exemption. Denial of the exemption would result in no change in current environmental impacts. The environmental impacts of the proposed exemption and this alternative are similar. Alternative Use of Resources This action did not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the ``Final Environmental Statement, Browns, Ferry Nuclear Plant Units 1, 2, and 3,'' dated September 1, 1972. Agencies and Persons Contacted The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's request dated September 2, 1993, as supplemented on December 17, 1993. The NRC staff did not consult with other agencies or persons. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, we conclude that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For details with respect to this action, see the licensee's request for the exemption dated September 2, 1993, as supplemented on December 17, 1993, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington DC, and at the Athens Public Library, South Street, Athens, Alabama 35611. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 19th day of January 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Frederick J. Hebdon, Director, Project Directorate II&hyph;4, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1694 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
