FR941130-0-00096 FR941130-0-00015 (2) A loan is considered to be in default if a payment is made by the institution of higher education, its owner, agency, contractor, employee, or any other entity or individual affiliated with the institution, in order to avoid default by the borrower; (3)(i) Any loan that is in default, but on which the borrower has made satisfactory arrangements to repay the loan, or any loan that has been rehabilitated before the end of the following award year is not considered to be in default for purposes of the cohort default rate calculation; and (ii) In the case of a student who has attended and borrowed at more than one institution, the student and his or her subsequent repayment or default are attributed to the institution for attendance at which the student received the loan that entered repayment in the award year; and (4) Improper servicing or collection means the failure of the institution to comply with subpart C of this part. (d) Locations of the institution. (1) A cohort default rate of an institution applies to all locations of the institution as it exists on the first day of the award year for which the rate is calculated. (2) A cohort default rate of an institution applies to all locations of the institution from the date the institution is notified of that rate until the institution is notified by the Secretary that the rate no longer applies. (3) For an institution that changes status from a location of one institution to a free-standing institution, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the institution's status as of July 1 of the award year for which a cohort default rate is being calculated. (4)(i) For an institution that changes status from a free-standing institution to a location of another institution, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable award year and the combined number of students who default during the applicable award years from both the former free-standing institution and the other institution. This cohort default rate applies to the new consolidated institution and all of its current locations. (ii) For free-standing institutions that merge, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable award year and the combined number of students who default during the applicable award years from both of the institutions that are merging. This cohort default rate applies to the new, consolidated institution. (iii) For an institution that changes status from a location of one institution to a location of another institution, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable award year and the number of students who default during the applicable award years from both of the institutions in their entirety, not limited solely to the respective locations. (5) For an institution that has a change in ownership that results in a change in control, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable award year and the combined number of students who default during the applicable award years from the institution under both the old and new control. (e) Loan rehabilitation. (1) A loan is considered rehabilitated only after the borrower has executed a new written repayment agreement and has made one payment each month for 12 consecutive months. (2) Within 30 days of the date of the rehabilitation, the institution shall report the rehabilitation to the same national credit bureau to which it originally reported this defaulted loan. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087bb) 5. A new ยง674.6 is added to read as follows: ยง674.6 Default reduction plan. (a) General. An institution with a cohort default rate that equals or exceeds 15 percent shall establish and implement a plan designed to reduce defaults by its students in the future. The institution shall submit to the Secretary by December 31 of the calendar year in which the cohort default rate was calculated_ (1) A written description of the default reduction plan; (2) A statement indicating that the institution agrees to comply with the required measures in paragraph (b) of this section; or (3) For an institution that is participating in the Federal Family Education Loan Program and has in place a default reduction plan for that program, a statement indicating that the institution agrees to apply that plan to the Federal Perkins Loan program. (b) Required measures. The default reduction plan required under this section must include a description of the measures to be taken by the institution to reduce defaults. The institution shall explain how it plans to implement the following measures: (1) Revise admission policies and screening practices, consistent with applicable State law, to ensure that students enrolled in the institution, especially those who are not high school graduates or those who are in need of substantial remedial work, have a reasonable expectation of succeeding in their programs of study. (2) Improve the availability and effectiveness of academic counseling and other support services to decrease withdrawal rates, including_ (i) Providing academic counseling and other support services to students on a regular basis, at a time and location that is convenient for the students involved;
