FR940105-1-00002 FR940105-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Food Safety and Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 318 [Docket No. 92&hyph;029P] RIN 0583-AB66 Sodium Citrate as a Tripe Denuding Agent AGENCY: Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is proposing to amend the Federal meat inspection regulations to permit the use of sodium citrate in solution to denude beef stomachs of mucous membranes. In 1990, a manufacturer of processing aids and other direct food ingredients petitioned the Food and Drug Administration and FSIS to approve the use of several compounds, including sodium citrate, for use in denuding tripe. FSIS has reviewed the data and other information submitted by the petitioner and has determined that the proposed use of sodium citrate would not result in product adulteration or misbranding. The proposed regulation would make available to meat processors an additional, alternative tripe-denuding formulation that would contain sodium citrate as an ingredient. The sodium citrate solution would be as effective as existing tripe-denuding agents, but would be less objectionable to workers than the agents now in use. The sodium citrate-containing formulation would contribute to improved tripe production. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before March 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments to: Policy Office, Attn. Diane Moore, FSIS Hearing Clerk, room 3171 South Agriculture Building, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Bill James, Director, Slaughter Inspection Standards and Procedures Division, Science and Technology, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, (202) 720&hyph;3219. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive Order 12866 This proposed rule is in conformance with Executive Order 12866, and the Assistant Secretary has determined that it is not a ``significant regulatory action.'' This proposed rule: (1) Would have an effect on the economy of less than $100 million; (2) would not adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health and safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; (3) would not create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (4) would not alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or rights or obligations or recipients thereof; and (5) would not raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. Executive Order 12778 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. States and local jurisdictions are preempted under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) and the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA) from imposing requirements with respect to premises, facilities, and operations of federally inspected meat or poultry products, and any marking, labeling, packaging, or ingredient requirements on federally inspected meat and poultry products that are in addition to, or different than, those imposed under the FMIA and PPIA. States and local jurisdictions may, however, exercise concurrent jurisdiction over meat and poultry products that are outside official establishments for the purpose of preventing the distribution of meat and poultry products that are misbranded or adulterated under the FMIA or PPIA, or in the case of imported articles, which are not at such an establishment, after their entry into the United States. The States may, however, impose more stringent requirements on such State inspected products and establishments.
