FR940405-1-00009 FR940405-1-00003 Finding of No Significant Impact_Energy Conservation Program for Consumer Products The Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended by the National Energy Conservation Policy Act, the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act of 1987, and the National Appliance Energy Conservation Amendments of 1988, prescribes energy conservation standards for certain major household appliances, and requires the Department of Energy (DOE) to administer an energy conservation program for these products. Based on an Environmental Assessment (EA), DOE/EA&hyph;0819, DOE has determined that the proposal of any of the candidate amended energy efficiency standards for the eight appliances would not be a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA). Therefore, an environmental impact statement (EIS) is not required, and the Department is issuing this finding of no significant impact (FONSI). Public Availability: Copies of the EA are available from the Hearings and Dockets Branch, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, EE&hyph;43, room 6B&hyph;025, U.S. Department of Energy, Docket Number EE-RM&hyph;90&hyph;201, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC, 20585, (202) 586&hyph;9320. For further program information, contact: Dr. Barry P. Berlin, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EE&hyph;43), U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;9127. For further information regarding the DOE NEPA process, contact: Carol M. Borgstrom, Director, Office of NEPA Oversight (EH&hyph;25), U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;4600 or (800) 472&hyph;2756. Description of the Proposed Action: The proposed action is the establishment of revised energy conservation standards for room air conditioners, water heaters, direct heating equipment, mobile home furnaces, kitchen ranges and ovens, pool heaters and fluorescent lamp ballasts, and to consider standards for televisions. Environmental Impacts: The EA evaluates the environmental impacts of a range of new candidate energy conservation standards for eight types of household appliances. The results are presented for each potential standard level for each of the eight appliance types. Each potential standard level is an alternative action, and the environmental impacts of each alternative are compared to what would be expected to happen if no new standards for each product were finalized, i.e., the ``no action'' alternative. The main environmental concern is emissions from fossil-fueled electricity generation. Most of the design options for the eight appliances would result in decreased electricity use and, therefore, a reduction of power plant emissions. The proposed efficiency standards would generally decrease air pollution by decreasing future energy demand. The greatest decreases in air pollution would be for sulfur oxides, listed in equivalent weight of sulfur dioxide, or SO 2 . Reductions of nitrogen oxides and carbon dioxide would also occur and are listed by weight of NO x and CO 2 , respectively. Design options for many of the appliances (i.e., gas and oil water heaters, gas pool heaters, direct heating equipment, mobile home furnaces, and gas ranges and ovens) would also reduce in-home fuel consumption, resulting in lower in-home emissions from fuel-burning appliances. Although the quantity of raw materials used per appliance would remain relatively constant, in most scenarios increased initial prices from standards are expected to reduce slightly the number of appliances sold, which would result in small decreases in the total amount of raw materials used. The main effect of this decreased appliance production would be the SO 2 decreases from avoided fuel burning at power plants. The environmental contribution from reduced steel production is not included in the estimates for net SO 2 decreases resulting from design changes in these products.
