FR940128-2-00062 FR940128-2-00035 Other Alternatives There are no other alternatives for short-term storage of Naval spent fuel which could be implemented within the time frame under consideration. Alternatives which were considered but found to be impractical for short-term storage included (1) shipment to Idaho as in the past, which is precluded by the Federal District Court injunction; (2) storage in commercial dry storage casks, which could not be procured and adapted quickly for use with Naval fuel; and (3) storage in Navy or DOE water pools, which is precluded in the short-term by space limitations and lack of the necessary storage racks. Environmental Considerations The impacts of the three alternatives have been evaluated both in terms of their specific impacts and the cumulative impacts of shipyard operation. Since the radioactivity in the spent fuel is totally isolated from the environment in either the shipping containers, the Surface Ship Support Barge, or in shutdown ships, short-term storage under any of these alternatives would not result in any additional release of radioactivity under normal conditions. The Environmental Assessment considers several hypothetical accidents involving Naval spent fuel including release of radioactivity from the fuel during the accident. To summarize, all of the overall accident risks are very small, less than one chance in 10,000 of a single fatal cancer in the entire population. While the numerical results of the calculations differ for the various storage modes and locations, the overall risks are so small that accident risks provide no realistic basis for selecting among the alternatives. Proposed Determination Based on the information and analysis in the Environmental Assessment, the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program considers the No Action alternative not to constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act. Therefore, the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program issues this Finding of No Significant Impact and will make a final determination following a 30 day public review period. Dated: January 14, 1994. B. DeMars, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Director, Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program. Dated: January 20, 1994. Michael P. Rummel, LCDR, JAGC, USN, Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1914 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3810&hyph;AE&hyph;M
