FR940429-0-00130 FR940429-0-00013 Comments: Some commenters asked if there is a form or format for reporting and disclosing crime data. Discussion: With respect to a prescribed format or form on which to disclose and report crime statistics, the Secretary notes that an institution may voluntarily participate in the Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) System of the FBI. In this system, there are prescribed forms for the reporting of crime. The Secretary notes that while the HEA does not mandate participation in the UCR System, the HEA does, however, require use of the UCR definitions in determining whether a crime has been committed. Changes: None. Institutional Security Policies Comments: Several commenters asked whether an institution that does not have programs to promote the awareness of rape, acquaintance rape, and other forcible and nonforcible sex offenses is required to establish these programs itself. They asked whether an institution could use as educators, in those areas, personnel who are experts in their respective fields. Discussion: Section 485(f) of the HEA requires an institution to provide education programs to promote the awareness of rape, acquaintance rape, and other sex offenses. An institution may contract with experts in these areas, such as rape crisis intervention experts, local law enforcement officials, and social service personnel to provide training to students and staff. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters questioned the change in terminology from sexual assault to sex offense with regard to procedures students should follow if a sex offense occurs. Two commenters were concerned over the issue of preserving evidence of a criminal offense: one commenter believed that this requirement could place the institution in the position of interpreting laws regarding evidence. The institutions asked for guidance with respect to preserving evidence. Two commenters agreed that a student should retain the right, under the regulations, to decide whether to report a sex offense. Discussion: The Secretary changed the term sexual assault to sex offense to conform with the statutory provision requiring institutions to use the definitions of the FBI's UCR System; forcible and nonforcible sex offenses are defined. During negotiated rulemaking sessions with the academic community, many non-Federal negotiators recommended that institutions be required to define what is meant by ``preserving evidence''. The Secretary urges institutions to consult with their campus security officials, local law enforcement officials, and the local prosecutor's office in addressing what constitutes the preservation of evidence. The Secretary further encourages institutions to develop working relationships with the emergency rooms of local hospitals and local rape crisis programs. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter asked to what extent an institution is required to assist a student in notifying proper authorities of the occurrence of a sex offense, if the student requests the institution's assistance. Discussion: The Secretary expects an institution to accommodate a victim's request for assistance reasonably. Changes: None. Comments: Fifteen commenters addressed the requirement for an institution to notify students that the institution will change a victim's academic and living situations after an alleged sex offense and of the options for such changes, if changes are requested by the victim and are reasonably available. Some of the commenters recommended that this should apply only to institutions that have control over on- and off-campus housing. Some community colleges indicated that they do not have the experience or resources to handle such a request. Some commenters were concerned that this requirement could impose an unlimited liability on institutions. Some of the commenters asked the Secretary to specify what constitutes acceptable accommodation by an institution. Discussion: With regard to those commenters who expressed concern over potential legal liability and those who wish to limit the scope of this provision to institutions that control housing, it is important to recognize that these requirements provide an institution flexibility. Moreover, section 485(f)(7)(c) of the HEA provides that no private right of action is created by this statute. A change to accommodate a victim must be reasonably available. If a change of living or academic situation requested by a victim is unreasonable, an institution is not required to make the change. As examples, an institution could allow a victim out of a housing contract with the institution so that the student may pursue off-campus housing; on the other hand, if would not be reasonable to expect the institution to pay for the rental of a private apartment for the student. The Secretary does not believe that it is useful to list in these regulations all examples of acceptable accommodation. Institutions are expected to make reasonable efforts at acceptable accommodation. Changes: None. Comments: Four commenters expressed concern that the Secretary has not specified how an institution must ensure due process for the accused in a campus disciplinary proceeding. The commenters were concerned that the institution not take punitive action against the accused until all of the evidence is weighed and there is a conviction. Discussion: The commenters are correct that the HEA does not provide due process requirements under these provisions; due process is a matter of local law and other requirements. The purpose of this provision is to provide disclosure of an institution's disciplinary procedures with certain minimum requirements.
