FR940720-2-00096 FR940720-2-00068 Date of amendment request: June 10, 1994. Description of amendment request: The amendment involves a one-time change affecting the Allowed Outage Time (AOT) for the Emergency Service Water (ESW) System, Residual Heat Removal Service Water (RHRSW) System, Suppression Pool Cooling, Suppression Pool Spray, and Low Pressure Coolant Injection modes of the Residual Heat Removal System, and Core Spray System to be extended from 3 and 7 days to 14 days during the Limerick Generating Station (LGS), Unit 2 third refueling outage scheduled to begin in January 1995. This proposed extended AOT would allow adequate time to install isolation valves and cross-ties on the ESW and RHRSW Systems to facilitate future inspections or maintenance. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed Technical Specifications changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed one-time TS changes will not increase the probability of an accident since it will only extend the time period that the `B' ESW and RHRSW loops and the affected equipment can be out-of-service. The extension of the time duration that certain equipment is out-of-service has no direct physical impact on the plant. The proposed inoperable systems are normally in a standby mode while the unit is in OPCON 1 or 2 and are not directly supporting plant operation. Therefore, they can have no impact on the plant that would make an accident more likely to occur due to their inoperability. During transients or events which require these systems to be operating, there is sufficient capacity in the operable loops to support plant operation or shutdown, in-so-much that failures that are accident initiators will not occur more frequently than previously postulated. In addition, the consequences of an accident previously evaluated in the SAR will not be increased. With the `B' loops of ESW and RHRSW inoperable, a known quantity of equipment is either inoperable or the equipment is not fully capable of fulfilling its design function under all design conditions due to certain support systems not being operable. Based on the support functions of the ESW and RHRSW systems, a review of the plant was performed to determine the impacts that the inoperable ESW and RHRSW `B' loops would have on other systems. The impacts were identified for each system, as discussed in the preceding Safety Assessment, and it was determined whether there were any adverse [effects] on the systems. It was then determined how the adverse [effects] would impact each system's design basis and overall plant safety. The consequences of any postulated accidents occurring on Unit 1 during this AOT extension was found to be bounded by the previous analyses as described in the SAR. The existing AOTs limit the amount of time that the plant can operate with certain equipment inoperable, where single failure criteria is still met. The minimum equipment required to mitigate the consequences of an accident and/or safely shutdown the plant will be operable or the plant will be shutdown. Therefore, by extending certain AOTs and extending the assumptions concerning the combinations of events and single failures for the longer duration of each extended AOT, we conclude, based on the evaluations above, that at least the minimum equipment required to mitigate the consequences of an accident and/or safely shutdown the plant will still be operable during the extended AOT. Therefore, the consequences of an accident previously evaluated in the SAR will not be increased. Therefore, these proposed one-time TS changes will not result in a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed TS changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed one-time TS changes will not create the possibility of a different type of accident since it will only extend the time period that the `B' ESW and RHRSW loops and the affected equipment can be out-of-service. The extension of the time duration that certain equipment is out-of-service has no direct physical impact on the plant and does not create any new accident initiators. The systems involved are either accident mitigation systems, safe shutdown systems or systems that support plant operation. All of the possible impacts that the inoperable equipment may have on its supported systems were previously analyzed in the SAR and are the basis for the present TS ACTION statements and AOTs. The impact of inoperable support systems for a given time duration was previously evaluated and any accident initiators created by the inoperable systems was evaluated. The lengthening of the time duration does not create any additional accident initiators for the plant. Therefore, the proposed one-time TS changes will not create the possibility of a new or different type of accident from any accident previously evaluated. 3. The proposed TS changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The ESW and RHRSW systems and their supported systems are designed with sufficient independence and redundancy such that the removal from service of a component/subsystem will not prevent the systems from performing their required safety functions. Since removal of an ESW and a RHRSW loop from service with one unit in operation and the other unit in a refueling outage is allowed by the current Technical Specifications, then the concern is the reduced margin of safety incurred by extending the affected AOTs. The present ESW and RHRSW AOT limits were set to ensure that sufficient safety-related equipment is available for response to all accident conditions and that sufficient decay heat removal capability is available for a LOCA/LOOP on one unit and simultaneous safe shutdown of the other unit. A slight reduction in the margin of safety is incurred during the proposed extended AOT due to the increased risk that an event could occur in a fourteen day period versus a three or seven day period. This increased risk is judged to be minimal due to the low probability of an event occurring during the extended AOT and based on the following discussion of minimum ECCS/decay heat removal requirements. The reduction in the margin of safety is not significant since the remaining operable ECCS equipment is adequate to mitigate the consequences of any accident. This conclusion is based on the information contained in documents NEDO&hyph;24708A and NEDC&hyph;30936&hyph;A. These documents described the minimum requirements to successfully terminate a transient or LOCA initiating event (with scram), assuming multiple failures with realistic conditions and were used to justify certain TS AOTs per UFSAR sections 6.3.1.1.2.o and 6.3.3.1. The minimum requirements for short term response to an accident would be either one LPCI pump or one Core Spray loop in conjunction with ADS, which would be adequate to re-flood the vessel and maintain core cooling sufficient to preclude fuel damage. For long term response, the minimum requirements would be one loop of RHR for decay heat removal, along with another low pressure ECCS loop. These minimum requirements will be met since implementation of the proposed TS changes will require the operability of HPCI, ADS, two LPCI subsystems (or one LPCI subsystem and one RHR subsystem during decay heat removal) and one Core Spray subsystem be maintained during the 14 day period.
