FR940720-0-00121 FR940720-0-00007 (i) In or on a piece of equipment that is self-propelled or serves a dual purpose by both propelling itself and performing another function (such as garden tractors, off-highway mobile cranes and bulldozers); or (ii) In or on a piece of equipment that is intended to be propelled while performing its function (such as lawnmowers and string trimmers); or (iii) That, by itself or in or on a piece of equipment, is portable or transportable, meaning designed to be and capable of being carried or moved from one location to another. Indicia of transportability include, but are not limited to, wheels, skids, carrying handles, dolly, trailer, or platform. (2) An internal combustion engine is not a nonroad engine if: (i) The engine is used to propel a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition, or is subject to standards promulgated under section 202 of the Act; or (ii) The engine is regulated by a federal New Source Performance Standard promulgated under section 111 of the Act; or (iii) The engine otherwise included in paragraph (1)(iii) of this definition remains or will remain at a location for more than 12 consecutive months or a shorter period of time for an engine located at a seasonal source. A location is any single site at a building, structure, facility, or installation. Any engine (or engines) that replaces an engine at a location and that is intended to perform the same or similar function as the engine replaced will be included in calculating the consecutive time period. An engine located at a seasonal source is an engine that remains at a seasonal source during the full annual operating period of the seasonal source. A seasonal source is a stationary source that remains in a single location on a permanent basis (i.e., at least two years) and that operates at that single location approximately three (or more) each year. This paragraph does not apply to an engine after the engine is removed from the location. Primarily used means used 51 percent or more. §85.1603 Application of definitions; scope of preemption. (a) For equipment that is used in applications in addition to farming or construction activities, if the equipment is primarily used as farm and/or construction equipment or vehicles, as defined in this subpart, it is considered farm or construction equipment or vehicles. (b) States are preempted from adopting or enforcing standards or other requirements relating to the control of emissions from new engines smaller than 175 horsepower, that are primarily used in farm or construction equipment or vehicles, as defined in this subpart. (c) States are preempted from adopting or enforcing standards or other requirements relating to the control of emissions from new locomotives or new engines used in locomotives. (d) No state shall enforce any standards or other requirements relating to the control of emission from new nonroad engines or vehicles except as provided for in this subpart. §85.1604 Procedures for California nonroad authorization requests. (a) California shall request authorization to enforce its adopted standards and other requirements relating to the control of emissions from new nonroad vehicles or engines that are otherwise not preempted by §85.1603(b) or 85.1603(c) from the Administrator of EPA and provide the record on which the state rulemaking was based. (b) After receipt of the authorization request, the Administrator shall provide notice and opportunity for a public hearing regarding such requests. §85.1605 Criteria for granting authorization. (a) The Administrator shall grant the authorization if California determines that California standards will be, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as applicable Federal standards. (b) The authorization shall not be granted if the Administrator finds that: (1) The determination of California is arbitrary and capricious; (2) California does not need such California standards to meet compelling and extraordinary conditions; or (3) California standards and accompanying enforcement procedures are not consistent with section 209. §85.1606 Adoption of California standards by other states. Any state other than California which has plan provisions approved under Part D of Title I of the Clean Air Act may adopt and enforce emission standards, for any period, for new nonroad vehicles or engines subject to the following requirements: (a) The state must provide notice to the Administrator that it has adopted such standards. (b) Such standards shall not apply to new engines which are used in construction equipment or vehicles or used in farm equipment or vehicles and which are smaller than 175 horsepower or to new locomotives or new engines used in locomotives. (c) Such standards and implementation and enforcement shall be identical, for the period concerned, to the California standards authorized by the Administrator. (d) The state shall adopt such standards at least two years before commencement of the period for which the standards take effect. (e) California shall have adopted such standards two years before commencement of the period for which the standards take effect in the state that is adopting under section 209(e)(2)(B). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17002 Filed 7&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
