FR940407-2-00121 FR940407-2-00064 Applicants believe that the limits on pass-through voting privileges contained in rules 6e-2(b)(15)(iii) and 6e-3(T)(b)(15)(iii) should continue to apply under mixed and shared funding. 8. Applicants submit that shared funding by unaffiliated insurance companies should not present any issues that do not already exist where a single insurance company is licensed to do business in several or all states. In this regard, Applicants state that a particular state insurance regulatory body could require action that is inconsistent with the requirements of other states in which the insurance company offers its policies. Accordingly, Applicants submit that the fact that different insurers may be domiciled in different states does not create a significantly different or enlarged problem. 9. Applicants state further that, under rules 6e-2(b)(15)(iii) and 6e-3(T)(b)(15)(iii), the rights of the insurance company to disregard the voting instructions of its contractowners do not raise any issues different from those raised by the authority of state insurance administrators over separate accounts, and that affiliation does not eliminate the potential, if any, for divergent judgments as to the advisability or legality of a change in investment policies, principal underwriter, or investment adviser initiated by contractowners. Applicants state that the potential for disagreement is limited by the requirements in rules 6e-2 and 6e-3(T) that the insurance company's disregard of voting instructions be reasonable and based on specific good faith determinations. 10. Applicants submit that mixed funding and shared funding should benefit variable contractowners by: (a) Eliminating a significant portion of the costs of establishing and administering separate funds; (b) allowing for a greater amount of assets available for investment by the Funds, thereby promoting economies of scale, permitting greater safety through greater diversification, and/or making the addition of new portfolios more feasible; and (c) encouraging more insurance companies to offer variable contracts, resulting in increased competition with respect to both variable contract design and pricing, which can be expected to result in more product variation and lower charges. Each Fund will be managed to attempt to achieve its investment objectives and not to favor or disfavor any particular Participating Insurance Company or type of insurance product. 11. Applicants believe that there is no significant legal impediment to permitting mixed and shared funding. Applicants state that separate accounts organized as unit investment trusts have historically been employed to accumulate shares of mutual funds which have not been affiliated with the depositor or sponsor of the separate account. Applicants also believe that mixed and shared funding will have no adverse federal income tax consequences.
