FR940819-0-00075 FR940819-0-00018 Four comments noted that many hazardous chemical cargoes can pose serious risks to the marine environment or public health, and argued that vessels carrying these cargoes should also be escorted. One comment stated that additional regulations are needed to cover the transfer of hazardous substances not covered by the proposed regulations. The Coast Guard has determined that including hazardous material cargoes is outside the statutory authority of OPA 90. However, the Coast Guard will be seeking further comment on this issue as part of the ``other waters'' escort vessel rulemaking and may propose regulations to include certain hazardous material and or NLS cargoes under authority of the Ports and Waterways Safety Act (33 U.S.C. 1221 et seq. ). 7. Applicable waters. Twenty comments addressed what U.S. waters should be included under the escort regulations. For Prince William Sound, 12 comments stated that escorts should be continuously required all the way from Port Valdez to Hinchinbrook Entrance (including the mid-Sound region). Four comments stated that escorts should only be required at Port Valdez and Hinchinbrook Entrance but not in mid-Sound because there is enough sea room in mid-Sound for a tanker to safely drift while waiting for the arrival of assist tugs dispatched from Port Valdez. The Coast Guard agrees that escorts are appropriate for all regions of Prince William Sound, and the rule so provides. For the Puget Sound escort zone, the NPRM proposed a western boundary of longitude 123 ○24.5 ’ West, but excluded tankers transiting to and from the Ediz Hook anchorage of Port Angeles (which would require them to skirt just inside that boundary). Three comments suggested moving the western boundary of the escort zone to the entrance to the Straits of Juan de Fuca (Cape Flattery), while 2 comments suggested moving the western boundary eastwards to coincide with the existing escort zone established by Washington state. One comment suggested the applicable area be extended to the Ediz Hook anchorage adjacent to the Port Angeles Harbor. As a result of comments, this rule revises the western boundary by shifting it approximately 11 nautical miles eastwards to include the U.S. waters east of the line connecting New Dungeness Light (Washington) with Discovery Island Light (Canada). This new boundary location therefore coincides with the existing Federal boundary line governing maximum tanker size in Puget Sound waters (33 CFR 161.143), as well as the boundary line for escorting as required by the existing Washington state regulations. This change still excludes the Ediz Hook anchorage. The remaining comments nominated additional waters besides Prince William Sound and Puget Sound, such as Cook Inlet, Alaska, and the Olympic coast, Washington. These comments will be considered in the separate ``other waters'' rulemaking project (CGD 91&hyph;202a). 8. Number of escort vessels. One comment suggested that the Coast Guard define the required capabilities of an escort vessel rather than only specifying any particular number of escort vessels. Another comment supported the requirements for two escorts in Prince William Sound. Two comments suggested that smaller tankers be allowed to use only one escort vessel. Two comments disagreed with requiring the usage of two escort vessels and suggested that one would be adequate in most cases. OPA 90 requires a minimum of two escort vessels for the Prince William Sound and Puget Sound waters stipulated in the statute. Therefore, regulations for those waters which cite OPA 90 authority must incorporate this statutory minimum requirement. 9. Relative positioning of escort vessels. Among other provisions, the NPRM proposed that the escort vessels be ``available in close proximity to the tanker at all times.'' Twelve comments addressed the issue of where the escort vessels should be positioned (relative to the tanker) during the escort transit. In lieu of a close proximity requirement, some comments suggested a specified maximum distance from the tanker, such as one-half mile. However, other comments argued that a specified distance was unnecessarily restrictive. The latter comments pointed out that the closer any vessel is to a tanker, the greater the risk of a collision. These comments argued that, in open waters, the escort vessel should have the flexibility to position itself at any safe distance as judged by its master, so long as it could still respond in a timely fashion. The Coast Guard agrees with the ``timely response'' approach, and has revised this rule accordingly. This will effectively require the tanker and escort vessel masters to continuously evaluate the situation and reposition themselves, as appropriate, at different points along the transit route. This does not preclude the escort vessels from remaining in the shelter of the tanker's lee if weather conditions and prudent seamanship warrant; the tanker should then adjust its speed to compensate for any delays before the escort vessels could move into position to render assistance in an emergency. 10. Performance requirements. The NPRM proposed that the escort vessels be ``capable of providing sufficient maneuvering forces to substantially influence the speed and direction of travel of the tanker.'' Twelve comments addressed the issue of performance capabilities of the escort vessels. One comment recommended that a tug escort have the capability to push or tow a disabled ship away from the danger of grounding or collision. One comment suggested that tug escorts should have the ability to stop a disabled vessel within 10 vessel lengths from the declaration of an emergency (this comment qualified its suggestion by recognizing that such a standard would be very dependent upon the harbor conditions). Another comment suggested that tug escorts be capable of meeting the demands of assisting the escorted tanker. Another comment contended that performance and design criteria for tug escorts will be dictated by an effective escort program, and suggested that local geography, local man-made hazards, and regulated vessel speeds be considered when developing tug escort capabilities criteria. Four comments addressed the performance standards as outlined in the NPRM. One comment suggested that performance standards should be geographically-specific. Two comments recommended that performance based criteria be coupled with the tanker's tonnage, weather, or sea conditions. Additionally, one comment was specifically concerned with weather conditions and suggested that oil tankers only be allowed to operate in Prince William Sound when weather conditions would permit safe operation of the tug escorts. This comment further suggested that the realistic adverse weather limits for safe escorting operations is approximately 40-knot wind speed in 10-foot seas. Another comment generally supported the performance-based criteria as proposed in the NPRM, but suggested that operating parameters also be considered. The Coast Guard agrees that performance requirements should be more detailed. Accordingly, §168.50 of this rule has been revised to include towing, stopping, holding, and turning requirements for controlling a tanker within specified parameters under various failure and weather scenarios, and to require that the tanker not be operated beyond a speed at which the escort vessels can reasonably be expected to bring it safely under control within the navigational limits of the waterway. The requirements were developed after reviewing several tanker/tug maneuvering studies that were submitted to the docket, and considering that the largest tankers in Prince William Sound are about 265,000 DWT (deadweight tons) and the largest in the Puget Sound waters are 125,000 DWT.
