FR940127-1-00015 FR940127-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Institute of Standards and Technology 15 CFR Part 290 [Docket No. 931239&hyph;3339] Regional Centers for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology agency: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Commerce. action: Notice of proposed rulemaking; request for comments. summary: The National Institute of Standards and Technology requests comments on the proposed amendments contained in this document to the regulations found at part 290 of title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations, which implement the Regional Centers for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology. This change revises the matching fund requirements in the fifth and sixth years of operation to reflect program experience during the first five years. With this change, the maximum allowable Federal funding will be one third of total expenses during years five and six. Currently, the maximum allowable Federal funding is 30 percent in year five and 20 percent in year six. This change also modifies the requirements for cash match. With this change, at least half of the match must be in cash or full-time personnel loaned to the operating organization. Currently at least 55 percent of the match must be in cash or full-time personnel. dates: Comments on the proposed program must be received no later than February 28, 1994. addresses: Comments on the proposed rule changes must be submitted in writing to: MTC Program Rule Comments, Technology Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, room B115 Polymers Building, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. All comments received in response to this notice will become part of the public record and will be available for inspection and copying in the Commerce Department's Central Reference and Records Inspection Facility, Herbert Hoover Building, room 6020, 14th Street between E Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. for further information contact: To receive additional program information, contact Philip Nanzetta at (301) 975&hyph;3414. supplementary information: The National Institute of Standards and Technology requests comments regarding proposed changes to the matching funds requirements for the Regional Centers for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology (Manufacturing Technology Centers, MTC) program found at part 290 of title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The MTC program provides financial and technical assistance to regional centers (MTCs) which work directly with small and medium sized manufacturing firms to advance their level of manufacturing technology. The MTCs are selected on a competitive basis in accordance with the regulation at 15 CFR part 290. Part of the funding for each MTC is provided by a Federal cooperative agreement and the balance (the ``match'') is provided through a variety of means by the operating organization. The match is generally provided as a combination of non-Federal public funds or in-kind match, contributions of cash or in-kind resources from private sources, and earned income of the MTC. The authorizing legislation allows Federal funding of up to half the total budget (cash and in-kind) in the first three years and requires that the Secretary adopt regulations which specify a declining level of Federal support during the next three years. The current regulation specifies those maximum funding levels to be 40 percent, 30 percent, and 20 percent in years four through six respectively. The changes proposed to part 290 will specify those maximum funding levels to be 40 percent, 1/3, and 1/3 in years four through six respectively. The current regulation requires that 55 percent of the match be in cash or full-time personnel. There is no statutory requirement for this cash ratio. The changes proposed to part 290 will specify that half of the match be in cash or full-time personnel. Classification This document was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866. The General Counsel has certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, that this rule will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities requiring a flexibility analysis under the Regulatory Flexibility Act because the proposed rule changes will affect only those governmental units that are selected to receive funding under the Program. The program is entirely voluntary for the participants that seek funding. It is not a major federal action requiring an environmental assessment under the National Environmental Policy Act. The Regional Centers for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology Program does not involve the mandatory payment of any matching funds from a state or local government, and does not affect directly any state or local government. Accordingly, the Technology Administration has determined that Executive Order 12372 is not applicable to this program. This notice does not contain policies with Federalism implications sufficient to warrant preparation of a Federalism assessment under Executive Order 12612.
