FR940810-0-00292 FR940810-0-00021 (iv) Where the employer does not produce a ``negative exposure assessment'' for a job, or where monitoring results show the PEL has been exceeded, the employer shall contain the area using impermeable dropcloths and plastic barriers or their equivalent, or shall isolate the operation using a control system listed in and in compliance with paragraph (g)(5) of this section. (v) Employees performing Class III jobs, which involve the disturbance of thermal system insulation or surfacing material, or where the employer does not produce a ``negative exposure assessment'' or where monitoring results show a PEL has been exceeded, shall wear respirators which are selected, used and fitted pursuant to provisions of paragraph (h) of this section. (10) Class IV asbestos work. Class IV asbestos jobs shall be conducted by employees trained pursuant to the asbestos awareness training program set out in paragraph (k)(8) of this section. In addition, all Class IV jobs shall be conducted in conformity with the requirements set out in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, mandating wet methods, HEPA vacuums, and prompt clean up of debris containing ACM or PACM. (i) Employees cleaning up debris and waste in a regulated area where respirators are required shall wear respirators which are selected, used and fitted pursuant to provisions of paragraph (h) of this section. (ii) Employers of employees who clean up waste and debris in, and employers in control of, areas where friable thermal system insulation or surfacing material is accessible, shall assume that such waste and debris contain asbestos. (h) Respiratory protection_(1) General. The employer shall provide respirators, and ensure that they are used, where required by this section. Respirators shall be used in the following circumstances: (i) During all Class I asbestos jobs. (ii) During all Class II work where the ACM is not removed in a substantially intact state, (iii) During all Class II and III work which is not performed using wet methods. (iv) During all Class II and III asbestos jobs where the employer does not produce a ``negative exposure assessment''. (v) During all Class III jobs where TSI or surfacing ACM or PACM is being disturbed. (vi) During all Class IV work performed within regulated areas where employees performing other work are required to wear respirators. (vii) During all work covered by this section where employees are exposed above the TWA or excursion limit. (viii) In emergencies. (2) Respirator selection. (i) Where respirators are used, the employer shall select and provide, at no cost to the employee, the appropriate respirator as specified in Table 1 in paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section, and shall ensure that the employee uses the respirator provided. (ii) The employer shall select respirators from among those jointly approved as being acceptable for protection by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) under the provisions of 30 CFR Part 11. (iii) The employer shall provide a tight fitting powered, air-purifying respirator in lieu of any negative-pressure respirator specified in Table 1 whenever: (A) An employee chooses to use this type of respirator; and (B) This respirator will provide adequate protection to the employee.
