FR940607-2-00003 FR940607-2-00002 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Agency Information Collection Under Review by the Office of Management and Budget: Expedited Review Requested DOC has submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for ``expedited'' clearance the following proposal for collection of information under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. chapter 35). Agency: International Trade Administration Title: Commerce Trade Fair Privatization Application Agency Form Number: ITA&hyph;4234P OMB Approval Number: None Type of Request: New Collection_EXPEDITED REVIEW Burden: 50 Respondents; 600 burden hours; average hours per response_12 hours Needs and Uses: This collection will be used in evaluating and selecting applicants qualified to assume organization and management of U.S. pavilions in overseas trade fairs previously managed by the Department of Commerce Affected Public: Business and other for profit and non-profit entities in the United States Frequency: On occasion Respondent's Obligation: Required to obtain a benefit OMB Desk Officer: Don Arbuckle, (202) 395&hyph;7340. A copy of the Application is published below. Any questions can be directed to Gerald Taché, DOC Clearance Officer, (202) 482&hyph;3271, Department of Commerce, room 5327, 14th and Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20230. Written comments for the proposed information collection should be sent to Don Arbuckle, OMB Desk Officer, room 3208, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. Dated: June 1, 1994. Gerald Taché, Departmental Clearance Officer, Office of Management and Organization. FORM ITA&hyph;4134P OMB No. 0625&hyph;␣␣Expires: XXXX Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 12 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Reports Clearance Officer, International Trade Administration, Room 4001, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C. 20230 and to the Office of Information and regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (0625&hyph;␣␣), Washington DC 20503. Commerce Trade Fair Privatization Application [Name of Applicant] hereby applies for Certification to promote, recruit and manage a U.S. Pavilion or exhibitor group at the following overseas trade event. In connection with this application, the following information is submitted: 1. Name of event. 2. Date and location of event. 3. Name, business and mailing address of the Applicant. 4. Contact name, title and telephone and fax numbers. 5. The event's major industry or product themes. 6. Name of overseas event organizer or authority (``overseas fair authority''). 7. Name, title, address and telephone and fax numbers of the overseas fair authority's principal contact. 8. A detailed description of the Applicant's experience in trade fair and pavilion management. Please cite specific examples of successful recruitment of a minimum of 20 U.S. exhibitors for domestic and/or international trade shows with the same industry theme(s) as the show for which Certification is sought. (International trade show experience is preferred). 9. A detailed description of the Applicant's ability to provide personnel resources sufficient to plan, implement, and organize a successful U.S. pavilion or exhibitor group and the capability to provide exhibition and sundry trade services to exhibitors. 10. A detailed description of the promotional campaign to be conducted by the Applicant to attract exhibitors of U.S. products. Please cite specific steps organizer will take to target and recruit small, medium-sized and new-to-market firms. 11. A detailed description of the promotional campaign to be conducted by the Applicant to attract importers, distributors, agents, buyers and end-users to the event. 12. Net area for exhibit space for U.S. pavilion or group of U.S. exhibitors. Please include satisfactory documentation, in English, from the overseas fair authority of a lease or an option to lease the necessary exhibition space if selected as the organizer of a U.S. pavilion within one or more of the venue's halls, and a letter indicating the Applicant's acceptance of the terms, if selected. If unable to provide the above documentation, please explain why you are unable to do so. (Note: Certification will be withdrawn and the $1,500 contribution forfeited if this documentation is not received within 30 days of notification of selection.) 13. Which (if any) of the Applicant's services and responsibilities will be contracted out to another party. 14. The Applicant's proposed fee schedule in U.S. dollars, including the amount to be charged for ``turnkey'' booths and for raw exhibit space, the basic services to be included in these fees, and any fees for additional services to be provided. 15. Specific support services, including expert staff support, to be requested of Commerce. [Name of Applicant] agrees to abide by the attached Conditions of Participation, which are incorporated into this application by reference and are expressly made a part hereof. We certify that the information contained in this application is true and correct to the best of our knowledge and will inform Commerce promptly of any material changes. We understand that our non-refundable $1,500 contribution is due not more than 14 days after receipt of notice of our selection. We also understand that, if we fail to recruit the minimum number of firms for, or withdraw from, the event, we may be deemed ineligible for future Commerce support for the event in subsequent years. Applicant Signature Printed Name/Title Date Approved by the Department of Commerce Signature Title Date [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13768 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;25&hyph;M
