FR940516-1-00103 FR940516-1-00006 EPA proposes to exclude marine propulsion engines, examples of which, in this power range, include outboard marine engines. EPA is developing emission standards for marine propulsion engines in a separate action. However, small SI engines used on marine vessels for purposes other than propulsion, such as generators and pumps, are not excluded in this proposal. F. Nonroad Engine and Vehicle Definitions EPA is proposing to incorporate in this rule the nonroad engine definition proposed in the large CI rule. EPA will include in this rule any changes to that definition included in the final large CI rule. EPA is also proposing to amend the definition of nonroad vehicle proposed there by adding the following sentence: ``Nonroad vehicle also includes equipment that is powered by nonroad engines.'' The statutory definition of nonroad vehicle adopted by Congress in the 1990 CAA Amendments provides little guidance as to what is a nonroad vehicle. Rather, statutory language describes only what is not a nonroad vehicle, namely, motor vehicles and vehicles used solely for competition. A review of the Conference Report, the Statement of Senate Managers, and the Statement of House Managers does not provide any additional guidance. It is necessary to examine both the House and Senate Committee Reports of the original legislation before this issue is discussed. The United States House of Representatives, Committee on Energy and Commerce, Report on H.R. 3030, offers some insight into the meaning of both nonroad engine and vehicle. In part the report states, ``(T)he term `nonroad engine' is defined for purposes of this section to include certain internal combustion engines not used in a motor vehicle or a competition vehicle, while a nonroad vehicle is a vehicle powered by (a) nonroad engine that is not a motor vehicle and not used solely for competition. Stationary internal combustion engines are to be regulated under Title I of the Clean Air Act amendments of 1990, and are not subject to the requirements of this section.'' 5 5 H. Rep., Legislative History of the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act of 1990, Committee on Energy and Commerce to accompany H.R. 3030, May 17, 1990, at 310. Equally enlightening is the report of S. 1630 from the United States Senate, Committee of Environment and Public Works, which discusses at some length the Committee's understanding of what the terms nonroad engine and nonroad vehicle mean. A pertinent part of the report states, * * * ``non-road engines'' include a wide range of engine uses and vehicles. The term includes, for example, diesel locomotives, farm and construction equipment, utility engines such as lawn and garden equipment, marine vessels, forklifts and airport vehicles. The definition in the bill for non-road vehicles is an inclusive one that covers all engines that are not used in motor vehicles, or in a vehicle used solely for competition in vehicle racing, that are not regulated by standards promulgated under section 111 of the Act, and that are not subject to regulation under part B of title I of the Act, related to aircraft. 6 6 S. Rep. Legislative History of the 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act, Committee on Environment and Public Works to accompany S. 1630, December 20, 1989, at 104&hyph;105. EPA believes that Congress used the terms ``non-road engine,'' ``equipment,'' and ``vehicle'' interchangeably. It is EPA's belief that Congress intended nonroad vehicles and nonroad engines to be inclusive terms covering all manner of equipment not defined as motor vehicles, vehicles for competition, and stationary sources. Furthermore, there is a practical interrelationship between an engine and the equipment that houses it or is powered by it. Equipment or vehicle characteristics may have a significant impact on the emissions associated with the operation of the engine. The nonroad engine definition proposed in the large CI rule and incorporated in this rulemaking relies to a great extent on this interrelationship between an engine and a piece of equipment to determine whether an engine is a nonroad engine. In future development of a small SI engine program, it may become necessary and appropriate to regulate aspects of equipment to control fuel spillage, evaporative emissions, or refueling emissions. EPA believes that CAA section 213 provides authority for such regulation. G. Definition of Handheld Equipment EPA is proposing that engines intended for use in equipment defined as handheld be certified to standards much less stringent than those applicable to engines used in nonhandheld equipment. However, on a percentage basis, the reductions obtained from handheld and nonhandheld engines will be of similar magnitude. Because of the unique characteristics of handheld 2-stroke engines, it is not feasible, given the timing of this proposal and the unique performance requirements of handheld equipment, to require that all engines covered in this proposal meet emission levels that can be achieved by 4-stroke engines used in nonhandheld equipment. This distinction is based, in part, on the substantial difference between emissions from current 4-stroke and 2-stroke engines, which is an inherent result of the design differences of these engines. Because of scavenging losses, current 2-stroke engines generally emit approximately ten times more unburned HC (on an energy-specific basis) than their 4-stroke counterparts. However, current 2-stroke engines are generally lighter than current 4-stroke engines of the same rated power and can be operated in any orientation. As a result, applications requiring that the operator pick up and/or carry the device while using it (for example, chain saws), are nearly exclusively powered by 2- stroke engines. On the other hand, nonhandheld applications such as lawnmowers, which are currently sold in both 2-stroke and 4-stroke versions, can clearly be powered by 4-stroke engines. Approximately 90 percent of the lawnmowers sold in the United States are powered by 4-stroke engines. Section VII discusses the present market mix of small engines.
