FR940426-0-00013 FR940426-0-00003 (3) Basis date agreements for all approved requests to extend the period for advancing loan funds. (4) Principal deferments under Section 12 of the RE Act for Energy Resource Conservation Loans and Rural Economic Development Investments. (5) Loan budget adjustments (reclassifications or transfers) except when such adjustments would provide funds for: (i) Changes in generation and transmission facilities that are subject to a power survey or certification by REA. (ii) Any change exceeding $10,000,000. (iii) Any operating costs. (6) Advance of loan funds under ``stop orders'' and ``special conditional agreements'' when the conditions have been met, except when the borrower is delinquent in its loan payments to REA, or its loans guaranteed by REA, or when the borrower is in litigation which may affect loan security or the Office of the Administrator has reserved this authority. (7) Imposition of special controls on the further advance of loan funds when it has been determined that loan feasibility may be jeopardized. (8) Complete releases of lien and satisfaction in cases where a borrower has repaid its indebtedness in full. (9) Approval of prepayments in accordance with 7 CFR part 1786 and all related documents. (c) Matters concerning borrower facilities, organization, or corporate status: (1) Agreements between electric borrowers for the operation of facilities. (2) Management and operating agreements between electric borrowers and subsidiary organizations engaged in rural development activities. (3) Sales and leases of borrowers' capital assets involving transactions in amounts of $5,000,000 or less and the related releases of lien. (4) Use of general funds by a borrower for plant additions in the amount of $5,000,000 or less, except for facilities subject to power supply surveys or certification by REA. (5) Annual review of loan security of borrowers. (6) Action concerning certain retirements of patronage capital and other cash distributions which meet the following conditions: (i) The retirement will not reduce total equity to less than 25 percent of total assets and other debits; (ii) The oldest capital credits outstanding before the retirement are at least 10 years old where the retirement method is first-in, first-out, or the retirement is not more than 7 percent of all outstanding capital credits before the retirement where another method of retirement, authorized by the bylaws, is used; and (iii) TIER and DSC ratios exceed mortgage minimum, i.e., the average of the highest two of the last 3 years exceeds 1.5 for TIER and 1.25 for DSC. (7) Approval as a majority note holder of employment contracts between a borrower and its general manager. (8) Waiver of specified defects in title to property obtained by borrowers. (9) All equity development plans and amendments to equity development plans except those requiring approval of the Administrator. (10) Any contracts for the acquisition of plant-in-place of $5,000,000 or less and related financial transactions. (d) Letters certifying borrowing eligibility for non-borrower electric cooperatives seeking financing from the Bank for Cooperatives. (e) In addition, all authorities conferred upon other persons in §§1700.125, 1700.126 and 1700.130. §1700.125 Chiefs, Regional Engineering Branches. The Chiefs, Regional Engineering Branches in conformance with applicable regulations and REA policy are delegated authority to approve or execute for the electric program with respect to distribution and transmission facilities for distribution borrowers: (a) The following matters concerning unpaid and outstanding loans and loan guarantees: (1) Financial requirements and expenditure statements when all conditions precedent to the advance of loan funds have been met, no litigation is pending pertaining to the loan or loan guarantee, the borrower is not delinquent in its loan payments to REA or in loans guaranteed by REA, and the Office of the Administrator has not reserved this authority. (2) Report of vouchers released. (3) Concurrent loan fund requisitions. (b) The following matters concerning technical specifications, and borrower facilities and organization, except for matters concerning generation facilities: (1) Selection by a borrower of an architect; plans and specifications, work orders, and contracts for architectural services for the construction of headquarters, garage, and warehouse facilities requiring REA approval, and final inventory documents and payments to contractors and architects. (2) Selection by a borrower of an engineer and contracts for engineering services in cases requiring REA approval. (3) Contracts for construction and right-of-way clearing and for the purchase of substation sites and Headquarters facility sites with clear title and special types of equipment requiring REA approval. (4) Final inventory documents and payments to contractors and engineers. (5) Use of nonstandard drawings, materials, and equipment. (6) Technical engineering studies for transmission, load management, microwave, Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and other facilities requiring REA approval. (7) Borrowers' selection of a method of construction. (8) Plans and specifications for construction, preliminary design data and plans, and profile sheets.
