FR940803-1-00018 FR940803-1-00004 On more than one page and on the front and reverse sides By using inserts to a document or filling in blanks On more than one document, as long as the documents are provided at the same time. 3. Multiple account disclosures. Credit unions may prepare combined disclosures for all accounts offered, or prepare different documents for different types of accounts. If a credit union provides one document for several types of accounts, members must be able to understand clearly which disclosures apply to their account. 4. Consistent terminology. A credit union must use the same terminology to describe terms or features that are required to be disclosed. For example, if a credit union describes a monthly fee (regardless of account activity) as a ``monthly service fee'' in account opening disclosures, the same terminology must be used in its periodic statements and change-in-terms notices. (b) General 1. Terms and conditions. Credit unions are required to have disclosures reflect the terms of the legal obligation between the credit union and a member at the time the member opens the account. This provision does not impose any contract terms or supersede state or other laws that define how the legal obligations between a credit union and its membership are determined. 2. Specificity of legal obligation. A credit union may use the term ``monthly'' to describe its compounding or crediting policy when dividends are compounded or paid at the end of each calendar month or for twelve periods during the year even if actual days in each period vary between 28 and 33 days. Use of estimates is prohibited in TISA disclosures. 3. Foreign language. Disclosures may be made in any foreign language, if desired by the board of directors of a credit union. However, disclosures must also be provided in English, upon request. (c) Relation to Regulation E 1. General rule. Compliance with Regulation E (12 CFR part 205) is deemed to satisfy the disclosure requirements of this regulation, such as when: A credit union changes a term that triggers a notice under Regulation E, and the timing and disclosure rules of Regulation E are used for sending change-in-terms notices. A member adds an ATM access feature to an account, and the credit union provides disclosures pursuant to Regulation E, including disclosure of fees before the member receives ATM access. (See 12 CFR ยง205.7.) If the credit union complies with the timing rules of Regulation E, fees related to electronic services (such as balance inquiry fees imposed if the inquiry is made at an ATM) that are required to be disclosed by this regulation, but not by Regulation E, may also be provided at that time. A credit union relies on Regulation E's disclosure rules regarding limitations on the frequency and amount of electronic fund transfers, including security-related exceptions. But any limitation on the number of ``intra-institutional transfers'' from other accounts at the credit union during a given time period must be disclosed, even though those transfers are exempt from Regulation E. (d) Multiple members 1. General. When an account has multiple natural person member accountholders, delivery of disclosures to any member accountholder or agent authorized by the accountholder satisfies the disclosure requirements of part 707. In the case of a joint account in a credit union, disclosures may be made to a nonmember holding a joint account with a member.
