FR940630-2-00053 FR940630-2-00040 Installment Payments Installment payments are permitted for space station licensees only. Eligible entities choosing to make installment payments must pay one-half of their space station fee by August 19, 1994. Regulatory fees for earth stations cannot be paid by installment. The second installment payment for space stations is due no later than September 16, 1994. Entities participating in consolidated payment arrangements that are eligible, and elect, to pay by installment should note the different due dates for their installment payments (see ``Method of Payment'' above). Compliance Licensees are solely responsible for accurately accounting for all licenses and for paying the proper regulatory fees. Any omission or payment deficiency can result in a 25% monetary penalty, dismissal of pending actions, and/or revocation of any authorization. Additionally, the Commission will invoke its authority under the Debt Collection Act against any licensee failing to meet its regulatory fee payment obligations. Waivers, Reductions And Deferments of Regulatory Fees The Commission will consider requests for waivers, reductions or deferments of regulatory fees, in extraordinary and compelling circumstances only, upon a showing that such action overrides the public interest in reimbursing the Commission for its regulatory costs. Timely submission of the appropriate regulatory fee must accompany requests for waivers or reductions. This will ensure efficient collection in situations where a waiver or reduction is not warranted and will allow the requestor to avoid a 25% late-payment penalty if its request is denied. The regulatory fee would be refunded later if the request is granted. Only in exceptional or compelling instances (where payment of the regulatory fee along with the waiver or reduction request could result in the reduction of service to a community or other financial hardship to the regulatee or licensee), will the Commission accept a petition to defer payment along with a waiver or reduction request. All requests for deferments must be filed before August 19, 1994, in order to avoid the 25% late-payment penalty. Additional Information For information on application fees for the common carrier services, or for information on application and regulatory fees for cable television, mass media, engineering and technology, field operations or private radio services, the Commission has prepared a number of informative Fee Filing Guides. These Guides are available from the Commission's Public Service Division, from field office locations and can be downloaded from the Internet (ftp@fcc.gov). For additional information, please contact the Public Service Division's Fees Hotline at (202) 632&hyph;FEES (3337), or write to: Federal Communications Commission, ATTN: Public Service Division, 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC, 20554. Filing Procedures for Space Stations Who Must Pay: Entities authorized as of October 1, 1993, to operate space stations in geostationary orbit 1 or low-earth orbit 2 in accordance with §25.120(d) of the Commission's rules. Governments and nonprofit (exempt under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code) entities are exempt from paying regulatory fees and should not submit payment, but may be asked to submit a current IRS Determination Letter documenting its nonprofit status, or a certification of governmental authority. 1 Domestic and international satellites, positioned in orbit to remain approximately fixed relative to the earth, authorized to provide communications between satellites and earth stations on a common carrier or private carrier basis in accordance with §25.120(d). See 47 CFR §25.120(d). Entities authorized to operate these space stations in accordance with §25.120(d), will be assessed an annual regulatory fee of $65,000 for each operational station in geostationary orbit on October 1, 1993. 2 Domestic and international non-geostationary satellites, positioned in a low-earth orbit (``LEO''), authorized to transmit to satellites and fixed or mobile earth stations, including the new non-voice, non-geostationary mobile satellite service. For purposes of assessing regulatory fees in FY 1994, a LEO operator is required to submit its annual regulatory fee payment if it commences operating its first satellite on or before October 1, 1993, pursuant to §25.120(d), even though all the space stations specified in its application or instrument of authorization have not become operational. See 47 CFR §25.120(d). Fee Requirement: Fees are assessed for space station licensees as follows: ␣ 1Type of space station 1Regulatory fee (dollars) 1Payment type code Operational Space Stations In Geostationary Orbit $65,000 per operational station CSGN Low-Earth Orbit Satellites $90,000 per operational system CSLN Space station fee payments may be made in two installments (see ``Installment Payments''). See ``Special Instructions for Completing FCC Form 159 and 159&hyph;C'' for correct Payment Type Codes to use when making installment payments.
