FR940928-1-00015 FR940928-1-00003 Upon EPA's final approval of these rules and the other corrections noted above, the BAAQMD will have met the applicable requirements of the Act. B4. Section 182(f) NO X RACT Exemption Petition_a. Section 182(f) Requirements and Exemption Provisions. Section 182(f) of the Act requires that the same ozone provisions that apply to major stationary sources of VOC under subpart 2 of Part D also apply to major stationary sources of NO X . Areas designated nonattainment of the NAAQS for ozone, and classified as moderate nonattainment or above, are required to adopt RACT rules for major stationary sources of NO X and to provide for nonattainment area new source review (NSR) for new sources and modifications that are major for NO X . Section 182(f) provides further that these requirements do not apply if EPA determines that additional NO X reductions would not contribute to attainment of the NAAQS, for areas outside the ozone transport region (OTR). Any person (including a state) may petition EPA to make such a finding. EPA guidance interpreting the section 182(f) exemption provisions provides that a state may submit an exemption petition based on three consecutive years of air quality monitoring data showing attainment of the ozone NAAQS. EPA's NO X exemption policy is contained in several memoranda 3 providing that under section 182(f)(1)(A), an exemption from the NO X requirements may be granted for nonattainment areas outside the OTR if EPA determines that additional reductions of NO X would not contribute to attainment of the NAAQS for those areas. In cases where a nonattainment area is demonstrating attainment with three consecutive years of air quality monitoring data, without having implemented the section 182(f) NO X provisions, it is clear that the ``contribute to attainment'' test is met. Thus, a State may submit a petition for a section 182(f) exemption based on air quality monitoring data. 3 Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation, issued on September 17, 1993, entitled ``State Implementation Plan (SIP) Requirements for Areas Submitting Requests for Redesignation to Attainment of the Ozone and Carbon Monoxide (CO) National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) on or after November 15, 1992'', and, ``Guideline for Determining the Applicability of Nitrogen Oxide Requirements under Section 182(f),'' from John Seitz, Director, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, to the Regional Division Directors, December 16, 1993, and a subsequent revision to portions of these memoranda from John S. Seitz, Director of EPA's Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, issued on May 27, 1994, entitled, ``Section 182(f) Nitrogen Oxides (NO X ) Exemptions_Revised Process and Criteria''. Pursuant to section 182(f)(1) of the Act, the exemption guidance outlines circumstances under which EPA would determine whether the new NO X requirements would be limited or would not apply. For areas that did not implement the section 182(f) NO X requirements but did attain the ozone standard, as demonstrated by ambient monitoring data, it is clear that the additional NO X reductions required by section 182(f) would not contribute to attainment, although they might contribute to maintenance. In addition, EPA has not received a demonstration that the NO X exemption would interfere with attainment or maintenance in downwind areas. (See discussion below in IV. Potential Impact of California Federal Implementation Plan and State Implementation Plan.) EPA's conformity rules 4, , 5 also reference the section 182(f) exemption process as a means for exempting affected areas from NO X conformity requirements. Therefore, ozone nonattainment areas that are granted areawide section 182(f) exemptions under this approach will also be exempt from the NO X conformity requirements. 4 ``Criteria and Procedures for Determining Conformity to State or Federal Implementation Plans or Transportation Plans, Programs, and Projects Funded or Approved under Title 23 U.S.C. of the Federal Transit Act'', November 24, 1993 (58 FR 62188). 5 ``Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans; Final Rule'', November 30, 1993 (58 FR 63214). b. BAAQMD NO X RACT Exemption Petition. On April 21, 1993, EPA notified the Governor of California of a finding that the State failed to submit the NO X RACT provisions by November 15, 1992 as required by section 182(f). On April 15, 1994, the BAAQMD submitted a petition to EPA requesting that the San Francisco Bay Area ozone nonattainment area be exempted from the requirement to implement NO X RACT controls pursuant to section 182(f) of the Act. A successful exemption demonstration or a complete submittal of the NO X RACT rules would cure this deficiency.
