FR941017-1-00008 FR941017-1-00001 The second change being proposed in this area is in regard to the time period that a hypothetical individual is assumed to be at the exclusion area boundary. While the duration of the time period remains at a value of two hours, the Commission is proposing that this time period not be fixed in regard to the appearance of fission products within containment, but that various two-hour periods be examined with the objective that the dose to an individual not be in excess of 25 rem TEDE for any two-hour period after the appearance of fission products within containment. The Commission is proposing this change to reflect improved understanding of fission product release into the containment under severe accident conditions. For an assumed instantaneous release of fission products, as contemplated by the present rule, the two hour period that commences with the onset of the fission product release clearly results in the highest dose to a hypothetical individual offsite. Improved understanding of severe accidents shows that fission product releases to the containment do not occur instantaneously, and that the bulk of the releases may not take place for about an hour or more. Hence, the two-hour period commencing with the onset of fission product release may not represent the highest dose that an individual could be exposed to over any two-hour period. As a result, the Commission is proposing that various two-hour periods be examined to assure that the dose to a hypothetical individual at the exclusion area boundary will not be in excess of 25 rem TEDE over any two-hour period after the onset of fission product release. B. Site Dispersion Factors. Site dispersion factors have been utilized to provide an assessment of dose to an individual as a result of a postulated accident. Since the Commission intends to require that a verification be made that the exclusion area distance is adequate to assure that the guideline dose to a hypothetical individual will not be exceeded under postulated accident conditions, as well as to assure that radiological limits are met under normal operating conditions, the Commission is proposing that the atmospheric dispersion characteristics of the site will be required to be evaluated, and that site dispersion factors based upon this evaluation be determined and used in assessing radiological consequences of normal operations as well as accidents. C. Low Population Zone. The present regulation requires that a low population zone (LPZ) be defined immediately beyond the exclusion area. Residents are permitted in this area, but the number and density must be such that there is a reasonable probability that appropriate protective measures could be taken in their behalf in the event of a serious accident. In addition, the nearest densely populated center containing more than about 25,000 residents must be located no closer than one and one-third times the outer boundary of the LPZ. Finally, the dose to a hypothetical individual located at the outer boundary of the LPZ over the entire course of the accident must not be in excess of the dose values given in the regulation. Before 1980, the LPZ generally defined the distance over which public protective actions were contemplated in the event of a serious accident. The regulations in 10 CFR 50.47 now requires plume exposure Emergency Planning Zones (EPZ) of about 10 miles for each plant. While the Commission considers that the siting functions intended for the LPZ, namely, a low density of residents and the feasibility of taking protective actions, have been accomplished by other regulations or can be accomplished by other guidance, the Commission continues to believe that a requirement that limits the radiological consequences over the course of the accident provides a useful evaluation of the plant's long-term capability to mitigate postulated accidents. For this reason, the Commission is proposing to retain the requirement that the dose consequences be evaluated at the outer boundary of the LPZ over the course of the postulated accident and that these not be in excess of 25 rem TEDE. D. Physical Characteristics of the Site. It has been required that physical characteristics of the site, such as the geology, seismology, hydrology, meteorology characteristics be considered in the design and construction of any plant proposed to be located there. The proposed rule would require that these characteristics be evaluated and that site parameters, such as design basis flood conditions or tornado wind loadings be established for use in evaluating any plant to be located on that site in order to ensure that the occurrence of such physical phenomena would pose no undue hazard. E. Nearby Transportation Routes, Industrial and Military Facilities. As for natural phenomena, it has been a long-standing NRC staff practice to review man-related activities in the site vicinity to provide assurance that potential hazards associated with such facilities or transportation routes will pose no undue risk to any plant proposed to be located at the site. The proposed rule would codify this practice. F. Adequacy of Security Plans. The proposed rule would require that the characteristics of the site be such that adequate security plans and measures for the plant could be developed. The Commission envisions that this would entail a small secure area considerably smaller than that envisioned for the exclusion area. G. Adequacy of Emergency Plans. The proposed rule would also require that the site characteristics be such that adequate plans to carry out protective measures for members of the public in the event of emergency could be developed.
