FR940513-2-00057 FR940513-2-00032 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM Interpretation of the Payments System Risk Reduction Policy; Daylight Overdrafts of Government-Sponsored Enterprises AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Interpretation. SUMMARY: As part of its payments system risk reduction program, the Board is adopting an interpretation of its Policy Statement on Payments System Risk. Under the payments system risk reduction program, government-sponsored enterprises that maintain accounts at Reserve Banks should not incur daylight overdrafts in these accounts and are not permitted to adopt a positive daylight overdraft net debit cap. Furthermore, the Board interprets the Policy Statement on Payments System Risk to include government-sponsored enterprises under the policy on daylight overdraft fees. Until October 13, 1994, fees on daylight overdrafts in accounts of government-sponsored enterprises will be waived. A temporary exemption from daylight overdraft fees is granted for daylight overdrafts in principal and interest accounts of government-sponsored enterprises. This interpretation supports the Board's payments system risk reduction program by providing a comprehensive policy towards daylight overdrafts incurred by government-sponsored enterprises while at the same time recognizing the unique nature of the fiscal agency relationship between the Federal Reserve and these entities. DATES: Effective April 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jeffrey C. Marquardt, Assistant Director (202/452&hyph;2360), Paul Bettge, Manager (202/452&hyph;3174), Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems; Stephanie Martin, Senior Attorney (202/452&hyph;3198), Legal Division; for the hearing impaired only: Telecommunications Device for the Deaf, Dorothea Thompson (202/452&hyph;3544). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The term ``government-sponsored enterprise'' (GSE) is generally used to refer to corporations chartered by Congress to perform certain financial market functions deemed to be in the public interest. These entities include, but are not limited to, the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), the Student Loan Marketing Association (Sallie Mae), and entities of the Federal Home Loan Bank System and the Farm Credit System. These GSEs are owned by private shareholders and their obligations are not guaranteed by the U.S. government. Congress authorized the Reserve Banks to act as depositaries, custodians, and fiscal agents for these entities. Under agreements with the GSEs, the Reserve Banks issue and redeem the GSEs' debt and asset-backed securities over the Fedwire system, in addition to providing other payment services generally related to these fiscal agency services.
