FR940822-2-00121 FR940822-2-00061 •Determining what constitutes clear and convincing evidence of a person's wish not to initiate or continue life-sustaining treatment, including the implications of the Federal Patient Self-Determination Act; and •Other complex evidentiary issues. In previous funding cycles, the Institute has supported the development of a computer-assisted training program on evidentiary problems for juvenile and family court judges; training on medical/legal and scientific evidence issues; regional seminars on evidentiary questions; and development of protocols for handling child victim cases. h. Substance Abuse. This category includes the development and evaluation of innovative techniques for courts to handle the increasing volume of substance abuse-related criminal, civil, juvenile and domestic relations cases fairly and expeditiously; and the planning and presentation of seminars or other educational forums for judges, probation officers, caseworkers, and other court personnel to examine court-related issues concerning alcohol and other drug abuse and develop specific plans for how individual courts can respond effectively to the impact of substance abuse-related cases on their ability to manage their overall caseloads fairly and efficiently. The Institute is particularly interested in funding innovative projects which evaluate the applicability of court-enforced treatment programs to substance abuse-related cases involving juveniles and cases requiring treatment services in addition to substance abuse treatment (e.g., spousal abuse, child abuse, or mental health cases); establish coordinated efforts between local courts and treatment providers for the effective disposition of cases involving substance abuse; or evaluate the effectiveness of various court responses to treating substance abuse. Proposals should demonstrate a direct impact on the ability of State courts to handle cases involving substance abuse fairly and effectively. The Institute will not fund projects focused on developing additional assessment tools, establishing court-enforced treatment programs for adult substance abusers, or providing support for basic court or treatment services. The Institute is currently supporting the presentation of a National Symposium on the Implementation and Operation of Court-Enforced Drug Treatment Programs. In previous funding cycles, the Institute has sponsored a National Conference on Substance Abuse and the Courts, and State efforts to implement the plans developed at that Conference. It has also supported projects to evaluate court-enforced treatment programs initiated by the Dade County, Florida, Pulaski County, Arkansas, and New York City courts, and the effectiveness of other court-based alcohol and drug assessment programs; replicate the Dade County program in non-urban sites; assess the impact of legislation and court decisions dealing with drug-affected infants, and strategies for coping with increasing caseload pressures; develop a benchbook to assist judges in child abuse and neglect cases involving parental substance abuse; test the use of a dual diagnostic treatment model for domestic violence cases in which substance abuse was a factor; and present local and regional educational programs for judges and other court personnel on substance abuse and its treatment. The Institute and the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) also are supporting two technical assistance projects: one by the National Center for State Courts to assist courts in implementing the plans developed at the National Conference; and the other by the American University Court Technical Assistance Project to identify successful drug case management strategies, conduct seminars on drug case management, and develop a guidebook for implementing drug case processing initiatives. In addition, the Institute and the Department of Health and Human Services' Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT) have entered into inter-agency agreement to conduct regional training programs for State judges and legislators on substance abuse treatment. i. Eliminating Race and Ethnic Bias in the Courts. This category includes State and local court projects to implement the action plans and strategies developed by the teams that participated in the Institute-supported National Conference on Eliminating Race and Ethnic Bias in the Courts, to be held in Albuquerque, New Mexico in March, 1995, and projects designed to assist teams in implementing their plans.
