FR941110-0-00042 FR941110-0-00016 We proposed incorporating the above provisions regarding temporary management in §§488.206, 488.210, and 488.215. 5. Denial of Payment for New Admissions As a Remedy We proposed that a new §488.217 be added to part 488 to set forth denial for payment for all new admissions as a sanction as follows: •For all new admissions _HCFA or the State may deny payment for new admissions. However, HCFA will and the State must deny payment for new admissions if_ +␣Any deficiency remains uncorrected within 90 calendar days after the last day of survey identifying the deficiencies; or +␣The survey agency has cited a facility with substandard quality of care on the last 3 consecutive standard surveys. _If the facility achieves compliance with the requirements, HCFA does or the State must resume payments to the facility prospectively from the date that it determined that compliance has been achieved. •Denial of payment for new admissions in certain diagnostic categories or requiring specialized care. _HCFA or the State may deny payment for new admissions who have certain specified diagnoses or special care needs when HCFA or the State finds that_ +␣The facility is not currently able to provide care for these individuals; or +␣Caring for these individuals will adversely affect care provided to other residents. _If the facility achieves compliance with the requirements, HCFA does or the State must resume payment to the facility prospectively from the date that it determines that compliance has been achieved. 6. Directed Plan of Correction Sections 1819(h)(2)(B) and 1919(h)(2)(A) permit the Secretary and the State, respectively, to provide for other specified remedies. At §488.224, we proposed adding a directed plan of correction as a remedy in which a facility could be required to take action within specified timeframes according to the plan of correction developed by HCFA, the survey agency, or the temporary manager (with HCFA or survey agency approval). The directed plans of correction would set forth the expected correction actions which the facility must take to achieve compliance and the dates by which the actions must be taken. 7. Use of State Monitoring As a Remedy In §§488.206 and 488.222, we proposed that, if State monitoring is used as a remedy, State monitors would be required to be onsite as frequently as necessary to oversee the correction of specific deficiencies cited. This remedy differs from traditional revisits by the survey agency in that State monitors are onsite, as necessary, while corrections are being made, as opposed to a revisit which occurs after corrections are completed, and serve to confirm that the deficiency has been removed. We said that State monitoring must be used as a remedy when a survey agency has cited a facility with substandard quality of care on the last three consecutive standard surveys. We proposed that individuals serving as State monitors would be required to be employees or contractors of the State survey agency, and maintain professional qualifications needed to address the specific nature of the deficiencies. The State would be responsible for ensuring that the monitors are appropriate health care professionals. A State monitor could not function as a consultant to the facility nor could the State monitor be an employee of the facility. We concluded that a monitor serving as a consultant to a facility would potentially put the State in a situation of defending the monitor's recommendations rather than making the facility responsible for correcting its deficiencies. Additionally, a monitor employed by a facility and working for the State would constitute a conflict of interest. 8. Civil Money Penalties At §488.230, we proposed allowing civil money penalties to be imposed for noncompliance regardless of whether or not the deficiencies constitute immediate and serious threat to resident health and safety. However, we proposed at §488.230(b) that civil money penalties would not be imposed during the pendency of a hearing on the imposition of that remedy.
