FR941219-2-00060 FR941219-2-00042 b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; c. All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and d. Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 8. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission it will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 9. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by respondents that the law has been violated as alleged in the complaint, or that the facts as alleged in the complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true. 10. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง3.25(f) of the Commission's rules, the Commission may without further notice to respondents, (1) issue its decision containing the following order to divest and to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to order to respondents' addresses as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Respondents waive any right they might have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or in the agreement may be used to vary or to contradict the terms of the order. 11. Respondents have read the complaint and the order contemplated hereby. They understand that once the order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that they have fully complied with the order. Respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final. Order I It is ordered that, as used in this order, the following definitions shall apply: A. ``Commission'' means the Federal Trade Commission. B. ``Red Apple'' means Red Apple Companies, Inc., its parents, predecessors, subsidiaries, divisions, groups and affiliates (including Red Apple Supermarkets, Inc., Gristede's Supermarkets, Inc., and Supermarket Acquisition Corp.), and their directors, officers, employees, agents, partners, and representatives (including John A. Catsimatidis), and their respective successors or assigns. C. ``John A. Catsimatidis'' means John A. Catsimatidis, an individual and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Red Apple Companies, Inc., and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Treasurer of Sloan's Supermarkets, Inc. (a/k/a Designcraft Industries, Inc.). D. ``SAC'' means Supermarket Acquisition Corp., its parents, predecessors, subsidiaries, divisions, groups and affiliates, and their directors, officers, employees, agents, partners, and representatives, and their respective successors or assigns. E. ``SSI'' means Sloan's Supermarkets, Inc. (a/k/a Designcraft Industries, Inc.), its parents, predecessors, subsidiaries, divisions, groups and affiliates, and their directors, officers, employees, agents, partners, and representatives, and their respective successors or assigns. F. ``Respondents'' mean Red Apple, John A. Catsimatidis, SAC, and SSI. G. ``Assets to be divested'' means the assets described in Paragraphs II. A. and II. B. of this order.
