FR941230-1-00029 FR941230-1-00004 (i) 100 percent periodic fixed fee arrangements. All of the compensation for services during the term of the contract is based on a period fixed fee and the term of the contract, including all renewal options, does not exceed the lesser of 50 percent of the expected useful life of the related property and 15 years. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3)(i) and paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, a fee does not fail to qualify as a periodic fixed fee as a result of a single incentive award provision under which compensation automatically increases when a gross revenue or expense target (but not both) is reached if that award is equal to a single, stated dollar amount. (ii) 80 percent periodic fixed fee arrangements. At least 80 percent of the compensation for services for each annual period during the term of the contract is based on a periodic fixed fee. The term of the contract must not exceed the lesser of 80 percent of the expected useful life of the related property and 10 years. (iii) 50 percent periodic fixed fee arrangements. Either at least 50 percent of the compensation for services for each annual period during the terms of the contract is based on a periodic fixed fee or all of the compensation for services is based on a capitation fee or a combination of a capitation fee and a periodic fixed fee. The term of the contract must not exceed 5 years, including all renewal options. The contract must be terminable by the governmental persons upon reasonable notice at the end of the third year of the contract term, without penalty or cause. (iv) Per-unit fee arrangements in certain 3-year contracts. All of the compensation for services is based on a per-unit fee or a combination of a per-unit fee and a periodic fixed fee. The contract has a term, including renewal options, that is not longer than 3 years. The contract must be terminable, by the governmental person on reasonable notice, without penalty or cause, at the end of the second year of the contract term. The amount of the per-unit fee must be specified in the contract or otherwise specifically limited by the government person or an independent third party, such as the administrator of the Medicare program. (v) Percentage of revenue or expense fee arrangements in certain 2-year contracts. All the compensation for services is based on a percentage of fees charged or a combination of a per-unit fee and a percentage of revenue or expense fee. During the start-up period, however, compensation may be based on a percentage of either gross revenues, adjusted gross revenues, or expenses of a facility. The contract must have a term, including renewal options, that is not longer than 2 years. The contract must be terminable by the governmental person on reasonable notice, without penalty or cause, at the end of the first year of the contract term. This paragraph (c)(3)(v) applies only to contracts under which the service provider primarily provides services to third parties (for example, radiology services), or service contracts involving a facility during an initial start-up period for which there have been insufficient operations to establish a reasonable estimate of the amount of the annual gross revenues and expenses (for example, a contract for general management services for the first year of operations). (4) No related parties or common control. The service provider must not have any role or relationship with the governmental person that, in effect, substantially limits the governmental person's ability to exercise its rights, including cancellation rights, under the contract. This requirement is satisfied if_ (i) Not more than 20 percent of the voting power of the governing body of the governmental person in the aggregate is vested in the service provider and its directors, officers, shareholders, and employees; (ii) Except in the case of a contract for physician services to patients or similar contracts, not more than 20 percent of the voting power of the governing body of the service provider in the aggregate is vested in the governmental person and its directors, officers, shareholders, and employees; (iii) Overlapping board members do not include the chief executive officers of the service provider or its governing body or the governmental person or its governing body; and
