FR941130-0-00039 FR941130-0-00003 To address these concerns, but also to allow for some flexibility for repurchase programs, the final rule continues to discourage stock repurchases for one year after conversion, but gives the OTS discretion to allow limited stock repurchases in the first year where exceptional circumstances are established. 25 This would give the OTS the ability to permit repurchases where it may be in the best interests of the association and its shareholders; however, such repurchases will be allowed in the first year only when deemed necessary by the OTS. 25 We note, for example, that typically public companies may repurchase stock in the open market where there is a prolonged period of a downward trend in the stock price. The interim final rule stated that repurchases within two years after the conversion must be part of an open-market stock repurchase program that does not allow for a repurchase of more than 5% of the association's outstanding capital stock during a twelve month period. The final rule has been revised to clarify that repurchases in years two and three after conversion must be part of an open-market stock repurchase program and generally will be limited to no more than 5% of the association's outstanding capital stock. However, the final rule allows the OTS to approve repurchase programs in amounts greater than 5% in the second and third years, if exceptional circumstances are established. As stated above, this would give the OTS the ability to permit additional repurchases where it may be in the best interests of the association and its shareholders; however, such repurchases will be allowed only when deemed necessary by the OTS. The OTS continues to believe that ensuring an equitable conversion process and consistency in that process require that the final rule apply to all associations that converted in the three years preceding the May 3, 1994 effective date of the interim final rule. Any previous repurchases that occurred prior to May 3, 1994 will be grandfathered, however, grandfathered repurchases will count toward compliance with the current requirements. K. Convenience and Needs Considerations The proposed rule would add a new ``convenience and needs'' standard to existing approval standards applicable to conversions and MHC stock offerings. Under the proposal, the OTS would review the applicant's performance under the CRA, 26 the contents of the business plan submitted in support of the application, and other factors relating to the applicant's performance in meeting the convenience and needs of its delineated community. 26 The OTS recently reproposed revisions to its regulations implementing the CRA. See 59 FR 51232 (October 7, 1994).
