FR940817-1-00028 FR940817-1-00011 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Railroad Administration 49 CFR Part 214 [FRA Docket No. RSOR 13, Notice No. 1] RIN 2130&hyph;AA86 Roadway Worker Protection AGENCY: Federal Railroad Administration (FRA); DOT. ACTION: Notice of Proposal to Form a Negotiated Rulemaking Advisory Committee and Request for Representation. SUMMARY: FRA proposes to establish a Negotiated Rulemaking Advisory Committee under the Negotiated Rulemaking Act of 1990 and the Federal Advisory Committee Act to develop a recommended rule concerning the protection of railroad roadway workers. The Committee would adopt its recommendations through a negotiation process. The Committee would be composed of persons who represent the interests affected by the rule, such as labor organizations, railroads, railroad associations, contractor associations, and the government. FRA invites interested parties to submit nominations and applications for membership on the Committee. DATES: FRA must receive written comments and requests for representation or membership by September 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: All written comments should be submitted in triplicate to the Docket Clerk, Office of Chief Counsel, FRA, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Room 8201, Washington, D. C. 20590. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Christine Beyer, Trial Attorney, Office of Chief Counsel, FRA, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Room 8201, Washington, D. C. 20590 (Telephone: 202&hyph;366&hyph;0621). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background (A) History The Rail Safety Enforcement and Review Act, Pub.L. No. 102&hyph;365, 106 Stat. 972, enacted September 3, 1992, required FRA to review its track safety standards and revise them based on data presented during that review. Among the topics to be addressed was ``an evaluation of employee safety.'' FRA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM) on November 16, 1992 (57 FR 54038) to announce the opening of a proceeding to amend the Federal Track Safety Standards (49 CFR Part 213). That ANPRM addressed the general topics to be considered, including standards for railroad track itself, and protecting maintenance-of-way and other non-operating railroad employees from the hazards of moving railroad equipment. As part of that proceeding, FRA conducted a series of workshops to obtain the industry's views on the need for and substance of any changes to FRA's regulations. One such workshop session, announced in Notice No. 4 of that ANPRM issued on February 18, 1993 (58 FR 8928), and held in Washington, D.C. on March 31, 1993 addressed specifically the issue of protection of roadway workers from being struck by moving trains and equipment. Since that workshop, FRA has received petitions for emergency orders and rulemaking on the topic from the Brotherhood of Maintenance-of-Way Employees and the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen. FRA originally planned to include protection from moving trains and moving equipment into a new Subpart G of 49 CFR Part 213, but it will now be considered as part of 49 CFR Part 214, Railroad Workplace Safety. Given FRA's desire to address this issue on an expedited basis, and because it relates more closely to workplace safety than to track standards, this proceeding is now separated from FRA Docket No. RST&hyph;90&hyph;1 and has been placed in FRA Docket No. RSOR 13. Items related to this subject which were submitted as part of Docket No. RST&hyph;90&hyph;1 will be considered as part of this proceeding, as will the transcript of the public workshop on March 31, 1993. (B) Purpose FRA is taking this action for the purpose of reducing the risk of death or injury railroad roadway workers face when struck by moving trains and railroad equipment. Since 1989, 21 roadway workers have been fatally injured by moving trains and equipment. Eight workers were struck by trains while performing work, three were struck by trains on track adjacent to the work location, five stepped into a train's path, and five were struck by maintenance-of-way equipment. These fatalities are among the following crafts: signal maintainers, machine operators, welders, track foremen, track inspectors, and track laborers. These figures reflect a serious problem that may require changes in railroad operating rules, training and practices. In order to address the problem in the short term, FRA Administrator Molitoris convened a meeting on June 3, 1994 at which FRA distributed summaries of the fatalities, and enlisted the support of the industry to address the issue immediately on each railroad through local labor/management committees. FRA also discussed the option of proceeding with a negotiated rulemaking, and has since preliminarily concluded that this issue is an appropriate subject for negotiated rulemaking. (C) Terminology FRA proposes that the term ``roadway worker'' rather than ``maintenance of way employee'' be used in this proceeding to define the subject persons. This term would encompass all employees of a railroad or a contractor to a railroad who construct, maintain, inspect or repair railroad tracks, structures, signal and train control systems, communication systems, utility systems, or any other fixed property of a railroad while in close or potentially close proximity to tracks on which trains or equipment can be operated. The term would apply regardless of the craft or class title of the employee, affiliation with any labor organization, or rank within the railroad organization. Examples of subject persons would be trackmen, signal maintainers, bridge workers, communication technicians, electricians, surveyors, roadmasters and chief engineers, while performing their duties along the line of road. FRA believes that extensive input from all interested parties is necessary to develop a rule that will address both the risk of injury from moving railroad equipment and the operational concerns that this issue presents. Therefore, this notice announces FRA's proposal to address these issues through a negotiated rulemaking. Set forth below are the basic concepts of negotiated rulemaking, suggested procedures to be followed, and criteria for participant selection. In order to begin this process shortly, FRA asks that parties representing interests affected by a roadway worker safety rule request appointment or representation on the Committee within thirty days of publication of this notice. II. Regulatory Negotiation Due to the increasing complexity and formalization of the written rulemaking process, it can be difficult for an agency to craft effective regulatory solutions to certain problems. In the typical rulemaking process, the participants often develop adversarial relationships that prevent effective communication and creative solutions. The exchange of ideas that may lead to solutions acceptable to all interested groups often does not occur in the traditional notice and comment system. As the Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS) noted in its Recommendation 82&hyph;4:
