FR940406-2-00036 FR940406-2-00019 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Cooperative Demonstration Program (Correctional Education) AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of proposed priorities, required activities, selection criteria, and Other rquirements for grants to be made in Fiscal Year 1995. SUMMARY: The Secretary proposes priorities for awards to be made in fiscal year (FY) 1995 using funds appropriated in FY 1994 under the Cooperative Demonstration Program, which is authorized by the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (Perkins Act). Under the proposed absolute priority, funds under this competition would be reserved for applications proposing to demonstrate successful cooperation between the private sector and public agencies in vocational education programs that serve criminal offenders under the supervision of the justice system. In addition, the Secretary intends to invite applications that, within the absolute priority of correctional education, incorporate one or more of the following invitational priorities: (1) Advanced technologies; (2) community-based correctional education; and (3) juvenile justice education. The Secretary also proposes to impose requirements related to the priorities and other matters, and to use new selection criteria in evaluating applications submitted for this competition only. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed priorities should be addressed to Gail M. Schwartz, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., room 4529, Switzer Building, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;7242. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gail M. Schwartz or Christopher Koch, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW, room 4529, Switzer Building, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;7242. Telephone: (202)-205&hyph;5621. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Dual Party Relay Service at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Cooperative Demonstration Program provides financial assistance for, among other things, model projects that demonstrate successful cooperation between the private sector (including employers, consortia of employers, labor organizations, building trade councils, and private agencies, organizations, and institutions) and public agencies in vocational education (including State boards for vocational education, State or local corrections or correctional education agencies, or eligible recipients as defined in 34 CFR 400.4). This program can help further the purposes of the National Education Goals. Specifically, the correctional education priority directly supports Goal 5, that every adult American will be literate and will possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. The designation of correctional education as a priority under the Cooperative Demonstration program is based on the critical problems of illiteracy and recidivism pervading our Nation's adult and juvenile corrections population. The U.S. Department of Education's National Adult Literacy Survey Report, ``Literacy Behind Prison Walls'' described a 70 percent illiteracy rate among a sample of prisoners as follows: About seven in ten prisoners *␣*␣* are apt to experience difficulty in performing tasks that require them to integrate or synthesize information from complex or lengthy texts or to perform quantitative tasks that involve two or more sequential operations and that require the individual to set up the problem (1993, p.vi). Additionally, a recent study, ``Vocational and Academic Indicators of Parole Success'' published in the Journal of Correctional Education, found that inmates who had received academic and vocational training while in prison were more likely to be employed and less likely to commit crimes after their release than other inmates (Schumacker, et al ., 1990). Academic and vocational training is also critical for probationers and parolees since the majority of the Nation's criminal offenders are serving sentences within community corrections settings. There were about 4.5 million individuals under correctional supervision in the United States by the end of 1991, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics. Of these, 3.3 million, or approximately 73 percent, were under active probation or parole supervision within the community. Educational programs for criminal offenders that use applied learning strategies to teach life skills, job skills, and literacy can reduce the likelihood that the offenders will return to the criminal justice system. After completing their sentences, ex-offenders often have limited opportunities for meaningful employment and lack necessary basic life skills, including the job-seeking and job-retention skills needed to obtain and maintain employment. Without basic literacy and job skills, it is unlikely that these persons will become fully productive members of society. The Secretary will announce the final priority in a notice in the Federal Register . The final priority will be determined by responses to this notice, available funds, and other considerations of the Department. Funding of particular projects depends on the availability of funds, the nature of the final priority, and the quality of the applications received. The publication of this proposed priority does not preclude the Secretary from proposing additional priorities, nor does it limit the Secretary to funding only this priority, subject to meeting applicable rulemaking requirements. The Office of Vocational and Adult Education's Office of Correctional Education coordinates programs for criminal offenders with other Department of Education offices and other Federal offices, including the Department of Justice's Federal Bureau of Prisons, National Institute of Justice, and Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. The Office of Correctional Education collaborated with these Department of Justice offices in preparing this notice. Note: This notice of proposed priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under this competition will be published in the Federal Register concurrent with or following publication of the notice of final priorities. Priorities Absolute Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary gives an absolute preference to applications that meet the following priority. The Secretary will fund under this competition only model projects that demonstrate ways in which public agencies in vocational education and the private sector can work together effectively to assist vocational education students who are criminal offenders under the supervision of the justice system to attain the advanced level of skills they need to make a successful transition from correctional education programs to productive employment including_ (a) Work experience or apprenticeship programs; (b) Transitional worksite job training for vocational education students that is related to their occupational goals and closely linked to classroom and laboratory instruction provided by an eligible recipient;
