FR940303-2-00126 FR940303-2-00071 Most testing equipment is available in the laboratory to perform testing in accordance with the standards. When such equipment is not available, the equipment is purchased as necessary. Annual operating budgets are designed to provide for funding of necessary testing equipment. The laboratory maintains inventory lists that identify over 300 pieces of equipment. All other aspects of the testing and certification process, including test and evaluation procedures, test reports, records, quality assurance, follow-up listing program, and details concerning personnel, are addressed in the On-Site Review Report (Survey) of the Edmonton facility, Ex. 10.A.(2). Moncton Facility The Moncton facility is under the direction of the Montreal facility as part of the Eastern Operations. The facilities are leased and consist of approximately 6,750 square feet of office and laboratory space plus an annex of some 1,600 square feet of additional office space. All necessary utilities are available at this site. There is a written procedure for the receipt, retention, and disposal of samples for testing. Visitors to the facility are closely supervised and must be escorted throughout the premises. Fire protection of the facility is provided by an automatic fire sprinkler system located throughout the building, and entry is controlled for staff members entering the facility after hours. There is also a 24-hour alarm system. Most testing equipment is available in the laboratory to perform testing in accordance with the standards. When such equipment is not available, the testing is subcontracted to the Rexdale facility or the equipment is purchased as necessary. Annual operating budgets are designed to provide for funding of necessary testing equipment. The laboratory maintains inventory lists that identify over 300 pieces of equipment. All other aspects of the testing and certification process, including test and evaluation procedures, test reports, records, quality assurance, follow-up listing program, and details concerning personnel, are addressed in the On-Site Review Report (Survey) of the Moncton facility, Ex. 10.A.(2). Winnipeg Facility The Winnipeg facility is under the direction of the Rexdale facility as part of the Central Operations. The facility is leased and consists of some 10,000 square feet of space, of which approximately 4,000 square feet is allocated as a test laboratory. CSA has made use of this facility for about 35 years providing certification services in the electrical and mechanical fields. All necessary utilities are available at this site. There is a written procedure for the receipt, retention, and disposal of samples for testing. Visitors to the facility are closely supervised and must be escorted throughout the premises. Fire and burglar alarm systems are on line. Entry is controlled for staff members entering the facility after hours. All other aspects of the testing and certification process, including test and evaluation procedures, test reports, records, quality assurance, follow-up listing program, and details concerning personnel, are addressed in the On-Site Review Report (Survey) of the Winnipeg facility, Ex. 10.A.(2). The applicant states that CSA is an independent, not-for-profit membership association, without share capital, incorporated under the laws of Canada in 1919, engaged in developing national standards and providing a certification service for manufacturers wishing to have their products certified as complying with national standards or standards of foreign countries. The applicant states further that the organization has no affiliation with manufacturers or suppliers of the products submitted for testing and certification. Several documents are submitted as a part of the CSA up-to-date application to address the issue of independence. (See Ex. 2.K.). The Canadian Standards Association claims that it maintains effective procedures for producing creditable findings or reports that are objective and without bias. The C&T Division maintains a quality assurance (QA) system for CSA's world-wide network. The QA Program of the Testing Laboratory is registered by Quality Management Institute (QMI) to ISO 9003 and Z299.3. The Corporate Engineering and Quality Assurance (EQA) Group has the responsibility and authority for overseeing all activities related to the Quality Program. The object of the QA system is to ensure technical excellence, consistency of interpretation and application of standards, consistency of implementation of certification programs and procedures, the integrity of the CSA Mark, and continuous improvement. In addition, the QA System is designed to meet National and International Accreditation Criteria. The QA System is documented as follows: _``Quality Assurance Policy Manual'' (QAPM). It contains the quality policies for the Certification and Testing Division and establishes the responsibility for implementation of these policies. _``Quality Assurance Manual'' (QAM). These manuals describe in detail the system and procedures outlined in the QAPM. They are issued by each Operation Unit after approval by EQA. _``Divisional Quality Documents'' (DQDs). They are issued and controlled by Engineering and Quality Assurance (EQA) and consist of additional operating procedures and guidelines to be used by operations staff.
