FR940203-2-00059 FR940203-2-00033 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Care Financing Administration Public Information Collection Requirements Submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for Clearance AGENCY: Health Care Financing Administration, HHS. The Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), Department of Health and Human Services, has submitted to OMB the following proposals for the collection of information in compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;511). 1. Type of Request: New collection; Title of Information Collection: Evaluation of the Medicare Case Management Demonstration; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;161; Use: To assess the impact of case management for patients with high cost conditions on quality of care, satisfaction with care, and use and cost of services not covered by Medicare; Frequency: One time; Respondents: Individuals or households; Estimated Number of Responses: 1,800; Average Hours Per Response: .28; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 504. 2. Type of Request: New Collection; Title of Information Collection: Evaluation of the Medicaid Uninsured Demonstrations; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;R&hyph;160; Use: Telephone surveys of individual purchasers and employers offering the demonstration insurance package and comparison group members. Surveys will collect information on demographic characteristics, prior insurance coverage, health status, access to care, and use of services, as well as, employer reasons for participating and their experience with the demonstration; Frequency: Annually; Respondents: Individuals or households; Estimated Number of Responses: Individuals (2,002), Employers (196); Average Hours Per Response: Individuals (.42), Employers (.25); Total Estimated Burden Hours: 1,508. 3. Type of Request: Reinstatement; Title of Information Collection: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Social Security Administration (SSA), and HCFA Data Match; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;R&hyph;137; Use: Employers identified through a match of IRS, SSA, and Medicare records will be contacted concerning group health plan coverage of identified individuals to ensure compliance with Medicare Secondary Payor provisions; Frequency: Annually; Respondents: Nonprofit organizations, Federal agencies or employees, businesses or other for profit; Estimated Number of Responses: 423,095; Average Hours Per Response: 5.8560843; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 2,477,680. 4. Type of Request: Extension; Title of Information Collection: Analysis of Malpractice Premium Data; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;R&hyph;143; Use: Survey of physician owned medical liability insurers for use in computing the input component of the physician liability component of the Geographic Practice Cost Index and the Medicare Economic Index; Frequency: Annually; Respondents: State or local governments, Small businesses or organizations, Nonprofit organizations; Estimated Number of Responses: Reporting (544), Recordkeeping (68); Average Hours Per Response: Reporting (.25), Recordkeeping (1); Total Estimated Burden Hours: 204. 5. Type of Request: Reinstatement; Title of Information Collection: Emergency & Foreign Hospital Services_Beneficiary Statement in Canadian Travel Claims; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;R&hyph;96; Use: In Canadian travel claims, a statement is required from the beneficiary indicating point of entry into Canada; route being traveled at time of emergency, and an explanation of any deviation from intended route or nonroutine stopover. The intermediary uses this information to determine if the beneficiary was traveling between Alaska and another State through Canada by the most direct route without unreasonable delay to acquire medical care and thus, entitled to benefits; Frequency: On occasion; Respondents: Individuals or households; Estimated Number of Responses: 1,700; Average Hours Per Response: .25; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 425. (recordkeeping). 6. Type of Request: Revision; Title of Information Collection: Survey Report Form; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;1557; Use: This survey form is an instrument used by the State agency to record data collected in order to determine compliance with Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments. This information is needed for laboratory certification and recertification; Frequency: Biennially; Respondents: State or local governments, Businesses or other for profit, Federal agencies or employees, Small businesses or organizations; Estimated Number of Responses: 31,200; Average Hours Per Response: .54; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 16,848. (recordkeeping). 7. Type of Request: Extension; Title of Information Collection: Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS); Form No.: HCFA&hyph;R&hyph;4; Use: The MMIS is a State operated, federally mandated, computer system used for automated Medicaid claims processing and information retrieval for program management. Data elements represent the federally imposed recordkeeping requirements of MMIS; Frequency: Annually; Respondents: State or local governments; Estimated Number of Responses: 48; Average Hours Per Response: 45,965; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 2,206,320. Additional Information or Comments: Call the Reports Clearance Office on (410) 966&hyph;5536 for copies of the clearance request packages. Written comments and recommendations for the proposed information collections should be sent within 30 days of this notice directly to the OMB Desk Officer designated at the following address: OMB Human Resources and Housing Branch, Attention: Allison Eydt, New Executive Office Building, room 3001, Washington, DC 20503. Dated: January 26, 1994. John A. Streb, Director, Management Planning and Analysis Staff, Office of Budget and Administration, Health Care Financing Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2425 Filed 2&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;03&hyph;P
