FR940603-0-00080 FR940603-0-00028 •Changed the moose season in Units 21(D) and realigned boundaries and seasons in Unit 24 to more closely match those of the State and reduce confusion. •Allowed the incidental take of Arctic fox while trapping for red fox. Seward Peninsular Region The Board evaluated and acted upon two proposals affecting the Seaward Peninsula Region resulting in changes to Subpart D regulations in § XX .25. The following Board actions affect the Seward Peninsular Region and are included in this final rule: •Shortened the antlerless moose season in Unit 22(D) to protect a declining population. •Allowed the use of snowmachines to take moose and caribou in Unit 22. Harassment of wildlife, such as herding or driving, remains prohibited. Northwest Arctic Region The Board acted on three proposals for the Northwest Arctic Region resulting in changes to Subpart D regulations in § XX .25. The following Board actions affect the Northwest Artic Region and are included in this final rule: •Modified moose regulations in Unit 23 to change boundaries and seasons. The Board's action may aid recovery of the declining moose population in this portion of Unit 23. •Corrected a boundary description and permit requirement error for sheep in Unit 230 Eastern Interior Region The Board acted on eight proposals which affect the Eastern Interior Region resulting in changes to Subpart D regulations in § XX .25. The following Board actions affect the Eastern Interior Region and are included in this final rule: •Modified restrictions on use of firearms in the Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area. This clarification will reduce confusion during future hunts. •Reworded the requirements on snare size for trapping wolves in Units 12 and 20(E). •Closed some Federal lands in Unit 12 to protect the Chisana caribou herd, revised regulations for Units 20(E) and 25(C) to protest the Fortymile caribou herd, and revised the area descriptions and caribou seasons in Units 20(F) and 25(C). •Modified the Unit 25(D) (West) moose regulation to remove the requirement for ``antlered'' bull, modified the season dates for moose within Unit 25(D) (West), and authorized a four brow tine option to the antler restriction in Unit 20(A). •Eliminated the permit requirement for moose in Unit 25(A) within the Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area. •Aligned the trapping season with the State season, allowing greater harvest opportunity and reducing confusion. North Slope Region The Board acted on four proposals which affect North Slope Region resulting in change to Subpart D regulations in § XX .25. The following Board actions affect the North Slope Region and are included in this final rule: •Modified restrictions on use of firearms in the Dalton Highway Corridor Management Area. This clarification will reduce confusion during future hunts. •Extended an aircraft use restriction in a portion of Unit 26(A) and extended the moose season in a portion of Unit 26(A).
