FR940228-1-00080 FR940228-1-00010 The HEA requires that an institution must agree to comply with the Secretary's regulations governing financial responsibility and administrative capability. Thus, the Secretary would specify that the institution must agree to comply with proposed-to-be-redesignated §§668.15 and 668.16. The HEA requires that an institution must submit reports, as directed by the Secretary, to the Secretary, or, as appropriate, holders of student loans under the Title IV, HEA programs, containing information required to administer the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary considers this provision to be self-explanatory and proposes to add this statutory requirement to the regulations without substantive modifications. The HEA requires that an institution may not provide any statement to a student or certification to a lender under the FFEL programs that qualifies a student for loans in excess of the annual and aggregate limits for which the student is eligible for in accordance with statutory requirements. The Secretary proposes to extend this requirement to include unsubsidized Federal Stafford loans. The HEA requires that an institution must comply with the consumer information requirements in subpart D of these regulations. The Secretary considers this provision to be self-explanatory and proposes to add this statutory requirement to the regulations without substantive modifications. The HEA requires that an institution that advertises job placement rates as a means of procuring enrollment must make available to prospective students data necessary to substantiate the truthfulness of the advertisement. In addition, the Amendments of 1992 require that an institution make available to prospective students the relevant State licensing requirements for any job for which an institution's educational program is designed to prepare prospective students. The HEA also requires that an institution must inform all eligible borrowers under the FFEL programs of their eligibility for and the availability of State grant assistance. The Secretary considers this provision to be self-explanatory and proposes to add this statutory requirement to the regulations without substantive modifications. In order to streamline these regulations, the Secretary proposes to list in one place in this section all the certifications that an institution must make to participate in a Title IV, HEA program. The institution would have to agree in its program participation agreement to provide these certifications. These certifications include the following: (1) That the institution has in operation a drug abuse prevention program accessible to any of the institution's officers, employees, and students; and (2) establishment of a campus security policy and disclosure requirements as required by section 485(f) of the HEA. The Secretary considers this provision to be self-explanatory and proposes to add this statutory requirement to the regulations without substantive modifications. The HEA requires that an institution make available to students who receive Title IV, HEA program aid based on their ability to benefit from the training offered a program proven successful in assisting those students to obtain the recognized equivalent of a high school diploma. The Secretary considers this provision to be self-explanatory and proposes to add this statutory requirement to the regulations without substantive modifications. The Amendments of 1992 require an institution to agree that it will not deny any form of Federal financial aid to any eligible student solely on the grounds that the student is participating in a program of study abroad approved for credit by the institution. The Secretary considers this provision to be self-explanatory and proposes to add this statutory requirement to the regulations without substantive modifications. The Amendments of 1992 require that as a condition for participation any institution seeking to participate for the first time in the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs and any institution participating in those loan programs that changes ownership resulting in a change of control or changes its status as a main campus, branch campus, or an additional location, develop and implement for two years a default management plan. The Secretary proposes to allow institutions to develop and implement, or submit if required by the Secretary, a default management plan developed in accordance with the default reduction measures described in appendix D of current regulations to meet this requirement.
