FR940707-2-00119 FR940707-2-00054 Circuit Fourth (Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia) Lively v. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 820 F.2d 1391 (4th Cir. 1987). Applicability of Ruling The Ruling applies to determinations or decisions at all levels of the administrative review process (i.e., initial, reconsideration, Administrative Law Judge hearing and Appeals Council). Description of Case In a decision dated October 19, 1981, an Administrative Law Judge found that the plaintiff, Mr. Lively, was not disabled under Rule 202.10 of the medical-vocational guidelines, 20 CFR Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 2, and denied his application for disability insurance benefits. In applying Rule 202.10, the Administrative Law Judge found that Mr. Lively had the residual functional capacity for light work. The decision that Mr. Lively was not entitled to disability insurance benefits became the final decision of the Secretary and was affirmed by the district court. The plaintiff filed a second application for disability insurance benefits on December 14, 1983. After holding a hearing, an Administrative Law Judge concluded that the plaintiff was not entitled to disability insurance benefits. The Administrative Law Judge determined that Mr. Lively retained the functional capacity for the performance of work activity of any exertional level on and prior to December 31, 1981, the date his insured status expired. The Administrative Law Judge did not discuss in his decision the 1981 finding by another Administrative Law Judge that the plaintiff had the residual functional capacity to do only light work. This decision became the final decision of the Secretary and was appealed to the district court. The case was referred to a United States Magistrate who found that the evidence before the Administrative Law Judge on the plaintiff's 1983 application was sufficient to sustain the Secretary's decision that the plaintiff was not disabled as of December 31, 1981. The district court adopted the Magistrate's Report and Recommendation. Mr. Lively then appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Holding The Fourth Circuit stated that: Congress has clearly provided by statute that res judicata prevents reappraisal of both the Secretary's findings and his decision in Social Security cases that have become final, 42 U.S.C. §405(h), and the courts have readily applied res judicata to prevent the Secretary from reaching an inconsistent result in a second proceeding based on evidence that has already been weighed in a claimant's favor in an earlier proceeding. The court noted that the plaintiff became 55 years of age two weeks after the Administrative Law Judge, in connection with the first application for benefits, found that Mr. Lively was limited to light work. The court further noted that a person with the plaintiff's education and vocational background who is 55 years of age or older and limited to light work would be considered disabled under Rule 202.02 of the medical-vocational guidelines, 20 CFR Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 2. The court found it inconceivable that Mr. Lively's condition had improved so much in two weeks as to enable him to perform medium work. Accordingly the court held: Principles of finality and fundamental fairness *␣*␣* indicate that the Secretary must shoulder the burden of demonstrating that the claimant's condition had improved sufficiently to indicate that the claimant was capable of performing medium work. *␣*␣* [E]vidence, not considered in the earlier proceeding, would be needed as an independent basis to sustain a finding contrary to the final earlier finding.
