FR940505-2-00115 FR940505-2-00083 The Policy also sets forth the requirement that all member organizations renting booths execute a lease agreement with the Exchange, which agreement sets forth the contractual terms governing the rental and use of booths by member organizations. Although the Exchange in the past has used a standard form agreement regarding booth rental, that agreement is brief and contains little detail regarding the nature of the contractual relationship between the parties. Any lease agreement executed pursuant to the new Policy would set forth specifically the details of the parties' contractual relationship regarding rental and use of the booths as they have been established by custom and usage in the past. Finally, the Exchange proposes to eliminate the practice of joint leasing, and to amend the fee structure to account for this change. Previously, the Exchange has permitted two different member organizations to occupy jointly a single trading floor booth and to share the costs associated therewith, believing that such joint leasing would provide a less costly method for smaller member organizations to obtain access to multiple locations adjacent to the trading floor. However, the Exchange states that joint leasing has been used by non-transaction-producing members solely to reduce their booth fees and not to facilitate trading activity. Accordingly, the Exchange has determined to eliminate joint leasing and replace it with a variable fee arrangement which the Exchange anticipates will soften the economic impact on smaller member organizations that the elimination of joint leasing might otherwise have caused. Pursuant to the amended fee schedule, variable booth fees have been reduced in two respects: (1) The $1,250 per booth variable monthly fee has been eliminated for the second booth leased by a member organization; and (2) the $1,250 per booth variable month fee for a third booth has been reduced by 50 percent to $625. The initial booth rental, and all additional booths beyond the third booth, continue to be subject to the full variable fee. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b)(5). 6 Specifically, the purpose of the proposal is to memorialize existing Exchange policies regarding the rental of trading floor booths to member organizations, including the delineation of eligible lessees and the requirement that members enter into a formal lease agreement. 7 The Policy does not represent a change to current Exchange policies, except the elimination of the CBOE's current policy to permit joint leasing. In this regard, the Exchange states that the purpose behind joint leasing was ultimately to provide small member organizations less costly access to multiple locations adjacent to the trading floor. The Exchange proposes to eliminate this practice because it believes that non-transaction producing member organizations have exploited joint leasing solely to reduce their booth fees and not to facilitate trading activity. 6 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1982). 7 Although the Exchange included in its filing a sample lease agreement, the Commission by this order is approving only the general requirement referenced in the Policy that a lease agreement be executed between the Exchange and its member organizations. The Commission is taking no position on, and by this order is not approving, the substance of the aforementioned sample lease agreement. The Commission believes that the Exchange's codification of its existing policy, and the elimination of joint leasing in favor of a variable fee arrangement, is a reasonable exercise of the CBOE's right to determine how it wants to administer its floor booth space. In this regard, the Commission notes that existing joint lessees will continue to have access, as individual lessees, to booth space under the revised Policy. Moreover, the variable fee structure should help to eliminate some of the economic impact of the revised Policy on existing joint lessees. Accordingly, the Commission finds the proposal to be consistent with the Act, in that it promotes just and equitable principles of trade and removes impediments to and perfects the mechanism of a free and open market. It is therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 8 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;03) is approved. 8 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10749 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
