FR941006-2-00210 FR941006-2-00113 c. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;88 (revised), Indirect Cost Rates, Audit and Audit Follow-up at Educational Institutions. d. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;102, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants-in-Aid to State and Local Governments. e. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;110, Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and other Non-Profit Organizations. f. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;128, Audits of State and Local Governments. g. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;122, Cost Principles for Non-profit Organizations. h. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;133, Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Non-profit Institutions. B. Supervision and Monitoring Responsibilities 1. Grantee Responsibilities All grantees receiving direct awards from the Institute are responsible for the management and fiscal control of all funds. Responsibilities include accounting for receipts and expenditures, maintaining adequate financial records and refunding expenditures disallowed by audits. 2. Responsibilities of State Supreme Court Each application for funding from a State or local court must be approved, consistent with State law, by the State's Supreme Court, or its designated agency or council. The State Supreme Court or its designee shall receive all Institute funds awarded to such courts; shall be responsible for assuring proper administration of Institute funds; and shall be responsible for all aspects of the project, including proper accounting and financial recordkeeping by the subgrantee. These responsibilities include: a. Reviewing Financial Operations. The State Supreme Court or its designee should be familiar with, and periodically monitor, its subgrantees' financial operations, records system and procedures. Particular attention should be directed to the maintenance of current financial data. b. Recording Financial Activities. The subgrantee's grant award or contract obligation, as well as cash advances and other financial activities, should be recorded in the financial records of the State Supreme Court or its designee in summary form. Subgrantee expenditures should be recorded on the books of the State Supreme Court OR evidenced by report forms duly filed by the subgrantee. Non-Institute contributions applied to projects by subgrantees should likewise be recorded, as should any project income resulting from program operations. c. Budgeting and Budget Review. The State Supreme Court or its designee should ensure that each subgrantee prepares an adequate budget as the basis for its award commitment. The detail of each project budget should be maintained on file by the State Supreme Court. d. Accounting for Non-Institute Contributions. The State Supreme Court or its designee will ensure, in those instances where subgrantees are required to furnish non-Institute matching funds, that the requirements and limitations of this guideline are applied to such funds. e. Audit Requirement. The State Supreme Court or its designee is required to ensure that subgrantees have met the necessary audit requirements as set forth by the Institute (see sections X.M. and XI.J). f. Reporting Irregularities. The State Supreme Court, its designees, and its subgrantees are responsible for promptly reporting to the Institute the nature and circumstances surrounding any financial irregularities discovered. C. Accounting System The grantee is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of accounting and internal controls for itself and for ensuring that an adequate system exists for each of its subgrantees and contractors. An acceptable and adequate accounting system is considered to be one which: 1. Properly accounts for receipt of funds under each grant awarded and the expenditure of funds for each grant by category of expenditure (including matching contributions and project income); 2. Assures that expended funds are applied to the appropriate budget category included within the approved grant; 3. Presents and classifies historical costs of the grant as required for budgetary and evaluation purposes; 4. Provides cost and property controls to assure optimal use of grant funds; 5. Is integrated with a system of internal controls adequate to safeguard the funds and assets covered, check the accuracy and reliability of the accounting data, promote operational efficiency, and assure conformance with any general or special conditions of the grant; 6. Meets the prescribed requirements for periodic financial reporting of operations; and 7. Provides financial data for planning, control, measurement, and evaluation of direct and indirect costs.
