FR941012-2-00181 FR941012-2-00116 The grantee for the final year of this multi-year project is the Western Center for Child Protection. No additional applications will be solicited in Fiscal Year 1995. Investigative Case Management for Missing Children Homicides $150,000 This project is designed to improve investigative procedures for investigating murders of missing, abducted, or runaway children as well as to improve the rate of apprehension and prosecution of serial murderers of children. The project addresses evidence gathering, forensic evidence techniques, methods for determining linkages among child murder cases, and enhancing coordination of child homicide cases among law enforcement agencies nationwide. The project will develop a resource management guide which will contain methods, procedures, and a checklist for investigation of a missing child homicide. The project also calls for the delivery of technical assistance and training for state and local law enforcement agencies. The grantee for this project is the Criminal Investigation Division of the State of Washington Attorney General's Office. The program is supported by America's Law Enforcement Retiree Team (ALERT) volunteers from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. No additional applications will be solicited in Fiscal Year 1995. Multi-jurisdictional, Interagency Model for Investigating and Prosecuting Cases of Child Sexual Abuse $100,000 This is a program that is jointly funded with $50,000 of Title IV funds and $50,000 from the Office for Victims of Crime (OVC). In Fiscal Year 1995 this program will develop and implement prototype multi-jurisdictional task forces for the investigation and prosecution of cases involving sexual exploitation of children. These tasks forces are to be formed in up to five communities throughout the United States that include Federal, state, and local authorities. Funds for this project cannot be used for law enforcement efforts, but must be targeted to assist child and youth victims in crisis, to provide staff training, and promote public awareness. This is the second year of a cooperative agreement between OJJDP, OVC and the Education Development Center, Inc. No additional applications will be solicited in Fiscal Year 1995. Missing Children Data Archive $25,000 Through this program, OJJDP makes available all data sets produced as the result of funded research addressing missing and exploited children and their families in a readily understandable, documented data archive. OJJDP provides this service through a cooperative agreement with the University of Michigan whose staff prepare missing and exploited children data and documentation to conform to generally accepted standards. No additional applications will be solicited in Fiscal Year 1995. John J. Wilson, Acting Administrator, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25086 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;18&hyph;P ␣
