FR940208-2-00191 FR940208-2-00093 Part III_Conduct of Oral Procedings 46. (1) The order of a committee on a motion referred to in subrule 42(1)(c) shall set out (a) that the proceedings shall not be held in camera ; or (b) that the proceedings shall be held in camera and (i) that all the participants shall keep confidential all information received with respect to the extraordinary challenge proceeding and shall use the information solely for the purposes of the proceeding, and (ii) which documents containing personal information the responsible Secretary shall serve under seal and on whom the documents shall be served. (2) The responsible Secretary shall not serve any documents containing personal information until the time period for withdrawal of any documents pursuant to subrule 42(2) has expired. 47. A committee may decide the procedures to be followed in the extraordinary challenge proceeding and may, for that purpose, hold a pre-hearing conference to determine such matters as the presentation of evidence and of oral argument. 48. The decision as to whether oral argument will be heard shall be in the discretion of the committee. Oral Proceedings in Camera 49. During that part of oral proceedings in which proprietary information or privileged information is presented, a committee shall not permit any person other than the following persons to be present: (a) the person presenting the proprietary information or privileged information; (b) a person who has been granted access to the proprietary information or privileged information; (c) in the case of privileged information, a person as to whom the confidentiality of the privileged information has been waived; and (d) officials of, and counsel for, the investigating authority. Part IV_Responsibilities of the Secretary 50. The normal business hours of the Secretariat, during which the offices of the Secretariat shall be open to the public, shall be from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on each weekday other than (a) in the case of the United States Section of the Secretariat, legal holidays of that Section; and (b) in the case of the Canadian Section of the Secretariat, legal holidays of that Section. 51. On the completion of the selection of the members of a committee, the responsible Secretary shall notify the participants and the other Secretary of the names of the members of the committee. 52. The responsible Secretary shall provide administrative support for each extraordinary challenge proceeding and shall make the arrangements necessary for meetings and any oral proceedings. 53. Each Secretary shall maintain a file for each extraordinary challenge, comprised of either the original or a copy of all documents filed, whether or not filed in accordance with these rules. All documents filed shall be stamped by the Secretariat to show the date and time of receipt. 54. The responsible Secretary shall forward to the other Secretary a copy of all documents filed with the responsible Secretary and of all orders and decisions issued by a committee. 55. Where under these rules a notice or other document is required to be published in the Canada Gazette and the Federal Register , the responsible Secretary and the other Secretary shall each cause the document to be published in the publication of the country in which that section of the Secretariat is located. 56. (1) Where a document containing proprietary information or privileged information is filed with the responsible Secretariat, each Secretary shall ensure that (a) the document is stored, maintained, handled, and distributed in accordance with the terms of an applicable Disclosure Order or Protective Order; and (b) access to the document is limited to
