FR941004-1-00071 FR941004-1-00018 The FY 1994 appropriation for this new legislation (subpart 2) is $60 million. Of this amount, $2 million is reserved for Federal evaluation, research, and training and technical assistance; $600,000 is reserved for grants to Indian tribes. The balance is available for grants to States to fund planning and services for family support and family preservation. For FY 1995, the authorization increases to $150 million. Of this amount, $6 million is reserved for Federal evaluation, research, and training and technical assistance; $1.5 million is reserved for grants to Indian tribes. A new program of grants to State courts will be initiated at a funding level of $5 million. The balance is available for grants to States for family preservation and family support services. C. Previous Legislation: Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;272) Enactment of a new subpart 2 to title IV&hyph;B of the Social Security Act is the first major change in this title since the amendments made by Pub. L. 96&hyph;272, the Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act of 1980. The goals of that legislation were to: •Prevent the unnecessary separation of children from their families; •Improve the quality of care and services to children and their families; and •Ensure permanency for children through reunification with parents, through adoption, or through another permanent living arrangement. These goals have not been fully realized. A wide variety of reasons have been suggested by researchers and practitioners, including: •Social, cultural, and economic changes (increases in substance abuse, community violence, restructuring of the economy, poverty, and homelessness, for example), which have affected the number of families coming to the attention of child welfare agencies and the severity of their problems; •Rising rates of child abuse and neglect reports, particularly for child sexual abuse; •A child welfare system unable to keep up with these increased demands, given constrained resources, high caseloads, and overburdened workers; •Services planning that focuses most resources on crisis intervention (e.g., investigation and placement) and too few on prevention and treatment; •Lack or shortage of services that fit the real needs of families and often are available only when families are in crisis; and •The isolation of the child welfare services system from other services needed by vulnerable families, such as housing, employment, and substance abuse services. Acknowledging that the system was not working for our most vulnerable children and their families, Congress amended title IV&hyph;B to provide States and eligible Indian tribes with new Federal dollars for preventive services (family support services) and services to families at risk or in crisis (family preservation services). This legislation provides a new opportunity for States and local communities and eligible Indian tribes to review their current strategies for meeting the service needs of children and their families, identify service gaps and barriers to coordination of services, and develop and carry out a comprehensive five-year plan for providing a continuum of services to families and their children. D. Family Preservation and Family Support: Services and Principles As one part of our implementation plan, ACF convened a series of focus groups on family preservation and family support services in the fall of 1993. Both the discussion at the focus groups and the literature on professional practice reflected general agreement on the goals for family support and family preservation services. These services should be directed towards: •Assuring the safety of all family members; •Enhancing parents' ability to create safe, stable, and nurturing home environments that promote healthy child development;
