FR941003-2-00093 FR941003-2-00049 (iii) For IGS&hyph;5: One season at IGS&hyph;4 level or its equivalent in experience. (iv) For IGS&hyph;4: One season at IGS&hyph;3 level or its equivalent in experience. (v) For IGS&hyph;3: One season at IGS&hyph;2 level or its equivalent in experience. Employment under this paragraph shall be only for duty that is temporary, intermittent, or seasonal, and no person shall be employed by the same appointing office in the National Park Service under this paragraph or a combination of this and any other excepting authorities in excess of 180 working days a year. (2) (Reserved). (3) Seven full-time permanent and 31 temporary, part-time, or intermittent positions in the Redwood National Park, California, which are needed for rehabilitation of the park, as provided by Public Law 95&hyph;250. (4) One Special Representative of the Director. (g) Bureau of Reclamation . (1) Appraisers and examiners employed on a temporary, intermittent, or part-time basis on special valuation or prospective-entrymen-review projects where knowledge of local values on conditions or other specialized qualifications not possessed by regular Bureau employees are required for successful results. Employment under this provision shall not exceed 130 working days a year in any individual case: Provided , that such employment, may with prior approval of OPM, be extended for not to exceed an additional 50 working days in any single year. (h) Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Territorial Affairs. (1) Positions of Territorial Management Interns, GS&hyph;5, when filled by persons selected by the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. No appointment may extend beyond 1 year. Section 213.3113␣Department of Agriculture (a) General . (1) Agents employed in field positions the work of which is financed jointly by the Department and cooperating persons, organizations, or governmental agencies outside the Federal service. Except for positions for which selection is jointly made by the Department and the cooperating organization, this authority is not applicable to positions in the Agricultural Research Service or the Statistical Reporting Service. This authority is not applicable to the following positions in the Agricultural Marketing Service: Agricultural commodity grader (grain) and (meat), (poultry), and (dairy), agricultural commodity aid (grain), and tobacco inspection positions. (2)&hyph;(4) (Reserved). (5) Temporary, intermittent, or seasonal employment in the field service of the Department in positions at and below GS&hyph;7 and WG&hyph;10 in the following types of positions: Field assistants for subprofessional services; caretakers at temporarily closed camps or improved areas; forest workers engaged primarily for fire prevention or suppression activities and other forest workers employed at headquarters other than forest supervisor and regional offices; State performance assistants in the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service; agricultural helpers, helper-leaders, and workers in the Agricultural Research Service and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service; and subject to prior OPM approval granted in the calendar year in which the appointment is to be made, other clerical, trades, crafts, and manual labor positions. Total employment under this subparagraph may not exceed 180 working days in a service year: Provided , that an employee may work as many as 220 working days in a service year when employment beyond 180 days is required to cope with extended fire seasons or sudden emergencies such as fire, flood, storm, or other unforeseen situations involving potential loss of life or property. This paragraph does not cover trades, crafts, and manual labor positions covered by paragraphs (i) and (m) of §213.3102. (6) (Reserved). (7) Not to exceed 34 Program Assistants, whose experience acquired in positions excepted from the competitive civil service in the administration of agricultural programs at the State level is needed by the Department for the more efficient administration of its programs. No new appointment may be made under this authority after December 31, 1985. (b) (Reserved). (c) Forest Service . (1) (Reserved). (2) Positions in Alaska of Laborers, Boat Operators, Mechanics, Equipment Operators, and Carpenters whose duties require the operation of boats in coastal waters and/or the establishment and maintenance of work camps in remote areas. (d) Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service . (1) (Reserved). (2) Members of State Committees: Provided , that employment under this authority shall be limited to temporary intermittent (WAE) positions whose principal duties involve administering farm programs within the State consistent with legislative and Departmental requirements and reviewing national procedures and policies for adaptation at State and local levels within established parameters. Individual appointments under this authority are for 1 year and may be extended only by the Secretary of Agriculture or his designee. Members of State Committees serve at the pleasure of the Secretary. (e) Farmers Home Administration . (1) (Reserved). (2) County committeemen to consider, recommend, and advise with respect to the Farmers Home Administration program. (3) Temporary positions whose principal duties involve the making and servicing of natural disaster emergency loans pursuant to current statutes authorizing natural disaster emergency loans. Appointments under this provision shall not exceed 1 year unless extended for one additional period not to exceed 1 year, but may, with prior approval of OPM be further extended for additional periods not to exceed 1 year each. (4)&hyph;(5) (Reserved).
