FR941212-0-00030 FR941212-0-00014 FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION 46 CFR Parts 514, 552, 560, and 572 [Docket No. 94&hyph;15] New Filing Fees AGENCY: Federal Maritime Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Maritime Commission (``Commission'' or ``FMC'') is establishing filing fees for (1) tariffs, (2) service contract essential terms (``ETs''), (3) financial reports in the domestic offshore trades, (4) general rate increases in the domestic offshore trades, and (5) agreements. The services the Commission provides on these filings confer special benefits to identifiable members of the public. EFFECTIVE DATE: Effective January 11, 1995, except for 46 CFR 514.21(i), which will be effective on April 1, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jeremiah D. Hospital or George S. Smolik, Bureau of Trade Monitoring and Analysis, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20573&hyph;0001, (202) 523&hyph;5790. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Proceeding The Commission published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in the Federal Register on July 28, 1994, 59 FR 38418 (``NPR'' or ``Proposed Rule''), 1 proposing to establish new filing fees. In the NPR, the Commission noted that the Independent Offices Appropriation Act (``IOAA''), 31 U.S.C. 9701, permits it to establish fees for services and benefits that the Commission provides to specific recipients. The primary guidance for implementation of IOAA is Office of Management and Budget (``OMB'') Circular A&hyph;25, as revised July 8, 1993. OMB Circular A&hyph;25 requires that a reasonable charge be made to each recipient for a measurable unit or amount of Federal Government service from which the recipient derives a benefit, in order that the Government recover the full cost of rendering that service. OMB Circular A&hyph;25 further provides that costs be determined or estimated from the best available records in the agency, and that cost computations shall cover the direct and indirect costs to the Government of carrying out the activity. 1 On the same day, the Commission also published in the Federal Register (59 FR 38411) a companion Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in Docket No. 94&hyph;14, Update of Existing Filing and Service Fees. The NPR advised that the Commission's existing filing and service fees do not include fees for certain services that appear to provide special benefits to identifiable members of the public. The Commission, accordingly, proposed to establish several new fees to reflect the full cost of services that provide special benefits to identifiable members of the public. Fourteen entities filed comments in response to the NPR: C V International, Inc.; Tampa Port Authority; Seariders International, Inc.; the Inter-American Discussion Agreement; 2 Puerto Rico Maritime Shipping Authority (``PRMSA''); 3 Matson Navigation Company, Inc.; The Joint Carrier Group (``JCG''); Hanjin Shipping Co., Ltd.; Cari-Freight Shipping Co. Ltd.; Caribbean Shipowners Association; Lykes Bros. Steamship Co., Inc. (``Lykes''); Transportation Services Incorporated; and the Japan Conferences. 4 The National Industrial Transportation League (``NIT League'') 5 filed late comments, which are considered herein. 2 Conferences represented by the Inter-American Discussion Agreement are: the Inter-American Freight Conference; Brazil/Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands Conference; River Plate/Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands Conference; and the Inter-American Freight Conference-Pacific Coast Area. 3 See appendix A. 4 The Japan Conferences are: the Trans-Pacific Freight Conference of Japan, the Japan-Atlantic and Gulf Freight Conference, the Japan-Puerto Rico & Virgin Islands Freight Conference, and their member lines. 5 The NIT League is a voluntary organization said to represent some 1,400 shippers and groups/associations of shippers conducting industrial and/or commercial enterprises, large, medium, and small, throughout the United States and internationally. The commenters represent a variety of industry interests: individual ocean common carriers, ocean freight conferences and other aligned agreement parties, ocean freight forwarders, non- vessel operating common carriers (``NVOCCs''), a tariff publisher, a shippers' group, and a port authority.
