FR940516-2-00137 FR940516-2-00094 (A) State or local governments; (B) Qualified fair housing enforcement organizations (QFHO&hyph;Es); (C) Fair housing enforcement organizations (FHO&hyph;Es); (D) Public or private non-profit organizations or institutions and other public or private entities that are formulating or carrying out programs to prevent or eliminate discriminatory housing practices; (E) Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP) Agencies_State and local agencies funded by the Fair Housing Assistance Program (FHAP); and (F) Community Housing Resource Boards (CHRBs). (ii) Eligible activities. (A) In general. Each application for Education and Outreach Initiative funding must identify if it proposes a national, Fair Housing Month, regional or local, or community-based program. The kinds of activities that may be funded through this Initiative may include (but are not limited to) the following: ( 1 ) Projects that focus on informing persons with disabilities, and/or their support organizations and service providers, housing providers, and the general public on the rights of disabled persons under the Fair Housing Act and on the location or availability of accessible housing or the modification of non-accessible housing are particularly encouraged; ( 2 ) Projects that provide guidance to housing providers on meeting their Fair Housing Act obligation to make reasonable accommodations for persons with disabilities are also encouraged; ( 3 ) Projects that will provide housing, mortgage lending, appraisal, and insurance counseling services; ( 4 ) Developing informative material on fair housing rights and responsibilities; ( 5 ) Developing fair housing and affirmative marketing instructional material for educational programs for national, regional and local housing industry groups; ( 6 ) Providing educational seminars and working sessions for civic associations, community-based organizations, and other groups; ( 7 ) Developing educational material targeted at persons in need of specific or additional information on their fair housing rights; ( 8 ) Developing national, regional or local media campaigns regarding fair housing; ( 9 ) Bringing housing industry and civic or fair housing groups together to identify illegal real estate practices and to determine how to correct them; ( 10 ) Designing specialized outreach projects to inform all persons of the availability of housing opportunities; ( 11 ) Developing and implementing a response to new or more sophisticated practices that result in discriminatory housing practices; ( 12 ) Developing mechanisms for the identification of, and quick response to, housing discrimination cases involving the threat of physical harm; ( 13 ) Developing and implementing school curriculums for fair housing courses; ( 14 ) Developing and implementing a response to community opposition to the location of residential facilities for persons with disabilities, as defined under the Fair Housing Act, where supportive health or human services are provided in connection with the housing; and ( 15 ) Developing materials and providing technical assistance to support compliance with housing adaptability and accessibility guidelines contained in the 1988 Fair Housing Amendments Act. (B) National programs. ( 1 ) Activities eligible to be funded as national programs shall be designed to provide a centralized, coordinated effort for the development and dissemination of fair housing media products that may appropriately be used on a nationwide basis, including: ( i ) Public service announcements, both audio and video; ( ii ) Television, radio and print advertisements; ( iii ) Posters; and ( iv ) Pamphlets and brochures. ( 2 ) National Fair Housing Month. Applicants must separately indicate if they are applying for funding of activities related to the annual National Fair Housing Month. Fair Housing Month activities must be directed toward all protected class members. ( 3 ) National program applications, including those for Fair Housing Month funding, will receive a preference of up to ten additional points if they: ( i ) Demonstrate cooperation with real estate industry organizations (up to five points); and/or ( ii ) Provide for the dissemination of educational information and technical assistance to support compliance with the housing adaptability and accessibility guidelines contained in the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 (up to five points). (C) Regional, local, and community-based programs. (1 ) Activities eligible to be funded as regional, local, or community-based programs include any of the activities, to be implemented on a regional, local or community-based level, listed in paragraphs I.(c)(2)(ii)(A) and I.(c)(2)(ii)(B)( 1 ), above, of this NOFA. Community-based programs include school, church and community presentations, conferences or other educational activities. ( 2 ) For the purposes of this NOFA, activities that are ``local'' in scope are activities that are limited to a single unit of general local government, meaning a city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State. Activities that are ``regional'' in scope are activities that cover adjoining States or two or more units of general local government within a state. Activities that are ``community-based'' in scope are those which are primarily focused on a particular geographic area within a unit of general local government. ( 3 ) Every regional, local, or community-based program application must include as one of its activities a procedure for referring persons with Fair Housing complaints to State or local agencies, private attorneys, or HUD and the Department of Justice for further enforcement processing. ( 4 ) Projects for community-based activities proposed by community-based organizations will receive a preference of five additional points. For the purposes of this NOFA, a community-based organization is an organization whose members primarily come from a particular geographic area within a unit of general local government. (iii) Additional requirements. The following requirements are applicable to all applications under the Education and Outreach Initiative: (A) All projects must address or have relevance to housing discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin. (B) Projects may range in length from six to eighteen months in duration. (C) Projects that appear to be aimed solely or primarily at research or data-gathering will not be approved. Data-gathering activities will require OMB approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act before commencement of the activity.
