FR941116-0-00104 FR941116-0-00020 D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms Betula uber is protected by the Federal Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, and by the Virginia Endangered Plant and Insect Act of 1979. The Virginia statute prohibits taking of endangered plants on both public and private lands, except by the private landowner. If the proposed reclassification to threatened status becomes final, no substantive change in the protection afforded this species under these laws is anticipated. Populations on private lands will still be subject to loss due to inadequate regulatory protection. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence Most of the loss in the natural population has been attributed to vandalism and collection. However, loss of individuals could continue to occur from such natural causes as competition from later successional species and flooding of Cressy Creek. Minimal reproduction in the natural population, probably due to the limited source of pollen, may result in the gradual and possibly irreversible decline of this population unless further management actions are taken. The relatively low numbers and limited range of the species continue to make the Cressy Creek populations vulnerable to natural stresses or catastrophes. However, given the management tools developed for the species, as well as the variety of conditions under which the 20 introduced populations appear to grow, it is unlikely that a single natural stress would result in the loss of Betula uber in more than a portion of its existing range. While the single natural population remains vulnerable to extirpation, due largely to past acts of vandalism and a continuing failure to reproduce, 19 of the 20 additional populations offer the possibility of self-maintenance, suggesting that it is unlikely that the round-leaf birch will disappear from its only known native watershed. The additional populations are believed to encompass the genetic diversity of the natural population. As of May 1992, more than 1,400 individuals occur within the Cressy Creek watershed, as compared to only 41 individuals known to exist when the Cressy Creek population was rediscovered in 1975. Based on a review of the Virginia Round-Leaf Birch Recovery Plan (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1990), the present species' status does not meet the criteria established for delisting the species. However, given the successful propagation and distribution of plants together with its current distribution and afforded protection, this rare birch is not in imminent danger of extinction. The best available data indicate that Betula uber qualifies as a threatened species. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in determining to make this rule final. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to reclassify Betula uber from endangered status to threatened status. Although the natural population has decreased from 41 to 11 plants since the species' rediscovery in 1975, threatened status is more appropriate because the establishment of 20 additional populations over the past decade has resulted in a dramatic increase in the total population to over 1,400 subadult trees. Available Conservation Measures This rule changes the status of Betula uber at 50 CFR 17.12 from endangered to threatened. This rule formally recognizes that this species is no longer in imminent danger of extinction throughout a significant portion of it's range. The change in classification does not significantly alter the protection for this species under the Act. Anyone taking, attempting to take, or otherwise possessing a Betula uber in an illegal manner is still subject to penalty under Section 11 of the Act. There is no difference in penalties for the illegal take of an endangered species versus a threatened species. Section 7 of the Act still continues to protect this species from Federal actions that would jeopardize the continued existence of Betula uber. Conservation measures prescribed by the Virginia Round-Leaf Birch Recovery Plan will proceed. Conservation measures identified in the species recovery plan include: continued efforts to protect portions of the natural population that occur on private lands; expanded management of the natural population; continued efforts to facilitate natural regeneration; establishment of pollen and seed banks; continued maintenance of the additional populations, including control of disease and insect problems, prevention of browsing, and management of competing vegetation; further research into the plant's reproductive and genetic systems, as well as habitat requirements; and continued efforts to raise the public's awareness in regard to issues affecting this and other endangered plants (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1990). According to the recovery plan, implementation of these recovery actions will take place over a period of approximately 17 years, with full recovery of the species being achieved by the year 2010. National Environmental Policy Act The Fish and Wildlife Service has determined that Environmental Assessments and Environmental Impact Statements, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in connection with regulations adopted pursuant to section 4(a) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). References Cited Ashe, W.W. 1918. Notes on Betula. Rhodora 20:63&hyph;64.
