FR940804-2-00009 FR940804-2-00005 Where the Department is investigating imports from an NME, section 773(c)(1) of the Act directs us to base FMV on the NME producers' factors of production, valued in a comparable market economy that is a significant producer of the merchandise. Section 773(c)(2) of the Act alternatively provides that where available information is inadequate for using the factors of production methodology, FMV may be based on the export prices for comparable merchandise from market economy countries at a comparable level of economic development. For purposes of the preliminary determination, we have relied on the methodology provided by section 773(c)(1) of the Act to determine FMV. The sources of individual factor prices are discussed under the FMV section, below. Surrogate Country Section 773(c)(4) of the Act requires the Department to value the NME producers' factors of production, to the extent possible, in one or more market economy countries that (1) are at a level of economic development comparable to that of the NME country, and (2) are significant producers of comparable merchandise. The Department has determined that India is the country most comparable to the PRC in terms of overall economic development (see Memorandum from David Mueller, Director Office of Policy, to Gary Taverman, Director of Division I of Office of Antidumping Investigations, dated March 10, 1994). In addition, there is evidence on the record that coumarin is produced in India. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether sales of coumarin from the PRC to the United States by Jiangsu Native, Tianjin Chemicals, and Tianjin Native were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the foreign market value (FMV), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. United States Price We based USP on purchase price, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, because the subject merchandise was sold directly by the Chinese exporters to unrelated parties in the United States prior to importation into the United States. For those exporters that responded to the Department's questionnaire and were found to be eligible for a separate rate, we calculated purchase price based on packed, FOB foreign-port prices to unrelated purchasers in the United States. As necessary, we made deductions for foreign inland freight, containerization, loading, port handling expenses, foreign inland and marine insurance, valued in a surrogate country. We were unable to obtain surrogate value information for ocean freight, so we valued ocean freight on international shipping rates between the PRC and U.S. ports, as quoted by a market-economy shipping company. (For a complete analysis of USP deductions, see the Calculation Memorandum for this investigation). Foreign Market Value In accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, we calculated FMV based on factors of production reported by the factories in the PRC which produced the subject merchandise for the three exporters. The factors used to produce coumarin include materials, labor, and energy. To calculate FMV, the reported quantities were multiplied by the appropriate surrogate values from India and Indonesia for the different inputs. We made adjustments to materials costs for the recovery of by-products, where applicable. In determining which surrogate value to use for valuing each factor of production, we selected, where possible, from publicly available, published information (public information). For a complete analysis of surrogate values, see the Calculation Memorandum for this investigation. We used surrogate transportation rates to value inland freight between the source of the production factor and the coumarin factories, and between factories and exporters/ports. In those cases where a respondent failed to provide any information on transportation distances, we applied, as best information available, the farthest distance reported for the input in the public version of questionnaire responses. To value certain raw materials, we used public information from Chemical Business of India for July&hyph;October 1993, and India Chemical Weekly for July&hyph;November 1993. For raw materials not listed in Chemical Business of India, or India Chemical Weekly, we used the Monthly Trade Statistics of Foreign Trade of India, Volume II_Imports (Indian Import Statistics) for April 1992&hyph;March 1993. We adjusted the factor values to the POI using wholesale price indices published in International Financial Statistics ( IFS ) by the International Monetary Fund. For materials sourced from market-economy countries and purchased in convertible currencies, we applied the actual purchase price paid during the POI, or the time period closest to the POI. No product-specific public information pertaining to India or any other potential surrogate country was available for certain raw materials. With respect to these raw materials, we have used, privately researched Indian price quotes, Indian import statistics for categories that include the specific raw materials ( i.e. , ``basket'' categories), or Indonesian import statistics. (For a complete analysis of raw material valuations, see the Calculation Memorandum for this investigation).
