FR940830-2-00140 FR940830-2-00057 Exhibit I Debit Card Directory; Chapter 3 EFT Networks Of course, there is more to debit cards than POS_and the shared regional networks offer it. Here are many of the same networks from Chapter Two, now ranked according to total transaction volume for September 1993. This ranking thus includes automated-teller transactions as well as payments at the point of sale, with data on terminals by type_ATM or POS, including how many ATMS are installed off bank premises in stores, malls, etc._and a breakdown of transactions into those on ATMs and those on POS terminals. This information is shown for the 50 largest shared regional systems. Now the value of shared network brands becomes clear. The top-line total-transaction number includes all transactions deposits, withdrawals, transfers, payments, and balance inquiries) performed on machines hooked into the network not just those passing through the network's data center. Hence, the number captures a truer sense of the strength of the network's brand among cardholders than does the number of data-center transactions (which are shown in the ``switch'' line in the transaction analysis). Another such indicator is the interchange percentage, shown in the transaction analysis. This is the portion of total volume stemming from cardholders' use of terminals belonging to banks other than their own. Banks' fees for so-called foreign transactions influence interchange, of course, but the number does give some indication of the extent to which consumers recognize network marks. Networks to watch include number-one Star and second-ranked MAC. Star in 1993 became the first network ever to exceed the 100-million mark in monthly volume. And MAC, which is part of the giant Electronic Payment Services Inc. electronic banking combine, logged the fastest growth among the top 50, boosting transactions by 78%. This surge was enough to move the network up from its fourth-place showing in 1992. [Page irreproducible. Page is p. 34 of Debit Card Directory: The Complete Guide for the Debit Card Industry in the United States (Faulkner & Gray) 1994 Edition. Copies are on file with the United States District Court for the District of Delaware and the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice.]
