FR941006-0-00050 FR941006-0-00012 (2) Requirement 2. Does disclosure of the information primarily mean profit for the requester? (i) Factor 5_Commercial Interest. If you determine the requester will use the records to make a profit, then decide if it's primary, as opposed to a personal or noncommercial interest. In addition to profit-making organizations, individuals, and other organizations may have a commercial interest in certain records. When you have difficulty deciding whether a request is commercial in nature, the requester's identity and the circumstances of the request may help. You may write to the requester and ask for more details. (ii) Factor 6_Primary Interest. After you have determined the requester's commercial interest, decide if it is primary. Commercial interests are primary only if the requester's profit clearly overrides a personal or nonprofit interest. You must decide whether the commercial interest outweighs any benefit to the public as a result of disclosure. Waive or reduce fees when the public gains more than the requester. If the requester's commercial interest is greater than the public interest, do not waive or reduce fees even if public interest is significant. As business organizations, news organizations have a commercial interest; however, you can assume that their primary interest is giving the general public news. Scholars writing books or engaging in other academic research, may profit, either directly or indirectly (through the institution they represent); however, such work is primarily done for educational purposes. Usually you would not assess scholars fees. Assume that brokers or others who compile government information for marketing use the information for profit. (iii) Decide each fee waiver case by case. When you have doubts about waiving or charging a fee, favor the requester. ยง806.21 Transferring fees to accounting and finance offices. The Treasurer of the United States has two accounts for FOIA receipts. Use account 3210, Sales of Publications and Reproductions, Freedom of Information Act, for depositing fees for publications and forms described in Federal Account Symbols and titles. Use receipt account 3210, Fees and Other Charges for Services, Freedom of Information Act, to deposit fees for searching for, copying, and reviewing records to provide information not in existing publications or forms. Add your disbursing office's prefix to the account numbers. Deposit all FOIA receipts in these accounts except those from industrially funded and nonappropriated funded activities. Deposit these receipts in the applicable fund. ยง806.22 Fee rates. (a) These fees apply only to FOIA requests. Part 813 of this chapter, Schedule of Fees for Copying, Certifying and Searching Records and Other Documentary Material, contains the fee schedule for non-FOIA services. Refer to Part 806B of this chapter for guidance on fees for PA requests. (b) Search and review: (1) Clerical (E9 and GS&hyph;8 and below)_$12 an hour. (2) Professional (01&hyph;06 and GS&hyph;9&hyph;GS/GM&hyph;15)_$25 an hour. (3) Executive (07 and GS&hyph;16/ES1 and above)_$45 an hour. (c) Computer search fees are based on direct costs of the central processing unit, input-output devices, and memory capacity of the actual computer configuration. Also include the salary scale (equal to hourly rates above) for the computer operator or programmer who planned and carried out the search.
