FR941130-2-00022 FR941130-2-00010 Transco further states that with respect to the installation of turbochargers on the six engines where there have been none before, the potential would be created of these engines being capable of performing at above their current operating horsepower. It is stated that since that station is automated, Transco has the ability to shut down other engines or reduce their load to ensure that the station would not operate above the stations' total certificated horsepower. Transco states that, since it would install these turbochargers at Station No. 200 solely to address an environmental matter, i.e., NO x emissions, Transco has no intent or need to operate the station above its certificated horsepower. Therefore, Transco states that when it installs these turbochargers at Station No. 200, it would adjust the automation program at the station so the station would not operate above its certificated horsepower. 2 2 It is stated that the potential for increased horsepower on these six engines is the same as the situation that existed in connection with installation of the turbocharger referred to in footnote one of this notice. Transco states that as with the representation in this filing, in that previous case Transco represented that it would adjust the automation program at the station so the station would not operate above its certificated horsepower. As stated in footnote one, in that previous case the Commission authorized Transco to install the turbocharger pursuant to its blanket certificate, stating that `` the fact that the equipment has the potential to alter capacity is, in this instance, incidental to the purpose [of reducing NO x emissions] for which the turbocharger would be installed.'' Transco states that, at the other seven engines, modification of the existing turbochargers to increase their capacity would not create the potential of the engines performing above their current operating horsepower because the engines are already operating at maximum horsepower and cannot operate at a higher horsepower output. Thus, it is stated, there would be increase in the capacity on Transco's system in the vicinity of the station as a result of installation of the six new turbochargers. It is also indicated that all of the installation work would be within the yard of the existing station. It is stated that the estimated cost of Transco's proposed facilities in $14,694,000. Comment date: January 3, 1995, in accordance with Standard Paragraph G at the end of this notice. Standard Paragraphs F. Any person desiring to be heard or to make any protest with reference to said application should on or before the comment date, file with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, D.C. 20426, a motion to intervene or a protest in accordance with the requirements of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.214 or 385.211) and the Regulations under the Natural Gas Act (18 CFR 157.10). All protests filed with the Commission will be considered by it in determining the appropriate action to be taken but will not serve to make the protestants parties to the proceeding. Any person wishing to become a party to a proceeding or to participate as a party in any hearing therein must file a motion to intervene in accordance with the Commission's Rules. Take further notice that, pursuant to the authority contained in and subject to the jurisdiction conferred upon the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission by Sections 7 and 15 of the Natural Gas Act and the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, a hearing will be held without further notice before the Commission or its designee on this application if no motion to intervene is filed within the time required herein, if the Commission on its own review of the matter finds that a grant of the certificate and/or permission and approval for the proposed abandonment are required by the public convenience and necessity. If a motion for leave to intervene is timely filed, or if the Commission on its own motion believes that a formal hearing is required, further notice of such hearing will be duly given. Under the procedure herein provided for, unless otherwise advised, it will be unnecessary for applicant to appear or be represented at the hearing. G. Any person or the Commission's staff may, within 45 days after issuance of the instant notice by the Commission, file pursuant to Rule 214 of the Commission's Procedural Rules (18 CFR 385.214) a motion to intervene or notice of intervention and pursuant to ยง157.205 of the Regulations under the Natural Gas Act (18 CFR 157.205) a protest to the request. If no protest is filed within the time allowed therefor, the proposed activity shall be deemed to be authorized effective the day after the time allowed for filing a protest. If a protest is filed and not withdrawn within 30 days after the time allowed for filing a protest, the instant request shall be treated as an application for authorization pursuant to Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29425 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
