FR940506-1-00052 FR940506-1-00012 (2) Total exvessel value. The total exvessel value of Research Plan fisheries will be calculated as the sum of the product of the standard exvessel prices established under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and projected retained catches, by species. (3) Research Plan fee percentage. The Research Plan fee percentage for a calendar year will equal the lesser of 2 percent of the exvessel value of retained catch in the Research Plan fisheries or the fee percentage calculated using the following equation: Fee percentage=[100x(RRPC&hyph;FB&hyph;OF)/V]/(1&hyph;NPR) where RRPC is the projection of recoverable Research Plan costs for the coming year, FB is the projected end of the year balance of funds collected under the Research Plan, OF is the projection of other funding for the coming year, V is the projected exvessel value of retained catch in the Research Plan fisheries for the coming year, and NPR is the percent (expressed as a decimal) of fee assessments that are expected to result in nonpayment. (4) Observer coverage. For the period January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1995, observer coverage levels in Research Plan fisheries will be as required by ยง677.10(a). After December 31, 1995, the level of observer coverage will be determined annually by NMFS, after consultation with the Council and State of Alaska, and may vary by fishery and vessel or processor size, depending upon the objectives to be met for the groundfish, halibut, and king and Tanner crab fisheries. The Regional Director may change observer coverage inseason pursuant to ยง677.10(b)(2)(ii). (5) Standardized cost of an observer day. Standardized cost of an observer day is used to determine the Research Plan fee percentage. During the first year of the Research Plan, NMFS will use standardized cost(s) of an observer day, specified under paragraph (b) of this section, as a basis for rebates issued under ยง677.6(f) of this part. (6) Embarkment/disembarkment ports. Ports to be used to embark and disembark observers will be selected on the basis of convenience to the affected industry and on the availability of facilities, transportation, and accommodations deemed by the Regional Director to be necessary for the safe and reasonable deployment of observers. (b) Final Research Plan specifications. NMFS will consider comments received on the proposed specifications and, following consultation with the Council, and with the State, in the case of observer coverage in the crab fisheries, will publish the final total exvessel value; standard exvessel prices; fee percentage; levels of observer coverage for Research Plan fisheries, including names of observer contractors and information for contacting them; standardized cost(s) of an observer day; and embarkment/disembarkment ports in the Federal Register annually prior to the beginning of the calendar year. ยง677.12 Compliance. The operator of any fishing vessel subject to this part, and the manager of any shoreside processing facility that receives groundfish, halibut, or king and Tanner crab from vessels subject to this part, must comply with the requirements of this part. The owner of any fishing vessel subject to this part, or any shoreside processing facility that received groundfish, halibut, or king and Tanner crab from vessels subject to this part, must ensure that the operator or manager complies with the requirements of this part and is liable, either individually or jointly and severally, for compliance with the requirements of this part. Subpart B_General Provisions of Risk Sharing Pool for Insurance Purposes [Reserved] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
