FR940203-2-00099 FR940203-2-00060 Federal Aviation Administration Atlantic City International Airport, Atlantic County, New Jersey, Environmental Assessment (EA) AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA). SUMMARY: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is issuing this notice to advise the public that an Environmental Assessment will be prepared and considered for the implementation of the proposed plan to facilitate development on a portion of the Atlantic City International Airport in New Jersey. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FAA as lead agency, in cooperation with the South Jersey Transportation Authority (SJTA) as joint lead agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment intended to assess the environmental impacts related to various alternatives for development at the Atlantic City International Airport. The Atlantic City International Airport consists of a total of 5,143 acres; 5,059 acres of property termed the ``FAA Technical Center'' which includes the Federal Aviation Administration and Air National Guard (ANG) facilities owned by the FAA, and 84 acres owned by the South Jersey Transportation Authority which is used to accommodate the Atlantic City International Airport Civil Terminal area. The 84 acre Atlantic City International Airport Civil Terminal Area is independent of the 5,059 acre site. The Atlantic City International Airport is located in portions of Hamilton, Egg Harbor and Galloway Townships in Atlantic County, New Jersey. The Atlantic City International Airport is approximately 10 miles northeast of Atlantic City. The EA will consider the environmental impacts of the no build alternative and various build alternatives. The no build alternative is defined as the non-implementation of further airport development such that the airport will remain in its existing condition. The proposed build alternatives for the Atlantic City International Airport could include but not necessarily be limited to: 1. Construction of one additional terminal or expansion of existing terminal. 2. Construction of additional parking facilities. 3. Expansion of existing runway/taxiway facilities. 4. Improvement of the interior roadway system. 5. Construction of additional aircraft maintenance facilities including hangars, aprons, taxilanes. 6. Construction of additional air cargo facilities. The Environmental Assessment will address impacts of the various alternatives on topics including, but not limited to the following: noise; land use; social impacts; induced socioeconomic impacts; air quality; water quality; Department of Transportation Act, Section 4(f) applicability; historic, architectural, archaeological and cultural resources; biotic communities; endangered and threatened species of flora and fauna; wetlands; floodplains; coastal zone management program; coastal barriers; wild and scenic rivers; farmland; energy supply and natural resources; light emissions; solid waste impact; and construction impacts. INTER-AGENCY SCOPING MEETING: In order to provide agency input, a scoping meeting for Federal, State and local agencies will be held on February 17, 1994 at 1 p.m. at the Farley Service Plaza located on the Atlantic City Expressway in Elwood, New Jersey. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Frank Squeglia, Environmental Specialist, FAA Eastern Region Office, Airports Division, AEA&hyph;610, Fitzgerald Federal Building, JFK International Airport, Jamaica, New York 11430; (718) 553&hyph;1243 or Malcolm Lane, South Jersey Transportation Authority, Joint-Lead Agent, Atlantic City International Airport, New Jersey 08232. Issued in Jamaica, New York on January 27, 1994. Louis P. DeRose, Manager, Airports Division, Eastern Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2395 Filed 2&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
