FR941103-0-00044 FR941103-0-00007 •Not allow native load customers to subsidize firm wheeling; •Give deference to negotiated agreements (with some commenters adding, where equal bargaining power is involved); •Ensure rate predictability and transparency of rate derivation; and, •Allow customers an option to have stable prices over time (although this would not limit parties to fixed rate contracts). One criterion emphasized by most commenters is that the Commission should exercise maximum flexibility in pricing transmission service. Specifically, many commenters stress that the Commission should not attempt to rigidly apply a single transmission pricing methodology in all cases, to all entities, or to all regions. A general concern raised is that the Commission must recognize the substantial differences present between customer groups, utilities, state and local regulatory bodies, and regional differences. Accordingly, the Commission must resist the temptation to apply one pricing methodology in all cases. One common view expressed by many Muni/Coops commenters is that the industry must move from a structure where multiple transmission system pricing occurs to a structure where transmission is viewed on a regional basis in conjunction with the development of large, regional power markets. Many commenters advocate the regional transmission grid approach but differ in how the industry and the Commission should advance toward this goal. Some appear to take a more cautious approach. For example, some commenters note that the Commission can only obtain meaningful answers to the questions posed in its transmission pricing inquiry if it first determines the shape of the industry it envisions (such as the regional transmission grid approach or the traditional model based on individually owned and operated transmission systems). APPA 43 contends that before considering changes in traditional transmission pricing, the Commission should develop and articulate a clear statement of its ``vision'' for the electric industry and specify ``where the industry is going, how it will get there, likely impediments, and what steps are necessary for that vision to be fulfilled.'' Many Muni/Coops commenters also argue that the Commission must first determine if the benefits of transmission pricing reform will outweigh the costs of such reform. 43 Commenters are referred to by acronym here; acronyms are defined in a list at the end of this appendix. Several Regulatory/Government entities commenters recommend that the following general principles be included in addition to the Commission's proposed criteria: •The Commission's pricing policies should reflect differences between the rights and responsibilities of native load customers (including retail and wholesale requirements customers) and other users of the transmission system; any transmission pricing policy must ensure that native load customers will be held harmless; and, •The Commission should seek to promote voluntary resolution of case-specific pricing issues by giving appropriate deference to consensual agreements produced through arms-length negotiations involving all affected parties. NARUC proposes a consultative process to develop complimentary policies that truly coordinate and render coherent regulation of transmission service. The general goals include coherence of public policy, economic efficiency and reliability in electricity markets, efficiency of processes and decision-making, dialogue between federal and state decision-makers and appropriate input from constituent groups and affected parties as necessary. The Pennsylvania Commission concludes that without careful consideration of the role of state agencies and their interest in economic and environmental impacts, bulk power wheeling as envisioned by the Commission is, and will remain, a theoretical, economic model.
