FR940302-2-00002 FR940302-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Eldorado National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan; Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) for resource management activities, including biomass removal, timber harvest, fuelbreak construction and wildlife habitat improvement work on the Whale Rock Forest Health Multi-resource Project, involving a total planning area size of about 4,500 acres on the Pacific Ranger District of the Eldorado National Forest. The agency invites written comments and suggestions on the scope of the analysis. The agency also gives notice of the full environmental analysis and decisionmaking process that will occur on the proposal so that interested and affected people are aware of how they may participate and contribute to the final decision. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis must be received by April 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments and suggestions concerning the scope of the analysis to Marie Kennedy, Assistant Silviculturist, Pacific Ranger Station, Pollock Pines, California, 95726. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Quesitons about the proposed action and EIS should be directed to Marie Kennedy, Assistant Silviculturist, Pacific Ranger Station, Pollock Pines, California, 95726, phone 916&hyph;644&hyph;2349. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Eldorado National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan was completed in January 1989. The Whale Rock Forest Health Multi-resource Project EIS will tier to the approved Eldorado National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan. Most of the land in the analysis area is identified in the approved Plan as having a general management direction of timber management. There are no known permits or licenses required to implement the proposed action. In preparing the EIS, the Forest Service will identify and consider a range of alternatives for this project. The proposed alternatives will include the following tentative alternative themes: 1. No Action 2. Forest Health_timber product, including biomass, management emphasis 3. Forest Health_wildlife management emphasis 4. Forest Health_fuels management emphasis 5. Forest Health_multiple use management emphasis. These alternatives will consider varying levels and distribution of vegetation manipulation, timber harvest and fuels management. No new specified road construction is anticipated. Road reconstruction needs will include drainage work, clearing and minor realignment. The amount of road reconstruction necessary for this project will vary between alternatives. Harvest prescriptions will include understory removal of both merchantable and sub-merchantable trees, commercial thinning, and fuelbreak construction guidelines. All harvest prescriptions will conform with the California Spotted Owl Sierran Province Interim Guidelines Environmental Assessment and Decision Notice. Adaptive management strategies for the Spotted Owl may be included under certain alternatives where benefits to the spotted owl can be shown, that is, wildlife habitat activities or fuel management activities that are designed to better maintain future management options of the spotted owl by improving or retaining stand components most at risk.
