FR941117-0-00081 FR941117-0-00011 (ii) Notwithstanding the introductory texts of paragraphs (d) and (d)(3) of this section, the FCC may grant applications for pro forma assignments during the first year of operation. §22.139 Trafficking. Carriers must not obtain or attempt to obtain an authorization in the Public Mobile services for the principal purpose of speculation or profitable resale of the authorization, but rather for the provision of common carrier telecommunication services to the public. (a) Applications for approval of assignment of authorization may be reviewed by the FCC to determine if the circumstances indicate trafficking in Public Mobile services authorizations. (b) The FCC may require submission of an affirmative, factual showing, supported by affidavit of persons with personal knowledge thereof, to demonstrate that the assignor did not acquire the authorization for the principal purpose of speculation or profitable resale of the authorization. This showing may include, for example, a demonstration that the proposed assignment is due to changed circumstances (described in detail) affecting the licensee after the grant of the authorization, or that the proposed assignment is incidental to a sale of other facilities or a merger of interests. §22.142 Commencement of service; notification requirement. Stations must begin providing service to subscribers no later than the date of required commencement of service specified on the authorization. If service to subscribers has not begun by the date of required commencement of service, the authorization terminates, in whole or in part, without action by the FCC, pursuant to §21.144. Additional requirements for construction of facilities apply to cellular systems (see §22.946) and commercial aviation air-ground systems (see §22.873). (a) Construction period. The period between the date of grant of an authorization and the date of required commencement of service is referred to as the construction period. The terms of construction periods are given in the subparts of this part governing each Public Mobile Service. (b) Notification requirement. Licensees must notify the FCC (FCC Form 489) of commencement of service to subscribers. The notification must be mailed or delivered to the filing place (see §22.106) no later than 15 days after service begins. (1) The notification must state whether the station was constructed exactly as authorized or with minor changes. (2) If service to subscribers has begun using some, but not all, of the authorized transmitters, the notification must show to which specific transmitters it applies. Additional notifications must be filed if and when other transmitters commence providing service to subscribers. If the licensee no longer intends to construct and/or operate the remaining authorized transmitters, the notification should so state. (3) This section does not require licensees to notify the FCC of facilities added or modified pursuant to the provisions of §§22.163 and 22.165. It applies only to facilities specifically listed in authorizations for which a construction period is provided. (c) Requests for extension. Before the date of required commencement of service, licensees may file an application (FCC Form 401) requesting an extension of the construction period. (1) The FCC may grant applications for extension of the construction period if the licensee shows that failure to commence providing service to subscribers is due to causes beyond its control. (2) The FCC does not grant applications for extension of the construction period if failure to commence providing service to subscribers is due to delays caused by lack of financing, failure to obtain an antenna site, or failure to order equipment in a timely manner. If the licensee orders equipment within 90 days of authorization grant, a presumption of diligence is created. (3) The FCC does not grant applications for extension of the construction period if the licensee fails to commence providing service to subscribers because it intends to assign the authorization. The FCC does not grant applications for extension of the construction period solely to allow an assignee to complete facilities the assignor failed to construct. (d) Automatic extension for relocation. If, prior to the end of the construction period, a licensee files an application (FCC Form 401) to relocate a transmitter because of involuntary loss of the proposed site or for other reasons due to causes beyond the licensee's control, the construction period is automatically extended pending disposition of that application. (1) Extension of the construction period for one transmitter under this paragraph does not extend the construction period for other transmitter under the same authorization that are not to be relocated. (2) The filing of applications for modifications other than involuntary relocation does not automatically extend the construction period. §22.143 Construction prior to grant of application. Applicants may construct facilities in the Public Mobile services prior to grant of their applications, subject to the provisions of this section, but must not operate such facilities until the FCC grants an authorization. If the conditions stated in this section are not met, applicants must not begin to construct facilities in the Public Mobile Services. (a) When applicants may begin construction. An applicant may begin construction of a facility 35 days after the date of the Public Notice listing the application for that facility as acceptable for filing, except that an applicant whose application to operate a new cellular system was selected in a random selection process may begin construction of that new cellular system 35 days after the date of the Public Notice listing it as the tentative selectee.
