FR940110-1-00006 FR940110-1-00001 Conservation District (CD) means a subdivision of a State organized pursuant to an applicable State Conservation District law or in instances where a CD does not exist, the State Conservationist of the Soil Conservation Service. Cost-share payment means the payment made by ASCS to producers who complete an approved program practice. County committee (COC) means the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation county committee of the ASCS. County Conservation Review Group (CCRG) consists of the county ASC committee; the county extension agent; a Soil Conservation Service (SCS) representative; a Forest Service (FS) representative; a Farmers Home Administration representative; a representative of the State forestry agency or its equivalent, when the representative accepts an invitation to be a member of the group; and a representative of the CD in the county, where the governing board of the district accepts an invitation to designate a representative (if there is more than one district in the county, the governing boards of the districts may jointly designate one person to represent all the districts). The CCRG shall have the responsibilities as provided for in §§701.107 and 701.307. CPO means the conservation plan of operations developed for the participant by the SCS. Deputy Administrator means the Deputy Administrator, State and County Operations, or designee, of the ASCS. ECP means the Emergency Conservation Program. Eligible person means a person who meets all program eligibility requirements and is eligible to participate and receive assistance. Farm or ranch means that area of land considered as a farm under the regulations governing reconstitution of farms, allotments, and bases, at part 719 of this chapter, as amended, for ACP, ECP, and WQIP, and, for the FIP, farm or ranch means eligible land (or ownership tracts) as provided in §701.302. FIP means the Forestry Incentives Program. FS means the Forest Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. Incentive payment means, unless the context indicates otherwise, the incentive payment specified in the WQIP agreement which, subject to the availability of funds, is made to a participant to compensate such participant who implemented conservation practices or management changes that reduce agricultural pollutants. National Conservation Review Group (NCRG) consists of representatives of the ASCS; SCS; U.S. Forest Service; Extension Service; Economic Research Service; Farmers Home Administration; Agricultural Research Service; Office of General Counsel, U.S. Department of Agriculture; Office of Budget, Planning and Analysis, U.S. Department of Agriculture; Environmental Protection Agency; Office of Management and Budget; and Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI). The NCRG is responsible for recommending changes to the Administrator, ASCS, in program administrative procedures and policy guidelines, and evaluations of program effectiveness and operating arrangements. Participant means an owner, operator, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper of a farm or ranch who shares in the cost of the practice and who will receive cost-share or incentive assistance. Program year means the Federal fiscal year for accounting purposes. SCS means the Soil Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. State means any one State of the United States, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and: (1) In the case of the ACP and ECP, Guam, the American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; and (2) In the case of the FIP, Guam, the American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and the territories and possessions of the United States. State committee (STC) means the ASCS State Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Committee. State Conservation Review Group (SCRG) consists of the STC, the State Director of Extension; the State Conservationist of the SCS; a representative of the U.S. Forest Service; a representative of the Farmers Home Administration; a representative of the State forestry agency, or its equivalent, when the representative accepts an invitation to be a member of the group; a representative of the State Soil Conservation Committee, or its equivalent, when the representative accepts an invitation to be a member of the group; and a representative of the State water quality agency, or its equivalent when it accepts an invitation to be a member of the group. The SCRG has the responsibility provided for in §701.108. State Forestry Committee, or its equivalent, consists of the State forester or equivalent State official, who serves as chairperson; and a representative at the State level of the following USDA agencies: ASCS; FS; Extension Service; Farmers Home Administration; and SCS. At the discretion of the State Forestry Committee, State and local interests may also be involved. The function of the State Forestry Committee is to coordinate forestry budget proposals, agency roles in education, technical assistance, technology transfers, and forestry incentives.
