FR940124-1-00065 FR940124-1-00008 (c)(1) If the Advisory Committee recommends recognition, the Advisory Committee also recommends the scope of recognition for the agency and a recognition period. (2) If the Advisory Committee recommends recognition despite finding that the agency failed to comply with each of the requirements of this part, the Advisory Committee provides the Secretary with a detailed explanation as to why it believes the agency's failure to comply with the particular requirement(s) does not require denial or deferral. (3) If the Advisory Committee recommends denial of recognition, the Advisory Committee specifies the reasons for the recommendation and the requirements of this part that the agency failed to meet. (4) If the Advisory Committee recommends deferral of a decision on the agency's application, the Advisory Committee specifies the reasons for the recommendation, the requirements of this part that it believes the agency has not met, and a recommended deferral period. (d) After the meeting, the Advisory Committee forwards its written recommendations concerning recognition to the Secretary. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b, 1145) ยง602.13 Review and decision by the Secretary. (a) The Secretary determines whether to grant national recognition to an applicant accrediting agency based on the Advisory Committee's recommendation and the full record of the agency's application, including all oral and written presentations to the Advisory Committee by the agency, the designated Department official, and interested third parties. (b)(1) Before making a final decision, the Secretary affords both the designated Department official and the accrediting agency an opportunity to contest, in writing, the Advisory Committee's recommendation. If either the agency or the designated Department official wishes to contest the recommendation, that party shall notify the Secretary and the other party no later than 10 days after the Advisory Committee meeting. (2) If the party contesting the Advisory Committee's recommendation wishes to make a written submission to the Secretary, the Secretary must receive that submission no later than 30 days after the Advisory Committee meeting. However, the contesting party may not submit any evidence to the Secretary that it did not submit to the Advisory Committee. The contesting party shall simultaneously provide a copy of its submission to the other party. (3) If the noncontesting party wishes to respond in writing to the Secretary, the Secretary must receive that submission no later than 30 days after the noncontesting party receives the contesting party's submission. However, the noncontesting party may not submit any evidence to the Secretary that it did not submit to the Advisory Committee. The noncontesting party shall simultaneously provide a copy of its response to the contesting party. (4) If the Advisory Committee's recommendation is contested, the Secretary renders a final decision after taking into account the two parties' written submissions, if any. (c) The Secretary approves the accrediting agency for national recognition if the Secretary determines that the agency satisfies each of the requirements contained in this part. (d) The Secretary approves the accrediting agency for national recognition even if the agency does not satisfy each of the requirements contained in this part if the Secretary determines that the agency's effectiveness is not impaired by the noncompliance. (e) If the Secretary approves the accrediting agency for national recognition, the Secretary defines- (1) The scope of recognition, which may include the_ (i) Geographic area; (ii) Degrees and certificates awarded; (iii) Types of institutions the agency may accredit; (iv) Types of programs the agency may accredit; and (v) Preaccreditation status(es), if any, that the Secretary approves for recognition; and (2) The recognition period, which does not exceed five years. (f)(1) If the Secretary denies recognition to the accrediting agency or grants recognition for a scope narrower than that requested by the agency, the Secretary indicates in writing the reasons for that decision.
