FR940106-0-00113 FR940106-0-00021 (4) Efforts made by the violator in good faith to comply with the attestation or the State plan as provided in the Act and Subparts D and E of this part; (5) The violator's explanation of the violation or violations; (6) The violator's commitment to future compliance, taking into account the public health, interest or safety; and (7) The extent to which the violator achieved a financial gain due to the violation, or the potential financial loss or potential injury or adverse effect upon the workers. (c) The civil money penalty, back wages, and any other remedy determined by the Administrator to be appropriate, are immediately due for payment or performance upon the assessment by the Administrator, or the decision by an administrative law judge where a hearing is requested, or the decision by the Secretary where review is granted. The facility shall remit the amount of the civil money penalty, by certified check or money order made payable to the order of ``Wage and Hour Division, Labor.'' The remittance shall be delivered or mailed to the Wage and Hour Division Regional Office for the area in which the violations occurred. The payment of back wages, monetary relief, and/or the performance or any other remedy prescribed by the Administrator shall follow procedures established by the Administrator. The facility's failure to pay the civil money penalty, back wages, or other monetary relief, or to perform any other assessed remedy, shall result in the rejection by ETA of any future attestation submitted by the facility, until such payment or performance is accomplished. § XXX .415 Written notice and service of Administrator's determination. (a) The Administrator's determination, issued pursuant to § XXX .405(d), shall be served on the complainant, the facility, and other interested parties by personal service or by certified mail at the parties' last known addresses. Where service by certified mail is not accepted by the party, the Administrator may exercise discretion to serve the determination by regular mail. Where the complainant has requested confidentiality, the Administrator shall serve the determination in a manner which will not breach that confidentiality. (b) The Administrator shall file with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, a copy of the complaint and the Administrator's determination. (c) The Administrator's written determination required by § XXX .405(c) shall: (1) Set forth the determination of the Administrator and the reason or reasons therefor; prescribe any remedies or penalties including the amount of any unpaid wages due, the actions required for compliance with the facility attestation and/or State plan, and the amount of any civil money penalty assessment and the reason or reasons therefor. (2) Inform the interested parties that they may request a hearing pursuant to § XXX .420. (3) Inform the interested parties that in the absence of a timely request for a hearing, received by the Chief Administrative Law Judge within 10 days of the date of the determination, the determination of the Administrator shall become final and not appealable. (4) Set forth the procedure for requesting a hearing, and give the address of the Chief Administrative Law Judge. (5) Inform the parties that, pursuant to § XXX .455, the Administrator shall notify the Attorney General and ETA of the occurrence of a violation by the employer. § XXX .420 Request for hearing. (a) Any interested party desiring to request an administrative hearing on a determination issued pursuant to § XXX .405(d) shall make such request in writing to the Chief Administrative Law Judge at the address stated in the notice of determination. (b) An interested party may request a hearing in the following circumstances: (1) Where the Administrator determines that there is no basis for a finding of violation, the complainant or other interested party may request a hearing. In such a proceeding, the party requesting the hearing shall be the prosecuting party and the facility shall be the respondent; the Administrator may intervene as a party or appear as amicus curiae at any time in the proceeding, at the Administrator's discretion. (2) Where the Administrator determines that there is a basis for a finding of violation, the facility or other interested party may request a hearing. In such a proceeding, the Administrator shall be the prosecuting party and the facility shall be the respondent. (c) No particular form is prescribed for any request for hearing permitted by this part. However, any such request shall: (1) Be dated; (2) Be typewritten or legibly written; (3) Specify the issue or issues stated in the notice of determination given rise to such request; (4) State the specific reason or reasons why the party requesting the hearing believes such determination is in error; (5) Be signed by the party making the request or by an authorized representative of such party; and (6) Include the address at which such party or authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto.
