FR940128-1-00115 FR940128-1-00006 To minimize microbial growth, fresh fish should be maintained at refrigerated temperatures close to 38 ○F (3.3 ○C) (Refs. 173 and 175). Although certain strains of C. botulinum are capable of growth at temperatures as low as 38 ○F (3.3 ○C), favorable growth media are necessary for a significant growth rate to occur at this temperature. For example, it has been shown that C. botulinum Type E requires 31 to 35 days before outgrowth and toxin production occurs in a beef stew media held at 38 ○F. However, outgrowth and toxin production in a cooked meat medium held at 41 ○F does not occur until after 56 days, demonstrating that less favorable growth media can significantly lower the rate of growth. Even in those cases where C. botulinum does grow and produce toxin, the laboratory conditions are generally more ideally suited to growth than those found in nonexperimental situations where less favorable growth environments prevail. Thus, while the growth of C. botulinum is not completely inhibited at 40 ○F (4.4 ○C), under the less than ideal conditions for its growth that are generally encountered in the processing of smoked fish, FDA has tentatively concluded that maintaining fresh fish at a maximum temperature of 40 ○F, only 2 degrees above the temperature of complete growth inhibition, before and during processing will provide adequate protection against C. botulinum outgrowth. Moreover, 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) is consistent with the maximum temperature FDA has proposed in various guidelines, such as the Unicode (now called the Food Code) (53 FR 16472, May 9, 1988). Therefore, under proposed §123.10(a)(14), all raw fish that is to be smoked must be refrigerated until needed for processing (Ref. 175). Similarly, fish that are initially frozen need to remain in the frozen state until needed for processing (Refs. 161 and 25). When frozen fish are needed for processing, the thawing procedure must be carried out in a way that minimizes the opportunity for microbial growth (Refs. 161 and 171). The method used to thaw the fish must provide an environment that will inhibit the growth of C. botulinum and other microorganisms that pose a potential health hazard (Refs. 171 and 172). Thus, the fish should be thawed in a way that ensures that the internal temperature at the core of the fish does not exceed 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) (Refs. 171 and 172). Therefore, section 4.a. of Example 6 of this appendix, the agency suggests that this procedure be used in the thawing process. B. Manufacturing Operations Reduction of the potential health hazard from C. botulinum spore outgrowth and toxin production in smoked and smoke-flavored fish relies on the interrelationship of processing time, processing temperature, water-phase salt concentration in the loin muscle, and smoke (or constituents of smoke) deposition, combined with refrigerated storage (40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or lower) (see proposed §123.10(a)(14)) (Ref. 173). At one time, smoking and associated brining may have been an effective preservation method. With the changes in processing techniques that have occurred since the advent of refrigeration and in response to consumers' demands for products with certain organoleptic qualities, however, smoked fish products, either hot- or cold-process, have become perishable products that must be refrigerated and cannot be considered preserved foods (Ref. 173). The changes that have occurred, both in processing techniques and in organoleptic qualities, have resulted in products that are more moist and contain less salt. As a result, the two critical processing factors that affect the overall preservation and safety of the product have been altered. The processing time-temperature parameters have been decreased, and the water-phase salt content has been reduced (Ref. 173). Therefore, these products need to be maintained at refrigerated temperatures (40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or lower) or frozen immediately after processing to ensure the overall quality of these products (Ref. 173). 1. Brining/dry salting. Salt, as a preservative in smoked and smoke-flavored fish, is somewhat limited in its effectiveness because of the variability in salt uptake by fish flesh, even among fish in the same brining tank. Ventral muscle, which is thin, absorbs high levels of salt, while the thicker dorsal muscles absorb less salt, limiting the effectiveness of salt as a deterrent against spore outgrowth in that part of the fish. Equilibration techniques, such as two-stage brining, reduce variation in salt content within a fish and increase the preservative effect (Ref. 176). It is possible that salt-tolerant microorganisms of public health concern (such as strains of Staphylococcus ) may grow during brining or after the dry salting process. Therefore, FDA is providing in section 5.c. and 5.e. in example 6 of this appendix that the brining and dry salting of fish be carried out at refrigerated temperatures, i.e., 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or lower. Doing so will ensure that the environment in which brining is done, and in which fish are held after dry-salting, will inhibit the growth of salt-tolerant microorganisms that can cause a potential health hazard (Ref. 173). FDA recognizes that when fish are initially added to the brine, the temperature of the brine may increase. It is essential to this process that the brine be returned to refrigerated temperatures 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or lower to reduce the opportunity of microbial growth and to ensure the overall quality of the product during the brining process (Refs. 175 and 182). Therefore, the agency is suggesting in section 5.d. of Example 6 of this appendix that the temperature of the brine not exceed 60 ○F (16 ○C) at the start of brining.
