FR941202-2-00174 FR941202-2-00098 Planning is the means by which the lead assessor identifies all the required activities to be completed during the assessment process. These activities include obtaining records before the assessment, conducting the assessment, writing reports and following up. Pre-assessment activities include: deciding the scope of the assessment (Section 3.4.2); assessment planning (Section 3.4.3); reviewing NELAP/State information (Section 3.4.4); providing advance notification of the assessment to the laboratory (Section 3.4.5); coordinating the assessment team (Section 3.4.6); and gathering assessment documents and equipment (Section 3.4.7). Section 3.4.8 discusses Confidential Business Information issues. 3.4.2␣Scope of the Assessment The first step in the assessment planning process is deciding what type of assessment will be conducted. The assessments usually include a laboratory evaluation and a records review. 3.4.2.1␣Laboratory Evaluations A laboratory assessment obtains a ``snapshot in time'' at a testing laboratory by evaluating what activities are being conducted when the assessment takes place. During a laboratory evaluation, the assessment team may identify a number of samples or a recently completed or on-going project and evaluate to what extent the tests are being conducted according to NELAP or client requirements. 3.4.2.2␣Records Review The purpose of a records review is to learn if the testing laboratory has maintained data and other information necessary to support reports previously issued. During a records review, team members will conduct an overall audit of data, and will compare data with submitted reports to determine whether the data were generated or collected following the proper procedures in the NELAP/State, EPA, or client requirements. 3.4.3␣Assessment Planning Planning includes conducting a thorough review, prior to the assessment, of NELAP and/or State records pertaining to the laboratory to be inspected. This will save time because familiarity with the operation, history, and compliance status of the laboratory increases the efficiency and focus of an on-site visit. Planning also promotes a better relationship with the laboratory community because the lead assessor will be better able to answer questions concerning the application of NELAP/State requirements to a particular laboratory. It also enhances the laboratory's confidence in the lead assessor and aids in establishing good relationships with laboratory representatives. Another important benefit of planning is to enhance the lead assessor's ability to identify and document potential problems and plan to collect necessary information to assist the accrediting authority in their subsequent decisions concerning the laboratory. Planning an assessment will result in an efficient and productive assessment overall. 3.4.4␣Reviewing NELAP/State Information The lead assessor's responsibilities start with receipt of the Assessment Assignment. For a records review, copies of all appropriate documents related to the laboratory will be forwarded by the accrediting authority to the lead assessor or directly to a team member, if appropriate, ideally at least six weeks prior to the start of the assessment. The lead assessor should request any other information that will be useful in preparing for the assessment. Such information may include:
