FR940816-2-00024 FR940816-2-00019 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Notice of Proposed Information Collection Requests AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of proposed information collection requests. SUMMARY: The Acting Director, Information Resources Management Service, invites comments on the proposed information collection requests as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. DATES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments on or before September 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Attention: Dan Chenok: Desk Officer, Department of Education, Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street, NW., Room 3208, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. Requests for copies of the proposed information collection requests should be addressed to Patrick J. Sherrill, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., Room 5624, Regional Office Building 3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4651. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrick J. Sherrill (202) 708&hyph;9915. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 3517 of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35) requires that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) provide interested Federal agencies and the public an early opportunity to comment on information collection requests. OMB may amend or waive the requirement for public consultation to the extent that public participation in the approval process would defeat the purpose of the information collection, violate State or Federal law, or substantially interfere with any agency's ability to perform its statutory obligations. The Acting Director of the Information Resources Management Service, publishes this notice containing proposed information collection requests prior to submission of these requests to OMB. Each proposed information collection, grouped by office, contains the following: (1) Type of review requested, e.g., new, revision, extension, existing or reinstatement; (2) Title; (3) Frequency of collection; (4) The affected public; (5) Reporting burden; and/or (6) Recordkeeping burden; and (7) Abstract. OMB invites public comment at the address specified above. Copies of the requests are available from Patrick J. Sherrill at the address specified above. Dated: August 10, 1994. Mary P. Liggett, Acting Director, Information Resources Management Service. Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services Type of Review: Reinstatement. Title: Final Regulations_Client Assistance Program. Frequency: Annually. Affected Public: State or local governments. Reporting Burden: Responses: 57. Burden Hours: 238. Recordkeeping Burden: Recordkeepers: 0. Burden Hours: 0. Abstract: This package describes new and revised reporting and recordkeeping requirements for the Rehabilitation Services Administration Client Assistance Program that are needed to meet statutory and administrative objectives. The Department will use the information for program management, to make budget projections and to report to Congress. Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services Type of Review: Reinstatement. Title: Written Request for Assistance or Application for Client Assistance Program. Frequency: Every three years. Affected Public: State or local governments. Reporting Burden: Responses: 57. Burden Hours: 9. Recordkeeping Burden: Recordkeepers: 0. Burden Hours: 0. Abstract: This form will be used by State educational agencies to apply for funding under the Client Assistance Program. The Department will use the information to make grant awards. Office of Postsecondary Education Type of Review: Revision. Title: Guarantee Agency Monthly Claims and Collection Report. Frequency: Monthly. Affected Public: State or local governments; Non-profit institutions. Reporting Burden: Responses: 576. Burden Hours: 2,880. Recordkeeping Burden: Recordkeepers: 0. Burden Hours: 0. Abstract: This form will be used by a guaranty agency to request payments of reinsurance for default, bankruptcy, death, disability, closed school, false certification, lender-of-last-resort loan (default) claims on which reinsurance has been paid, and for refunding amounts previously paid for reinsurance claims. It is also used to report collections on claims paid under federal reinsurance. The Department uses the information to reimburse agencies for claims paid to lenders and for refunds to borrowers in connection with the IRS federal tax refund offset program. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19955 Filed 8&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;M
