FR941107-2-00209 FR941107-2-00109 (5) Prepare, update, and distribute copies of a catalog listing all captioned films/videos available under this project, including copies of the lesson guides as they become available; (6) Convene an annual meeting of depository managers, librarians, and audiovisual and other personnel from local, regional, and State education agencies for the purpose of training, planning, sharing, brainstorming, and other activities related to improving the access of eligible individuals to audiovisual materials. The Washington, D.C. metropolitan area will be the site of the meeting; (7) Implement outreach activities, especially activities that reach out to local school systems to make them aware of the open and closed captioned materials that are available to them under this program and from other sources; and (8) Submit quarterly progress reports to the grants and project officers. Absolute Priority 4_Recorded Audio Cassettes for Visually and Print Disabled Students Background This priority would support recording, producing, duplicating, and distributing 15/16 ips (inch per second) four-track cassette versions of textbooks and other educational reading materials for students (elementary, secondary, postsecondary & graduate) who are visually or print disabled. These cassette tapes will help provide equal educational opportunities to target students and lessen some of the barriers they face in classrooms. Priority To be considered for funding under this priority, the project must_ (1) Handle all requests for materials, including confirmation of eligibility by disability; (2) Arrange for use of copyrights from publishers of supplied textbooks; (3) Record or duplicate the books on 15/16 ips (inch per second), four-track cassettes of one hour per track recording time. (Publishers must be provided rights to copies of the master tape and rights to market the cassettes as they see fit); (4) Mail the cassettes on a free-loan, postage paid basis; (5) Handle returned cassettes, preservative re-recording, and all other associated administrative and circulation functions; and (6) To the extent that funds are not sufficient to meet the demand for free materials, place a priority on providing free materials that are not otherwise required to be provided by educational agencies or institutions. Absolute Priority 5_Video Description Project Background This priority supports the description of national television programming in order to make television more accessible to persons with visual impairments. The intent of this priority is to provide access to a diversity of programming available in order to enhance shared educational, social, and cultural experiences for persons who are visually impaired. The range of programs proposed for description may include, but is not limited to, children's programs, prime time programming, emergency broadcasts, sports programs, and documentaries. Priority To be considered for funding under this priority, a project must_ (1) For selecting programs to be video described, include criteria that take into account the preference of consumers for particular programs, the diversity of programming available, and the contribution of programs to the general educational, social, and cultural experience of individuals with visual impairments; (2) Determine the total number of hours and the projected cost per hour for each program to be described; (3) For each program to be described, identify the source of private or other public support, if any, and the projected dollar amount of that support; (4) Identify the methods to be used in the provision of described video; (5) Demonstrate the willingness of major national television networks and cable companies to permit video description of their programs; and (6) Implement procedures for monitoring the extent to which an accurate description is provided and use this information to make refinements in the video description operations. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Applicable Program Regulations 34 CFR Parts 330, 331, and 332. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1451, 1452. Dated: November 1, 1994. Howard R. Moses, Acting Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. (Catalogue of Federal Domestic Assistance Number: 84.026, Educational Media Research, Production, Distribution, and Training Program) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27456; Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
