FR940407-1-00030 FR940407-1-00011 (e) Academic achievements and demonstrated capacity for graduate study; and (f) Proposed courses of graduate study, especially the nature and extent of their subject matter components, and their relationship to the enhancement of applicants' teaching and professional activities. ยง2400.31 Selection process. (a) An independent Fellow Selection Committee will evaluate all valid applications and recommend to the Foundation the most outstanding applicants from each state for James Madison Fellowships. (b) From among candidates recommended for fellowships by the Fellow Selection Committee, the Foundation will name James Madison Fellows. The selection procedure will assure that at least one James Madison Fellow, junior or senior, is selected from each state in which there are at least two legally resident applicants who meet the eligibility requirements set forth in ยง2400.3 and are judged favorably against the selection criteria in ยง2400.30. (c) The Foundation may name, from among those applicants recommended by the Fellow Selection Committee, an alternate or alternates for each fellowship. An alternate will receive a fellowship if the person named as a James Madison Fellow declines the award or is not able to pursue graduate study as contemplated at the time the fellowship was accepted. An alternate may be named to replace a Fellow who declines or relinquishes an award until, but no later than, March 1st following the competition in which the alternate has been selected. (d) Funds permitting, the Foundation may also select, from among those recommended by the Fellow Selection Committee, Fellows at large. Subpart E_Graduate Study ยง2400.40 Institutions of graduate study. Fellowship recipients may attend any accredited university in the United States with a master's degree program offering courses or training that emphasize the origins, principles, and development of the Constitution of the United States and its comparison with the constitutions and history of other forms of government.
