FR940928-0-00070 FR940928-0-00021 3. Energy Usage Descriptor EPCA requires that labels on covered products disclose estimated annual operating cost, as determined by DOE test procedures, unless DOE determines that disclosure of estimated annual operating costs is not technologically feasible, or the Commission determines that such disclosure is not likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions or is not economically feasible. In this event, the Commission shall require disclosure of a different useful measure of energy consumption, again determined in accordance with DOE test procedures. 30 Labels also must disclose the range of estimated annual operating costs, or the alternate measure of energy consumption required for those covered products. 31 30 42 U.S.C. 6294(c). For most product categories, the Rule originally required that estimated annual operating costs in dollars, and related information, be disclosed on labels and in retail sales catalogues. The Commission recently amended the Rule, however, to require an energy consumption figure (KWH per year for electrically-fueled products, therms per year for gas-fueled products, and gallons per year for oil- and propane-fired products) for the products that originally had to bear labels disclosing estimated annual operating cost. See 59 FR 34014 (July 1, 1994). 31 42 U.S.C. 6294(c)(1)(B). A disclosure of estimated annual operating cost is not appropriate, however, for all product categories. For example, three product categories (room air conditioners, furnaces, central air conditioners) have usage cycles that depend on disparate climate conditions across the United States. In past rulemaking proceedings, the Commission has determined for these products that ``average'' energy cost would not be likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions. Therefore, the required disclosure on labels for these products is an energy efficiency rating (``EER''). 32 The corresponding cost information also must be disclosed on the label for room air conditioners, and on fact sheets or in an industry directory for furnaces and central air conditioners. 32 See 44 FR 66466, 66470 (Nov. 19, 1979; furnaces and room air conditioners); 52 FR 46888, 46889 (Dec. 10, 1987; central air conditioners). When promulgating the test procedures, DOE, as required by EPCA, developed two measures of energy consumption for each appliance category: (1) Estimated dollar cost of operation, and (2) the energy factor, a measure of the useful output of an appliance's services divided by the energy input. For climate control equipment, under the Commission's Rule, the energy factor must be an energy efficiency rating. The acronyms used in the DOE tests and by the industry (``EER'' for room air conditioners, ``SEER'' for central air conditioners and the cooling function of heat pumps, ``AFUE'' for furnaces, and ``HSPF'' for the heating function of heat pumps) must be used in advertising and on fact sheets and labels. The energy efficiency measurement in EPCA that applies to pool heaters is ``thermal efficiency.'' 33 This measurement is also the energy usage descriptor that is derived from the DOE test procedure. 34 The current DOE test has no methodology for deriving estimated annual operating cost or any energy usage measurement other than thermal efficiency. To obtain information about what possible current or future disclosures may be appropriate for labels on pool heaters, the NPR solicited comment on whether the measure of energy consumption to be disclosed on pool heater labels should be thermal efficiency, without additional cost information, or whether it should be some other disclosure. Because DOE might amend its test procedure to include a way to measure annual energy consumption (and, therefore, cost), the NPR also asked whether it would be technically or economically feasible to disclose estimated annual operating cost, and whether operating cost information would be likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions. 35 33 42 U.S.C. 6291(a)(26). ``The term `thermal efficiency of pool heaters' means a measure of the heat in the water delivered at the heater outlet divided by the heat input of the pool heater as measured under test conditions specified in section 2.8.1 of the American National Standard for Gas Fired Pool Heaters, Z21.56&hyph;1986, or as may be prescribed by the Secretary [of DOE].'' The thermal efficiency rating is expressed as a percent. 34 See Appendix P to Part 430 of 10 CFR. 35 On August 23, 1993, DOE proposed amending Appendix P to Part 430 of 10 CFR (the pool heater test procedure) to include procedures to measure annual energy consumption. An annual energy consumption figure would enable manufacturers to calculate estimated annual operating cost. See 58 FR 44538 at 44571. See also 59 FR 10464, 10519 (March 4, 1994). There was little agreement on these issues among the four comments that addressed them. Washington Gas stated that estimated annual operating cost is difficult to measure because the usage of pool heaters varies from region to region and depends on consumers' preferences. It recommended requiring a disclosure of hourly energy consumption along with thermal efficiency for comparison with other heaters. 36 CEC recommended requiring a disclosure of both thermal efficiency and estimated annual operating cost. AGA and ALG favored the disclosure of estimated annual operating cost. 37 Both expressed concern that thermal efficiency alone could mislead consumers because the different costs of operation between fuels would not appear on the label. 38 36 Washington Gas, EE&hyph;1, 1. 37 CEC, EE&hyph;2, 3. 38 AGA, EE&hyph;4, 2&hyph;4; ALG, EE&hyph;5, 1. As noted above, the DOE test for pool heaters does not currently contain a final procedure for measuring estimated annual operating cost for these products, so the Commission cannot now require disclosure of operating cost. In the absence of such a procedure, the Commission determines that the most useful information available for consumers is thermal efficiency. Accordingly, the Commission amends the Rule to require that thermal efficiency be disclosed as the energy usage descriptor for these products. See sections 305.2(i) and 305.11(a)(5)(ii)(C)&hyph;(E) and (G) of ``Text of Amendments,'' below. If, and when, DOE amends its test procedure to contain provisions for the determination of estimated annual operating cost, the Commission might consider amending the Rule to require the disclosure of estimated annual operating cost.
