FR941110-2-00041 FR941110-2-00010 On November 2, 1994, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.20(b), the respondent requested that, in the event of an affirmative preliminary determination, the Department postpone the final determination due to the complexity of the cost information, and the problems associated with scheduling verification because of the year-end holidays. Scope of Investigation For purposes of this investigation, the term ``stainless steel angle'' includes hot-rolled, whether or not annealed or descaled, stainless steel products angled at 90 degrees, that are not otherwise advanced. The stainless steel angle subject to this investigation is currently classifiable under subheadings 7222.40.30.20 and 7222.40.30.60 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedules of the United States (HTSUS). Although the HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and Customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this investigation is dispositive. Period of Investigation The period of investigation (POI) is November 1, 1993, through April 30, 1994. Such or Similar Comparisons For purposes of the preliminary determination, we have determined that stainless steel angle constitutes a single ``such or similar'' category of merchandise. The respondent reported that there were no sales of identical merchandise in the home market during the POI. Because there were no sales of identical merchandise in the home market to compare to U.S. sales, we made similar merchandise comparisons on the basis of: (1) stainless steel grade; (2) leg-length; (3) thickness; (4) spine length; and (5) other characteristics. The Department used Aichi's reported costs to adjust for physical differences in merchandise. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether sales of stainless steel angle from Japan to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the foreign market value (FMV), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. When comparing the U.S. sales to sales of similar merchandise in the home market, we made adjustments for differences in physical characteristics, pursuant to 19 CFR 353.57. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.58, we made comparisons at the same level of trade, where possible. United States Price We based USP on purchase price, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, because the subject merchandise was sold to an unrelated purchaser before importation into the United States and because exporter's sales price methodology was not otherwise indicated. We made deductions from the U.S. sales price, where appropriate, for foreign brokerage, foreign inland freight, and insurance. We recalculated U.S. credit expense based on Aichi's lending rate to its customers as opposed to Aichi's investment return rate. We made an adjustment to U.S. price for a consumption tax levied on comparison sales in Japan in accordance with our practice, pursuant to the decision of the Court of International Trade (CIT) in Federal-Mogul Corporation and The Torrington Company v. United States, 834 F. Supp. 1391 (CIT 1993). See Preliminary Antidumping Duty Determination: Color Negative Photographic Paper and Chemical Components from Japan (59 FR 16177, 16179, April 6, 1994), for an explanation of this methodology. Foreign Market Value We compared the volume of home market sales of SSA to the volume of third-country sales to determine whether there was a sufficient volume of sales in the home market to serve as a viable basis for calculating FMV, in accordance with section 773 (a)(1)(B) of the Act. We found that the home market was viable for sales of stainless steel angle, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.48(a). We excluded from our analysis those sales in the home market database with negative quantities or negative sales prices. We used the Department's arm's-length test to determine whether sales to related customers were made on an arm's-length basis. Where possible, we compared related and unrelated party sales at the same level of trade. For purposes of the preliminary determination, we considered a party as related to respondent whenever respondent had substantial ownership in the party. See Appendix II to the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina (58 FR 37077, July 9, 1993) for more information on the Department's arm's-length test. In the home market, Aichi sells SSAs through several distribution channels. Where Aichi sold SSAs through its subsidiary, that subsidiary's sales to unrelated parties formed the basis of our FMV calculation. Only a minuscule proportion of Aichi's sales were made to related parties, either directly, or through its subsidiary. We only included sales to the related parties that were made at arm's length. We also excluded certain related party sales from our analysis because those products could not be compared to unrelated sales and because these were made in insignificant quantities. We calculated FMV based on delivered prices. We made deductions for discounts and rebates, where applicable. In light of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit's (CAFC) decision in Ad Hoc Committee of AZ&hyph;NM&hyph;TX&hyph;FL Producers of Gray Portland Cement v. United States , 13 F.3d 398 (Fed. Cir. 1994), the Department no longer can deduct home market movement charges from FMV pursuant to its inherent power to fill in gaps in the antidumping statute. Instead, we will adjust for those expenses under the circumstance-of-sale provision of 19 CFR 353.56(a), as appropriate. Accordingly, in the present case, we deducted post-sale home market inland freight and insurance from FMV under the circumstance-of-sale provision of 19 CFR 353.56(a). For one expense claimed as a rebate by Aichi, we preliminarily determined that the expense was, in fact, a transfer of funds from the parent to its subsidiary. This rebate was not passed on to the unrelated purchaser. Consequently, we did not make any adjustments to FMV for this claimed rebate. We deducted home market packing costs and added U.S. packing costs in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. We also made circumstance of sale adjustments for home market direct selling expenses, which included credit, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2). We reclassified pre-sale warehousing expenses as indirect selling expenses. We adjusted for the consumption tax in accordance with our practice (see ``United States Price'' section of this notice). Cost of Production (COP) In order to determine whether home market sales prices were below COP within the meaning of section 773(b) of the Act, we calculated COP based on the sum of the respondent's cost of materials, fabrication, general, and packing expenses, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.51(c). (See e.g., Preliminary Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review: Polyethylene Terrephthalate Film, Sheet, and Strip from the Republic of Korea (59 FR 35098, 35099, July 8, 1994). We then compared the COP to the home market selling prices, net of movement charges and discounts and rebates.
