FR941222-0-00025 FR941222-0-00003 Response . The May 1993 study addresses the long-term geological disposal of high-level waste (spent fuel) and is not directed to the short-term interim storage of spent fuel at nuclear power plants. The report evaluates processes over 10,000 years of repository performance for geological disposal. The conclusions of the report are not applicable for the interim storage period of a 20-year cask certificate during which spent fuels stored in the DSC have to meet the NRC's criteria to ensure that cladding is protected. Under normal operation of the ISFSI, leakage of radionuclides is not expected to occur. The design and the double-seal welding of the DSC covers are checked and tested to provide structural integrity throughout the approved storage period. During normal storage conditions, the licensee is required to conduct a radiation monitoring program to ensure protection of workers and the safety of the general public. G. A number of comments were related to broad policy and program issues in connection with the storage and disposal of high-level radioactive waste, including the DOE repository program. Some commenters questioned the use of dry cask storage and technology in general. Some commenters stated that only dry storage casks that would be compatible with DOE interim or final repository operations, including transportation, should be approved for use under a general license. G.1. Comment . One commenter does not want any more casks approved until a permanent Federal repository is opened. The wet fuel pool is a proven technology that has been successful in containing radioactivity. Another commenter stated that dry storage is dangerous. Response . The NRC, in implementing the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, has an obligation to review dry storage technologies and to determine whether to approve the use of these technologies for the storage of spent fuel if they meet applicable safety requirements. The July 18, 1990, 55 FR 29181, rulemaking found that spent fuel stored in dry storage casks designed to meet the NRC regulatory requirements can safely contain radioactivity. This rulemaking adds one cask design that meets the safety requirements previously developed to the list of approved casks. The previous responses to comments, as well as the detailed safety and environmental analyses underlying this rulemaking (and described elsewhere in this notice), all reveal that the Standardized NUHOMS will conform to the NRC requirements and that its use should not pose the potential for significant environmental impacts. DOE is required by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 to accept spent fuel for ultimate disposal. Moreover, the Commission made a generic determination in its waste Compliance Decisions (September 18, 1990, 55 FR 38474 and August 31, 1994, 49 FR 34658) that safe disposal is technically feasible and will be available within the first quarter of the 21st century. Dry cask storage has significant advantages over wet storage in that the system is passive and requires minimal human intervention. No pumps, filters, or water quality monitoring are needed to maintain the conditions necessary for wet storage. The only monitoring required for the Standardized NUHOMS is daily temperature monitoring and visually checking inlet and outlet vents. G.2. Comment . A number of commenters wanted a full formal trial-type public hearing on the use of the NUHOMS cask.
