FR940110-1-00107 FR940110-1-00006 Subpart L_Advisory Councils ยง960.21 Advisory Councils. (a) Appointment. (1) Each Bank shall appoint an Advisory Council of seven to 15 persons, as provided in the Bank's AHP implementation plan. Advisory Council members shall reside in the Bank's district and shall be drawn from community and nonprofit organizations actively involved in providing or promoting low- or moderate-income housing in the Bank's District. (2) The Bank shall actively solicit nominations from Bank members and community and nonprofit organizations actively involved in providing or promoting low- or moderate-income housing in the Bank's District, and shall allow sufficient time for such organizations to respond, so that the nomination and appointment process is as broad and as participatory as possible. (3) Advisory Council members shall be appointed by the Banks giving consideration to the size of the District and the diversity of low-income housing needs within the District. (4) Advisory Council members shall serve for terms of two or three years, and such terms shall be staggered to provide continuity and experience in service, as provided in the Bank's AHP implementation plan. An Advisory Council member may not serve for more than six years consecutively. (5) An Advisory Council member who, subsequent to appointment, is no longer employed by or associated with a community or nonprofit organization actively involved in providing or promoting low- or moderate-income housing in the Bank's District, may continue to serve on the Advisory Council until the end of his or her term. (b) Election of chairperson and vice chairperson. Each Advisory Council shall elect from among its voting members a chairperson and a vice chairperson. (c) Designation of secretary. Each Advisory Council shall designate a member, or request that a member of the Bank's staff be designated, to act as secretary of the Advisory Council. The secretary shall record and maintain minutes of the meetings of the Advisory Council. Minutes of each meeting shall contain, among other things, a record of the persons present, a description of the matters discussed, and recommendations made. The person acting as secretary at a meeting shall certify to the accuracy of the minutes of that meeting. (d) Review of Bank's proposed AHP implementation plan and prior AHP applications. (1) Prior to approval of the Bank's proposed AHP implementation plan by the Bank's board of directors, the Bank's Advisory Council shall review the proposed AHP implementation plan and provide its recommendations to the Bank's board of directors pursuant to the requirements in ยง960.2(c). (2) Upon request of the Advisory Council, the Bank shall provide the Advisory Council with copies of any AHP applications from prior AHP funding cycles. (e) Meetings with the Banks. The Advisory Council shall meet with representatives of the board of directors of the Bank at least quarterly to advise the Bank on low- and moderate-income housing programs and needs in the Bank's District and on the utilization of AHP subsidized advances or direct subsidies for these purposes. (f) Report to the Board. Each Advisory Council shall submit to the Board annually by March 1 its analysis of the low-income housing activity of its Bank. (g) Payment of expenses and compensation._ (1) Expenses. Each Bank shall reimburse members of its Advisory Council for transportation and subsistence expenses they incur for each day devoted to attending quarterly meetings with representatives of the board of directors of the Bank. (2) Fees. Each Bank shall pay members of its Advisory Council a fee for each day devoted to attending quarterly meetings with representatives of the board of directors of the Bank. Subpart M_Effective Dates ยง960.22 Effective dates. This part shall become effective [30 days after publication of the final rule in the Federal Register ]. The provisions of this part, or portion thereof, may be applied to projects approved for AHP funding prior to [30 days after publication of the final rule in the Federal Register ] to the extent all relevant parties (the Bank, the applicant, the sponsor or the owner, and if applicable, the loan fund or loan consortium) agree thereto in writing. Dated: December 15, 1993. By the Federal Housing Finance Board. Philip L. Conover, Managing Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;412 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6725&hyph;01&hyph;U
