FR940817-2-00255 FR940817-2-00113 4.3.3.5. Electromyography (EMG). EMG involves making electrical recordings from muscle and has been used extensively in human clinical studies in the diagnosis of certain diseases of the muscle (WHO, 1986). Changes in the EMG include amplitude and firing frequency of spontaneous firing; evoked muscle responses to nerve stimulation can be used to study alterations in the neuromuscular junction. EMG has been used to study toxicant-induced changes in neuromuscular function, including organophosphate insecticides, methyl n-butyl ketone, and botulinum and tetanus toxin. 4.3.3.6. Spinal reflex excitability. Segmental spinal monosynaptic and polysynaptic reflexes are relatively simple functions in the central nervous system that can be evaluated by quantitative techniques (WHO, 1986). Many of the procedures used in animals are similar to procedures used clinically to perform neurological tests in humans. One approach infers the functional state of a reflex arc from either the latency and magnitude of the reflex response evoked by stimuli of predetermined intensity or from the stimulus intensity required to elicit a detectable response (i.e., the threshold). This approach is used best in a screening context and the significance of effects in this test should be considered on a case-by-case basis. A second more involved approach records electrophysiologically the time required for a stimulus applied to a peripheral nerve to reach the spinal cord and return to the site of the original stimulation. Data from this procedure can indicate the excitability of the motoneuron pool, an effect seen with many volatile solvents. Although this approach is more invasive and time-consuming than the noninvasive procedure, it provides better data concerning the possible site of action. In addition, the manner in which the invasive procedure is carried out (i.e., in decerebrated animals) precludes repeated testing on the same animal. The significance of effects in this procedure should also be considered on a case-by-case basis. 4.3.4. Neurochemical Endpoints of Neurotoxicity Neuronal function within the nervous system is dependent on synthesis and release of specific neurotransmitters and activation of their receptors in specific neuronal pathways. With few exceptions, neurochemical measurements are invasive and therefore used infrequently in human risk assessment. There are many different neurochemical endpoints that could be measured in neurotoxicological studies (Bondy, 1986; Mailman, 1987; Morell and Mailman, 1987). Neurotoxicants can interfere with the ionic balance of a neuron, act as a cytotoxicant after being transported into a nerve terminal, block uptake of neurotransmitter precursors, act as a metabolic poison, overstimulate receptors, block transmitter release, and inhibit transmitter degradation. Table 4&hyph;4 lists several chemicals with known neurochemical effects. Many neuroactive agents can increase or decrease neurotransmitter levels in the brain. Dose-related changes on these endpoints may indicate a chemical effect on the nervous system, but the neurotoxicological significance of such changes must be interpreted in the context of other signs of neurotoxicity.
