FR940719-1-00094 FR940719-1-00015 (2) At least every 7 days, a certified person shall evaluate the effectiveness of bleeder systems used under §75.334(b) and (c) as follows: (i) Measurements of methane and oxygen concentrations and air quantity and a test to determine if the air is moving in its proper direction shall be made where air enters the worked-out area. (ii) Measurements of methane and oxygen concentrations and air quantity and a test to determine if the air is moving in its proper direction shall be made immediately before the air enters a return split of air. (iii) Bleeder entries used as part of a bleeder system under §75.334 shall be traveled in their entirety. Measurements of methane and oxygen concentrations and air quantities and a test to determine if the air is moving in its proper direction shall be made at locations specified in the mine ventilation plan to determine the effectiveness of the bleeder system. (iv) In lieu of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (iii), alternative methods of evaluation may be specified in the ventilation plan provided the alternative method results in proper evaluation of the effectiveness of the bleeder system. (b) Hazardous conditions. At least every 7 days, an examination for hazardous conditions and noncompliance with mandatory safety or health standards that could result in a hazardous condition shall be made at the following locations by a certified person designated by the operator_ * * * * * (h) Recordkeeping. At the completion of any shift during which a portion of a weekly examination is conducted, a record of the results of each weekly examination, including a record of hazardous conditions found during each examination and their locations, the corrective action taken, and the results and location of air and methane measurements, shall be made. The results of methane tests shall be recorded as the percentage of methane measured by the examiner. The record shall be made by the person making the examination or a person designated by the operator. If made by a person other than the examiner, the examiner shall verify the record by initials and date by or at the end of the shift for which the examination was made. The record shall be countersigned by the mine foreman by the end of the mine foreman's next regularly scheduled working shift. Within 2 scheduled production days thereafter, the record shall also be countersigned by the mine superintendent, mine manager, or other mine official to whom the mine foreman is directly accountable. The record shall be made in a state-approved book or in a bound book with sequential machine-numbered pages. * * * * * 26. Section 75.370 is amended by redesignating paragraphs (b) through (f) as (c) through (g); by revising paragraph (a)(3), newly redesignated paragraphs (c)(1) and (f); and by adding a new paragraph (b) to read as follows: §75.370 Mine ventilation plan; submission and approval. (a) *␣*␣* (3) A copy of the proposed ventilation plan, and a copy of any proposed revision, submitted for approval shall be_ (i) Provided to the representative of miners by the operator no later than the time of submittal; (ii) Made available for inspection by the representative of miners; and (iii) Posted on the mine bulletin board at the time of submittal. The proposed plan or proposed revision shall remain posted until it is approved, withdrawn or denied. (b) Following receipt of the proposed plan or proposed revision, the representative of miners may submit timely comments to the district manager, in writing, for consideration during the review process. (c) (1) The district manager will notify the operator in writing of the approval or denial of approval of a proposed ventilation plan or proposed revision. A copy of this notification will be sent to the representative of miners by the district manager. * * * * * (f) The approved ventilation plan and any revisions shall be_ (1) Provided to the representative of miners by the operator following notification of approval; (2) Made available for inspection by the representative of miners; and
