FR941025-2-00068 FR941025-2-00045 In 1993, NCCAN planned the Tenth National Conference on Child Abuse and Neglect in conjunction with the First National Family Violence Conference so that participants could attend both conferences during the same week. Moreover, each conference contained presentations about the relationship between family violence and child abuse and neglect. In June 1994, the Ford Foundation funded a meeting on ``Domestic Violence and Child Welfare: Integrating Policy and Practice for Families'' at the Wingspread Center, Racine Wisconsin. The meeting identified existing and potential projects and initiatives that integrate domestic violence and family preservation clinical issues, and that integrate an awareness of domestic violence concerns into child protective services programs and policies. In collaboration with the Family Violence Prevention and Services Program in the Office of Community Services, NCCAN proposes to conduct one or more working meetings with national experts to build upon the work of the June 1994 meeting and previous programmatic efforts. The goals of the meeting(s) are to identify and refine further programmatic initiatives and policy directions that promote the safety and well-being of all family members. •Prevention In 1991, NCCAN sponsored a national child maltreatment prevention symposium. The Proceedings of that meeting (DePanfilis and Birch, Eds.) are available through the NCCAN Clearinghouse (1&hyph;800&hyph;394&hyph;3366). More than 100 invited participants, researchers and practitioners, took part in five separate work groups. Each considered what had been done to prevent child maltreatment, identified successful efforts, and examined the factors that lead to success in each of five areas: preventing sexual abuse, preventing maltreatment in substance abusing families, preventing neglect, changing public attitudes, examining the effects of neighborhood environments, and improving parenting in high-risk families. The symposium participants made 18 recommendations for future research which helped shape subsequent priority area announcements, meeting agenda, and policy. NCCAN believes that, at the 5-year mark another symposium would be beneficial. In addition to the topics cited above, practitioners and researchers are encouraged to propose other relevant subjects for symposia deliberations. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 93.670, Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention and Treatment) Dated: October 17, 1994. Olivia A. Golden, Commissioner, Administration on Children, Youth and Families. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26356 Filed 10&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P
