FR941003-2-00086 FR941003-2-00049 (g) Office of Refugee and Migration Affairs. (1) Not to exceed 10 positions at grades GS&hyph;5 through 11 on the staff of the Office. (h) Bureau of Administration. (1) One Presidential Trip Specialist. No new appointments may be made under this authority after June 11, 1981. (2) One position of the Director, Art in Embassies Program, GM&hyph;1001&hyph;15. Section 213.3105␣Department of the Treasury (a) Office of the Secretary. (1) Not to exceed 20 positions at the equivalent of GS&hyph;13 through GS&hyph;17 to supplement permanent staff in the study of complex problems relating to international financial, economic, trade, and energy policies and programs of the Government, when filled by individuals with special qualifications for the particular study being undertaken. Employment under this authority may not exceed 4 years. (2) Not to exceed 20 positions, which will supplement permanent staff involved in the study and analysis of complex problems in the area of domestic economic and financial policy. Employment under this authority may not exceed 4 years. (b) U.S. Customs Service. (1) Positions in foreign countries designated as ``interpreter-translator'' and ``special employees,'' when filled by appointment of persons who are not citizens of the United States; and positions in foreign countries of messenger and janitor. (2) Positions of part-time, intermittent, mixed tour, or seasonal Customs Inspectors, Port Directors, Inspectional Aides, Clerks and Cashiers at remote/isolated locations where examination is impracticable. A remote/isolated location is outside the local commuting area of a population center from which an employee can reasonably be expected to travel on short notice under adverse weather and/or road conditions which are normal for the area. For this purpose, a population center is a town with housing, schools, health care, stores and other businesses in which the servicing OPM office can schedule tests and/or reasonably expect to attract applicants. An individual appointed under this authority may not be employed in the Customs Service under a combination of this and any other appointment for more than 1,040 working hours in a service year. (3) Until October 1, 1994, positions of part-time, intermittent, or temporary Customs Inspectors, and Port Directors in Alaska paid at a rate not above GS&hyph;9 and for not more than 130 working days in a service year. No new appointments may be made under this authority after February 28, 1994. (4) (Reserved). (5) Until October 1, 1994, positions at GS&hyph;9 and below of Customs Enforcement Officer, Customs Inspector, Customs Marine Clerk/Officer, Customs Aid (Sampling), Customs Warehouse Officer, Port Director, Interpreter, and Laborer, with duties of a continuing nature that require the part-time or intermittent service of an employee for not more than 700 hours in his/her service year. An individual appointed under this exception may not be employed in the Customs Service under a combination of this and any other exception for more than 700 hours in his/her service year. No new appointments may be made under this authority after February 28, 1994. (6) Two hundred positions of Criminal Investigator for special assignments. (7)-(8) (Reserved). (9) Not to exceed 25 positions of Customs Patrol Officers in the Papago Indian Agency in the State of Arizona when filled by the appointment of persons of one-fourth or more Indian blood. (c) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. (1) Not to exceed six positions filled under the Professional Accounting Fellow Program. Appointments under this authority may not exceed 2 years, but may be extended for not to exceed an additional 90 days to complete critical projects. (d) Office of Thrift Supervision. (1) All positions in the supervision policy and supervision operations functions of OTS. No new appointments may be made under this authority after December 31, 1993. (e) Internal Revenue Service. (1) Twenty positions of investigator for special assignments. (2) Two positions of Senior Visiting Pension Actuary, GS&hyph;1510&hyph;14/15. Appointments to these positions must be for periods not to exceed 24 months. (f) (Reserved).
