FR940512-2-00078 FR940512-2-00052 On April 21, 1994, the United States and EPS filed a Stipulation by which the parties consented to entry of the attached proposed Final Judgment. This Final Judgment, as explained more fully below, enjoins EPS from requiring any of its regional ATM network customers to purchase ATM processing from EPS. The United States and EPS have stipulated that the proposed Final Judgment may be entered after compliance with the Tunney Act, unless the government withdraws its consent. Entry of the proposed Final Judgment would terminate this action, except that the Court would retain jurisdiction to construe, modify, and enforce the proposed Final Judgment and to punish violations thereof. II Facts Giving Rise to the Alleged Violation The Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice has conducted an extensive investigation of EPS's business practices. That investigation shows the following: A. Background 1. ATMs and ATM Networks. ATMs are machines typically owned and deployed by banks and used by their depositors with ATM cards most frequently to withdraw cash, but also to accomplish balance inquiries, deposits, payment authorizations, and transfers. An ATM network is an electronic telecommunications systems connecting various banks, their ATMs, and data processing companies, which allows an account holder of one bank to accomplish transactions at ATMs not owned by that bank. 3 3 Some banks and bank holding companies operate switches connecting only the ATMs deployed by branches of their own bank or their subsidiary banks, rather than connecting to non-affiliated banks. These networks are also generally referred to as ATM networks. However, in this Competitive Impact Statement, the term ``network'' is used to refer to what is sometimes called a ``shared network,'' in that it connects multiple non-affiliated banks. Most ATM networks are ``regional,'' operating in areas encompassing a state or several contiguous states. ATMs and ATM cards within the regional ATM network display a mark or brand identifying the network, so that depositors can identify the ATMs from which they may access their accounts. National ATM networks exist, but these are by design networks of last resort, used only where the two banks involved in a transaction do not both belong to any one regional ATM network. National ATM network transactions are typically more expensive, and those networks provide only a subset of the transactions available through regional ATM networks. An ATM network allows banks to provide their depositors with ubiquitous, 24-hour access to their accounts. A bank that becomes a member of a regional ATM network can offer its depositors access to their accounts not just at the bank's own ATMs, but also at other banks' ATMs. Bankers believe that the ability to offer depositors the convenience of access to their accounts at other banks' ATMs is necessary to attract and retain deposits. A bank_especially a small bank, thrift or credit union with one or only a few offices, and that deploys few, if any, ATMs_would be at a significant competitive disadvantage without the ability to offer its depositors access to many conveniently located ATMs. No other service is a close substitute for regional ATM network access, and regional ATM network access constitutes a product market within the meaning of the antitrust laws. 2. ATM processing. ``ATM processing'' consists of the data processing services and telecommunications facilities and services used to operate, monitor and support the operation of ATMs deployed by a bank. ATM processing also involves the connection of the ATMs deployed by a bank to that bank's deposit records, for authorization and confirmation of that bank's depositors' transactions, and the connection of the ATMs deployed by a bank to one or more ATM networks for authorization and confirmation of other banks' depositors' transactions. Finally, ATM processing connects ATMs to an ATM network or to several ATM networks. A bank can purchase this ATM processing service from a regional ATM network or from an independent data processing company (``third party processor''), or can provide this processing service to itself (as an ``intercept processor''). However, a bank must deploy a large number of ATMs before it becomes economical to provide ATM processing internally. Accordingly, small banks, thrifts, and credit unions very rarely act as intercept processors. 3. Competitive effects of third party processors. Third party processors provide banks, especially smaller ones, with a competitive source for ATM processing. Equally important, third party processors offer a channel for the entry of competing regional ATM networks. Third party processors typically maintain connections to several regional ATM networks, and those networks therefore can reach all of the banks connected to a third party processor. Accordingly, the cost of and barriers to entry of regional ATM networks fall dramatically. In addition, third party processors themselves are potential entrants. Because a third party processor could switch transactions among its customer banks itself (a process known as ``subswitching'') rather than passing those transactions to the network switch, it is a potential ``unbranded'' ATM network. To become a competitor to the existing branded regional ATM networks, the third party processor need only put its brand on the ATMs and ATM cards of its customer banks and begin switching transactions. B. EPS and Its Actions The complaint alleges that EPS has monopoly power in ATM network access in the affected states, and that EPS has illegally tied the sale of access to its MAC regional ATM network to the sale of the ATM processing for many of EPS's bank customers. The complaint also alleges that this illegal tying arrangement has worked to maintain EPS's monopoly power in the market for regional ATM network access in the affected states. This section, discusses EPS's actions and their anticompetitive effects in more detail.
