FR940516-2-00071 FR940516-2-00049 Information for Inclusion, OMB Clearance Package, Public Housing Residents Anti-Crime Survey Sponsored by U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Conducted by Research Triangle Institute Section A: Justification A.1␣Circumstances That Make Information Collection Necessary The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is currently implementing Operation Safe Home, a joint anti-crime effort with the U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Department of Treasury, and the Office of National Drug Control, to eliminate criminal activity in public housing. A key component of Safe Home is coordinated strikes by federal agencies against drug-related crime in public housing. Predatory violent crime in public housing also has been targeted for action. In an effort to make Operation Safe Home as effective as possible, the Secretary wants to survey public housing residents on their opinions regarding crime and associated problems. A.2␣Use and Users of Information_Overview of Data Requirements These survey data will be used directly by the Office of Public and Indian Housing (PIH) to strengthen HUD's crime prevention activities in public housing and by the Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R) to enhance HUD's policy and legislative initiatives for crime prevention in a broad range of other settings as well. A.3␣Consideration of the Use of Improved Information Technology The survey is utilizing several technological approaches to create an innovative way to efficiently gather information from a population in which data collection has traditionally been difficult. We are creating the sampling frame for the telephone interviews by obtaining recent telephone numbers for the sample or addresses, using a commercial file matching service. The phone numbers obtained will be loaded into an electronic scheduler which will assign cases to interviews at times which maximize the probability of successful contact. The scheduling algorithm considers time zones, time and result of previous efforts, and the most appropriate time to make calls to residences, as well as handling specific call-back appointments. Once contact has been made with an eligible residence, and an eligible respondent selected, the Computer Assisted Telephone Interview (CATI) program will guide the interviewer through the questionnaire. Respondent burden is reduced since CATI selects the correct question sequence based on the respondent's previous answers allowing the interviewer to concentrate on reading the question and entering the response, not searching for the correct next question. CATI requires the entry of consistent data which falls into appropriate ranges thus eliminating editing time while the respondent is on the phone or callbacks to resolve problems. The CATI program can also offer the opportunity of providing the questions and response categories in an alternate language, if needed to allow special population to participate fully. A.4␣Efforts to Identify Duplication The Department has examined existing administrative data sources to determine if similar data are collected. The information that this survey seeks to gather is not available from existing administrative or other survey instruments. This is the first telephone survey of its kind to focus on public housing residents. A.5␣Why Similar, Already Available Data Cannot Be Used There does not exist a source of data on the attitudes of public housing residents toward crime/crime prevention issues equivalent to what is being collected in this effort. The Department regularly collects information (such as income and number of dependents) on residents of low-income public housing developments for use in administering low-income housing programs but does not collect information on resident's perceptions of crime and safety, and their opinions of programs that could effectively address these issues. A.6␣Reducing the Burden The only burden associated with this survey is the 25 minute interview which respondents agree to complete. As discussed in Item A.3, the use of CATI minimizes the burden associated with the mode of administration. A.7␣Consequences of Less Frequent Data Collection Since this is a one-time data collection effort, this section is not applicable. A.8␣Special Circumstances Requiring Inconsistency With 5CFR1320.6 All data collection procedures and data collection instruments have been designed in a manner which is in compliance with all sections of 5 CFR 1320.6. No exceptions are requested. A.9␣Consultations With Persons Outside the Agency The survey design and the data collection instrument have been designed by project staff at the Research Triangle Institute (RTI) working under contract from HUD to design and completer the survey. RTI staff and their consultant, Dr. William Rohe from the University of North Carolina, have worked closely with the HUD project staff to develop the questionnaire and the sampling approach which will be used with standard telephone data collection procedures to complete the survey. During the questionnaire design, RTI methodologists consulted with the staff from the Census Bureau on issues of question wording and ordering. A.10␣Confidentiality During an introduction to the interview which address the components of informed consent, all respondents will be assured that the information that they provide will remain confidential, and that they can refuse to answer any individual question during the interview. No names are requested and the address and telephone numbers will not be included in the data file prepared and delivered to HUD. Any location information used in the analyses will be presented in composite form which will not allow the identification of individual respondents. All project staff and each telephone interviewer will comply with all aspects of relevant federal regulations concerning privacy of respondent's data, and the data will be maintained in limited access secured computer files. A.11␣Justification for Questions of a Sensitive Nature During their cognitive and telephone pretest interviews, we attempted to identify questions which the respondents might consider sensitive. None of the respondents indicated any problems with the questions in the questionnaire. We did replace a household income question with a proxy measure, monthly rent, which we felt would be less intrusive. A.12␣Estimates of Cost The cost of the survey design, data collection, and analysis and reporting contract to RTI is $142,401. A.13␣Estimates of Respondents The sample will consist of 2,500 telephone numbers which will be screened to determine eligibility, defined as a working residential number at the address determined for the sample. These screening calls will require an average of 5 minutes. The interview will be completed for 1,500 respondents and will take, on average, 25 minutes. The total burden is estimated to be 833 hours. A.14␣Reasons for Change in Respondent Burden Since this is a one-time effort, there is no change in the respondent burden.
