FR940405-2-00119 FR940405-2-00043 90. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.104. Project/Activity: Key West Housing Authority, FL. In determining the operating subsidy eligibility, a request was made for funding for five units approved for non-dwelling use to promote an anti-drug program. Nature of Requirement: The operating subsidy calculation excludes funding for units removed from the dwelling rental inventory. Granted By: Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: August 20, 1993. Reason Waived: To allow additional subsidy for units approved for non-dwelling use to promote economic self-sufficiency services and anti-drug programs pending publication of a final rule implementing this change to the regulation. 91. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.104. Project/Activity: Savannah Housing Authority, GA. In determining the operating subsidy eligibility, a request was made for funding for five units approved for non-dwelling use to promote an anti-drug program. Nature of Requirement: The operating subsidy calculation excludes funding for units removed from the dwelling rental inventory. Granted By: Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: September 8, 1993. Reason Waived: To allow additional subsidy for units approved for non-dwelling use to promote economic self-sufficiency services and anti-drug programs pending publication of a final rule implementing this change to the regulation. 92. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.104. Project/Activity: Tennessee Valley Regional Housing Authority, MS. In determining the operating subsidy eligibility, a request was made for funding for ten units approved for non-dwelling use to promote an economic self-sufficiency program (youth sports, training, adult education, etc.). Nature of Requirement: The operating subsidy calculation excludes funding for units removed from the dwelling rental inventory. Granted By: Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: September 9, 1993. Reason Waived: To allow additional subsidy for units approved for non-dwelling use to promote economic self-sufficiency services and anti-drug programs pending publication of a final rule implementing this change to the regulation. 93. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.104. Project/Activity: Phenix City Housing Authority, AL. In determining the operating subsidy eligibility, a request was made for funding for one unit approved for non-dwelling use to promote an economic self-sufficiency and anti-drug program. Nature of Requirement: The operating subsidy calculation excludes funding for units removed from the dwelling rental inventory. Granted By: Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: September 9, 1993. Reason Waived: To allow additional subsidy for units approved for non-dwelling use to promote economic self-sufficiency services and anti-drug programs pending publication of a final rule implementing this change to the regulation. 94. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.110(c) Project/Activity: Chicago Housing Authority, IL. In determining the operating subsidy eligibility a request was made to permit the Housing Agency (HA) to retain 50% of savings realized through the wellhead purchase of natural gas for the period October 1, 1990, through December 31, 1991. Nature of Requirement: Section 114(c) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 extends, from one year to six years, the period during which a HA can retain a portion of the savings resulting from the HA's action to secure a reduction in utility rates. Granted By: Michael B. Janis, General Deputy Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: February 4, 1993. Reason Waived: This waiver was granted in order to comply with Congressional intent pending publication of a final rule implementing this change. Based on the provisions of the Act, the authorization was granted to permit the HA to retain 50% of annual savings realized from the wellhead purchase of natural gas for the full time allowed by the Act.
