FR940722-1-00030 FR940722-1-00011 (1) Proof of ownership. (2) A detailed statement of the amount claimed. (3) An itemized receipt of payment for necessary repairs or itemized written estimates of the cost of such repairs. (4) A statement listing date of purchase, purchase price, and salvage value where repair is not economical. (5) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the injury to or loss of property or the damages claimed. ยง15.6 Administrative action. (a) Investigation. When an organizational unit learns of an incident that reasonably can be expected to result in an allegation of harm caused to an individual or organization by an alleged negligent act or omission by an employee of that organizational unit or when it learns of an administrative claim or of litigation alleging such harm, it has the responsibility to fully investigate the incident and to take all actions necessary to preserve all relevant documents and other evidence. Each organizational unit should institute appropriate procedures to ensure that notification of such incidents are reported to the office responsible for ensuring that evidence is preserved and investigation undertaken. (b) Notification. Upon receipt of an administrative claim under the Act or of notice of litigation seeking damages for an alleged negligent act or omission of an employee of the Department acting within the scope of his or her employment, the Office of the Solicitor shall notify the organizational unit responsible for the activity which gave rise to the claim or litigation and shall provide a copy of the administrative claim or the complaint filed in the litigation. (c) Administrative Report. (1) Upon receiving notification of an administrative claim or litigation, the organizational unit or units involved in the circumstances of the claim or litigation shall be responsible for preparing an Administrative Report and forwarding it to the Office of the Solicitor in a timely manner. The Administrative Report shall be in the form of a single memorandum in narrative form with attachments. It should contain all of the following elements, unless permission is obtained from the Office of the Solicitor to dispense with a particular element: (i) A brief explanation of the organization and operation of the program involved including statutory authority and applicable regulations; (ii) A complete description of the events which gave rise to the claim or litigation, including a specific response to every allegation in the claim or litigation; (iii) Any information available regarding the questions of whether the claimant or plaintiff actually suffered the harm alleged in the claim or litigation and what individual or organization caused any harm which appears to have occurred; (iv) Any information available regarding the damages claimed; (v) Any policy reasons which the organizational unit wishes to advance for or against settlement of the claim or litigation; and (vi) Details of any claims the Department may have against the claimant or plaintiff, whether or not they appear to be related to the subject matter of the claim or litigation. (2) A copy of all documents relevant to the issues involved in the claim or litigation should be attached to each copy of the Administrative Report. Original records should not be forwarded to the Office of the Solicitor unless specifically requested. They should be preserved, however and remain available for litigation if necessary. (3) Organizational units should ensure that all Administrative Reports are either prepared or reviewed by an official of the organizational unit who was not personally involved in the incident in question prior to filing of the claim or suit. (d) Litigation. During the course of any litigation, organizational units are responsible for providing assistance to the Office of the Solicitor in responding to discovery requests such as interrogatories and requests to produce documents, for providing assistance in analyzing factual and program issues, for providing witnesses for depositions and trials, and for assistance in producing affidavits and exhibits for use in the litigation.
