FR940414-1-00095 FR940414-1-00010 Appendix A to the Preamble_Abbreviation, Acronyms, and Other Terms Used in This Document Act _The Clean Water Act. Agency _U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. BAT _The best available technology economically achievable, as defined by section 304(b)(2)(B) of the Act. BCT _The best conventional pollutant control technology, as defined by Section 204(b)(4) of the Act. BMP _Best management practices, as defined by section 304(e) of the Act. BPT _The best practicable control technology currently available, as defined by section 304(b)(1) of the Act. Clean Water Act _The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ), as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977 (Pub. L. 95&hyph;217), and the Water Quality Act of 1987 (Pub. L. 100&hyph;4). Conventional Pollutants _Constituents of wastewater as determined by section 304(a)(4) of the Act, including, but not limited to, pollutants classified as biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, oil and grease, fecal coliform, and pH. Direct Discharger _An industrial discharger that introduces wastewater to a water of the United States with or without treatment by the discharger. Effluent Limitation _A maximum amount, per unit of time, production or other unit, of each specific constituent of the effluent from an existing point source that is subject to limitation. Effluent limitations may be expressed as a mass loading in pound per 1,000 pound of active ingredient produced or as a concentration in milligrams per liter. End-of-Pipe Treatment (EOP) _Refers to those processes that treat a plant waste stream for pollutant removal prior to discharge. EOP technologies are classified as primary (physical separation processes), secondary (biological processes), and tertiary (treatment following secondary) processes. Different combinations of these treatment technologies may be used depending on the nature of the pollutants to be removed and the degree of removal required. Indirect Discharger _An industrial discharger that introduces wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works. In-Plant Control or Treatment Technologies _Controls or measures applied within the manufacturing process to reduce or eliminate pollutant and hydraulic loadings of loadings of raw wastewater. Typical in-plant control measures include process modification, instrumentation, recovery of raw materials, solvents, products or by-products or by-products, and water recycle. Nonconventional Pollutants _Pollutants that have not been designated as either conventional pollutants or priority pollutants. NPDES _National Pollutant Discharge Elimination system, a Federal Program requiring industry dischargers, including municipalities, to obtain permits to discharge pollutants to the nation's water, under section 402 of the Act. OCPSF _Organic chemicals, plastics, and synthetic fibers manufacturing point source category (40 CFR part 414). PAI _Pesticide Active Ingredient. POTW _Publicly owned treatment works. Priority Pollutants _The toxic pollutants listed in 40 CFR part 423, appendix A. PSES _Pretreatment Standards for existing sources of indirect discharges, under section 307(b) of the Act. PSNS _Pretreatment standards for new sources of indirect discharges under section 307(b) and (c) of the Act. SIC _Standards Industrial Classification, a numerical categorization scheme used by the U.S. Department of Commerce to denote segments of industry. Technical Development Document _Development Document for Effluent Limitations Gudielines and Standards for the Pesticide Chemicals Formulators, Packagers and Repackagers Point Source Category. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 455 Environmental protection, Chemicals, Packaging and containers, Pesticides and pests, Waste treatment and disposal, Water pollution control. Dated: March 31, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
