FR940804-0-00060 FR940804-0-00022 Second, if EPA proposes (before expiration of the 18-month sanctions clock) to fully or conditionally approve a plan or proposes to find that a State is implementing its SIP and that proposal action is reversed before the 6-month clock expires that would have followed upon application of the offset sanction, application of the offset sanction is deferred until such reversal of EPA's proposed finding. The offset sanction applies on the date EPA's proposal finding is reversed (or, for final actions, on the action's effective date). The highway sanction then applies 6 months later if EPA has not determined during that period that the State has corrected the deficiency. (This scenario is provided for in the rule at §§52.31 (d)(2)(i), (d)(3)(i) and (d)(4)(i).) The following discussion and Figure 2 provide an example of how this process functions for a finding of nonimplementation. 24 The process would be the same for an initial disapproval. Suppose EPA makes a finding of nonimplementation, initiating the section 179 sanction process. Suppose that EPA, prior to the end of the 18 month sanctions clock, proposes to find that the State is implementing its approved SIP. At the time of the positive finding, EPA would simultaneously issue an interim final rule, finding that the State has corrected the deficiency. 24 This example is given for a finding of failure to implement, while the other four examples are given for SIP disapprovals, for illustrative purposes only. In this case, the application of the offset sanction would be deferred unless and until EPA reverses its proposed positive finding. Now suppose that EPA, at month 22, reverses its proposed positive finding by withdrawing its proposed finding that the State is implementing its SIP. At month 22 (or, for final actions, on the action's effective date), the offset sanction applies. The highway sanction then applies 6 months later at month 28 (or, for final actions, shortly thereafter, as appropriate), if EPA has not determined that the State has corrected the deficiency. BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSER04AU94.001 BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;C
