FR940524-1-00041 FR940524-1-00010 The Department would expect similar effects_both improved health and cost avoidance_in many other settings. The Department does not have any basis at this time for quantifying either benefits or costs. The Department does know that as many as seven million workers use respirators at some time each year. NIOSH estimates that employers annually purchase over 110 million disposable respirators. The Department requests comments on potential savings in other settings. There are approximately 35 manufacturers of these devices. NIOSH believes that most of these already possess or have access to test equipment needed to perform the new filter tests the Department proposes to require. As is currently required under 30 CFR part 11, NIOSH would continue to require that applicants conduct or have conducted examinations, inspections, and tests of respirator performance at least equivalent to those set by the respirator certification tests. This is to assure that all necessary research and development is conducted by the applicant prior to submitting an application to the Federal Government for testing of the respirator by NIOSH. For those manufacturers that do not currently possess this capability, NIOSH estimates that the purchase of this equipment represents an investment of approximately $60,000. Amortized over time, this would not represent a significant cost for most manufacturers. Filter materials are currently available that can be substituted into present filter designs with minimal redesign (if any) to meet the performance requirements of the new tests. Some currently NIOSH-certified respirators have, when tested using the new standards, demonstrated acceptable performance. Therefore, little or no cost will be needed to develop suitable filtration materials or redesign existing devices. However, the Department does realize that additional development and redesign costs may be incurred to augment the presently available products. NIOSH specifically requests relevant data and comments on projected costs of redesign of respirators. Notwithstanding these general conclusions, there may be some manufacturers that will find it financially difficult, or a poor investment, to meet the new standards. The Department would expect such problems to result from free market competition rather than the specific standards of these proposed regulations. That is, most knowledgeable employers would purchase more cost-effective respirators voluntarily and force major changes in the market if the present regulatory barriers were removed. Nonetheless, there may be regulatory alternatives that would minimize burdens on the smallest firms and the Department welcomes suggestions for these. List of Subjects in 42 CFR Part 84 Labeling, Mine safety and health, Occupational safety and health, Personal protective equipment, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Respirators. Dated: February 14, 1994. Philip R. Lee, Assistant Secretary for Health. Approved: March 8, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary.
