FR940913-0-00023 FR940913-0-00005 Section 8(e) of the Act requires that whenever grade, size, quality, or maturity requirements are in effect for olives under a domestic marketing order, imported olives must meet the same or comparable requirements. This action allows smaller olives for limited use styles under the marketing order. Therefore, a corresponding change is needed in the olive import regulation. Canned ripe olives, and bulk olives for processing into canned ripe olives, imported into the United States must meet certain minimum grade and size requirements specified in Olive Regulation 1 [7 CFR §944.401]. All canned ripe olives are required to be inspected and certified prior to importation (release from custody of the United States Custom Service), and all bulk olives for processing into canned ripe olives must be inspected and certified prior to canning. ``Canned ripe olives'' means olives in hermetically sealed containers and heat sterilized under pressure, of two distinct types, ``ripe'' and ``green-ripe'', as defined in the Standards. The term does not include Spanish-style green olives. Any lot of olives failing to meet the import requirements may be exported, disposed of, or shipped for exempt uses. Exportation or disposal of such olives would be accomplished under the supervision of the Processed Products Branch of the Fruit and Vegetable Division, with the costs of certifying the disposal of the olives borne by the importer. Exempt olives are those imported for processing into oil or donation to charity. Any person may also import up to 100 pounds (drained weight) of canned ripe olives or bulk olives exempt from these grade and size requirements. This interim final rule modifies paragraph (b)(12) of the olive import regulation to authorize the importation of bulk olives which do not meet the minimum size requirements established for olives for whole and whole pitted uses to be used in the production of limited use styles during the 1994&hyph;1995 crop year. This rule also establishes size regulations for such olives in paragraph (b)(12). The committee recommended to authorize establishment of minimum sizes for use in the production of limited use styles during the 1994&hyph;95 crop year. The sizes are specified in terms of minimum weights for individual olives in various variety groups and are the same for both domestic and imported olives. An extra category is continued in the import regulation to apply comparable requirements for varieties not grown domestically. The minimum sizes for import requirements are as follows: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Variety Group 1, except the Ascolano, Barouni, or St. Agostino varieties 1/90 pound. Variety Group 1 of the Ascolano, Barouni, or St. Agostino varieties 1/140 pound. Variety Group 2, except the Obliza variety 1/180 pound. Variety Group 2 of the Obliza variety 1/140 pound. Olives not identifiable as to variety or variety group 1/180 pound. Each of the categories includes a 35 percent tolerance for olives weighing less than the specified minimum size. Permitting the use of smaller olives in the production of limited use styles will allow importers to take better advantage of the strong market for halved, segmented, sliced, and chopped canned ripe olives. Importers will be able to import and market more olives than would be permitted in the absence of this relaxation in size requirements. This additional opportunity is provided to maximize the use of the available olive supply and facilitate market expansion. In the absence of this action, the smaller fruit could not be imported for limited uses, and would have to be disposed of through less profitable, non-canning uses under the supervision of the inspection service, exported, or utilized in exempt outlets. Based on these considerations, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. In accordance with section 8e of the Act, the U.S. Trade Representative has concurred with the issuance of this interim final rule.
