FR940810-1-00043 FR940810-1-00009 Wednesday August 10, 1994 Part IX Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development 24 CFR Part 570 Community Development Block Grant Program; Miscellaneous Amendments to Correct Identified Deficiencies; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 153␣/␣ Wednesday, August 10, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development 24 CFR Part 570 [Docket No. R&hyph;94&hyph;1701; FR&hyph;2772&hyph;P&hyph;01] RIN 2506&hyph;AB01 Community Development Block Grant Program; Miscellaneous Amendments to Correct Identified Deficiencies AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, HUD. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This rule contains: a proposed definition of ``income'' for families and households, a proposed change in the calculation of the planning and administration limitation; a proposed change removing the special protection afforded program income in revolving funds; a proposed change to the §570.207(b)(4) definition of ineligible income payments; a proposed change to reorganize the section of the rule describing the statement of community development objectives, to prescribe the manner of its submission, to permit consolidation of amendment submissions, and to add a provision for describing ``float-funded'' activities in the statement; a proposed change specifying three situations in which income earned on grant funds must be remitted to the U.S. Treasury; a proposed change restricting use of CDBG funds outside the jurisdiction of the recipient; a proposed change to require transfer of excess program income to the line of credit; a proposed change to authorize the Department to delay making a CDBG grant to any community whose Grantee Performance Report (GPR), at the time the grant is to be awarded, has not been submitted in a manner consistent with the GPR Form Instructions; and proposed performance standards to replace the Housing Assistance Plan (HAP) standards at §570.903, for determining whether a grantee has carried out its certification concerning following its Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy (CHAS). Most of the described changes are proposed in response to problems HUD has identified in its administration of the program. Many of these proposals are the direct recommendations or suggestions of the Department's Inspector General. DATES: Comments due date: October 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments regarding this proposed rule to the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of General Counsel, Room 10276, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street SW, Washington, DC 20410. Communications should refer to the above docket number and title. A copy of each communication submitted will be available for public inspection during regular business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Deirdre Maguire-Zinni, Acting Director, Entitlement Communities Division, Room 7282, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410, telephone number (202) 708&hyph;1577. A telecommunications device for deaf persons (TDD) is available at (202) 708&hyph;2565. FAX inquiries (but not comments on the rule) may be sent to Mr. Broughman at (202) 708&hyph;2575. (These telephone numbers are not toll-free.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background This proposed rule would revise the Community Development Block Grant Program (24 CFR Part 570) to respond to perceived problems and abuses HUD has identified in the program. This rule contains: 1) a proposed definition of ``income'' for families and households that will continue to allow some grantee discretion in the selection of a definition while setting the parameters of the choices; 2) a proposed change in the calculation of the planning and administration limitation to establish the specific, exclusive method for calculation; 3) a proposed change removing the special protection afforded program income in revolving funds; 4) a proposed change to §570.207(b)(4) clarifying the definition of ineligible income payments and lessening its coverage; 5) a proposed change to reorganize the section of the rule describing the statement of community development objectives, to prescribe its content and the manner of its submission, to permit consolidation of amendment submissions, and to add a provision for describing how ``float-funded'' activities must be shown in the statement; 6) a proposed change to specify when income earned on grant funds must be remitted to the U.S. Treasury; 7) a proposed change restricting use of CDBG funds outside the jurisdiction of the recipient to instances in which such use will principally benefit residents of the recipient; 8) a proposed change that will remove an incentive for grantees to make loans to earn income by requiring transfer of excess program income to the line of credit; 9) a proposed change to authorize the Department to delay making a CDBG grant to any community whose Grantee Performance Report (GPR), at the time the grant is to be awarded, has not been submitted in a manner consistent with the GPR Form Instructions; and 10) proposed performance standards to replace the Housing Assistance Plan (HAP) standards at §570.903, for determining whether a grantee has carried out its certification concerning following its Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy (CHAS). Many of these proposals are the direct recommendations or suggestions of the Department's Inspector General. The Department recently published consolidated submission and reporting requirements, in another proposed rule. Differences between this program-specific rule and that more broad-based rule be resolved before final regulations are issued.
