FR940916-1-00159 FR940916-1-00016 (3) Any special weight distribution that would require special train handling procedures. (4) The number and location of cars whose brakes are cut out. (5) The distance that the train has travelled since its last Class 1 brake system test. (6) If a Class 1 brake system test is required prior to the next crew change point, the location at which that test shall be performed. (7) A record of train configuration changes since the last Class 1 test. (8) Any train brake system problems encountered by the previous crew. (b) A railroad shall communicate this information to a train crew coming on duty in accordance with the procedures developed in paragraph (a) of this section. §232.805 Train brake system monitoring. (a) A railroad shall develop, implement, and make available to FRA upon request written procedures requiring its engineers to monitor the performance of the train brake system enroute. At a minimum, the engineer shall: (1) On trains equipped with an air flow indicator or a two-way end-of-train device, frequently monitor the brake pipe pressure gradient, the air flow rate to the brake pipe and the response of the rear car to service brake applications. If unusual changes occur, the engineer shall investigate the cause. (2) On trains equipped with dynamic brakes, monitor the amperage produced or any other indicators of dynamic brake performance when the dynamic brake is applied. If the amperage produced indicates a less than fully functional dynamic brake, the engineer shall use appropriate train handling procedures that compensate for the reduced dynamic brake performance. (3) On trains equipped with wheel-temperature sensors, brake application force sensors, brake pad/shoe thickness sensors, or other technology that monitors performance of the train brake system, the output of the sensors shall be displayed in the cab of the controlling locomotive and monitored by the engineer. If the sensors detect a train brake system problem, the engineer shall take the corrective action required in the railroad's written procedures. (b) Any problems uncovered by train brake system monitoring shall be reported by the train information handling procedures described in §232.803. §232.807 Air brakes. (a) The automatic air brake shall not be depended upon to hold equipment standing on a grade (including a locomotive, cars, or train whether a locomotive is attached or detached from the cars or train). A sufficient number of handbrakes shall be applied to hold such equipment before the air brakes may be released, and the handbrakes shall not be released until it is known that the air brake system is properly charged. (b) A railroad shall set the maximum main reservoir working pressure. (c) The maximum brake pipe pressure shall not be greater than 15 psi less than the air compressor governor starting or loading pressure. §232.809 Tread brakes. (a) Tread brakes shall be operated so that all continuous-drag braking applications limit the average brake horsepower (Bhp) input per wheel to the following amounts: (1) 20 Bhp or less for equipment with 28-inch diameter wheels. (2) 25 Bhp or less for equipment with 33-inch diameter wheels. (3) 30 Bhp or less for equipment with 36-inch diameter wheels. (4) 35 Bhp or less for equipment with 38-inch diameter wheels. (5) 40 Bhp or less for equipment with 40-inch diameter wheels. (b) Tread brakes shall be operated so that all non-emergency stop braking applications limit the average brake horsepower input per wheel to the following amounts: (1) 80 Bhp or less for equipment with 28-inch diameter wheels. (2) 100 BHp or less for equipment with 33-inch diameter wheels. (3) 120 Bhp or less for equipment with 36-inch diameter wheels. (4) 140 Bhp or less for equipment with 38-inch diameter wheels. (5) 160 Bhp or less for equipment with 40-inch diameter wheels. §232.811 Dynamic brakes. (a) A railroad operating a train with a brake system that includes dynamic, blended, or other forms of non-friction (tread or disc) brakes shall develop, implement, and make available to FRA upon request written operating rules governing safe train handling procedures using these non-friction brakes under all operating conditions, which shall be tailored to the specific equipment and territory of the railroad. (b) A railroad's operating rules shall be based on the ability of friction brakes alone to safely stop the train under all operating conditions. (c) The operating rules may provide that a train may continue to operate to the next point where a Class 1 test is required after an enroute failure of the dynamic or other non-friction component of the train brake system. §232.813 Two-way end-of-train devices. (a) A railroad shall calibrate a two-way end-of-train device in accordance with manufacturer's specifications annually. The date that the next calibration is due shall be clearly marked on both the head-end and the rear-end units of the end-of-train device. (b) Effective December 31, 1996, all road trains not specifically excepted shall use either a two-way end-of-train device meeting the requirements of §232.117 or alternate technology device performing the same function. (c) All end-of-train devices purchased by railroads after December 31, 1994 shall be two-way end-of-train devices. (d) All two-way end-of-train devices acquired prior to [THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE] shall be deemed to meet the design requirements contained in §232.117. (e) The following types of trains are excepted from the requirement for the use of a two-way end-of-train device: (1) Trains with a locomotive capable of making a brake application located in the rear third of the train length;
