FR941202-2-00213 FR941202-2-00098 Quality Assurance: An integrated system of activities involving planning, quality control, quality assessment, reporting and quality improvement to ensure that a product or service meets defined standards of quality with a stated level of confidence. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Quality Control: The overall system of technical activities whose purpose is to measure and control the quality of a product or service so that it meets the needs of users. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Quality Control Sample: An uncontaminated sample matrix spiked with known amounts of analytes from a source independent from the calibration standards. It is generally used to establish intra-laboratory or analyst specific precision and bias or to assess the performance of all or a portion of the measurement system. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Quality Control Validation Studies: The formal study of a sampling and/or analytical method, conducted with replicate, representative matrix samples, following a specific study protocol and utilizing a specific written method, by a minimum of seven laboratories, for the purpose of estimating inter-laboratory precision, bias and analytical interferences. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Sample Container: The specific requirements for sample containers are to assure a representative samples and sample integrity, e.g., septa vials, glass or plastic. Sample Duplicate: Two samples taken from and representative of the same population and carried through all steps of the sampling and analytical procedures in an identical manner. Duplicate samples are used to assess variance of the total method including sampling and analysis. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs): A written document which details the method of an operation, analysis or action whose techniques and procedures are thoroughly prescribed and which is accepted as the method for performing certain routine or repetitive tasks. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Standing Committee: A committee of NELAC involved with establishing the technical standards for accreditation of environmental laboratories. Currently, these are the Quality Systems, Performance Evaluation Testing, On-site Assessment, Accreditation Process, Regulatory, Accrediting Authority, and Program Structure Committees. Supervisor: The individual designated as being responsible for a particular area or category of scientific analysis. This responsibility includes direct day-to-day supervision of technical employees, supply and instrument adequacy and upkeep, quality assurance/quality control duties and ascertaining that technical employees have the required balance of education, training and experience to perform the required analyses. Surrogate: A substance with properties that mimic the analyte of interest. It is unlikely to be found in environment samples and is added to them for quality control purposes. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Technical Employee: The designated individual who performs the ``hands-on'' analytical methods and associated techniques and who is the one responsible for applying required Good Laboratory Practice notices and other pertinent Quality Controls to meet the required level of quality. Trip Blank: A clean sample of matrix that is carried to the sampling site and transported to the laboratory for analysis without having been exposed to sampling procedures. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92).
