FR941222-1-00025 FR941222-1-00008 •Management Costs. Often, the cost of different management scenarios can be a determinative factor in dictating the plausibility of waste management scenarios. In the absence of other potential cost factors, such as liability, the plausibility that a facility would choose a waste management scenario increases as the expense of that management practice decreases. Conversely, it is more implausible to assume that a firm would chose management activities that impose a higher cost (where cost includes the likelihood of future potential liabilities.) Cost can be a consideration the Agency uses in choosing which management scenario to project as a scenario to analyze for determining potential risk of waste management. These factors are presented as examples; there may be others appropriate to specific industries. In characterizing the risks for a wastestream where more than one disposal scenario is plausible, the Agency will use the results of the risk assessment for the plausible scenario that presents the highest risks. Note that EPA considers the extent to which the plausible management scenario calculated to cause the highest risk is practiced, or could be practiced. Management practices the Agency believes probably would occur infrequently may be less determinative in the final listing determination process. As the probability that generators would use a management practice increases, the greater the weight that set of risk values has in the final listing determination. 2. Risk Levels in Making Listing Decisions As noted earlier, the Agency's listing determination policy utilizes a ``weight-of-evidence'' approach in which risk is a key factor. Risk measurements used include carcinogen risk, non-carcinogen risk as determined by hazard quotient (HQ), and ecological risk. However, risk levels themselves do not necessarily represent the sole basis for a listing. There can be uncertainty in calculated risk values and so other factors are considered in conjuction with risk in making a listing decision. a. Use of Risk Levels in a Listing Decision. EPA's current listing determination procedure (illustrated in Figure 1) uses as an initial cancer-risk ``level of concern'' a calculated risk level of 1 × 10 ^5 (one in one hundred thousand) and/or HQs (and/or environmental risk quotients [EQs]) of 1 at any one point in time. Note that individual risks can occur at different points in time. For example, a category of wastestream that is both burned in a boiler by one facility but placed in a landfill by another would be projected to cause exposure through both the air and the drinking water pathways. It is likely that risks from each source will occur at different times, since air exposures would probably occur sooner than groundwater exposures. The Agency will take the timing factor into account when analyzing risk. In accordance with EPA policy, risks from individual carcinogens generally are added together. Listing decisions from this risk level of concern generally will be as follows. BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEP22DE94.000 BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;C (1) Wastestreams for which the calculated high-end individual cancer-risk level is 1 × 10 ^5 or higher generally are considered initial candidates for a list decision. (2) Wastestreams for which these risks are calculated to be 1 × 10 ^4 or higher, or 1 or higher HQs or EQs for any individual non-carcinogen, or non-carcinogens that elicit adverse effects on the same target organ, generally will be considered to pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health and the environment and generally will be listed as hazardous waste. Such wastestreams fall into a category presumptively assumed to pose sufficient risk to require their listing as hazardous waste. However, even for these wastestreams there can in some cases be factors which could mitigate the high hazard presumption. These additional factors, explained below, also will be considered by the Agency in making a final determination. (3) Wastestreams for which the calculated high-end individual cancer-risk level is lower than 1 × 10 ^5 generally are considered initial candidates for a no-list decision. (4) Wastestreams for which these risks are calculated to be 1 × 10 ^6 or lower, and lower than 1.0 HQs or EQs for any non-carcinogens, generally will be considered not to pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health and the environment and generally will not be listed as hazardous waste. Such wastestreams fall into a category presumptively assumed not to pose sufficient risk as to require their listing as hazardous waste. However, even for these wastestreams, in some cases, there can be factors that could mitigate the low hazard presumption. These also will be considered by the Agency in making a final determination.
