FR940902-2-00134 FR940902-2-00054 Thomas G. Soper, M.D., S.C. Employees' Pension Plan and Trust (the Plan) Located in Evanston, Illinois [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;66; Exemption Application No. D&hyph;9703] Exemption The sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1)(A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to the cash sale (the Sale) of certain real property (the Property) by the Plan to Thomas E. Soper, a disqualified person with respect to the Plan; provided that (1) the Sale is a one-time transaction for cash; (2) the Plan does not experience any loss nor incur any expenses in the proposed transaction; and (3) the Plan receives as consideration the greater of either the fair market value of the Property as determined by an independent appraiser on the date of the Sale, or receives an amount equal to all the funds expended by the Plan in acquiring and maintaining the Property. For a more complete statement of the facts and representations supporting the Department's decision to grant this exemption refer to the notice of proposed exemption published on July 13, 1994, at 59 FR 35760. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. C. E. Beaver of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8881. This is not a toll-free number.) General Information The attention of interested persons is directed to the following: (1) The fact that a transaction is the subject of an exemption under section 408(a) of the Act and/or section 4975(c)(2) of the Code does not relieve a fiduciary or other party in interest or disqualified person from certain other provisions to which the exemptions does not apply and the general fiduciary responsibility provisions of section 404 of the Act, which among other things require a fiduciary to discharge his duties respecting the plan solely in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of the plan and in a prudent fashion in accordance with section 404(a)(1)(B) of the Act; nor does it affect the requirement of section 401(a) of the Code that the plan must operate for the exclusive benefit of the employees of the employer maintaining the plan and their beneficiaries; (2) These exemptions are supplemental to and not in derogation of, any other provisions of the Act and/or the Code, including statutory or administrative exemptions and transactional rules. Furthermore, the fact that a transaction is subject to an administrative or statutory exemption is not dispositive of whether the transaction is in fact a prohibited transaction; and (3) The availability of these exemptions is subject to the express condition that the material facts and representations contained in each application are true and complete and accurately describe all material terms of the transaction which is the subject of the exemption. In the case of continuing exemption transactions, if any of the material facts or representations described in the application change after the exemption is granted, the exemption will cease to apply as of the date of such change. In the event of any such change, application for a new exemption may be made to the Department. Signed at Washington, DC, this 30th day of August, 1994. Ivan Strasfeld, Director of Exemption Determinations, Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21771 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;29&hyph;P
