FR940825-1-00016 FR940825-1-00002 (c) ATCTs may be occupied above the level of exit discharge by only able-bodied persons. (d) No combustible materials shall be located in, under, or within the immediate vicinity of the ATCT except necessary furniture and equipment. (e) High hazard contents shall not be permitted in the ATCT or the immediate vicinity thereof. (f) ATCT exits shall be so arranged and maintained as to provide free and unobstructed egress from all parts of the building or structure at all times when it is occupied. No locks or fastening which prevents unimpeded escape from the inside of any building shall be installed. 3. General Limitations (a) Permissible Means of Egress components. Means of egress shall consist only of the approved components as described in this section. Means of egress shall be constructed as components of the building or shall be permanently affixed thereto. (b) Headroom. Means of egress shall be so designed and maintained as to provide adequate headroom, but in no case shall the ceiling height be less than 7 feet 6 inches nor any projection from the ceiling be less than 6 feet 8 inches from the floor. Exception: In existing ATCTs where the headroom is less than that required in this section, signs reading ``Low Clearance'' shall be placed on both sides of the obstruction. (c) Changes in elevation. Where changes in elevation exceed 21 inches in a means of egress, the difference in elevation shall be negotiated by stairs or ramps. (d) Means of egress walking surfaces shall provide sufficient friction to prevent slipping under normal conditions. 4. Types and Location of Means of Egress (a) Access to means of egress. (1) Means of egress shall be so located and exit access shall be so arranged that exits are readily discernible and unobstructed at all times. (2) In no case shall access to an exit be through a bathroom, or other room subject to locking, except where the exit is required to serve only the room subject to locking. (3) Exit access shall be so arranged that it will not be necessary to travel toward any area of hazardous occupancy in order to reach the nearest exit, unless the path of travel is effectively shielded from the high hazard location by suitable partitions or other physical barriers. (b) Discharge from exits. (1) All exit discharges shall empty directly to the street, or to a yard, court, or other open space that gives safe access to a public way. The streets to which the exits discharge shall be of width adequate to accommodate all persons leaving the building. Yards, courts, or other open spaces to which exits discharge shall also be of adequate width and size to provide all persons leaving the building with ready access to the street. (2) The exit discharge shall be so arranged as to make clear the direction of egress to the public way. (c) Exterior ways of exit access. (1) Access to an exit may be by means of any exterior balcony, porch, gallery, or roof that conforms to the requirements of this standard. (2) Exterior ways of exit access shall have smooth, solid floors, substantially level, and shall have guards on the unenclosed sides. (3) Where accumulation of snow or ice is likely because of the climate, the exterior way of exit access shall be maintained so that these accumulations of snow and ice will be regularly removed. (4) A permanent, direct path of travel shall be maintained over the required exterior way of exit access. There shall be no obstruction by railings, barriers, or gates that divide the open space into sections. (5) An exterior way of exit access, such as a courtyard, balcony, bridge, or porch shall be so arranged that there are no dead ends in excess of 20 feet. (6) Any gallery, balcony, bridge, porch, or other exterior exit access that projects beyond the outside wall of the building shall comply with the requirements of this section (j.4.(c)) as to width and arrangement. 5. Occupant Load (a) ATCTs may have an occupant load of 20 persons per floor and not more than 80 persons total provided that the type of ATCT construction is Type I, II, III, or IV. (b) The occupant load shall be the maximum number of persons that may be in the space at any time. (c) Where exits serve more than one floor, only the occupant load of each floor considered individually need be used in computing the capacity of the exits at the floor, provided that exit capacity shall not be decreased in the direction of exit travel.
