FR941021-2-00070 FR941021-2-00046 In FY 1995, HCFA will provide funding to continue its efforts in deterring and detecting emerging Medicare fraud and abuse. The carriers will improve the quality of referrals to the Office of Inspector General by expanding data analysis capability. The Medicare fraud focus will include a full range of Medicare fraud detection activities through our fiscal intermediaries and carriers. The fiscal intermediaries will concentrate on home health agencies and skilled nursing facilities and Medicare carriers will focus their detection activities on medical laboratory, radiology, anesthesia, and ambulance claims. Also, in FY 1995, Medicare carriers will standardize the method of how fraud units treat billing and assignment violations. 12. Printing Claim Forms (Part A and Part B) Although this activity is not among the seven Part A and nine Part B contractor functional areas, it is a part of the national Medicare contractor budget. In the interest of maintaining standard formats and quality of Medicare entitlement and report forms, fiscal intermediaries and carriers supply beneficiary enrollment and provider cost reporting forms. The use of these forms is essential to beneficiary notification, effective and efficient contractor operations, and other program objectives. C. Contractor Unit Cost Calculations A key step in the contractor budget process is the development of contractor unit costs for processing Part A bills and Part B claims. These bottom-line unit costs encompass all of the budget's line items except ``Provider Audit,'' ``Productivity Investments,'' ``Other,'' and, in FY 1995, ``Provider Reimbursement.'' As first implemented in FY 1992, the complexity index (CI) was designed to improve efficiency and reduce contractor-by-contractor cost inequities, and was based on the application of the Industrial Engineering (IE) study commissioned by HCFA. The IE study provided HCFA with an actual weighted unit cost for each claim type; that is, inpatient or outpatient, and method of submission (electronically submitted or hardcopy) of a bill or a claim. After adjustment for changes in program emphasis, these unit costs were applied to each contractor's individual workload mix to develop a weighted unit cost that reflects the complexity of its workload mix. We published an explanation of the CI in our FY 1992 Federal Register notice on January 2, 1992 (57 FR 57). Each contractor had a percentage goal in FY 1992 for increasing the submission of claims electronically. We adjusted the unit costs to reflect achievement of the goals. After adjusting for various savings and increases associated with initiatives, such as the Unique Physician Identifier Number and sections 6111(b), Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Tests (Annual Monitoring and Certification) and 6204, Physician Ownership of, and Referral to, Health Care Entities (Annual Monitoring Cost) of OBRA '89, we then arrayed the contractors' unit costs and identified the contractor at the 60th percentile. Each contractor with a unit cost higher than the 60th percentile was held to the 60th percentile unit cost, multiplied by the contractor's CI. Each contractor at or below the 60th percentile retained its own unit cost, multiplied by its CI. We believe that the use of the CI over the last three FYs has enabled us to successfully achieve the goals of improving efficiency in contractor operations and reducing contractor-by-contractor cost inequities. Since we have achieved these goals, and believe that costs can be controlled, we will base each contractor's FY 1995 unit cost on the FY 1994 level, adjusted for savings achieved due to increased productivity, Electronic Media Claims, and reduced funding for incremental workload.
