FR941017-0-00004 FR941017-0-00001 Immediate Action The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that there is good cause for publishing this interim rule without prior opportunity for public comment. Immediate action is necessary to prevent the spread of brucellosis that might occur if owners of cattle and bison were to cease entirely the depopulation of herds affected with the disease. Under normal conditions, owners of cattle and bison affected with brucellosis are most willing to depopulate their herds in the fall, because steer calves are usually old enough to wean in the fall, and depopulating in the fall saves the expense of buying feed for the winter. However, if the increase in indemnity payments provided for in this rule were to be effected using proposed rulemaking, owners, in anticipation of an increase, would likely refuse to depopulate until the rule is made final. This would cause a cessation of the depopulation of affected herds for several months, which would seriously hinder eradication efforts and increase the risk of the spread of brucellosis. Because prior notice and other public procedures with respect to this action are impracticable and contrary to the public interest under these conditions, we find good cause under 5 U.S.C. 553 to make it effective upon publication in the Federal Register . We will consider comments that are received within 60 days of publication of this rule in the Federal Register . After the comment period closes, we will publish another document in the Federal Register . It will include a discussion of any comments we receive and any amendments we are making to the rule as a result of the comments. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This interim rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. In this interim rule, we are increasing the amount of Federal indemnity for brucellosis reactor and brucellosis-exposed cattle and bison destroyed during herd depopulation, and are increasing the amount of Federal indemnity for cattle and bison destroyed after being sold or traded from a herd that is subsequently found to be affected with brucellosis. Under this interim rule, in States other than Class Free States, the amount of Federal indemnity shall not exceed $250 for any nonregistered cattle other than dairy cattle, and $250 for any bison. For any registered cattle, nonregistered dairy cattle, or, in Class Free States, any cattle or bison from herds affected with brucellosis, the amount of Federal indemnity shall not exceed the lesser of 95 percent of appraised value, minus salvage value, or $750. Prior to this interim rule, indemnity paid per animal could not exceed $250 for any registered cattle or nonregistered dairy cattle, $150 for any nonregistered cattle other than dairy cattle, and $150 for any bison. In Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States, the amount of Federal indemnity could not exceed $250 for any cattle or bison. In 1993, beef and cull dairy cows sold for slaughter brought an average of $476 per 1,000-pound animal. The replacement cost of a steer or heifer averaged $768 in 1993, while a dairy herd replacement cow averaged $1,160. Under Federal regulations, owners cannot be required to depopulate their herds because of brucellosis. However, because having diseased animals and/or having a herd under quarantine creates a severe competitive disadvantage for an owner, we expect the increase in indemnity rates provided for in this interim rule to encourage more owners to agree to whole herd depopulation. As of June 30, 1994, there were 204 herds under quarantine for brucellosis. These include 200 beef herds with a total of approximately 10,000 head of cattle and 4 dairy herds with a total of about 5,000 head. All of the owners of the beef herds that are under quarantine, but none of the owners of the dairy herds, can be considered small entities (annual gross receipts of $0.5 million or less, according to Small Business Administration size standards). There are no registered herds under quarantine. The approximately 15,000 head of cattle under quarantine represent less than .015 percent of the total cattle population in the United States. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V.) Executive Order 12778 This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule (1) Preempts all State and local laws and regulations that are in conflict with this rule; (2) has no retroactive effect; and (3) does not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule.
