FR940603-2-00128 FR940603-2-00082 In addition, the decision of the Exchange's Appeals Committee panel is subject to review by the Board of Directors of the Exchange on the Board's own motion, on the written request of the appellant, or at the request of the Exchange's President or the relevant Exchange Committee Chairman. The review must be conducted by the Board or by a Board Committee consisting of at least three Directors (other than Directors who sat on the Appeals Committee in the matter). An appellant has an opportunity to address issues raised specifically by the Board or the Committee, and in addition may submit oral or written arguments if the Board so allows in its discretion. 4 4 See CBOE Rule 19.5, ``Review.'' The CBOE states that in a related context the Commission has noted the appropriateness of fees like those proposed herein, particularly when coupled with appeal rights. Specifically, in approving a CBOE proposal that included procedures for contesting the fees assessed for delayed submission of trade data, the Commission stated that ``Although such formalized procedures are unusual for challenging fee assessments, they actually make the imposition of the fee fairer by allowing members to challenge erroneous fee charges. Moreover, these procedures are reasonably designed to afford a member assessed a fee the opportunity to challenge the veracity of the assessments.'' 5 5 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30001 (November 26, 1991), 56 FR 63529 (order approving File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;90&hyph;06). The Exchange believes that the proposed fee schedule is appropriate and equitable given the additional requirements imposed on participants in OEX RAES in the RAES Fee Approval Order. Furthermore, to ensure that all members are treated alike under the RAES Fee Approval Order, the Exchange will apply the revised fee schedule retroactively from April 30, 1993, the effective date of the RAES Fee Approval Order. The proposal also deletes the automatic disqualification provisions that appear in current CBOE Rules 24.17(a)(iv), (b)(vii), and (c)(viii). The CBOE believes these deletions are appropriate in view of the new requirements imposed under the RAES Fee Approval Order and the fee structure imposed hereunder. The CBOE believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Sections 6(b)(4) and 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to allocate reasonable dues, fees and charges among CBOE members and to promote the efficiency and effectiveness of the CBOE's automatic execution system. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The CBOE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reason for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by June 24, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13473 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
