FR941121-2-00051 FR941121-2-00042 Decision: PRP power sales contracts will include provisions for Contractors to pay all of the PRP's annual operation, maintenance, and replacement (OM&R) expenses as well as an annual payment to Reclamation for application toward the Water Users' annual repayment obligation. In return, the Contractors will receive the total annual output of marketable energy produced by the Deer Creek Powerplant. Every year Western will prepare a power repayment study (PRS) that will identify the OM&R costs to be collected in the upcoming year. VI. Issue: Effect of operation of Jordanelle Reservoir on Deer Creek generation. Discussion: Jordanelle Reservoir is intended to store surplus water from high flow years and the winter flows of the Provo River and release it in dry years and in the late summer. Prior to Jordanelle, the winter flow of the Provo River was released from Deer Creek through the generators. Under the Deer Creek/Jordanelle Operating Agreement, only enough water to meet minimum stream flow requirements will be released. The result is that winter generation is greatly reduced. However, there is the potential for generation to be enhanced when the water is released during the summer months. Reducing winter generation levels creates a problem in providing enough energy to repay PacifiCorp for its foregone generation when the Water Users are operating under the December 20, 1938, Power Contract (1938 Contract) (see discussion below under section II of Marketing Criteria). In the Deer Creek/Jordanelle Operating Agreement, the CUWCD agreed to make up any shortfalls in repaying PacifiCorp. On the other hand, CUWCD releases should augment summer generation levels. CUWCD has requested that this energy be applied toward the deficit it creates in the winter. Both Reclamation and the Water Users support this position. Discussions have been held with the Contractors, and they have agreed that the increase in summer energy attributable to CUWCD releases should be available to offset reductions in the winter. Decision: A separate agreement among Western, Reclamation, CUWCD, PacifiCorp, the Water Users, and the Contractors will be developed which will provide for the increase in summer energy to offset deficits in winter generation. Negotiations are continuing on the methodology used to verify the impact to generation and on the best method to deliver the energy to PacifiCorp. VII. Issue: Application of net power revenues from the Contractors toward the obligation of the Water Users to repay the Federal Government for its investment in the PRP. Discussion: Several commentors, including UMPA, ICPA, Reclamation, and the Water Users, commented on this issue. Both the Water Users and Reclamation support the claim that there is a contractual obligation for this payment and document the level of annual payments as $102,243.80 through 2008, and $76,520 thereafter until the obligation is liquidated. UMPA stated that it supports the level of the annual payments. ICPA stated that it supports the payment through 2008 but objected to the payment beyond that date. However, the Water Users and Reclamation have demonstrated that the contractual obligation extends until the Water Users' repayment obligation is liquidated. Reclamation has documented that the net revenues available to the Water Users beyond 2008 should be $76,520 annually. Decision: Include provisions in the power sales contracts which would pay $102,243.80 through 2008 toward the Water Users' repayment obligation. Any contracts for the sale of power thereafter would include annual assistance payments of $76,520 until the obligation is liquidated. After the obligation is repaid, the net revenue of $76,520 will need to be paid to Western to be disposed of as Congress directs. VIII. Issue: Term of Contracts. Discussion: UMPA, Reclamation, and the Water Users commented that the term of the power sales contracts should be extended long enough to ensure that the obligation to use net power revenues to assist the Water Users is completed. Reclamation stated that this should be through FY 2032 to ensure that the Water Users' contract will be paid off. Both Reclamation and the Water Users have established that there is a contractual obligation that binds the Federal Government to make surplus revenue from the sale of power available to help repay the Water Users' obligation. Also, both assert that commitments were made by Reclamation that this amount should be $76,520 per year after 2008. Decision: Contractors will be given the option of extending the contracts at least 3 years before the contracts expire. Adjustments to contract provisions could be made at that time, including provisions for new customers. The contracts will provide for annual payments of $102,243.80 through 2008; extended contracts would include annual assistance payments of $76,520 thereafter to be made by the Contractors to Reclamation for application to the Water Users' annual repayment obligation until the Water Users' repayment obligation is liquidated. IX. Issue: Power revenues should not be used to subsidize the repayment of municipal and industrial water developments. Discussion: ICPA noted that it supported the position of CREDA that power revenues should not be used to subsidize the repayment of municipal and industrial water developments. As discussed above, both Reclamation and the Water Users have demonstrated that even though a majority of the water developed by the PRP is used for municipal and industrial uses, the contracts between the Water Users and Reclamation establish a commitment for net power revenues to be used to help the Water Users meet their annual repayment requirements. Decision: Western's contract should be consistent with the provisions of the contracts between Reclamation and the Water Users. The obligation to provide for payments to the Water Users until their repayment obligation is liquidated will be reflected in the contracts. X. Issue: What happens in the event of a major equipment failure at the Deer Creek Powerplant? Discussion: Reclamation commented that Western's proposal does not address what would happen in the event of a major equipment failure at the Deer Creek Powerplant, and that ``the contract terms should be sufficiently flexible to address this and other significant issues.'' Given the age of the powerplant, it is necessary to take this into consideration.
