FR940527-2-00046 FR940527-2-00042 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRI&hyph;4889&hyph;2] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden; where appropriate, it includes the actual data collection instrument. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before June 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response Title: Vendor Information Systems for Innovative Treatment Technologies (VISITT) and for Innovative Measurement and Monitoring Technologies (VISIMMT) (EPA ICR # 1583.02). This ICR requests renewal of a currently approved collection (OMB # 2050&hyph;0114). Abstract: The Technology Innovative Office (TIO) of the Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response (OSWER) is planning to continue a voluntary and ongoing collection of data on innovative treatment technologies to clean up contaminated waste sites. In addition, the Agency will be expanding the data collection effort to include information on innovative measurement and monitoring technologies for contaminated waste sites. Specifically, TIO will request information concerning technologies to treat soil, sludge, solids, sediments and ground water in situ. Widely available technologies (i.e., incineration, solidification/stabilization, and ex situ aqueous treatment) have been excluded. The vendor surveys will collect both general company information and technology-specific data. The company information includes name, address, phone numbers, and contact names. Technology data includes technology name, developmental status, media/wastes treated, contaminants and concentration ranges treated, waste limitations, factors affecting performance, summary performance data, range of unit costs, factors influencing cost, available hardware and capacity, treatability study capabilities, permits obtained, clients and references. TIO plans to use the treatment and monitoring developers and vendors to serve as an avenue for technology developers and vendors to inform potential users of their capabilities, and to give site cleanup professionals the ability to assess new technologies for applicability to specific sites. Spurring private investment in the development and commercialization of new treatment technologies is also a major concern. Burden Statement: The estimated public reporting burden for this collection of information is broken out into one of three possible reporting options: first, for those that are submitting the vendor form for the first time, 25 hours are estimated for each report submitted; second, for those returning updated reports, an estimated 13 hours per update report will be required; finally EPA has estimated that a certain number of those receiving forms will take 1 hour to read the material and then decide not to participate in the vendor program. These estimates include time to read the instructions, gather existing information, and prepare and submit the form. There are no recordkeeping requirements. Respondents: Entities or individuals developing or commercializing new treatment or monitoring technologies for contaminated site cleanup including individuals/entrepreneurs, remedial contractors, and commercial hazardous or solid waste treaters. Estimated No. of Respondents: 478. Estimated No. of Responses Per Respondent: 2. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 12,000 hours. Frequency of Collection: Annual. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (Mail Code: 2136) 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460 and Jonathan Gledhill, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th St., NW., Washington, DC 20530. Dated: May 23, 1994. Paul Lapsley, Director, Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13095 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
