FR940803-0-00053 FR940803-0-00019 (m) Except as noted elsewhere in this part, only the following forms shall be authorized for the recipients in requesting advances and reimbursements. Federal agencies shall not require more than an original and two copies of these forms. (1) SF&hyph;270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement. Each Federal awarding agency shall adopt the SF&hyph;270 as a standard form for all nonconstruction programs when electronic funds transfer or predetermined advance methods are not used. Federal awarding agencies, however, have the option of using this form for construction programs in lieu of the SF&hyph;271, ``Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs.'' (2) SF&hyph;271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. Each Federal awarding agency shall adopt the SF&hyph;271 as the standard form to be used for requesting reimbursement for construction programs. However, a Federal awarding agency may substitute the SF&hyph;270 when the Federal awarding agency determines that it provides adequate information to meet Federal needs. ยง518.23 Cost sharing or matching. (a) All contributions, including cash and third party in-kind, shall be accepted as part of the recipient's cost sharing or matching when such contributions meet all of the following criteria. (1) Are verifiable from the recipient's records. (2) Are not included as contributions for any other federally-assisted project or program. (3) Are necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient accomplishment of project or program objectives. (4) Are allowable under the applicable cost principles. (5) Are not paid by the Federal Government under another award, except where authorized by Federal statute to be used for cost sharing or matching. (6) Are provided for in the approved budget when required by the Federal awarding agency. (7) Conform to other provisions of this part, as applicable. (b) Unrecovered indirect costs may be included as part of cost sharing or matching only with the prior approval of the Federal awarding agency. (c) Values for recipient contributions of services and property shall be established in accordance with the applicable cost principles. If a Federal awarding agency authorizes recipients to donate buildings or land for construction/facilities acquisition projects or long-term use, the value of the donated property for cost sharing or matching shall be the lesser of paragraph (c) (1) or (2) of this section. (1) The certified value of the remaining life of the property recorded in the recipient's accounting records at the time of donation. (2) The current fair market value. However, when there is sufficient justification, the Federal awarding agency may approve the use of the current fair market value of the donated property, even if it exceeds the certified value at the time of donation to the project. (d) Volunteer services furnished by professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other skilled and unskilled labor may be counted as cost sharing or matching if the service is an integral and necessary part of an approved project or program. Rates for volunteer services shall be consistent with those paid for similar work in the recipient's organization. In those instances in which the required skills are not found in the recipient organization, rates shall be consistent with those paid for similar work in the labor market in which the recipient competes for the kind of services involved. In either case, paid fringe benefits that are reasonable, allowable, and allocable may be included in the valuation.
