FR940804-1-00013 FR940804-1-00004 In summary MMS's goal is to develop simplified methods for determining the highest price paid or offered for a major portion of like-quality production from the field or area, for determining the greater of the processed value or the unprocessed value, and for properly valuing POP contract production, on a more contemporaneous basis. This would simplify the accounting and enhance the administrative workability for both Tribal and MMS royalty personnel as well as the oil and gas industry. It would allow more contemporaneous automated accounting comparisons and reduce the reliance on audits conducted years after production occurs to verify royalty compliance. IV. Description of Alternatives and Solicitation of Comments MMS invites specific comments on the following alternatives that is currently considering for valuation under the major portion and dual accounting requirements for gas produced, saved, or sold from tribal and allotted Indian Lands. (a) Major Portion Scenarios (1) Use of Gas Price Indices MMS is considering using published indices of natural gas prices as a means to determine the price at which a major portion of gas is sold from a given field or area. It is contemplated that any index or indices used would be widely used by industry, have a history of publication, and generally be expected to continue to be published. It is likewise contemplated that any regulation that uses published indices would provide for the use of substitute indices if necessary. MMS is aware that gas-index-price-based major portion systems are currently being successfully utilized. MMS is soliciting comments on what publications are most widely used by industry for gas price indices. MMS also seeks input from companies that are successfully using gas price index-based formulas to determine the major portion value, and the ways the gas price indices are used to arrive at a value. MMS is also particularly interested in perspectives regarding the extent to which published prices reflect actual values of production, and perspectives regarding the accuracy of published prices and indices. MMS would also appreciate comments on the extent to which the use of published prices would promote: The certainty and reliability of payments, the timeliness of royalty reporting, ease of compliance, enforceability, and the reduction of costs to both industry and government. (2) Major Portion Analysis Using Price Data Reported to Indian Tribes and States. MMS has used gas prices obtained from the Oklahoma Tax Commission severance tax report to do a major portion calculation for allotted Indian leases in the Anadarko area of Oklahoma. MMS requests comments on the feasibility of MMS doing the major portion calculation using pricing data obtained from Tribes, States, or other outside sources (that have information available). (3) Major Portion Analysis Using Price Data Reported on the Report of Sales and Royalty Remittance (Form MMS&hyph;2014). Information reported on Form MMS&hyph;2014 has been used to do major portion calculations for gas produced from the Southern Ute Tribal and Allotted Indian leases. MMS requests comments on the feasibility of MMS calculating the major portion price from data on Form MMS&hyph;2014. (4) Requirement That All Purchasers Provide Sales Data to MMS MMS is considering implementing a new regulation (under the authority of FOGRMA) that would require all purchasers of Federal and/or Indian gas in fields or areas in which Indian production occurs to provide volume and pricing data to MMS. MMS would then calculate major portion prices and provide these to the lessees. MMS seeks comments on the feasibility of such an approach.
