FR940810-0-00272 FR940810-0-00021 Appendix K to §1915.1001_Polarized Light Microscopy of Asbestos_Non-Mandatory) Method number: ID&hyph;191 Matrix: Bulk Collection Procedure Collect approximately 1 to 2 grams of each type of material and place into separate 20 mL scintillation vials. Analytical Procedure A portion of each separate phase is analyzed by gross examination, phase-polar examination, and central stop dispersion microscopy. Commercial manufacturers and products mentioned in this method are for descriptive use only and do not constitute endorsements by USDOL-OSHA. Similar products from other sources may be substituted. 1. Introduction This method describes the collection and analysis of asbestos bulk materials by light microscopy techniques including phase- polar illumination and central-stop dispersion microscopy. Some terms unique to asbestos analysis are defined below: Amphibole: A family of minerals whose crystals are formed by long, thin units which have two thin ribbons of double chain silicate with a brucite ribbon in between. The shape of each unit is similar to an ``I beam''. Minerals important in asbestos analysis include cummingtonite-grunerite, crocidolite, tremolite- actinolite and anthophyllite. Asbestos: A term for naturally occurring fibrous minerals. Asbestos includes chrysotile, cummingtonite-grunerite asbestos (amosite), anthophyllite asbestos, tremolite asbestos, crocidolite, actinolite asbestos and any of these minerals which have been chemically treated or altered. The precise chemical formulation of each species varies with the location from which it was mined. Nominal compositions are listed: Chrysotile Mg 3 Si 2 O 5 (OH) 4 Crocidolite (Riebeckite asbestos) Na 2 Fe 3 2+ Fe 2 3+ Si 8 O 22 (OH) 2 Cummingtonite-Grunerite asbestos (Amosite) (Mg,Fe) 7 Si 8 O 22 (OH) 2 Tremolite-Actinolite asbestos Ca 2 (Mg,Fe) 5 Si 8 O 22 (OH) 2 Anthophyllite asbestos (Mg,Fe) 7 Si 8 O 22 (OH) 2 Asbestos Fiber: A fiber of asbestos meeting the criteria for a fiber. (See section 3.5.) Aspect Ratio: The ratio of the length of a fiber to its diameter usually defined as ``length : width'', e.g. 3:1. Brucite: A sheet mineral with the composition Mg(OH) 2 . Central Stop Dispersion Staining (microscope): This is a dark field microscope technique that images particles using only light refracted by the particle, excluding light that travels through the particle unrefracted. This is usually accomplished with a McCrone objective or other arrangement which places a circular stop with apparent aperture equal to the objective aperture in the back focal plane of the microscope. Cleavage Fragments: Mineral particles formed by the comminution of minerals, especially those characterized by relatively parallel sides and moderate aspect ratio. Differential Counting: The term applied to the practice of excluding certain kinds of fibers from a phase contrast asbestos count because they are not asbestos. Fiber: A particle longer than or equal to 5 μm with a length to width ratio greater than or equal to 3:1. This may include cleavage fragments. (see section 3.5 of this appendix). Phase Contrast: Contrast obtained in the microscope by causing light scattered by small particles to destructively interfere with unscattered light, thereby enhancing the visibility of very small particles and particles with very low intrinsic contrast. Phase Contrast Microscope: A microscope configured with a phase mask pair to create phase contrast. The technique which uses this is called Phase Contrast Microscopy (PCM). Phase-Polar Analysis: This is the use of polarized light in a phase contrast microscope. It is used to see the same size fibers that are visible in air filter analysis. Although fibers finer than 1 μm are visible, analysis of these is inferred from analysis of larger bundles that are usually present. Phase-Polar Microscope: The phase-polar microscope is a phase contrast microscope which has an analyzer, a polarizer, a first order red plate and a rotating phase condenser all in place so that the polarized light image is enhanced by phase contrast. Sealing Encapsulant: This is a product which can be applied, preferably by spraying, onto an asbestos surface which will seal the surface so that fibers cannot be released. Serpentine: A mineral family consisting of minerals with the general composition Mg 3 (Si2O 5 (OH) 4 having the magnesium in brucite layer over a silicate layer. Minerals important in asbestos analysis included in this family are chrysotile, lizardite, antigorite.
