FR940919-0-00120 FR940919-0-00016 (A) The contaminants subject to treatment, as described in § 268.45(b); and (B) An indication that these contaminants are being treated to comply with §268.45. (vi) For hazardous debris when using the treatment standards for the contaminating waste(s) in §268.40: the requirements described in paragraphs (a)(1) (i), (ii), (iii), and (vi) of this section. (4) If a generator is managing prohibited waste in tanks, containers, or containment buildings regulated under 40 CFR 262.34, and is treating such waste in such tanks, containers, or containment buildings to meet applicable treatment standards under subpart D of this part, the generator must develop and follow a written waste analysis plan which describes the procedures the generator will carry out to comply with the treatment standards. (Generators treating hazardous debris under the alternative treatment standards of Table 1, §268.45, however, are not subject to these waste analysis requirements.) The plan must be kept on site in the generator's records, and the following requirements must be met: (i) The waste analysis plan must be based on a detailed chemical and physical analysis of a representative sample of the prohibited waste(s) being treated, and contain all information necessary to treat the waste(s) in accordance with the requirements of this Part, including the selected testing frequency. (ii) Such plan must be filed with the EPA Regional Administrator (or his designated representative) or State authorized to implement Part 268 requirements a minimum of 30 days prior to the treatment activity, with delivery verified. (iii) Wastes shipped off-site pursuant to this paragraph must comply with the notification requirements of §268.7(a)(2). (5) If a generator determines whether the waste is restricted based solely on his knowledge of the waste, all supporting data used to make this determination must be retained on-site in the generator's files. If a generator determines whether the waste is restricted based on testing this waste or an extract developed using the test method described in Appendix I of this part, all waste analysis data must be retained on-site in the generator's files. (6) If a generator determines that he is managing a restricted waste that is excluded from the definition of hazardous or solid waste or exempt from Subtitle C regulation, under 40 CFR 261.2 through 261.6 subsequent to the point of generation, he must place a one-time notice stating such generation, subsequent exclusion from the definition of hazardous or solid waste or exemption from RCRA Subtitle C regulation, and the disposition of the waste, in the facility's file. (7) Generators must retain on-site a copy of all notices, certifications, demonstrations, waste analysis data, and other documentation produced pursuant to this section for at least five years from the date that the waste that is the subject of such documentation was last sent to on-site or off-site treatment, storage, or disposal. The five year record retention period is automatically extended during the course of any unresolved enforcement action regarding the regulated activity or as requested by the Administrator. The requirements of this paragraph apply to solid wastes even when the hazardous characteristic is removed prior to disposal, or when the waste is excluded from the definition of hazardous or solid waste under 40 CFR 261.2 through 261.6, or exempted from RCRA Subtitle C regulation, subsequent to the point of generation. (8) If a generator is managing a lab pack waste and wishes to use the alternative treatment standard under §268.42(c), with each shipment of waste the generator must submit a notice to the treatment facility in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, except that underlying hazardous constituents need not be determined. The generator must also comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(5) and (a)(6) of this section and must submit the following certification, which must be signed by an authorized representative: I certify under penalty of law that I personally have examined and am familiar with the waste and that the lab pack contains only wastes which have not been excluded under appendix IV to 40 CFR part 268 or solid wastes not subject to regulation under 40 CFR part 261. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting a false certification, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment. (9) [Reserved] (10) Small quantity generators with tolling agreements pursuant to 40 CFR 262.20(e) must comply with the applicable notification and certification requirements of paragraph (a) of this section for the initial shipment of the waste subject to the agreement. Such generators must retain on-site a copy of the notification and certification, together with the tolling agreement, for at least three years after termination or expiration of the agreement. The three-year record retention period is automatically extended during the course of any unresolved enforcement action regarding the regulated activity or as requested by the Administrator.
