FR940216-1-00027 FR940216-1-00008 (d) Entering any building, structure, or enclosed area owned or controlled by the United States, without permission of a Forest officer, when such building, structure, or enclosed area is not open to the public. (e) Using any pesticide except for personal use as an insect repellent or other minor uses. (f) Possessing, duplicating, using, or allowing the use of any Forest Service lock or key without permission of a Forest officer. (g) Accessing or using any computer system or computer network owned, leased, or controlled by the Forest Service without permission of a Forest officer. (h) Using, damaging, destroying, altering, copying, or deleting information, data, or programs stored in any computer system or computer network owned, leased, or controlled by the Forest Service without permission of a Forest officer. (i) Performing or allowing to be performed an action prohibited by a scenic easement owned by the United States, or failing to perform an action required by such an easement. (j) Removing any mineral or mineral material. 14. Revise §261.10 to read as follows: §261.10 Occupancy and use. Except as provided by special use authorization, contract, approved plan of operations, or federal law or regulation, the following are prohibited: (a) Constructing, placing, or maintaining any kind of road, trail, structure, fence, enclosure, communication equipment, or other improvement on the National Forest System or facilities thereon. (b) Taking possession of, occupying, residing upon, or otherwise using the National Forest System or facilities thereon for any purpose. (c) Selling, leasing, renting, or offering for sale, lease, or rent any kind of merchandise, service, or equipment, or conducting any kind of work activity or service. (d) Discharging a firearm or using any other implement capable of taking human life, causing injury, or damaging property: (1) in or within 150 yards of a residence, building, campsite, developed recreation site or occupied area; (2) from a vehicle; or (3) in any manner or place whereby any person or property is exposed to injury or damage as a result of such discharge or use. (e) Abandoning any personal property. (f) Placing a vehicle or other object in such a manner that it is an impediment or hazard to the safety or convenience of any person. (g) Disseminating, posting, placing, or erecting any paper, notice, advertising material, sign, handbill, petition, or similar written and/or graphic matter. (h) Operating or using in or near a campsite, developed recreation site, or over an adjacent body of water, any device which produces noise, such as a radio, television, musical instrument, motor, or engine, in such a manner and at such time so as to unreasonably disturb any person. (i) Operating or using a public address system, whether fixed, portable, or vehicle mounted, in or near a campsite or developed recreation site or over an adjacent body of water. (j) Use or occupancy of the National Forest System or facilities thereon when authorization is required. (k) Violating any term or condition of a special use authorization, contract, or approved plan of operations. (l) Failing to stop a vehicle when directed to do so by a Forest officer. (m) Failing to pay any special use fee or other charges as required. (n) Paying for any product, special use authorization, fee, or service by check with insufficient funds. (o) Charging, collecting, or attempting to charge or collect a fee or thing of value from any person lawfully using the National Forest System. (p) Failing to display a special use authorization, license, tag or other document when such display is required. (q) Outfitting on, or guiding on the National Forest System. (r) Undertaking any activity in contravention of prohibitions or requirements of a scenic easement. 15. In §261.11, the introductory text is republished and paragraph (b) is revised to read as follows: §261.11 Sanitation. The following are prohibited: (a) *␣*␣* (b) Depositing, leaving, or causing to be left, any refuse, debris, trash, or litter on the National Forest System or facilities thereon not designated for that purpose. * * * * *
