FR940822-2-00114 FR940822-2-00061 •Training programs or seminars on topics of interest and concern that transcend State lines including the factors that should be considered in deciding child custody and termination of parental rights; •Multi-State or regional training programs sponsored by national organizations, non-profit groups, State courts or universities; •Interdisciplinary and, as appropriate, interbranch educational programs for State trial and appellate court judges, State and local court managers including clerks of court, and non-supervisory staff or other court personnel, including seminars based on Institute-supported research, and programs designed to develop better working relationships across court divisions and between courts and criminal justice, social service, and treatment agencies; and •Innovative independent study models that would enhance the availability of judicial education, especially for judges and court personnel who do not have ready access to training programs, and possible models for the credentialing of this type of continuing judicial education. iii. Judicial Education Technical Assistance. Unlike the preceding categories which support direct training, ``Technical Assistance'' refers to services necessary for the development of effective educational projects for judges and other court personnel. Projects in this category should focus on the needs of the States, and applicants should demonstrate their ability to work effectively with State judicial educators. The Institute is currently funding the following judicial education technical assistance projects: the Judicial Education Reference Information and Technology Transfer Project (JERITT), which collects and disseminates information (as well as providing technical assistance) on continuing education programs for judges and court personnel; the Judicial Education/Adult Education Project (JEAEP), which provides expert assistance on the application of adult and continuing education theory and practices to court education programs; the Leadership Institute in Judicial Education, which offers an annual training program and follow-up assistance to State judicial education leadership teams to help them develop improved approaches to court education; and NASJE NEWS, a newsletter of the National Association of State Judicial Educators. iv. Conferences. This category includes support for regional or national conferences on topics of major concern to the State judiciary and court personnel. Applicants are encouraged to consider the use of videoconference and other technologies to increase participation and limit travel expenses in planning and presenting conferences. Applicants also are reminded that conference sites should be accessible to persons with disabilities in accordance with the Americans With Disabilities Act. In planning a conference, applicants should provide for a written, video, or other product that would widely disseminate the information, findings, and any recommendations resulting from the conference. The Institute is particularly interested in supporting:
