FR940617-2-00059 FR940617-2-00037 Availability of Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Proposed Anacostia River and Tributaries, District of Columbia and Maryland Feasibility Study AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Baltimore District, DOD. ACTION: Extension of comment period. SUMMARY: this Notice of Availability previously published in the Federal Register on May 6, 1994 (59 FR 23710) is being republished to extend the comment period from June 5, 1994 to 27 June 1994, and to correct a number of typographical errors. The Baltimore District of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers investigated the feasibility of construction of fish and wildlife restoration measures in the Anacostia River basin. The District Engineer recommends the restoration of 80 acres of wetlands, 5 miles of streams and 33 acres of bottomland habitat. The feasibility study of the potential restoration actions was conducted under authority of a U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Public Works and Transportation resolution adopted September 8, 1988. The non-Federal sponsors for the feasibility phase of the project are: Montgomery County, Prince George's County, the District of Columbia, the State of Maryland, the Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin, and the Metropolitan Washington Counsel of Governments. DATES: Comments must be received not later than 27 June 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments to: Colonel J. Richard Capka, District Engineer, P.O. Box 1715, Attn: CENAB&hyph;PL&hyph;PR, Baltimore, Maryland 21203&hyph;1715. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Mark McKevitt, Study Manager, (401) 962&hyph;2650. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. The U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Public Works and Transportation, authorized the Anacostia River and Tributaries study in a re solution adopted on September 8, 1988. The resolution requested the Corps of Engineers to determine if further improvements for flood control, navigation, erosion, sedimentation, water quality and other related water resources needs are advisable on the Anacostia River and tributaries. 2. The Anacostia River basin is a 170-square mile sub-basin of the Potomac River. Headwaters of the Anacostia River are in the piedmont and coastal plain areas of Montgomery and Prince George's Counties, Maryland and it joins with the Potomac River in the District of Columbia. The entire river system is freshwater; although, the tidal influence extends for approximately 9 miles above the confluence with the Potomac River. 3. The Corps of Engineers involvement in the basin dates back more than 115 years and includes projects and programs for navigation, flood control, debris removal and aquatic vegetation control. These Federal actions have served their intended purposes well and have benefited the area in terms of improved navigation and reduced flood damages. However, from 1902 through the 1960s, project construction eliminated approximately 2,600 acres of wetlands, 99,000 linear feet of aquatic habitat and 700 acres of bottomland hardwoods. These ecosystems performed numerous beneficial ecological functions for the Anacostia basin and the associated Potomac River and Chesapeake Bay. One of the primary functions of these ecosystems is fish and wildlife habitat. Historically, the Anacostia River basin contained a diverse assemblage of fish and wildlife species. However, populations of many species have sharply declined due to the habitat loss and degradation in the Anacostia basin. ␣ 1Site 1Action 1Target stream 1Location Wetland Restoration Kingman Lake WR Anacostia River Washington, DC. River Fringe Wetlands WR Anacostia River Washington, DC. Fordham Street Wetland WR Northwest Branch Prince George's Co. Aquatic Restoration NW Branch-PG Co. SR Northwest Branch Prince George's Co. Tanglewood Retrofit WR/SM/SR Little Paint Branch Montgomery Co. Snowden's Mill I WR/SM/SR Paint Branch Montgomery Co. Snowden's Mill II WR/SM/SR Paint Branch Montgomery Co. Stewart/April Lane WR/SM/SR Paint Branch Montgomery Co. Lockridge Drive WR/SM/SR Nothwest Branch Montgomery Co. Gum Springs SR Gum Springs Montgomery Co. Sligo Creek SR Sligo Creek Montgomery Co. NW Branch-Mont. Co. Paint Branch SR Paint Branch Montgomery Co. *WR_Wetland␣Restoration;␣SM_Stormwater Management; SR_Stream Restoration. 5. The Baltimore District has prepared a DEIS which describes the impacts of the proposed projects on environmental and cultural resources in the study area and the overall public interest. The DEIS also apply guidelines issued by the Environmental Protection Agency, under authority of Section 404 of the Clean Water Act of 1977 (P.L. 95&hyph;217). An evaluation of the proposed actions on the waters of the United States was performed pursuant to the guidelines of the Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, under authority of Section 404 of the Clean Water Act. The Section 404(b)(1) evaluations show that the proposed actions meet all guidelines under the Clean Water Act, and an exemption under Section 404(r) of Public Law 92&hyph;500, as amended is therefore requested. 6. The public involvement included meetings and close coordination with interested private individuals and organizations, as well as concerned Federal, state and local agencies. A public notice requesting comments on the proposed project and DS IS being provided to appropriate agencies and the public through printed media and mailings. The Baltimore District invites potentially affected Federal, state and local agencies, and other interested organizations and parties to comment on the study recommendations. Agencies that are currently involved in the feasibility study and EIS process include, but are not limited to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, National Marine Fisheries Service, U.S. Geological Service, U.S. Soil Conservation Service, National Park Service, National Capital Planning Commission, Montgomery County Department of Environmental Protection, Prince George's County Department of Environmental Resources, District of Columbia Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs and Department of Public Works, Maryland Department of Natural Resources, Maryland Department of the Environment, Maryland National Capital Park and Planning Commission, Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin, and the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments. 7. In accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the Clean Water Act, the Corps of Engineers is soliciting comments from the public, Federal, state and local agencies and officials, and other interested parties. Any comments received will be considered by the Corps of Engineers in the decision to implement the projects. To make this decision, comments are used to assess impacts on endangered species, historic properties, water quality, general environmental effects, and other interest factors listed above. Comments are also used to determine the overall public interest and the need for a public hearing on the proposed activities. This public notice is being sent to organizations and individuals known to have an interest in the restoration of the Anacostia River basin. Please bring this notice to the attention of any other individuals with an interest in this matter. 8. Any person who has an interest in the proposed projects may make comments and/or request a public hearing. Comments must clearly set forth the interest which may be adversely affected by these activities and the manner is which the interest may be adversely affected. Copies of the DEIS are available upon request. Written comments must be submitted within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice in the Federal Register . Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14761 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
