FR941202-2-00210 FR941202-2-00098 Contracted Organization: A private accrediting body meeting the standards for accreditation of environmental laboratories and employed by an accrediting authority to perform certain accrediting functions, e.g. on-site audits. Contributors: Any person or group having an interest in environmental laboratory accreditation other than a state or federal official involved in environmental laboratory affairs, who may participate in the deliberations of the conference by presenting papers, debating issues, etc. but without vote or formal membership on a committee. Deficiency Report: A report generated by the Inspector who is a state employee or authorized agent of the state in response to deficiencies noted in the course of a laboratory assessment, inspection or performance evaluation sample analysis result. Denial: The refusal to grant approval to all or part of a laboratory's initial or subsequent application for certification by the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program. Environmental Laboratory Advisory Board: The name of the Federal Advisory Committee Act body chartered by EPA and composed of special interest groups or persons to interact with the Board of Directors. Equipment Blank (Sample Equipment Blank): A clean sample (e.g., distilled water) that is collected in a sample container with the sample-collection device and returned to the laboratory as a sample. Sampling equipment blanks are used to check the cleanliness of sampling devices. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Failure: Failing one or more of the criteria outlined in factors examined in announced and unannounced laboratory assessments which include: competence of staff, qualifications of staff and supervisors, working conditions, equipment, supplies, supervision, methods used, quality assurance/quality control procedures, recordkeeping, and compliance with good laboratory practices. Field Blank: A clean sample (e.g., distilled water), carried to the sampling site, exposed to sampling conditions (e.g., bottle caps removed, preservatives added) and returned to the laboratory and treated as an environmental sample. Field blanks are used to check for analytical artifacts and/or background introduces by sampling and analytical procedures. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92).
