FR940804-1-00052 FR940804-1-00014 Section 404 of the Clean Water Act authorizes the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) to regulate discharge of dredge or fill materials into waters of the United States, including wetlands. The objective of the Clean Water Act is to ``restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the Nation's waters'' (Pub. L. 92&hyph;500), which include navigable and isolated waters, headwaters, and adjacent wetlands. However, no specific provisions exist that adequately address the need to conserve candidate species. Therefore, Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii and Downingia concolor var. brevior currently receive no special consideration under section 404. Even though some of the areas surrounding Cuyamaca Lake reservoir are wetlands, water management activities are not regulated under section 404 of the Clean Water Act, and these activities have the potential to adversely affect the two taxa under consideration in this proposed rule. Several small water impoundments in streams around Cuyamaca Lake reservoir may qualify for authorization under Nationwide Permit (NWP) No. 26 of the Clean Water Act if they are less than one acre (0.4 ha) in size. Because projects affecting such streams or wetlands may proceed without notifying the Corps, evaluation of their impacts under section 404 is precluded. An individual permit may be required by the Corps if projects otherwise qualifying under NWP 26 are likely to have significant environmental impacts. However, the Corps is generally reluctant to withhold authorization under NWP 26 unless the existence of a Federally listed species is likely to be jeopardized or if the action impacts a vernal pool (Bruce Henderson, Army Corps of Engineers, pers. comm., 1993). Section 404 of the Clean Water Act regulates clearing of vegetation by mechanical means (e.g., bulldozing) but does not currently regulate any method of clearing that does not disturb the soil or channel bottom. Thus, the ongoing use of herbicides to remove vegetation from Cuyamaca Lake reservoir is not regulated under section 404, although water quality certification must be obtained from the Regional Water Quality Control Board under section 401 of the Clean Water Act (Bruce Henderson, pers. comm., 1993). Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii and Downingia concolor var. brevior have been exposed to artificial flooding and draining of their habitat, herbicides, and trampling from maintenance vehicles and recreational activities. For these reasons, the Service finds that these species currently receive inadequate protection under section 404 of the Clean Water Act and section 1603 of the California Fish and Game Code. No federally listed species inhabit vernally wet meadows in the Peninsular Ranges of southern California. Therefore, these two species proposed for listing receive no federal regulatory protection resulting from sympatry with listed species. Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii is recognized by the Cleveland National Forest as a ``sensitive species'' (Winter 1991). The Cleveland National Forest has policies to protect sensitive plant taxa under its jurisdiction, including attempting to establish these species in unoccupied but suitable or historic habitat, encouraging land ownership adjustments to acquire and protect sensitive plant habitat, conserving meadow water tables, and protecting montane meadow habitats (Winter 1991). However, these guidelines have not been entirely effective. For example, implementation of plans to supply an equestrian campground with water from a well at Filaree Flat in the Laguna Mountains may alter meadow hydrology (Volgarino, pers. comm., 1993). The Cleveland National Forest has addressed trampling impacts to L.g. ssp. parishii by placing interpretive signs and fencing around populations at the Shrine Camp, Prado campgrounds, and Morris Ranch meadow. In addition, an alternative location for a proposed campground at Filaree Flat is being considered to avoid impacts to L.g. ssp. parishii. A late season grazing regime has been enacted at several of these meadows (Winter 1991; Volgarino, pers. comm., 1993). Fencing sensitive habitat areas minimizes impacts but does not prevent entry by hikers or mountain bikers. In some cases, plants that remain unprotected within campgrounds are severely trampled by campers. While Forest Service management practices have reduced impacts in certain areas, the majority of L.g. ssp. parishii populations are located on private lands that currently do not receive adequate protection. No populations of Downingia concolor var. brevior occur on lands under Forest Service jurisdiction. The California Department of Parks and Recreation has eliminated grazing from meadows containing Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii at Cuyamaca State Park. However, other impacts to these species and their habitat continue to occur in this area, including trampling by horses, unauthorized trails, vehicle parking, off-road vehicle use, diversion of water flow, erosion, channelization, and water impoundment. No habitat has been set aside exclusively for the protection of D. concolor var. brevior (Bauder 1992). The Santa Rosa Plateau Preserve is managed by The Nature Conservancy for the long-term protection of sensitive species. However, only a single, small population of Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii is located within the preserve.
