FR940216-0-00085 FR940216-0-00010 Control of VOC emissions from mobile sources similarly is estimated (see the RIA) to result in a wide range of cost-effectiveness values, depending on the type of program and level of control achieved. Enhanced inspection and maintenance (I/M) programs will cost between $900&hyph;1,700/ton VOC reduced, while basic I/M was estimated to cost $5,400/ton VOC. 25 The Tier 1 standards for light duty vehicles (already implemented for the 1994 model year) were estimated to cost about $6,000/ton VOC. 25 ``Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements,'' Final Rule, 57 FR 52984, November 5, 1992. 2. NO X Standards Development While section 211(k)(2)(A) of the Act specifies that there be no net increase in NO X emissions (over baseline levels) resulting from the use of reformulated gasoline, both a National Research Council study 26 and a study prepared for EPA 27 have indicated that additional NO X reductions could significantly reduce ozone formation in many areas. Gasoline vehicles contributed 20&hyph;35% of total urban NO X inventories in 1990 and are expected to contribute similar amounts in 2000. 28 As identified in subsection A.1 above, section 211(c) of the Act gives the Agency broad regulatory authority to regulate motor vehicle fuel quality if any emission product of such fuel causes or contributes to air pollution which may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare. Based on the reports cited above, other EPA work in ambient ozone analysis, and the authority granted EPA under section 211(c), EPA proposed setting a NO X emission reduction standard in connection with the Phase II standards to further reduce ozone formation during the high ozone season. 26 ``Rethinking the Ozone Problem in Urban and Regional Air Pollution,'' National Research Council, December 18, 1991. 27 ``Modeling the Effects of Reformulated Gasolines on Ozone and Toxics Concentrations in the Baltimore and Houston Areas,'' prepared for EPA,OPPE,APB by Systems Applications International, September 30, 1992. 28 While Tier I vehicles, which have lower NO X emissions than conventional vehicles, will be entering the fleet, they will have only had five years to displace older, dirtier cars by 2000. Anticipated growth in vehicle miles travelled will offset any emissions benefits gained from the use of cleaner cars. A number of aspects of the RFG program lead naturally to a focus on NO X control. First, Phase II RFG is focused on the worst ozone nonattainment areas. Second, these areas will be required to use VOC controlled Phase II RFG only during the time of the year when control is needed (the summer months). Third, special fuel distribution for RFG will already be in place in these areas; many of the costs of producing and distributing this new gasoline will have been incurred as a result of the Phase II program. Fourth, EPA has shown (in the RIA and the following sections) that gasoline can be refined cost-effectively to reduce NO X emissions. EPA sees little benefit in creating a second gasoline program, which would likely differ only slightly from RFG in the geographic areas affected, to control NO X emissions. A large segment of the industry is already making the changes necessary to comply with the Phase I RFG standards in 1998 relative to the statutory baseline for sulfur and olefin levels (and all other parameters defined). Therefore, many refiners will be assessing the need for sulfur and olefin control in the next few years to ensure they comply with the no NO X increase requirement of the Act. Promulgated separately, a NO X standard would require refiners to make changes to their refineries in addition to those already made to comply with Phase I RFG and the Phase II VOC and toxics standards, perhaps making some of the original refinery changes obsolete. By enacting a NO X emissions reductions program at this time EPA hopes to avoid this concern. EPA believes that in locations where reformulated gasoline is found necessary to reduce the formation of ozone, a NO X standard is appropriate as well, as discussed below and in Section VI of the RIA.
