FR940826-2-00130 FR940826-2-00067 [Release No. 34&hyph;34556; File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;07] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to the Reporting of Outside Assets and Liabilities Attributable to Broker-Dealers. August 19, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on May 2, 1994, the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. (``BSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change 1 as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On August 16, 1994, the Exchange submitted Amendment No. 2 to the proposed rule change. 2 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change, as amended, from interested persons. 1 On May 12, 1994, the BSE filed Amendment No. 1 which corrects a technical mistake in the original rule filing in the text of the Rule, which no longer applies because in Amendment No. 2 the BSE reformulated the proposed rule change. See letter from Karen Aluise, Assistant Vice President, Boston Stock Exchange, to Sandy Sciole, Branch Chief Commission, dated May 5, 1994. 2 In Amendment No. 2 the Exchange submitted a revised Exhibit 2 to its filing. See letter from Karen Aluise, Assistant Vice President, Boston Stock Exchange, to Amy Bilbija, Commission, dated August 10, 1994. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Boston Stock Exchange seeks to adopt a rule requiring broker-dealers assigned to the Exchange as their Designated Examining Authority to report to the Exchange all outside assets and liabilities attributable to the broker-dealer. The text of the proposed rule is as follows: Chapter XXII_Financial Reports and Requirements_Aggregate Indebtedness_Net Capital Reporting of Assets and Liabilities Attributable to Broker-Dealers Sec. 2(n) Broker-Dealers assigned to the Boston Stock Exchange as their Designated Examining Authority (``DEA'') are required to: (1) Submit to the Exchange Financial and Operational Combined Uniform Single Report (``FOCUS'') reports, in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 17a&hyph;5, which must include all assets and liabilities attributable to the broker-dealer. (2) Report to the Exchange on a quarterly basis (or more often as deemed appropriate by the Exchange) the following: (a) All assets and liabilities attributable to the broker-dealer or held by another entity for the broker-dealer's account. This shall include: (i) All checking accounts, brokerage accounts, debts, etc. in the broker-dealer's name or guaranteed by the broker-dealer; and (ii) Liabilities of other entities, broker-dealers or individuals assumed by the broker-dealer; (b) A description of any outstanding litigation or contracts which may have a material financial impact on the broker-dealer or its business; and (c) A pro-forma consolidated capital computation of assets and liabilities of any subsidiary or affiliate for which the broker-dealer guarantees, endorses or assumes directly or indirectly the obligations or liabilities. (3) Immediately notify the Exchange of any financial matters, including but not limited to litigation and contracts, which may have a material impact on its capital and/or its equity requirements pursuant to Exchange Rules. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change
