FR940706-0-00053 FR940706-0-00013 Effectiveness of Fusees and Liquid-Burning Flares Versus Triangles Many of the commenters opposed the use of fusees in lieu of bidirectional reflective triangles because of concerns about the effectiveness of fusees as emergency warning devices. The Advocates stated: Unfortunately, the elevation of fusees and liquid-burning flares to the status of primary warning devices alongside triangles is a regressive step that can have serious consequences in the potential for additional truck and bus accidents. Although there are major shortcomings with the design and performance of reflective triangles, and with the criteria for deploying them set forth in the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (FMCSR), the selection of a single device having priority in all circumstances appropriately fulfills the well-known principle of traffic engineering that motorists should always be reinforced in their traffic control expectations when negotiating roads and streets. That is, it is important to educate motorists to the unambiguous intent of traffic control devices by ensuring the use of designs with unvarying shapes, sizes, colors, and messages. Despite the fact that Advocates has serious misgivings over the retroreflective performance and conspicuity of emergency triangles, there is little question that their consistent use over the past two decades has provided instant recognition by motorists that there is a disabled commercial vehicle on or near the travelway. This important recognition by motorists can now be threatened by the substitution of flares or fusees to demarcate the area around a disabled truck or bus. Several commenters cited an article published in the April 1992 issue of Consumer Reports magazine. For example, Sate-Lite stated: A widely publicized recent study on the effectiveness of vehicle warning devices, in Consumer Reports Magazine [sic] [ Consumer Reports , ``Emergency! Handling Trouble on the Road,'' April 1992], concluded without reservation that triangle reflectors are the best choice of warning device for all vehicles.'' The Consumer Reports Study cites the fact that triangles can be placed as far away from the vehicle as needed and the fact that they do not require electric power. Moreover, flares and fusees: (1) Flares do not command attention because ``their light comes from one small source and isn't very conspicuous at a distance''; (2) a flare's light may not last until help arrives; (3) there is the obvious need for periodic replacement of flares; and (4) flares will frequently roll or blow away from their initial site. These problems and deficiencies should be obvious even to the casual observer of highway conditions. The Consumer Reports study concluded that ``Triangles provided the clearest warning from 100 feet at night.'' Some commenters also referred to a National Highway Traffic Safety Administration report entitled ``Study of Safety-Related Devices_Emergency Warning Devices for Disabled Vehicles'' (August 19, 1986) (NHTSA Report) to support their claims that bidirectional reflective triangles are more effective than fusees as emergency warning devices. While the FHWA understands the concerns of the commenters, it notes that this rulemaking is in response to section 1041(b) of the ISTEA. Section 1041(b) requires that ยง393.95 be applied so that fusees and liquid-burning flares are given ``equal priority'' with bidirectional reflective triangles as emergency warning devices. The congressional mandate is not contingent upon an evaluation of the effectiveness of fusees and liquid-burning flares relative to that of bidirectional reflective triangles. In addition, this rulemaking is not intended to require the use of fusees and liquid-burning flares, but rather to allow their use as a primary emergency warning device on certain CMVs. This final rule does not require motor carriers to discontinue the use of bidirectional reflective triangles in favor of warning devices they believe to be less effective. Mixtures of Warning Devices The NPRM requested comments on whether or not motor carriers should be allowed to use a mixture of fusees, liquid-burning flares, and bidirectional reflective triangles (e.g., a bidirectional triangle at one of the three locations warning devices are required to be deployed, and fusees at the other locations). Sate-Lite and the TSEI believed that allowing a mixture of warning devices would contribute to motorist confusion and uncertainty in associating the warning devices with the stopped CMV.
