FR940705-2-00171 FR940705-2-00091 Section III&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;b&hyph;(5). Experiments with recombinant DNA-modified arthropods or small animals associated with plants, or with arthropods or small animals with recombinant DNA-modified microorganisms associated with them if the recombinant DNA-modified microorganisms have no recognized potential for serious detrimental impact on managed or natural ecosystems (see Section V&hyph;W). Section III&hyph;E. Exempt Experiments The following recombinant DNA molecules are exempt from the NIH Guidelines and registration with the Institutional Biosafety Committee is not required: Section III&hyph;E&hyph;1. Those that are not in organisms or viruses. Section III&hyph;E&hyph;2. Those that consist entirely of DNA segments from a single nonchromosomal or viral DNA source, though one or more of the segments may be a synthetic equivalent. Section III&hyph;E&hyph;3. Those that consist entirely of DNA from a prokaryotic host including its indigenous plasmids or viruses when propagated only in that host (or a closely related strain of the same species), or when transferred to another host by well established physiological means. Section III&hyph;E&hyph;4. Those that consist entirely of DNA from an eukaryotic host including its chloroplasts, mitochondria, or plasmids (but excluding viruses) when propagated only in that host (or a closely related strain of the same species). Section III&hyph;E&hyph;5. Those that consist entirely of DNA segments from different species that exchange DNA by known physiological processes, though one or more of the segments may be a synthetic equivalent. A list of such exchangers will be prepared and periodically revised by the NIH Director with advice of the RAC after appropriate notice and opportunity for public comment (see Section IV&hyph;C&hyph;1&hyph;b&hyph;(1)&hyph;(c)). See Appendices A&hyph;I through A&hyph;VI for a list of natural exchangers that are exempt from the NIH Guidelines. Section III&hyph;E&hyph;6. Those that do not present a significant risk to health or the environment (see Section IV&hyph;C&hyph;1&hyph;b&hyph;(1)&hyph;(c)), as determined by the NIH Director, with the advice of the RAC, and following appropriate notice and opportunity for public comment. See Appendix C for other classes of experiments which are exempt from the NIH Guidelines. Section IV, Roles and Responsibilities Section IV&hyph;A. Policy The safe conduct of experiments involving recombinant DNA depends on the individual conducting such activities. The NIH Guidelines cannot anticipate every possible situation. Motivation and good judgment are the key essentials to protection of health and the environment. The NIH Guidelines are intended to assist the institution, Institutional Biosafety Committee, Biological Safety Officer, and Principal Investigator in determining safeguards that should be implemented. The NIH Guidelines will never be complete or final since all conceivable experiments involving recombinant DNA cannot be foreseen. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the institution and those associated with it to adhere to the intent of the NIH Guidelines as well as to their specifics. Each institution (and the Institutional Biosafety Committee acting on its behalf) is responsible for ensuring that recombinant DNA activities comply with the NIH Guidelines. General recognition of institutional authority and responsibility properly establishes accountability for safe conduct of the research at the local level. The following roles and responsibilities constitute an administrative framework in which safety is an essential and integral part of research involving recombinant DNA molecules. Further clarifications and interpretations of roles and responsibilities will be issued by the NIH as necessary. Section IV&hyph;B. Responsibilities of the Institution
