FR941004-2-00150 FR941004-2-00087 [Release No. 34&hyph;34724; International Series Release No. 718; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;25] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. Relating to the Listing and Trading Options on the CBOE Emerging Latin American Markets Index September 27, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 notice is hereby given that on July 20, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the CBOE. The Exchange filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change on August 18, 1994, 3 and Amendment No. 2 on September 26, 1994. 4 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). 3 In Amendment No. 1, the Exchange proposes to treat the CBOE Emerging Latin American Markets Index as a narrow-based index for purposes of margin and position limit treatment. Pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.4A, the position limits for the CBOE Emerging Latin American Markets Index would initially be set at 7,500 contracts. See Letter from Eileen Smith, Director, Product Development, Research Department, CBOE, to Brad Ritter, Senior Counsel, Office of Market Supervision (``OMS''), Division of Market Regulation (``Division''), Commission, dated August 18, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). 4 In Amendment No. 2, the CBOE proposes to expand the CBOE Emerging Latin American Markets Index to ten securities by adding the Emerging Mexico Fund as a component security. See Letter from Scott Lyden, Senior Research Analyst, Research Department, CBOE, to Brad Ritter, Senior Counsel, OMS, Division, Commission, dated September 26, 1994 (``Amendment No. 2''). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change As provided in Exchange Rule 24.2, ``Designation of the Index,'' 5 the CBOE proposes to list for trading options on the CBOE Emerging Latin American Markets Index (``Emerging Latin American Markets Index'' or ``Index''). The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, CBOE, and at the Commission. 5 Exchange Rule 24.2 provides, in part, that the Commission must approve a particular index upon which options are traded. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The CBOE has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to permit the Exchange to list and trade cash-settled, European-style 6 index options on the Emerging Latin American Markets Index. The Index will initially consist of ten 7 closed-end funds which invest in the stocks of firms in the emerging Latin American economies. According to the Exchange, no proxy for the performance of these emerging economies is currently available in the U.S derivatives markets. The Exchange believes, therefore, that options on the Index will provide investors with a low-cost means of participating in the performance of these markets and/or hedging against the risk of investing in the Latin American emerging markets. 6 European-style options can only be exercised during a specified period before the options expire. 7 See Amendment No. 2, supra note 4. Index Design The Emerging Latin American Markets Index will initially consist of ten closed-end funds. 8 All of the closed-end fund components of the Index currently trade on the New York Stock Exchange. 8 The components of the Index are the: Latin American Discovery Fund Inc.; Latin American Equity Fund Inc.; Latin America Investment Fund Inc.; Argentina Fund Inc.; Brazilian Emerging Mexico Fund; Mexico Equity and Income Fund Inc.; and Mexico Fund Inc. Id.
