FR941020-2-00124 FR941020-2-00077 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34841; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;16] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., Relating to Order Service Firms October 14, 1994. On June 1, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''), pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 a proposal to amend CBOE Rule 6.77, ``Stock Execution Services,'' to allow order service firms to take market maker orders for the purchase or sale of commodity futures contracts and futures options and forward the orders to the appropriate futures exchange for execution. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1982). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1993). Notice of the proposed rule change was published for comment in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34396 (July 18, 1994), 59 FR 37793 (July 25, 1994). No comments were received on the proposal. Currently, CBOE Rule 6.77 states that a stock service is a member registered with the Exchange for the purpose of providing stock execution services to market makers on the CBOE's floor. 3 The CBOE proposes to amend CBOE Rule 6.77 to replace the term ``stock service'' with the term ``order service firm'' and to allow order service firms to take orders from CBOE market makers for the purchase or sale of commodity futures contracts and futures options and forward market makers' orders to the appropriate futures exchange. The execution of all orders to purchase or sell commodity interests will occur on a futures exchange that has been designated as a contract market by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (``CFTC''). 3 The services provided by the stock services consist generally of taking orders for the purchase or sale of stocks and forwarding the orders to broker-dealers for execution. Accordingly, proposed paragraph (d) of CBOE Rule 6.77 provides that order service firms that accept orders to buy or sell commodity interests must comply with the Commodity Exchange Act of 1974 (``CEA'') and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. 4 Proposed paragraph (d) also requires order service firms to keep the CBOE's Department of Financial Compliance apprised of their registration status under the CEA on an ongoing basis, including any financial reporting or capital requirements. 4 For example, Section 4(a)(1) of the CEA generally provides that transactions in commodity futures contracts may be executed only on a board of trade which has been designated as a ``contract market'' in the underlying commodity by the CFTC. In addition, Sections 4d and 4k of the CEA generally provide that any person that is engaged in soliciting or accepting orders for the purchase or sale of commodity interests must be registered as an introducing broker or as an associated person. In addition to revising CBOE Rule 6.77, the CBOE proposes to adopt CBOE Rule 6.78, ``Letters of Guarantee Required of Order Service Firms,'' which requires a member acting as an order service firm to have on file with the Exchange and in effect an Order Service Firm Letter of Guarantee issued for the service firm by a member of the Options Clearing Corporation (``OCC''). Under proposed CBOE Rule 6.78(b), the letter of guarantee must provide that the issuing clearing member accepts financial responsibility for all orders handled by the order service firm on the CBOE floor and for all financial obligations of the order service firm to the Exchange. In order to limit the potential risk to any single clearing member, no clearing member will be permitted to guarantee more than three order service firms without the prior written approval of the Department of Financial Compliance. In considering a request to guarantee more than three such firms, the Department of Financial Compliance will consider the clearing member's level of excess net capital, additional financial resources, and such other facts as the Department of Financial Compliance deems appropriate.
