FR940202-1-00022 FR940202-1-00011 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Care Financing Administration 42 CFR Part 433 [MB&hyph;39&hyph;P] [RIN: 0938&hyph;AF11] Medicaid Program; Third Party Liability (TPL) Cost-Effectiveness Waivers AGENCY: Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), HHS. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: We are proposing to revise our rules concerning Medicaid agencies' actions where third party liability (TPL) may exist for expenditures for medical assistance covered under the State plan. We propose to allow the Medicaid agencies to request waivers from certain procedures in our regulations that are not expressly required by the Social Security Act. We would consider waiving nonstatutorily required procedures relating to identifying possible TPL where the agency finds that following a given required procedure is not cost-effective and is duplicative of another State activity. A nonstatutorily required activity would be eligible for a waiver if the cost of the required activity exceeds the TPL recoupment and the required activity accomplishes, at the same or at a higher cost, the same objective as another activity that is being performed by the States. This change would give States greater flexibility in managing their Medicaid programs. DATES: To be considered, written comments must be mailed or delivered to the appropriate address, as provided below, and must be received by 5 p.m. on April 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Mail comments (original and 3 copies) to the following address: Health Care Financing Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Attention: MB&hyph;39&hyph;P, P.O. Box 7518, Baltimore, MD 21207&hyph;0518. If you prefer, you may deliver your written comments (original and 3 copies) to one of the following addresses: Room 309&hyph;G, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, 200 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20201, or Room 132, East High Rise Building, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21207. Due to staffing and resource limitations, we cannot accept comments by facsimile (FAX) transmissions. Please address a copy of comments on information collection requirements to: Laura Oliven, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. In commenting, please refer to file code MB&hyph;39&hyph;P. Comments received timely will be available for public inspection as they are received, generally beginning approximately 3 weeks after publication of this document, in room 309&hyph;G of the Department's offices at 200 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC, on Monday through Friday of each week from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. (phone: (202) 690&hyph;7890). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mel Schmerler, (410) 966&hyph;5942. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Section 1902(a)(25) of the Social Security Act (the Act) requires that State or local Medicaid agencies take all reasonable measures to ascertain the legal liability of third parties to pay for care and services furnished to Medicaid recipients. A third party is any individual, entity, or program that is or may be liable to pay all or part of the expenditures for medical assistance furnished under a State plan. Medicaid is intended to be the payer of last resort; that is, other available resources must be used before Medicaid pays for the care and services of a Medicaid-eligible individual. These other resources are known as third party liability, or TPL. Further, provisions under section 1902(a)(25)(A)(i) of the Act specify that the Medicaid State plan must provide for the collection of sufficient information to enable the State to pursue claims against third parties. Examples of liable third parties include commercial insurance companies through employment-related or privately purchased health insurance; casualty coverage resulting from an accidental injury; payments received directly from an individual who has either voluntarily accepted or been assigned legal responsibility for the health care of one or more Medicaid recipients; and fraternal groups, union, or State workers' compensation commissions. TLP also includes medical support provided by a parent under a court or administrative order. Statutory provisions (sections 1137 and 1902(a)(25) of the Act) require States to obtain health insurance information at eligibility intake and redetermination interviews, perform the State Wage Information Collection Agency (SWICA) data match, safeguard recipient information, obtain recipient assignment of rights, and submit a TPL action plan for HCFA approval. These statutory requirements would not be affected by the provisions of this proposed rule. Nonstatutory requirements, specified in Section 433.138 (and subject to proposed waiver), include obtaining information (via data matching) with the State Workers' Compensation or Industrial Accident Commission files and State Motor Vehicle Accident report files. Another nonstatutory requirement is the requirement for agencies to identify all paid claims with trauma/diagnosis codes found in the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM 800&hyph;999, except 994.6. In Section 433.139 (and subject to proposed waiver), State agencies are required to bill the third party resource within 60 days after the last day of the month the State learns of the available resource and use the cost-avoidance method of paying. Under our regulations at Section 433.138, pertinent health insurance information must be obtained (1) from Medicaid applicants or recipients during the determination and redetermination process; (2) by securing data match agreements with specific Federal and State agencies; (3) by conducting diagnosis and trauma code edits; and (4) by following specified procedures regarding the frequency of these activities.
