FR940817-2-00263 FR940817-2-00113 5. Neurotoxicology Risk Assessment 5.1. Introduction Risk assessment is an empirically based process used to estimate the risk that exposure of an individual or population to a chemical, physical, or biological agent will be associated with an adverse effect. Generally, such effects can be quantified and the relative probability of their occurrence can be calculated. The risk assessment process usually involves four steps: hazard identification, dose-response assessment, exposure assessment, and risk characterization (NRC, 1983). Risk management is the process that applies information obtained through the risk assessment process to determine whether the assessed risk should be reduced and, if so, to what extent (NRC, 1983). In some cases, risk is the only factor considered in a decision to regulate exposure to a substance. Alternatively, the risk posed by a substance is weighed against social, ethical, and medical benefits and economic and technological factors in formulating a risk management decision. The risk- balancing approach is used by some agencies to consider the benefits as well as the risks associated with unrestricted or partially restricted use of a substance. The purpose of this chapter is to describe the risk assessment process as it has currently evolved in neurotoxicology and present available options for quantitative risk assessment. 5.2. The Risk Assessment Process 5.2.1. Hazard Identification Agents that adversely affect the neurophysiological, neurochemical, or structural integrity of the nervous system or the integration of nervous system function expressed as modified behavior may be classified as neurotoxicants (Tilson, 1990b). For hazard identification, the best or most generalizable studies would measure these changes in humans. With the exclusion of therapeutic agents, information on effects in humans is usually derived from case reports of accidental exposures and epidemiological studies. This type of data affords less certainty regarding generalizability as well as less specific exposure information. As discussed in chapter 4, a common alternative method of data generation for hazard identification is the use of animal models. Animal models that measure behavioral, neurophysiological, neurochemical, and structural effects have been developed and validated. Studies that employ these models to evaluate specific potential hazards are used to predict the outcome of exposure to the same hazard in humans. 5.2.1.1. Human studies Information obtained through the evaluation of human exposure data provides direct identification of neurotoxic hazards. This type of information is generally available from clinical trials required for the approval of therapeutic products for human use. For the purposes of risk assessment of nontherapeutic substances, data on effects of exposure to humans come primarily from two types of studies, case reports and epidemiological (Friedlander and Hearn, 1980) (see chapter 3). Case studies can supply evidence of an agent's toxicity, but are often limited by both the qualitative nature of the signs and symptoms reported and the nature of the exposure data. Epidemiological studies can provide data on the types of neurotoxic effects and the possible susceptibilities of certain populations. Under appropriate considerations, they can generally provide convincing and reliable evidence of potential human neurotoxicity. As with case studies, however, often only qualitative estimates of exposure can be obtained. Controlled laboratory studies have the potential to provide adequate exposure and effects data for accurate hazard identification, but ethical considerations place moral and practical restrictions on such studies except in those instances where direct benefit to the subjects, as in the case of therapeutic agents, may be expected. Excluding instances of therapeutic product development, most studies are limited to measuring the effects of acute, rather than long-term, exposure. This limits their utility in risk assessment because the effect of long-term, low-level exposure to a potentially toxic agent is often the issue of concern. Methods available to evaluate neurotoxicity in humans include examination of neurophysiological and behavioral parameters. Specific tests to measure neuromuscular strength and coordination, alterations in sensation, deficits in learning and memory, changes in mood and personality, and disruptions of autonomic function are frequently employed (see chapter 3). 5.2.1.2. Animal studies As discussed in chapter 4, animal models for many endpoints of neurotoxicity are available and widely used for hazard identification. Data from animal studies are frequently extrapolated to humans. For example, if exposure to an agent produces neuropathology in an animal model, damage to a comparable structure in humans is predicted. Similarly, biochemical and physiological effects observed in animals are commonly extrapolated to humans. Agents that produce alterations in the levels of specific enzymes in one animal species generally have the same effect in other species, including humans. Neurophysiological endpoints also tend to be affected by the same manipulations across species. Thus, an agent interfering with nerve conduction in an animal study is often assumed to have the same effect in humans. Behavioral studies in animals are also applied to human hazard identification, although the correspondence between methods employed in animals and humans is sometimes not as obvious. For this reason, behavioral methods developed for neurotoxic hazard identification need to be considered on a case-by-case basis. 5.2.1.3. Special issues 5.2.1.3.1. Animal-to-human extrapolation. The use of animal data to identify hazard to humans is not without controversy. Relative sensitivity across species as well as between sexes is a constant concern. Overly conservative risk assessments, based on the assumption that humans are always more sensitive than a tested animal species, can result in poor risk management decisions. Conversely, an assumption of equivalent sensitivity in a case where humans actually are more sensitive to a given agent can result in underregulation that might have a negative impact on human health. 5.2.1.3.2. Susceptible populations. A related controversy concerns the use of data collected from adult organisms, animal or human, to predict hazards in potentially more sensitive populations, such as the very young and the elderly, or in other groups, such as the chronically ill. In some cases, identification of neurotoxicity hazard does not generally include subjects from either end of the human life span or from other than healthy subjects. Uncertainty factors are used to adjust for more sensitive populations. In addition, single or multigeneration reproductive studies in animals may provide a source of information on neurological disorders, behavioral changes, autonomical dysfunction, neuroanatomical anomalies, and other signs of neurotoxicity in the developing animal (chapter 4). 5.2.1.3.3. Reversibility. For the most part, the basic principles of hazard identification are the same for neurotoxicity as for any adverse effect on health. One notable exception, however, concerns the issue of reversibility and the special consideration that must be given to the inherent redundancy and plasticity of the nervous system. For many health effects, temporary, as opposed to permanent, effects are repaired during a true recovery. Damage to many organ systems, if not severe, can be spontaneously repaired. For example, damaged liver cells that may result in impaired liver function often can be replaced with new cells that function normally. The resulting restoration of liver function can be viewed as recovery. In the central nervous system, cells generally do not recover from severe damage and new cells do not replace them. When nervous system recovery is observed, it may represent compensation requiring activation of cells that were previously performing some other function, reactive synaptogenesis, or recovery of moderately injured cells. While a damaged liver may recover due to the addition of new cells, severe damage to nervous system cells results in a net loss of cells. This loss of compensatory capacity may not be noticed for many years and, when it does appear, it may be manifest in a way seemingly unrelated to the original neurotoxic event. Lack of ability to recover from a neurotoxic event later in life or premature onset of signs of normal aging may result. It is therefore important to consider the possibility that significant damage to the nervous system may have occurred in experiments where effects appear to be reversible.
