FR940207-2-00187 FR940207-2-00084 3. The investment advisory services that had formerly been provided to the Shearson Funds by Shearson or its subsidiaries is now provided by Smith Barney or one of its investment advisory affiliates. Prior to the Transaction, Shearson served as investment adviser to the Shearson Funds through Shearson Asset Management and Shearson Lehman Advisors, which were investment advisory groups of the Asset Management Group of Shearson. Shearson Lehman Investment Strategy Advisors Inc. was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Shearson. Upon the closing of the Transaction, Shearson Asset Management became a separate division of SBA called the Smith Barney Shearson Asset Management Division, and Shearson Lehman Investment Strategy Advisors Inc. became the Strategy Advisers, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SBA. Also, upon the closing of the Transaction, Shearson Lehman Advisors became a separate division of MMC called the Greenwich Street Advisors Division. SBA and MMC are subsidiaries of Smith Barney. 4. The Prior Orders permitted the Shearson Funds to issue multiple classes of shares representing interests in the same portfolio of securities and assess and, under certain circumstances, waive a CDSC on redemptions of shares. 1 At the request of Shearson and Smith Barney, the Commission's Division of Investment Management informed Shearson and Smith Barney that the Division would not recommend that the Commission take any enforcement action against them if the Shearson Funds operate under the terms of the Prior Orders until the earlier of (a) the date the Prior Orders are renewed by the Commission pursuant to a renewal order specifying Smith Barney and its subsidiaries or affiliates as applicants or (b) June 8, 1994. 2 Accordingly, applicants request an order that would continue and renew the exemption granted to the Shearson Funds and grant the same exemptions to the other applicants. 1 Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18565 (Feb. 24, 1992) (notice) and 18832 (July 7, 1992) (order); Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18770 (June 11, 1992) (notice) and 18832 (July 7, 1992) (order); and Investment Company Act Release Nos. 19176 (Dec. 22, 1992) (notice) and 19216 (Jan. 19, 1993) (order). 2 Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. (Pub. avail. June 8, 1993). 5. Applicants request that relief be extended to any other investment company, or portfolio thereof, that is principally underwritten by Smith Barney or Lehman Brothers that (a) is or becomes part of the same ``group of investment companies,'' and (b) offers shares that are identical in all material respects to the shares described in the application. (Such funds are also the ``Funds.'') A. The Variable Pricing System 1. Pursuant to the Prior Orders, applicants (other than the Smith Barney Fund, Smith Barney, Smith Barney Advisers, and LBGAMI) implemented multiple distribution arrangements (the ``Variable Pricing System'') and amended arrangements (the ``Amended Variable Pricing System''). Under the Amended Variable Pricing System, each of the Shearson Funds could (a) Sell shares with a front-end sales load and a plan of distribution adopted pursuant to rule 12b&hyph;1 under the Act (``Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plan'') (``Class A shares''), (b) sell shares subject to a CDSC and a Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plan (``Class B shares''), (c) sell shares without either a sales charge or a distribution or service fee for purchase by investors specified below (``Class C shares''), (d) sell shares without a front-end load or CDSC but subject to a Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plan (``Class D shares''), and (e) establish one or more additional classes to be sold with different specified sales load and service and distribution fee structures (``Additional Classes''). In addition, the Prior Orders permitted the various classes to bear specified expenses (``Class Expenses'') that are directly attributable only to a specific class. 2. Class C shares may be purchased by (a) Employee benefit and retirement plans of a Fund's distributor and its subsidiaries or affiliates, (b) certain unit investment trusts (``UITs'') sponsored by a Fund's distributor and its subsidiaries and affiliates, 3 and (c) if authorized by a Fund's board (i) employees of a Fund's distributor and its subsidiaries and affiliates and (ii) directors, general partners, or trustees of any investment company for which the distributor, its subsidiaries and/or affiliates serve as distributor and, in each (i) and (ii), their spouses and minor children. 3 This category is restricted to UITs that could be created only upon receipt of a second order of exemption pursuant to section 6(c) of the Act. The UITs would invest their assets in fixed pools of securities, which would include both Class C shares of a Fund or portfolio and other securities such as zero-coupon government securities. 3. Applicants may offer an Additional Class subject to a non-rule 12b&hyph;1 administrative support services plan between a Fund or the Fund's distributor and an organization in which the organization agrees to provide services to their clients who may beneficially own shares of the Fund (such agreements are ``Plan Agreements''). The provision of services under the Plan Agreements would augment or replace (and not be duplicative of) the services provided by a Fund's investment adviser, transfer agent, and administrator.
