FR940425-0-00026 FR940425-0-00018 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 93&hyph;02; Notice 4] RIN 2127&hyph;AD48 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Fuel System Integrity of Compressed Natural Gas Vehicles AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation (DOT). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule establishes a new Federal motor vehicle safety standard, Standard No. 303, Fuel System Integrity of Compressed Natural Gas Vehicles, that specifies vehicle performance requirements for the fuel system of vehicles fueled by compressed natural gas (CNG). The Standard enhances the fuel system integrity of CNG vehicles by subjecting the vehicles to crash testing and placing a limit on the post-crash pressure drop in the fuel system. The Standard specifies frontal, rear, and lateral barrier crash tests for light vehicles and a moving contoured barrier crash test for school buses with a GVWR over 10,000 pounds. The purpose of this new standard is to reduce deaths and injuries caused by fires resulting from fuel leakage during and after crashes involving vehicles fueled by CNG. This is the first final rule in the agency's comprehensive effort to regulate alternative fueled vehicles. In addition to this final rule, NHTSA anticipates issuing another final rule that will specify performance requirements addressing the strength, durability, and venting of CNG fuel containers. In addition, as a result of public comments on the CNG notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM), the agency anticipates issuing a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking (SNPRM) proposing performance requirements that would evaluate a CNG fuel container's internal corrosion, brittle fracture under low temperatures, external damage, and fragmentation. DATES: Effective Date: The Standard becomes effective on September 1, 1995. Petitions for Reconsideration: Any petition for reconsideration of this rule must be received by NHTSA no later than May 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Petitions for reconsideration of this rule should refer to Docket 93&hyph;02; Notice 3 and should be submitted to: Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Gary R. Woodford, NRM&hyph;01.01, Special Projects Staff, Office of Rulemaking, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590 (202&hyph;366&hyph;4931). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Outline I. Background A. General Information B. Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking C. Notice of Proposed Rulemaking II. Comments on the Proposal III. Agency's Decision A. Overview B. Vehicles Subject to the Performance Requirements 1. Gross Vehicle Weight Ratings 2. Terminology C. Performance Requirements 1. Allowable Pressure Drop a. Regulatory Background b. Problems with Measuring Small Pressure Drops c. Test Time d. Test Temperature e. Leakage from Fuel System Components f. Bi-Fuel and Dual Fuel Applicability D. Test Conditions 1. Test Pressure 2. Test Gas
