FR941006-2-00053 FR941006-2-00038 Firstar Corporation; Formation of, Acquisition by, or Merger of Bank Holding Companies; and Acquisition of Nonbanking Company The company listed in this notice has applied under 225.14 of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.14) for the Board's approval under section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842) to become a bank holding company or to acquire voting securities of a bank or bank holding company. The listed company has also applied under 225.23(a)(2) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.23(a)(2)) for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and 225.21(a) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.21(a)) to acquire or control voting securities or assets of a company engaged in a nonbanking activity that is listed in 225.25 of Regulation Y as closely related to banking and permissible for bank holding companies, or to engage in such an activity. Unless otherwise noted, these activities will be conducted throughout the United States. The application is available for immediate inspection at the Federal Reserve Bank indicated. Once the application has been accepted for processing, it will also be available for inspection at the offices of the Board of Governors. Interested persons may express their views in writing on the question whether consummation of the proposal can ``reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices.'' Any request for a hearing on this question must be accompanied by a statement of the reasons a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. Comments regarding the application must be received at the Reserve Bank indicated or the offices of the Board of Governors not later than October 31, 1994. A. Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (James A. Bluemle, Vice President) 230 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60690: 1. Firstar Corporation , through its subsidiary, Firstar Corporation of Illinois, both of Milwaukee, Wisconsin; to acquire 100 percent of the voting shares of First Colonial Bankshares Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, and thereby indirectly acquire All American Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; Colonial Bank, Chicago, Illinois; Community Bank & Trust Company of Edgewater, Chicago, Illinois; Michigan Avenue National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; First Colonial Bank of McHenry County, Crystal Lake, Illinois; First Colonial Bank of Downers Grove, Downers Grove, Illinois; Fox Lake State Bank, Fox Lake, Illinois; First Colonial Bank of DuPage County, Naperville, Illinois; First Colonial Bank Northwest, Niles, Illinois; The Northlake Bank, Northlake, Illinois; Avenue Bank of Oak Park, Oak Park, Illinois; First Colonial Bank Rosemont, Rosemont, Illinois; First Colonial Bank of Lake County, Vernon Hills, Illinois; First Colonial Bank-Highwood, Highwood, Illinois; York State Bank, Elmhurst, Illinois; First Colonial Bank-Mundelein, Mundelein, Illinois; and First Colonial Bank Southwest, Burbank, Illinois. In connection with this application, Applicant has applied to acquire BankersTech, Inc., Chicagok Illinois, and thereby engage in contract out back office services including data processing services to other banks, pursuant to 225.25(b)(7). In addition, Applicants also has applied to acquire First Colonial Trust Company, Oak Park, Illinois, and thereby engage in providing corporate and personal trust services such as escrow exchange agent services, employee benefits, trustee services and investment management services, pursuant to 225.25(b)(3) of the Board's Regulation Y. Applicant also has applied to acquire Mid-States Financial Corp., Schaumburg, Illinois, and thereby engage in providing limited equipment finance leasing, primarily of machine tools, small computers and telephone systems, pursuant to 225.25(b)(5) of the Board's Regulation Y. Applicant also has applied to acquire First Colonial Mortgage Corporation, Elmhurst, Illinois, and thereby engage in providing residential mortgage financing secured by one-to-four family residential properties, including home equity loans, pursuant to 225.25(b)(1) of the Board's Regulation Y. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, September 30, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Deputy Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94-24733 Filed 10-5-94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
