FR940902-1-00095 FR940902-1-00012 (e) Educational pamphlets and similar materials for distribution at workshops for the parents of participants. (f) Student activity fees for Upward Bound participants. (g) Admissions fees, transportation, Upward Bound T-shirts, and other costs necessary to participate in field trips, attend educational activities, visit museums, and attend other events that have as their purpose the intellectual, social, and cultural development of participants. (h) Costs for one project-sponsored banquet or ceremony. (i) Tuition costs for postsecondary credit courses at the host institution for participants in the summer bridge component. (j)(1) Accident insurance to cover any injuries to a project participant while participating in a project activity; and (2) Medical insurance and health service fees for the project participants while participating full-time in the summer component. (k) Courses in English language instruction for project participants with limited proficiency in English, only if these classes are not available at a target school. (l) Transportation costs of participants for regularly scheduled project activities. (m) Transportation, meals, and overnight accommodations for staff members when they are required to accompany participants in project activities such as field trips. (n) Purchase of computer hardware, computer software, or other equipment for student development, project administration and recordkeeping, if the applicant demonstrates to the Secretary's satisfaction that the equipment is required to meet the objectives of the project more economically or efficiently. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;11 and 1070a&hyph;13) ยง645.41 What are unallowable costs? Costs that may not be charged against a grant under this program include the following: (a) Research not directly related to the evaluation or improvement of the project. (b) Meals for staff except as provided in ยง645.40(d) and (m) and in paragraph (c) of this section. (c) Room and board for administrative and instructional staff personnel who do not have responsibility for dormitory supervision of project participants during a residential summer component, unless these costs are approved by the Secretary. (d) Room and board for participants in Veterans Upward Bound projects. (e) Construction, renovation or remodeling of any facilities. (f) Tuition, stipends, or any other form of student financial support for project staff. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;11 and 1070a&hyph;13) ยง645.42 What are Upward Bound stipends? (a) An Upward Bound project may provide stipends for all participants who participate on a full-time basis. (b) In order to receive the stipend, the participant must show evidence of satisfactory participation in activities of the project including_ (1) Regular attendance; and (2) Performance in accordance with standards established by the grantee and described in the application. (c) The grantee may prorate the amount of the stipend according to the number of the scheduled sessions in which the student participated. (d) The following rules govern the amounts of stipends a grantee is permitted to provide: (1) For Regular Upward Bound projects and Upward Bound Math and Science projects_ (i) For the academic year component, the stipend may not exceed $40 per month; and (ii) For the summer component, the stipend may not exceed $60 per month. (2) For Veterans Upward Bound projects, the stipend may not exceed $40 per month. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;11 and 1070a&hyph;13) ยง645.43 What other requirements must a grantee meet? (a) Number of participants. (1) In each budget period, Regular Upward Bound projects shall serve between 50 and 150 participants and Upward Bound Math and Science projects shall serve between 50 and 75 participants.
