FR940214-2-00003 FR940214-2-00002 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE International Trade Administration [A&hyph;508&hyph;604] Industrial Phosphoric Acid From Israel; Final Results of Antidumping Duty Changed Circumstances Review AGENCY: International Trade Administration/Import Administration, Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice of final results of antidumping duty changed circumstances review. SUMMARY: On November 5, 1993, the Department of Commerce published the preliminary results of its changed circumstances review concerning its examination of whether Rotem Fertilizers, Ltd. (Rotem) is the successor to Negev Phosphates, Ltd. (Negev). The review covers one manufacturer/exporter of this merchandise to the United States, Negev, and its merger with Rotem. We have now completed this review and determine that, for purposes of applying the antidumping duty law, Rotem is the successor to Negev and, as such, is subject to the revocation which applied to Negev. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 14, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gayle Longest or Kelly Parkhill, Office of Countervailing Compliance, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230; telephone: (202) 482&hyph;2786. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On November 5, 1993, the Department of Commerce (the Department) published in the Federal Register the preliminary results of its antidumping duty changed circumstances review on industrial phosphoric acid from Israel (58 FR 59010). We have now completed this changed circumstances review in accordance with section 751 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act). Scope of Review Imports covered by this review are shipments of industrial phosphoric acid (IPA). This product is currently classifiable under item number 2809.20.00 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS). The written description remains dispositive. The review covers one manufacturer/exporter of this merchandise to the United States, Negev, and its merger with Rotem. Successorship In December 1991, Rotem and Negev, two companies within the Israeli Chemicals, Ltd. (ICL) group, merged to become one corporate entity, Rotem. Subsequent to the merger, Negev was revoked from the antidumping duty order. (See Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review and Revocation In Part of the Antidumping Duty Order (57 FR 10008; March 23, 1992).) Before the merger, Rotem was not a producer of the subject merchandise and was never reviewed under this order. Negev notified the Department in a March 30, 1992 letter that the company had merged with Rotem. The merger, which was finalized December 31, 1991, was effective retroactively to January 1, 1991. During verification, the Department examined Rotem's sales and found no evidence of industrial phosphoric acid sales prior to the merger. In the March 30, 1992 letter, Negev also identified Rotem as its successor and requested that the Department issue a determination applying Negev's revocation to Rotem. Rotem began to ship the subject merchandise to the United States on January 1, 1992. Its shipments have entered under the ``all other'' rate applicable to companies that had never been reviewed under the order. The Department has determined that Rotem is the successor to Negev for purposes of applying the antidumping duty law. For a complete discussion of the basis for this decision see Industrial Phosphoric Acid From Israel; Preliminary Results of Antidumping Duty Changed Circumstances Review, November 5, 1993, (58 FR 59010). Analysis of Comments Received We gave interested parties an opportunity to comment on the preliminary results. We received comments from the petitioners, FMC Corporation and Monsanto, and from Rotem, the manufacturer/exporter covered by this review. Comment 1: Petitioners argue that the legal test for determining successorship with respect to an antidumping duty order is that ``the Department will consider the acquiring company to be a successor if its resulting operation is essentially similar to that of its predecessor.'' Brass Sheet and Strip from Canada: Preliminary Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review, (57 FR 5128, 5129; February 12, 1992). Petitioners maintain that after the merger, Rotem's operation was not essentially similar to either that of Rotem or the former Negev because, after the merger, Rotem became a fully integrated producer of both fertilizer and industrial grade acid, as well as a producer of rock phosphate. Thus, the newly merged operations of Rotem constitute a company with a more integrated and expanded phosphoric acid production.
