FR940511-1-00019 FR940511-1-00003 10 CFR Part 26 Consideration of Changes to Fitness-For-Duty (FFD) Requirements AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Request for Information and Comments. SUMMARY: In response to a Federal court decision, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is evaluating its approaches for designation of persons who should be subject to the random drug testing at nuclear power plants, in particular whether employees without direct safety-related duties (e.g., clerical staff) must be subject to random testing. In the evaluation, the NRC staff identified several issues that have a significant bearing on whether the current approach should be revised. Public comments are requested on these issues to aid the NRC staff in completing their evaluation. If any changes are developed to current regulations as a consequence of this evaluation, these proposed changes will again be published in the Federal Register for public comments. If a revised rule is later adopted, these changes would apply to all licensees authorized to construct or operate nuclear power reactors and to all licensees authorized to possess, use, or transport Category I nuclear material. DATES: The comment period expires August 9, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but the Commission is able to assure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Mail written comments to: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Services Branch. Deliver comments to: 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland between 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. on Federal workdays. Copies of the NRC staff's report, ``Evaluation of Scope of Persons Subject to Random Drug Testing'' (Enclosure 1 to SECY&hyph;94&hyph;016), and comments received may be examined (and/or copied for a fee) at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. Copies of NUREG/CR&hyph;1879, NUREG/CR&hyph;5227, and Supplement 1 to NUREG/CR&hyph;5227 may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;7082 or from the National Technical Information Service, 5282 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 21161. A copy may be examined (and/or copied for a fee) in the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Charles H. Hendren, Safeguards Branch, Division of Radiation Safety and Safeguards, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC, (301) 504&hyph;3209. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background In International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) v. NRC, 966 F.2d 521 (9th Cir. 1992), the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the NRC's denial of a request by the IBEW on behalf of Diablo Canyon's nuclear workers for an exemption from NRC's random drug-testing requirements. The labor union requested the exemption for bargaining unit members in clerical, maintenance, and warehouse positions. While declining to upset the exemption denial on the record before the court, the three-judge panel questioned the NRC's justification for imposing random drug tests on workers (particularly routine clerical workers) with no direct safety functions and no authorized unescorted access to the vital areas of the plant. (The Diablo Canyon administrative building is in the protected area, and administrative workers are subject to random drug testing because they have unescorted access to the protected area. A number of other plants also have administrative buildings inside their protected areas.) Because the Court of Appeals affirmed the exemption denial, the NRC is under no immediate legal obligation to take any action. However, the NRC believes that a careful study of the issue raised by the court is in order. Therefore, the NRC staff conducted an initial study, ``Evaluation of Scope of Persons Subject to Random Drug Testing'' (Enclosure 1 to SECY&hyph;94&hyph;016), which is available in the Public Document Room as specified in the ADDRESSES portion of this Notice. This study evaluated issues relative to random drug-testing of clerks, secretaries, or other employees who have unescorted access to a nuclear plant's protected area, but whose own jobs are not directly safety-related and provide no opportunity for precipitating or escalating a safety-related incident at a nuclear power plant. Before the effective implementation date of the Fitness-For-Duty (FFD) Rule (January 3, 1990), licensees had various programs to control substance abuse. However, these programs were not uniform in their procedures, testing methods, standards, or sanctions for substance abuse. Most of the programs did include (1) preemployment drug testing, (2) for-cause drug testing, (3) employee assistance programs, (4) behavioral observation, and (5) some type of training on the problems associated with substance abuse. Not all licensees had random drug testing as an element of their program; in some cases, random testing was precluded because of union intervention or prohibition by State laws.
