FR940810-0-00195 FR940810-0-00021 DANGER CONTAINS ASBESTOS FIBERS AVOID CREATING DUST CANCER AND LUNG DISEASE HAZARD (5) Material safety data sheets. Employers who are manufacturers or importers of asbestos or asbestos products shall comply with the requirements regarding development of material safety data sheets as specified in 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) of OSHA's Hazard Communication standard, except as provided by paragraph (j)(4) of this section. (6) The provisions for labels required by paragraph (j)(2) of this section or for material safety data sheets required by paragraph (j)(5) of this section do not apply where: (i) Asbestos fibers have been modified by a bonding agent, coating, binder, or other material provided that the manufacturer can demonstrate that during any reasonably foreseeable use, handling, storage, disposal, processing, or transportation, no airborne concentrations of fibers of asbestos in excess of the TWA permissible exposure level and/or excursion limit will be released or (ii) Asbestos is present in a product in concentrations less than 1.0%. (7) Employee information and training. (i) The employer shall institute a training program for all employees who are exposed to airborne concentrations of asbestos at or above the PEL and/or excursion limit and ensure their participation in the program. (ii) Training shall be provided prior to or at the time of initial assignment and at least annually thereafter. (iii) The training program shall be conducted in a manner which the employee is able to understand. The employer shall ensure that each employee is informed of the following: (A) The health effects associated with asbestos exposure; (B) The relationship between smoking and exposure to asbestos producing lung cancer: (C) The quantity, location, manner of use, release, and storage of asbestos, and the specific nature of operations which could result in exposure to asbestos; (D) The engineering controls and work practices associated with the employee's job assignment; (E) The specific procedures implemented to protect employees from exposure to asbestos, such as appropriate work practices, emergency and clean-up procedures, and personal protective equipment to be used; (F) The purpose, proper use, and limitations of respirators and protective clothing, if appropriate; (G) The purpose and a description of the medical surveillance program required by paragraph (l) of this section; (H) The content of this standard, including appendices. (I) The names, addresses and phone numbers of public health organizations which provide information, materials, and/or conduct programs concerning smoking cessation. The employer may distribute the list of such organizations contained in Appendix I to this section, to comply with this requirement. (J) The requirements for posting signs and affixing labels and the meaning of the required legends for such signs and labels. (iv) The employer shall also provide, at no cost to employees who perform housekeeping operations in a facility which contains ACM or PACM, an asbestos awareness training course, which shall at a minimum contain the following elements: health effects of asbestos, locations of ACM and PACM in the building/facility, recognition of ACM and PACM damage and deterioration, requirements in this standard relating to housekeeping, and proper response to fiber release episodes, to all employees who are or will work in areas where ACM and/or PACM is present. Each such employee shall be so trained at least once a year. (v) Access to information and training materials. (A) The employer shall make a copy of this standard and its appendices readily available without cost to all affected employees. (B) The employer shall provide, upon request, all materials relating to the employee information and training program to the Assistant Secretary and the training program to the Assistant Secretary and the Director. (C) The employer shall inform all employees concerning the availability of self-help smoking cessation program material. Upon employee request, the employer shall distribute such material, consisting of NIH Publication No. 89&hyph;1647, or equivalent self-help material, which is approved or published by a public health organization listed in Appendix I to this section. (8) Criteria to rebut the designation of installed material as PACM. (i) At any time, an employer and/or building owner may demonstrate, for purposes of this standard, that PACM does not contain asbestos. Building owners and/or employers are not required to communicate information about the presence of building material for which such a demonstration pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (j)(8)(ii) of this section has been made. However, in all such cases, the information, data and analysis supporting the determination that PACM does not contain asbestos, shall be retained pursuant to paragraph (n) of this section. (ii) An employer or owner may demonstrate that PACM does not contain asbestos by the following:
