FR940304-1-00171 FR940304-1-00014 Alternatives for Achieving Consumer Product Energy Conservation Six major alternatives were identified by DOE as representing feasible policy alternatives for achieving consumer product energy efficiency. These alternatives include: •No New Regulatory Action •Informational Action _Product labeling _Consumer education •Prescriptive Standards •Financial Incentives _Tax credits _Rebates •Voluntary Energy Efficiency Targets •The Proposed Approach (Performance Standards) Each alternative has been evaluated in terms of its ability to achieve significant energy savings at reasonable costs, and has been compared to the effectiveness of the proposed rule. If no new regulatory action were taken, then no new standards would be implemented for these eight products. This is essentially the ``base case'' for each appliance. In this case, between the years 1996 and 2030 there would be expected energy use of 443.6 quads of primary energy, with no energy savings and a zero net present value. Several alternatives to the base case can be grouped under the heading of informational action. They include consumer product labeling and the Department's public education and information program. Both of these alternatives are mandated by the Act. One base case alternative would be to estimate the energy conservation potential of enhancing these programs. To model this possibility, the Department assumed that market discount rates would be lowered by 5 percent for purchasers of these eight products. This resulted in energy savings equal to 1.7 quads, with expected consumption equal to 441.8 quads. The net present value is estimated to be $2.7 billion. Another method of setting standards would entail requiring that certain design options be used on each product, i.e., prescriptive standards. For these eight products, prescriptive standards are assumed to be implemented as standards at one level below the performance standards. The lower standards level entails slightly smaller expenditures for tooling and purchased parts. Consequently, the economic impacts that are expected before the implementation date should be slightly smaller for prescriptive standards. This resulted in energy consumption, between 1996 and 2030, of 389.2 quads, and savings of 54.3 quads. The net present value, in 1990 dollars, was $92.3 billion. Various financial incentive alternatives were tested. These included tax credits and rebates to consumers, as well as tax credits to manufacturers. The tax credits to consumers were assumed to be 15 percent of the increased expense for higher energy efficiency features of these appliances, while the rebates were assumed to be 15 percent of the increase in equipment prices. The tax credits to consumers showed a change from the base case, saving 3.7 quads with a net present value of $6.0 billion. Consumer rebates showed more sizable changes; they would save 4.5 quads with a net present value of $8.1 billion. Another financial incentive that was considered was tax credits to manufacturers for the production of energy-efficient models of these eight appliances. In this scenario, an investment tax credit of 20 percent was assumed. The tax credits to manufacturers had almost no effect; the energy consumption estimates are 442.8 quads with savings equal to 0.7 quad, and a net present value equal to $0.8 billion. The impact of this scenario is so small because the investment tax credit was applicable only to the tooling and machinery costs of the firms. The firms' fixed costs and most of the design improvements that would likely be adopted to manufacture more efficient versions of these products would involve purchased parts. Expenses for purchased parts would not be eligible for an investment tax credit. Two scenarios of voluntary energy efficiency targets were examined. In the first one, the proposed energy conservation standards were assumed to be voluntarily adopted by all the relevant manufacturers in 5 years. In the second scenario, the proposed standards were assumed to be adopted in 10 years. In these scenarios, the 5-year delay would result in energy consumption by these appliances of 388.0 quads, energy savings of 55.2 quads, and a net present value of $97.1 billion; the 10-year delay would result in 398.4 quads of energy being consumed, 44.8 quads being saved, and a net present value of $76.6 billion. These scenarios assume that there would be universal voluntary adoption of the energy conservation standards by these appliance manufacturers, an assumption for which there is no reasonable assurance.
