FR941206-1-00100 FR941206-1-00008 The above data indicate that none of the regulated facilities are expected to experience price increases greater than 1 percent. In addition, a comparison of each facility's price increase to its corresponding market segment price increase reveals that the results of each analysis are not significantly different. Therefore, implementation of the NESHAP is not expected to have a significant impact on the 25 major-source facilities in the shipbuilding and repair industry. The economic analysis also examined the impact of the NESHAP on industry output and employment. The industry is expected to experience a negligible reduction in output as a result of implementing the regulation. Assuming a one-to- one relationship between output and employment, the same conclusion can be applied to the NESHAP impact on the industry's employment level. V. National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) Decision Process A. Source of Authority for NESHAP Development Section 112 of the Act gives the EPA the authority to establish national standards to reduce HAP emissions from sources that emit one or more HAP. Section 112(b) contains a list of the specific HAP to be regulated by NESHAP. Section 112(c) directs the EPA to use this pollutant list to develop and publish a list of source categories for which NESHAP will be developed. The Act defines major sources as those that emit or have the potential to emit considering controls, in the aggregate, 9.1 Mg/yr (10 tons/yr) or greater of individual HAP or 22.7 Mg/yr (25 tons/yr) or greater of any combination of HAP. The initial list of source categories was published on July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576). Shipyards (major sources only) appear on this list. Area sources are those sources that are not major sources. Area source categories selected by the EPA for NESHAP development will be based on the Administrator's judgment that the sources in a category, individually or in the aggregate, pose a ``threat of adverse effects to health and the environment.'' The EPA will continue to evaluate whether area source shipyards should be added to the list of area source categories. B. Criteria for Development of NESHAP The NESHAP are to be developed to control HAP emissions from both new and existing sources according section 112(d) of the Act. The standards are to reflect the maximum degree of reduction that is achievable for new or existing sources. The NESHAP must reflect consideration of the cost of achieving the emission reduction, nonair quality health and environmental impacts, and energy requirements for control levels more stringent than the MACT floor (described below). The Act specifies that emission reduction may be accomplished through application of measures, processes, methods, systems or techniques, including, but not limited to, measures which:
