FR941026-2-00031 FR941026-2-00022 Several large blocks of habitat in the study area support these interior, secretive animals. These habitats, generally associated with the large wetland complexes, are primarily undeveloped tracts of land and water with several corridors to allow free range of movement. The Second Brook area and lands to the east form a habitat block of approximately 5,000 to 10,000 acres, uncommonly large for this portion of New Hampshire. Large wildlife habitats also exist to the north in Londonderry and Litchfield. The Merrimack River, which flows north to south, dominates the hydrology of the study area and is fed by numerous tributaries flowing east to west. Since most of the proposed highway heads north and south, the 13 mile road would inevitably cross and fill a number of tributaries and sub-tributaries to the Merrimack. Wetlands at the site help to maintain and/or improve water quality, as well as regulate water quantity. Wetland plants and soil trap, assimilate, and transform pollutants entering the watershed. Wetland trees and shrubs retard floodwater, decreasing downstream flood stages. The basal flow contribution from wetlands to streams during summer stress periods provides water at the most important time of year. The Merrimack River is an existing and future source of water supply for a number of communities in New Hampshire and Massachusetts. In fact, the Merrimack River is a supplemental and emergency supply source for Nashua, although the intake is upstream from the proposed project. The Merrimack River is currently the primary drinking water source for a number of communities in Massachusetts (e.g. Lawrence, Lowell, Methuen, and Tewksbury), all of which are downstream of the proposed project and take raw water directly from the Merrimack River, just prior to treatment. Another community, Andover, MA, augments its primary supply by pumping water from the Merrimack. In addition, the Merrimack River has been considered as a future drinking water supply source for several additional communities, many of which are downstream (e.g. Haverhill, MA, North Andover, MA) of the proposed project. The NHCH would result in approximately 1.25 miles of roadway and two proposed interchanges within the Pennichuck Brook drainage watershed. Pennichuck Brook and ponds serve as the primary public water supply for the City of Nashua and for sections of other neighboring communities. There are many small public water supply systems that rely on drilled wells in Hudson and Litchfield. In addition, the Southern New Hampshire Water Company has a high yield wellfield in southern Litchfield. EPA, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts, having recognized the important environmental resources in the area, have been working to implement a multi-million dollar initiative to protect the aquatic resources of the Merrimack River Watershed. Considerable time, money and effort have been expended during the past three years to protect water quality and wildlife habitat. This project would adversely affect the very resources that EPA has targeted for protection with this watershed initiative. IV. Basis of the Proposed Determination A. Section 404(c) Criteria The CWA requires that exercise of the final section 404(c) authority be based on a determination of ``unacceptable adverse effect'' to municipal water supplies, shellfish beds, fisheries, wildlife or recreational areas. EPA's regulations define ``unacceptable adverse effect'' at 40 CFR 231.2(e) as: Impact on an aquatic or wetland ecosystem which is likely to result in significant degradation of municipal water supplies (including surface or groundwater) or significant loss of or damage to fisheries, shellfishing, or wildlife habitat or recreation areas. In evaluating the unacceptability of such impacts, consideration should be given to the relevant portions of the Section 404(b)(1) Guidelines (40 CFR Part 230). One of the basic functions of section 404(c) is to police the application of the section 404(b)(1) Guidelines. Those portions of the Guidelines relating to the analysis of less environmentally damaging practicable alternatives and significant degradation of waters of the United States are particularly important in the evaluation of unacceptability of environmental impacts in this case. The Guidelines forbid the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States if, among other requirements, there is a less environmentally damaging practicable alternative or if it would cause or contribute to significant degradation of waters of the United States. B. Adverse Impacts of the Proposed Project Direct Impacts to Wildlife The project as currently proposed by DOT would directly fill approximately 40 acres of wetlands. 1 Destruction of wetland acreage correlates with loss of functions and values including habitat destruction, reduced primary and secondary productivity and alteration of hydrological functions. The NHCH would also cross 18 streams, causing the direct loss of 3,000 feet of stream bed, place 200 acres of roadway on top of fourteen different high yield aquifers, and eliminate 600 acres of undeveloped upland habitat. 1 All of the full build alternatives described in the EIS would cause similar long term impacts to the environment. Therefore, the following summary is generally applicable to the other full build options as well.
