FR940511-2-00141 FR940511-2-00092 Currently, over 60 Federal programs deliver job training and employment services to Americans_each with its own funding mechanisms, eligibility criteria and range of services. DOL/ETA presently administers six separate programs focused on dislocated workers: Economic Dislocation and Worker Adjustment Assistance, Defense Conversion Program, Defense Diversification Program, Clean Air Employment Transition Assistance, Trade Adjustment Assistance and North Atlantic Free Trade Act-Bridge. Applicants seeking to submit a proposal for this portion of the solicitation shall include the following: 1. One-Stop Career Centers. Grantees will propose a strategy for developing effective local support for one-stop career centers and the local level governance approach to such centers. This will require the development of an approach to building business support for Workforce Investment Boards, where they are created and for training of both members of such boards and staff. (a) The grantees will develop and introduce a strategic planning model to assist local areas on implementing effective governance of one stop career centers and the relationship of such centers to the needed services. This will include the dissemination of workforce investment principles and presentations to major employer organizations and their membership of these principles to obtain support and participation. (b) Develop and disseminate, in consultation with ETA, models (or best practices) for implementing workforce Investment Boards, with specific emphasis on the relationship with existing structures such as Private Industry Councils or other existing local boards; (c) Develop and provide methods to build capacity and/or orient board members to ensure success; and, (d) Provide recommendations on staffing needs for such local bodies. (2) Worker Adjustment. The Worker Adjustment initiative will require grantees, in consultation with ETA, to undertake research efforts and disseminate technical assistance and training materials to support worker adjustment services for experienced workers. Proposals shall include: (a) Review of the delivery structure for delivery of rapid response assistance, how it is controlled, what role substate grantees play and ``best practices'' of effective Dislocated Worker Units. (b) Examination of effective layoff aversion through rapid response and dissemination of what has been tried, what has worked, who does it and how much it costs. (c) Technical assistance material on relocation opportunities for discrete groups of dislocated technical, professional and managerial workers. To what extent have organizations developed systems to match clusters of dislocated professionals with job openings in other areas and what can be undertaken to expand or enhance these efforts. (d) Examination of various approaches and development of a specific approach for obtaining customer feedback (including participants, hiring employers and discharging employers) concerning their services offered and the timing of such services. (e) Examination of the delivery structure for dislocated worker services_What organizations are substate grantees under Title III? How many are Title II administrative entities? How many use essentially the same process for dislocated workers as disadvantaged workers? What is the delivery structure for workers receiving services under TAA? What recommendations can be made for improving or restructuring the delivery of these services, especially under a comprehensive program approach? PART IV_EVALUATION CRITERIA Prospective offerors are advised that the selection of grantees for awards is to be made after careful evaluation of proposals by an evaluation panel within DOL. Applicants are advised that discussions may be necessary in order to clarify any inconsistencies in their applications. The panel results are advisory in nature and not binding on the Grant Officer. The final decision on the award will be based on what is most advantageous to the Federal Government as determined by the ETA Grant Officer. Panelists will evaluate the proposals on the basis of the following factors:
