FR940516-1-00126 FR940516-1-00006 C. Impact on Small Entities The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 requires federal agencies to identify potentially adverse impacts of federal regulations upon small entities. In instances where significant impacts are possible on a substantial number of these entities, agencies are required to perform a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (RFA). The RFA explores options for minimizing those impacts. EPA has recently adopted a new approach to regulatory flexibility 22 for purposes of EPA's implementation of the Act, any impact is a significant impact, and any number of small entities is a substantial number. Thus, EPA will consider regulatory options for every regulation subject to the Act that can reasonably be expected to have an impact on small entities. 22 Habiicht, F. Henry II, Deputy Administrator, Internal EPA Memorandum, ``Revised Guidelines for Implementing the Regulatory Flexibility Act,'' April 9, 1992. Therefore, in light of this new approach, EPA has determined that this rule will have a significant effect on a substantial number of small entities. As a result, EPA has tailored this rule to minimize the cost burdens imposed on smaller engine manufacturers. The proposed regulations contain certification requirements for new engines, in-use testing requirements for controlled engines, Selective Enforcement Auditing provisions for the testing of production engines, and prohibitions on incorrect engine use for equipment manufacturers. The certification program has been structured in this proposal such that all manufacturers may take advantage of a more simplified certification process than that currently mandated in the on-highway program. Testing requirements for test engines are reduced. The application and certification process is more straightforward. The in-use testing program is structured such that manufacturers with lower annual production volumes have a lower minimum number of engines which must be tested. This places the burden of the in-use testing mostly on manufacturers with high production volumes. Provisions are also allowed for manufacturers whose number of product lines are limited. Also, manufacturers with very low production volumes are allowed maximum flexibility in procuring engines to be tested. Refer to ``IV.C.10. In-use Testing Program'' for a more detailed discussion. The SEA program is structured such that the annual limit on the number of SEA's that EPA may perform is lower for manufacturers with lower projected annual production. Additionally, manufacturers with high projected annual production but fewer engine families will have a lower annual limit. Furthermore, manufacturers with low projected annual production may perform fewer audit tests per day to minimize the SEA burden on its test facilities. Refer to ``IV.C.19. Selective Enforcement Auditing Program'' for a more detailed discussion. EPA is proposing that equipment manufacturers must correctly use engines that are certified upon implementation of these regulations. However, EPA has decided to make the use of non- certified engines for United States-marketed equipment a prohibited act rather than requiring equipment manufacturers to report to EPA that they are using certified engines in their equipment being consumed in the United States. Further, it is a prohibited act for equipment manufacturers to incorrectly use an engine certified as handheld in nonhandheld equipment marketed in the United States. EPA decided to make these provisions prohibited acts in order to reduce any potential reporting or recordkeeping burden for engine and equipment manufacturers. Manufacturers who attempt to sell equipment to the United States market which uses noncertified engines or uses handheld engines in nonhandheld equipment will be voluntarily reported to EPA by their competitors. EPA has proposed stiff fines on prohibited acts. Competition should effectively police these prohibited acts as competitors have a competitive incentive to make sure that no equipment manufacturer is dumping equipment with lower cost, unlawful, noncertified, or incorrectly used engines (that is, the use of a handheld engine in nonhandheld equipment) into the U.S. market. EPA considered, but rejected, the notion of exempting small manufacturers from enforcement programs or from the regulation entirely. A more proportionate sharing of cost burden was deemed appropriate. The pollution emitted by each of these engines not only contributes to ambient air quality problems but also has health impacts on the user of the equipment who is in close proximity to the exhaust emissions. See ``VI. Environmental Benefit Assessment'' for a discussion of the health impacts of the related exhaust pollutants. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 90 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution control, Confidential business information, Environmental protection, Imports, Incorporation by reference, Labeling, Nonroad source pollution, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: April 29, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10975 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
