FR941202-2-00183 FR941202-2-00098 _If sample is a solid, whether results are calculated on a wet weight or dry weight basis, and if on a dry weight basis, the percent moisture or percent solids; _The sample result (if the result is none detected, the method detection limit should also be reported); and _Method of statistical determination of test result, if applicable. The assessor should assure that all information needed to verify the final result is on file, including reasons for invalidating testing results if this has occurred. The information may include sample preparation data, instrument output (chromatograms, mass spectra, strip charts), instrument calibration records, and records of dilutions. Once the information is located, the assessor should recreate the calculation in order to verify the final reported result. The absence of the required information needed to verify the final result should be considered a serious deficiency. If the assessor is unable to recreate a calculation, the problem should be discussed with laboratory personnel in an attempt to resolve the issue. If any calculations/final results are determined to be incorrect, the assessor should examine approximately ten percent of the data for the test in question over a selected time period to see if a systematic error has occurred. In addition to auditing results from routine sample analyses, assessors must also audit results of performance evaluation (PE) samples analyzed by the laboratory for the NELAP. Assessors should verify that the sample(s) were analyzed using the criteria set forth by NELAP. The data generated during the analysis of PE samples should be examined and compared with final results reported to the NELAP. 3.6.4.9␣QA Plan Assessment The assessor should examine the laboratory's written QA Plan to determine if it conforms to the Quality Systems requirements in Section 5.0. The assessor should examine the laboratory's raw data to ascertain if the required QC checks have been documented. If QC criteria were exceeded, the assessor must determine if corrective action was initiated. Laboratory personnel should be interviewed to determine if they understand and follow the requirements of the QA Plan. Laboratory management should be interviewed to determine their commitment to the QA program. The absence of a QA Plan, or an incomplete QA Plan, should be considered a major deficiency. The lack of appropriate corrective action or documentation of corrective action should be considered a serious deficiency.
