FR940323-2-00017 FR940323-2-00013 The review covers seven manufacturers/exporters and the POR April 1, 1991, through March 31, 1992. Analysis of Comments Received We gave interested parties an opportunity to comment on the preliminary results. We received case briefs and rebuttal briefs from the Independent Radionic Workers of America, the United Electrical Workers of America, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the International Union of Electronic, Electrical, Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers, AFL&hyph;CIO, and Industrial Union Department, AFL&hyph;CIO (the Unions), the petitioners in this proceeding, and three respondents, Goldstar Co., Ltd. (Goldstar), Daewoo Electronics Co., Ltd. (Daewoo), and Samwon Electronics, Inc. (Samwon). Two companies, Tongkook General Electronics, Inc., and Cosmos Electronics Manufacturing Korea, Ltd., did not respond to our requests for information. When a company fails to provide the information requested in a timely manner, the Department considers the company uncooperative and generally assigns to that company the higher of (a) the highest rate assigned to any company in any previous review, including the less-than-fair-value (LTFV) investigation, or (b) the highest rate for a responding company with shipments during the POR. Therefore, we have used the highest rate from the LTFV investigation as the best information available (BIA) in determining the margins for these two companies for this review, because this rate is higher than the highest rate in the current review. See Allied-Signal Aerospace Co. v. United States, Appeal No. 93&hyph;1049 (Fed. Cir. June 22, 1993). See also Krupp Stahl AG et al v. United States, 822 F. Supp 789 (CIT May 26, 1993). Two other companies, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., and Quantronics Manufacturing Korea, Ltd., responded to the Department that they had no sales during the POR. Petitioners' Comments Comment 1: Petitioners argue that in the preliminary results of this review, the Department failed to measure the home market tax incidence in Korea. Although petitioners admit that the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (CAFC) has recently held that no measurement of tax incidence is required under the statute, petitioners argue that the Department should not implement that approach in light of a petition for ``rehearing and suggestion for rehearing in banc that has been submitted by petitioners and is yet pending.'' Respondents argue that the recent CAFC decision ( Daewoo Elec. Corp. v. United States, Slip Op. 92&hyph;1558&hyph;1562 (Fed. Cir. Sept. 30, 1993) ( Daewoo )), clearly affirmed the Department's longstanding interpretation of the governing statute, i.e., no requirement to measure the amount of the pass-through taxes to the Korean consumers. Consequently, respondents request that the Department retain the same methodology in the final results of the review. Department's Position: We disagree with petitioners. The question of whether the Department was required to measure the Korean home market tax incidence or ``pass-through'' tax was conclusively resolved by the CAFC in the Daewoo decision. In that decision, the CAFC rules that ``the statute does not speak to tax incidence, shifting burdens, or pass-through, nor does it contain any hint that an econometric analysis must be performed'' ( Daewoo , Slip Op. at 12). Consequently, the Department has retained its policy of not measuring the pass-through tax in this review. Comment 2: Petitioners object to the Department's methodology of making a circumstance-of-sale (COS) adjustment for differences between home market and hypothetical U.S. taxes by adding the full amount of the Korean home market tax to United States price (USP). Citing the recent Court of International Trade (CIT) decision, Federal-Mogul Corp. v. United States, 17 CIT_, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 (Oct. 7, 1993) ( Federal-Mogul ), petitioners request the Department to recalculate the commodity tax adjustment to USP.
