FR941117-0-00188 FR941117-0-00013 (2) Use of cross references to publicly available information. The Proposing Release requested comment on the appropriateness of satisfying disclosure needs through a reference to other externally prepared and located documents. In response, a number of commenters stated that the concept of incorporation of information should be explicitly included in the rule, 40 and that the ability to incorporate information should not be conditioned on a minimum dollar amount of securities in the hands of the public_commonly known as ``public float.'' 41 Some commenters also suggested that any limitation of this practice to ``seasoned issuers'' should include all investment grade issuers. 42 Some commenters further noted that the final official statement should not have to set forth information that has been filed with the Commission in accordance with its periodic reporting requirements. 43 The commenters suggested one significant prerequisite for permitting cross referencing_the availability of the information in some public repository. 44 40 See Joint Response. 41 See Letter of ABA Urban Law Section; Letter of Bose McKinney & Evans; Joint Response; Letter of Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon (``Mudge Rose''); Letter of Dormitory Authority of the State of New York (``New York Dormitory Authority''). 42 See Letter of Mudge Rose; Letter of New York Dormitory Authority. 43 See Letter of ABA Urban Law Section; Letter of Kutak Rock; Letter of Texas Public Finance Authority. 44 See, e.g., Letter of Bose McKinney & Evans; Joint Response. One commenter also stated that if cross referencing was permitted, there should be a delay between the distribution of the official statement and the offering. The delay would enable potential purchasers and others to obtain any materials that were referenced in the official statement and make an informed investment decision. See Letter of Prudential Investment Corp. The definition of final official statement has been revised to make explicit 45 that a final official statement may include financial information and operating data either by setting forth the information in the document or set of documents composing the final official statement, or by including a specific reference to documents already prepared and previously made publicly available. 46 For purposes of the amendments, documents will be considered to be publicly available if they have been submitted to each NRMSIR and to the appropriate state information depository or, if the information concerns a reporting company, filed with the Commission. If the document is a final official statement, it must be available from the MSRB. 45 See 1989 Release (discussing the definition of ``final official statement'' in Rule 15c2&hyph;12 as originally adopted, and stating that the definition recognizes that the issuer's final official statement may be composed of one or more documents). 46 Rule 15c2&hyph;12(f)(3). To avoid confusion with the technical aspects of incorporation by reference for registrants under the Commission's registration rules, the amended rule does not use that term. At least two states, New York and Texas, have prepared a standard disclosure document for state information. If cross referencing is used, for purposes of determining the appropriate scope of the ongoing information undertaking, the final official statement will be deemed to include all information and documents that have been cross referenced. 47 The amendment does not place limitations on the type of issuer that may use cross referencing. This approach is consistent with the goal of making the repositories the principal source of information concerning municipal securities. Once received by a repository, the referenced information should be readily available regardless of the nature of the issuer. 47 Participating Underwriters and other market participants must keep in mind their obligations under the rule with respect to the DFOS and final official statement, and under the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws. To the extent that cross references are used, the DFOS should be disseminated in sufficient time for review by Participating Underwriters, and the POS should be made available in time to enable prospective purchasers to make informed investment decisions based upon the referenced materials. See Interpretive Release at Section III.C.6. As commenters noted, permitting cross referencing to other externally prepared and available information should result in official statements that are clear and concise, yet provide information material to the Offering. 48 Moreover, the use of cross referencing also should ease some expressed apprehension about the ability of some issuers to obtain information about parties not within their control, to the extent that information about these parties is made available to the repositories or, if a reporting company, filed with the Commission. 49 48 See, e.g., Letter of New York Dormitory Authority; Letter of the Treasurer of the State of Connecticut. 49 See, e.g., Letter of Fieldman, Rolapp & Associates; Letter of State of Florida, Office of Auditor General; Letter of San Francisco International Airport; Letter of Texas Water Development Board; Letter of State of Washington, Office of the Treasurer.
