FR941027-2-00084 FR941027-2-00044 Storage: Records may be stored in magnetic media (e.g., magnetic tape and disc), microfilm, or paper. Retrievability: Data will be retrieved from the system by SSN and name. Safeguards: Safeguards for automated records have been established in accordance with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Information Resources Management Manual, Part 6, Automated Information Systems Security Program Handbook. This includes maintaining the magnetic tapes and discs within an enclosure attended by security guards. Anyone entering or leaving this enclosure must have a special badge issued only to authorized personnel. For computerized records electronically transmitted between Central Office and Field Office locations (including organizations administering SSA programs under contractual agreements), safeguards include a lock/unlock password system, exclusive use of leased telephone lines, a terminal-oriented transaction matrix, and an audit trail. All microfilm and paper files are accessible only by authorized personnel who have a need for the information in performing their official duties. SSA's terminals are equipped with physical key locks. The terminals are also fitted with adapters to permit the future installation of data encryption devices and devices to permit the identification of terminal users. Contractors will safeguard information disclosed to them consistent with the requirements of the Privacy Act. Retention and disposal: All tapes, discs, and microfilm files are updated periodically. Out-of-date magnetic tapes and discs are erased. Out-of-date microfilm is shredded. SSA retains correspondence one year when it concerns documents returned to an individual, denials of confidential information, release of confidential information to an authorized third party, and undeliverable material; for four years when it concerns information and evidence pertaining to coverage, wage, and self-employment determinations or when it affects future claims development, especially coverage, wage, and self-employment determinations. Correspondence is destroyed, when appropriate, by shredding. Magnetic media records are maintained indefinitely. System manager(s) and address: Director, Office of Pre-Claims Requirements, Office of Systems Requirements, Social Security Administration, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235. Notification procedure: An individual can determine if this system contains a record pertaining to him/her by providing his/her name, signature, and SSN, or, if the SSN is not known, name, signature, date and place of birth, mother's birth name, and father's name to the address shown above under ``System manager'' and by referring to this system. (Furnishing the SSN is voluntary, but it will enable an easier and faster search for an individuals record.) An individual requesting notification of records in person need not furnish any special documents of identify. Documents which one would normally carry on one's person are sufficient (e.g., credit cards, driver's license, or voter registration card). An individual requesting notification via mail or telephone must furnish a minimum of his/her name, date of birth, and address in order to establish identify, plus any additional information which may be requested. These procedures conform with HHS Regulations, 45 CFR part 5b. Record access procedures: Same as notification procedures. Also, requesters should reasonably identify the record contents they are seeking. These procedures conform with HHS Regulations, 45 CFR part 5b. Contesting record procedures: Same as notification procedures. Also, requesters should reasonably identify the record, specify the information they are contesting and state the corrective action sought and the reasons for the correction with supporting justification. These procedures conform with HHS Regulations, 45 CFR part 5b. Record source categories: Information in this system is obtained from the Numident File of the SSA system of records entitled ``Master File of Social Security Number Holders, HHS/SSA/OSR (09&hyph;60&hyph;0058)''; and from the IRS. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act; None. 09&hyph;60&hyph;0225 System name: SSA-Initiated Personal Earnings and Benefit Estimate Statement Address System for Certain Territories. HHS/SSA/OSR. Security classification: None. System location: Social Security Administration, Office of Systems, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235. Records may also be located at contractor sites. Contact the system manager at the address below for contractor addresses. Categories of individuals covered by the system; Any person: •Who lives in Guam, Puerto Rico, or the United States Virgin Islands, •Who has reached age 25, •Who has had earnings posted to his/her SSN, •Who is not receiving benefits under Title II of the Social Security Act, and •From whom SSA can determine the current mailing address. Categories of records in the system: This system contains the following information about each individual: •Name; •Sex; •SSN; •Address; •Whether a PEBES was issued at the individual's request or SSA's initiative; •A country name code. Authority for maintenance of the system: Sections 205(a), 205(c)(2), and 1143 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(a), 405(c)(2), and 1320b&hyph;13); the Federal Records Act of 1950 (64 Stat. 583). Purposes: The system is used for the following purposes: •To establish and retrieve specific records for PEBES processing for individuals living in the specified areas;
