FR940513-0-00161 FR940513-0-00034 The labeling rules the Commission has adopted require manufacturers of all lamps covered by the labeling rules to have substantiation for all the required labeling disclosures. The Commission has determined, however, not to prescribe particular test methods or sampling procedures that must be used. Instead, the labeling rules specify that the required substantiation for medium base screw-in lamps is a reasonable basis consisting of competent and reliable scientific tests that substantiate the required disclosures. 248 For general service fluorescent lamps, the required substantiation is a reasonable basis consisting of competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the claim made by the encircled ``E,'' that the lamps meet the minimum energy efficiency standards established under EPCA. 248 For medium base screw-in lamps, the required disclosures are of the lamp's design voltage if other than 120 volts, average initial wattage, average initial light output, average laboratory life and the Advisory Disclosure. For general service incandescent reflector lamps, the disclosures must include the encircled ``E'' and the explanatory statement. To provide guidance to manufacturers about test procedures the Commission considers adequate to meet the reasonable basis standard, however, the labeling rules include specific examples of test procedures the Commission deems to be adequate ( i.e. , ``safe harbors''). Specifically, for light output and average laboratory life claims, the labeling rules state that the Commission will accept as a reasonable basis competent and reliable scientific tests conducted under particular IES test protocols. 249 The specific IES test protocols referenced in the labeling rules are recognized throughout the lamp industry as authoritative. 250 Further, for incandescent lamps, the current Light Bulb Rule's requirements are consistent with the IES test procedures. 251 If, in the future, DOE issues test procedures different from these IES protocols, or in addition to them, the Commission will consider testing performed according to the DOE procedures as meeting the reasonable basis standard. Further, if it appears necessary or appropriate, the Commission may initiate a proceeding to consider amending the labeling rules to require use of the DOE test procedures to ensure nationwide consistency. 249 It is not necessary to specify particular test procedures, or safe harbors, for the measurement of design voltage or wattage, because they are elementary measurements. 250 Philips (Tr.), 91&hyph;92; GE (Tr.), 101&hyph;02. NEMA has recommended that DOE adopt these IES test procedures when it issues its test methods. NEMA, G&hyph;3, 49. 251 16 CFR 409.1 n. 1. The Light Bulb Rule states that, for lamps covered by that Rule, the ``average initial wattage, average initial lumen and average laboratory life disclosures required by this section shall be in accordance with the requirements of interim Federal Specification, Lamp, Incandescent (Electric, Large, Tungsten-Filament) W&hyph;L&hyph;00101 G and shall be based upon generally accepted and approved test methods and procedures.'' In 1977, that specification ceased being interim and is now known as Federal Specification, Lamp, Incandescent (Electric, Large, Tungsten-Filament) W&hyph;L&hyph;101H/GEN. This specification refers to pertinent ANSI test protocols, which are consistent with the IES protocols. The labeling rules, therefore, state that the Commission will accept as adequate substantiation light output and laboratory life claims based on competent and reliable scientific tests performed according to the following IES test procedures: For measuring light output (in lumens): 0 General Service Fluorescent_IES LM 9 Compact Fluorescent_IES LM 66 General Service Incandescent (Other than Reflector Lamps)_IES LM 45 General Service Incandescent (Reflector Lamps)_IES LM 20 For measuring laboratory life (in hours): General Service Fluorescent_IES LM 40 Compact Fluorescent_IES LM 65 General Service Incandescent (Other than Reflector Lamps)_IES LM 49 General Service Incandescent (Reflector Lamps)_IES LM 49 Although the lamp industry generally uses these IES test procedures, when measuring the laboratory life of their lamps, industry members sometimes vary the IES methods to save time. For example, manufacturers might use accelerated tests, in which lamps being tested are operated at a much higher voltage than their design voltage. 252 Once the test lamps fail, their laboratory life at their design voltage is calculated mathematically. Industry members also might routinely measure laboratory life by operating test lamps continuously, rather than as specified in the IES methods. 253 Under the lamp labeling rules, such variations on the IES protocols will fall within the safe harbor if manufacturers can demonstrate that they produce results as accurate as those produced following the IES test methods. See ยง305.5(b) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 252 Supreme (Tr.), 87&hyph;88; Philips, (Tr.), 90&hyph;91. 253 Philips (Tr.), 91. The above IES test procedures, however, do not include specifications governing the selection of the lamp specimens for testing. The Commission, therefore, has amended ยง305.6 of the Rule to specify that manufacturers must use competent and reliable scientific sampling procedures for testing lamp products. The Rule also provides, as a safe harbor, the sampling procedures contained in Military Standard 105 Sampling Procedures and Tables for Inspection by Attributes. Mil-Std-105E is the sampling standard referenced in the federal specification cited by the Commission's existing Light Bulb Rule. 254 If DOE adopts a sampling standard of its own as part of its test procedures for lamps covered by the labeling rules, the Commission will deem use of that sampling standard as meeting the competent and reliable scientific standard. See ยง305.6(b) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 254 16 CFR 409.1 n. 1.
