FR940505-2-00009 FR940505-2-00006 International Trade Administration Environmental Technologies Trade Advisory Committee; Establishment In accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. app. 2, and the General Services Administration (GSA) rule on Federal Advisory Committee Management, 41 CFR part 101&hyph;6, and after consultation with GSA and the Office of Management and Budget, the Secretary of Commerce has determined that the establishment of the Environmental Technologies Trade Advisory Committee is in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties imposed on the Department by law. The Committee will advise the Federal Government in all aspects of the development and conduct of programs, activities, and strategies to expand U.S. exports of environmental products and services. The Committee will advise on promotional activities and communications and on building business-government partnerships. The Committee shall provide advice on such specific issues as: Determining how both U.S. and foreign Government policies, regulations and programs affect the export of U.S. environmental products and services; assessing the competitiveness of the U.S. industry and its ability to respond to international opportunities; identifying priority export markets and technologies; and evaluating the progress of the U.S. Government in implementing the National Environmental Technologies Export Strategy. The Committee will consist of approximately 35 members to be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce. In appointing members to the Committee, the Secretary will seek a balanced representation among industry and service sectors, company size, geographic location and demographics. The Committee will function solely as an advisory body, and in compliance with provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. The charter will be filed under the Act fifteen (15) days from the date of publication of this notice. Interested persons are invited to submit comments regarding the establishment of this Committee to Tiffany Smith, International Trade Administration, room 2015B, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th & Constitution, NW., 20230. Telephone: (202) 482&hyph;1369. Dated: April 28, 1994. Raymond Vickery, Jr., Assistant Secretary for Trade Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10788 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DR&hyph;F
