FR940817-2-00283 FR940817-2-00114 E. The defense shall not be available if the person against whom it is asserted shows that the action was taken for the purpose of violating the antitrust laws. F. As appropriate, the Administrator will support applications by Participants to the Federal Maritime Commission or the Interstate Commerce Commission to exempt this Agreement and any Plan of Action from the operation of statutes administered by either agency. V. Breach of Contract Defense Under the provisions of Section 708, in any action in any Federal or State court for breach of contract, there shall be available as a defense that the alleged breach of contract was caused predominantly by action taken by a Participant during an emergency to carry out this Agreement or a Plan of Action. Such defense shall not release the party asserting it from any obligation under applicable law to mitigate damages to the greatest extent possible. VI. Terms and Conditions A. Agreement by Participant _1. Each Participant agrees to contribute intermodal shipping services/systems in accordance with this Agreement and any Plan of Action applicable to the Participant and at such times and in such amounts as the Administrator shall determine to be necessary to meet essential needs of DOD for transportation of military supplies and equipment during the period this Agreement is activated. 2. Participant agrees to provide all necessary elements to operate the intermodal transportation services/systems it contributes. 3. Each participant agrees to provide, on request, management services needed to operate the contributed intermodal transportation services/systems; including inland container and trailer and other services, for the movement to and from ports of equipment which is owned, operated, or controlled by a Participant. 4. Whenever possible, the Participant which owns, operates, or controls a ship or ship capacity contributed will provide the intermodal equipment and management services needed to utilize the ship at full efficiency. However, upon the recommendation of the Committee and at the Administrator's discretion, the ships and intermodal equipment of a Participant may be placed under the operational management and control of another Participant. B. Pooling Resources _Each Participant agrees to make intermodal shipping services/systems and intermodal equipment available to other Participants when requested by the Administrator, on the advice of the Committee. Such requests will be made in order to meet the defense requirement, to ensure that overall contributions are made on a proportionate basis, and to assure that no Participant is unduly hampered in meeting the needs of the civil economy consistent with priorities established by the President. Participants may agree to cooperate, to rationalize services and to pool intermodal assets in order to meet the defense requirement, equalize the burden of the contribution and insure continued support to the civil economy; Provided, however, that such activities involving Participants in the normal course of business when this Agreement has not been activated and not to facilitate meeting requirements or requests of the Administrator are not covered by this Agreement. C. Equitable Contribution of Shipping Capacity _1. Each Participant agrees to contribute ships and ship's space under this Agreement in accordance with VIII.B.1. and 2. below. The contribution should be in the proportion of its ``controlled tonnage'' in each shipping capacity category to the total ``controlled tonnage'' of all Participants in each such category. Because exact proportions may not be feasible, and because unique requirements for a particular category of ships or capacity may arise, each Participant agrees that variations are permissible at the discretion of the Administrator. Any Participant may offer to increase its contribution. 2. ``Controlled tonnage'' consists of: a. Ships which are owned or chartered in by a Participant and documented under United States law; b. PLUS non-U.S.-documented feeder ships, in which a Participant or any of its subsidiaries or controlled affiliates has a controlling interest and which are operated as an extension of U.S.-flag line haul service; c. PLUS any other non-U.S.-flag ships which a Participant may offer to designate as ``controlled tonnage'' and to which the Administrator agrees; and d. LESS ships owned or controlled by a Participant which are chartered, leased, or contracted out to others for remaining periods of at least six months from the effective date of activation of this Agreement and for which there is no termination clause for war, national emergency, or military contingency. 3. The laws of the country of documentation may require the approval of that government before ships on its register can be covered by this Agreement. The Participant agrees to make a good faith effort to obtain the required approval. 4. The categories of ships are: a. Roll-on/roll-off (RO/RO) ships. RO/RO ships which do not have installed ramps should be supplied with portable ramps, to the extent practicable, by the Participant. b. Combination container-RO/RO ships. c. Barge carriers (LASH, SeaBee, etc.) The appropriate number of lighters should be supplied to operate the vessel at full efficiency. d. Containerships, both self-sustaining and non-self-sustaining. Three containers should be provided per container space. e. Partial containerships and container bulk. Three containers should be provided per container space. f. Breakbulk ships. 5. The contribution of each Participant shall be calculated by the Administrator as soon as possible after this Agreement is activated. The following standards will be used to determine proportionate contributions of ``controlled tonnage'': a. RO/RO ships _Square feet (meters) of cargo deck area.
