FR940607-0-00071 FR940607-0-00017 § XX .3(b)␣Evaluations Required The agencies are adopting a modified version of the proposed amendment concerning evaluations. The final rule requires regulated institutions to obtain evaluations for real estate-related financial transactions that do not require Title XI appraisals because they: (i) Are below the threshold level; (ii) qualify for the exemption for business loans of $1 million or less where income from real estate is not the primary source of repayment; or (iii) qualify for the exemption for subsequent transactions resulting from an existing extension of credit. The agencies changed the text of this amendment to make clear that institutions must still obtain evaluations for these exempt transactions. The regulation does not require the institution to have an evaluation if the transaction qualifies for an exemption other than these three exemptions. An evaluation provides a general estimate of the value of real estate and need not meet the detailed requirements of a Title XI appraisal. An evaluation must provide appropriate information to enable the institution to make a prudent decision regarding the transaction. Because institutions must tailor evaluations to provide appropriate information for different types of transactions, the content and form of evaluations will vary for different transactions. In their prior regulations, the OCC, Board and OTS required evaluations for all real estate-related financial transactions that do not require appraisals. The FDIC's prior regulation stated that supervisory guidelines, general banking practices or other prudent standards may require an appropriate valuation of real property collateral when a Title XI appraisal is not required. For some institutions, the effect of these provisions may have been to require evaluations in cases where they did not assist in protecting the institutions' safety and soundness. The agencies are amending their regulations to require regulated institutions to have evaluations only for those real estate-related financial transactions where an understanding of the real estate's value is generally needed to assist the institution in deciding whether to enter into the transaction. Some commenters stated that evaluations should not be required for any exempt transactions and that the decision to obtain an evaluation should be left to the institution. Commenters suggested that the agencies should require appraisals for any transaction that requires an evaluation and raised questions about the qualifications and independence of persons performing evaluations. Some commenters stated that only licensed or certified appraisers were qualified to perform evaluations. The agencies believe that safety and soundness principles require institutions to obtain an understanding of, and document, the value of the real estate involved in transactions that: (i) Are below the threshold level; (ii) qualify for the exemption for business loans of $1 million or less where income from real estate is not the primary source of repayment; or (iii) involve an existing extension of credit. In these cases, while a Title XI appraisal is not required to determine the value of the real estate, the agencies have concluded that regulated institutions must have an estimate of the real estate's value as a matter of safe and sound banking practice. For this reason, the agencies have decided that institutions should not have the discretion to decide whether they will obtain evaluations for these transactions. However, institutions will have discretion, within the limits of safe and sound banking practice as indicated in agency guidance, to determine the content and form of the evaluation. While licensed or certified appraisers may be qualified to perform evaluations, the agencies do not believe these appraisers are the only persons that can render a competent estimate of the value of real estate for exempt transactions. Requiring institutions to procure the services of a licensed or certified appraiser to prepare evaluations or Title XI appraisals for exempt transactions could impose significant additional costs on lenders and borrowers without significantly increasing the safety and soundness of the transactions. However, the agencies' regulations do not, as suggested by some commenters, prohibit regulated institutions from using licensed or certified appraisers to prepare evaluations. Nor do the regulations prevent regulated institutions from obtaining Title XI appraisals for exempt transactions. The agencies also believe that regulated institutions can take steps to ensure that the individuals performing evaluations are capable of providing an unbiased estimate of value. Institutions would generally be expected to check that persons who prepare evaluations are subject to adequate safeguards and controls to assure the integrity of the evaluation they perform. The agencies intend that regulated institutions have some flexibility in the safeguards they erect to ensure the independence of the person performing the evaluation. The agencies' experience with transactions exempt under their prior appraisal requirements indicates that employees of a regulated institution generally can provide an unbiased and competent evaluation of real estate collateral for exempt transactions. If there are deficiencies in an individual institution's evaluation procedures, including its procedures for determining whether to order Title XI appraisals for exempt transactions, the agencies can take appropriate steps to have the institution correct the problem. This can include requiring the institution to obtain appraisals for exempt transactions to address safety and soundness problems.
