FR940804-2-00088 FR940804-2-00045 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC&hyph;488] Announcement of Cooperative Agreement to the World Health Organization Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of funds for fiscal year (FY) 1994 for a cooperative agreement with the World Health Organization (WHO) for research initiatives related to chronic disease prevention and health promotion. Annually, chronic diseases are responsible for significant illness, death, economic cost, and diminished quality of life for millions of individuals worldwide. Improving methods of reaching and sustaining healthy lifestyles, promoting health education and disease prevention, and reducing high-risk activities which result in disease infection will result in significant reduction in mortality and morbidity. Approximately $312,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund this program. It is expected that the award will begin on or about September 29, 1994, for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 3 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and availability of funds. The purpose of this program is for WHO to coordinate the dissemination of comprehensive chronic disease information and health promotion programmatic expertise among relevant agencies, nations, and health-care professionals worldwide. Findings from this project will be useful in further reducing the excessive burden of chronic disease mortality in the United States and in improving the provision of care through more simple and less expensive forms of technology, as well as contributing immeasurably to reducing the excessive burden of chronic disease mortality throughout the world. The CDC will collaborate in the design of research protocols, assist in the analysis and interpretation of data generated from each project, provide, as needed, other programmatic consultation and guidance in support of the program, provide continuing updates on scientific and operational developments in the areas of categorical and comprehensive chronic disease prevention and control, participate in the development of plans for the sharing and dissemination of program and research data and information, and assist in defining the scope, the development, and dissemination of plans for chronic disease prevention, research, and control. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and to improve the quality of life. This announcement focuses on the priority areas of Health Promotion and Disease Prevention. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section Where to Obtain Additional Information .) Authority This program is authorized under 22 U.S.C. 2151b and Section 301(a) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission of promoting the protection and advancement of an individual's physical and mental health. Eligible Applicant Assistance will be provided only to WHO for this project. No other applications are solicited. The program announcement and application kit have been sent to WHO.
