FR941207-2-00002 FR941207-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Upper Columbia River Basin Ecosystem Management Strategy, Northern and Intermountain Regions DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Land Management [D&hyph;990&hyph;05&hyph;1610&hyph;00&hyph;UCRB] Upper Columbia River Basin Ecosystem Management Strategy, States of Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, and Nevada AGENCIES: Forest Service, USDA; Bureau of Land Management, USDI. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) and conduct planning activity which may amend Forest Service Regional Guides and will amend Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management land use plans. SUMMARY: The Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) propose to develop a scientifically sound, ecosystem-based strategy for management of the lands under their jurisdiction in the Upper Columbia River Basin (UCRB) in Idaho, Montana, Utah, Nevada, Wyoming, and a small part of Washington that is administered by Region 1 of the Forest Service. This strategy will modify existing land use plans. The modification will include a coordinated ecosystem management strategy for National Forest System and BLM public lands. This strategy will be consistent with the ``Framework for Ecosystem Management in the Interior Columbia River Basin'' that is being completed by the Scientific Integration Team of the Eastside Ecosystem Management Project. The EIS that will accompany this strategy will use the information from the ``Scientific Assessment for Ecosystem Management in the Interior Columbia River Basin'' and information received from the public as a basis for issue determination and for evaluating alternative strategies. Additional information may be collected as necessary. The strategy will be adopted in the form of decisions about desired ranges of future conditions for ecosystems, and related standards and guidelines for management of National Forest System and BLM public lands on all or parts of the UCRB. The EIS will consider alternative strategies for management of National Forest System and BLM-administered lands and their effects in the entire UCRB. At a minimum: A. The strategy will include direction which will protect and enhance aquatic ecosystems within the range of threatened or endangered anadromous fish through amendments to Forest Plans and Resource Management Plans. This direction will supersede any interim direction resulting from the Environmental Assessment for the Implementation of Interim Strategies for Managing Anadromous Fish-producing Watersheds in Eastern Oregon and Washington, Idaho, and Portions of California (commonly referred to as ``PACFISH''). B. The strategy also will include other necessary guidance applicable to the Basin as a whole, or to broad subregions within the basin. This guidance will address forest ecosystem health; rangeland ecosystem health; aquatic and riparian ecosystem health; integration of social and economic considerations; population viability; and the long-term sustainability of threatened, endangered, and sensitive species. The guidance also will be developed by examining other issues identified by the public through the scoping process. This guidance will be adopted as amendments to the Forest Service Regional Guides for Regions 1 and 4 and/or amendments to Forest Service and BLM land use plans. C. The third part of the strategy may identify changes to the ways current plans are implemented or budgets developed, that can improve capability to achieve ecosystem management objectives. The strategy may also help establish priorities for revising forest plans and developing or amending resource management plans. This part of the strategy does not require environmental analysis, but may be addressed within the scope of this EIS. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received in writing by 30 days following the date of the last scoping meeting to receive full consideration in the development of alternatives. Dates of those meetings will be published in local and regional newspapers. ADDRESSES: Send written comments concerning this proposal to Stephen P. Mealey, Project Manager, 304 North 8th St., Room 253, Boise Idaho 83702. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary Wyke or Cindy Deacon Williams, EIS Team Co-leaders, 304 North 8th St., Room 253, Boise, Idaho 83702, phone (208) 334&hyph;1770. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The purpose of this action is to develop and analyze a scientifically sound, ecosystem-based strategy for management of lands administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service and the United States Department of the Interior (USDI) Bureau of Land Management that are in the UCRB in Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, and Nevada and that portion of Washington administered by the Forest Service's Northern Region. The strategy will focus on ecosystem health, including its forest, rangeland, and aquatic/riparian, landscape, and social/economic components, with emphasis on population viability and the sustainability of threatened, endangered, and sensitive species.
