FR940922-2-00101 FR940922-2-00069 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Joint Statement of Understanding Between Nuclear Regulatory Commission and Department of Energy on Implementing Energy Policy Act Provisions on Regulation of Gaseous Diffusion Uranium Enrichment Plants AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Publication of Joint Statement of Understanding Between the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Department of Energy. SUMMARY: The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) have entered into a Joint Statement of Understanding which describes the roles of the DOE and NRC in implementing the Energy Policy Act of 1992 provisions on the regulation of gaseous diffusion uranium enrichment plants. The text of the Joint Statement of Understanding is set forth below. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary L. Shear, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region III, Division of Radiation Safety and Safeguards, 801 Warrenville Road, Lisle, IL 60532, Telephone 708&hyph;829&hyph;9876. Dated at Lisle, Illinois, this 15th day of September 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John B. Martin, Regional Administrator, Region III. Agreement Establishing Guidance for NRC Inspection Activities at the Paducah and Portsmouth Gaseous Diffusion Plants Between Department of Energy Regulatory Oversight Manager and Nuclear Regulatory Commission I. Authority The United States Department of Energy (DOE) and the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), Region III, enter into this Agreement under the authority of Section 1701 (c)(4)B of the Atomic Energy Act (AEA) of 1954, as amended and the Joint Statement of Understanding between the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Department of Energy on Implementing Energy Policy Act Provisions on Regulation of Gaseous Diffusion Uranium Enrichment Plants (Joint Statement), 59 FR 4729 (February 1, 1994). II. Background The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. ยง2297 et seq.), created the United States Enrichment Corporation (USEC), a government corporation for the purpose of managing and operating the uranium enrichment enterprise previously owned and operated by the DOE. The Energy Policy Act (the Act) also required that by October 24, 1994, the NRC establish its standards for the regulation of the gaseous diffusion plants leased by the USEC in order to protect the public health and safety and to provide for the common defense and security. After these standards are promulgated, the USEC is required to apply at least annually for a certificate of compliance with the standards. Until such time as the NRC assumes regulatory jurisdiction at the gaseous diffusion plants (GDPs), DOE will exercise nuclear safety and safeguards and security oversight authority at the leased portion of the gaseous diffusion plants located in Paducah, Kentucky, and Piketon, Ohio. The regulatory framework of DOE's authority is contained in the Regulatory Oversight Agreement, Exhibit D to the Lease Agreement between DOE and USEC dated July 1, 1993. Pursuant to the Joint Statement, it is agreed that the NRC will locate observers at the facilities on or after July 1, 1993, to obtain information and knowledge that may be useful to NRC in developing or implementing its standards. The Joint Statement also provides that interim guidance for the NRC inspectors/observers will be established between the DOE Regulatory Oversight Manager and the NRC covering the period before the NRC assumes regulatory jurisdiction over the facilities.
