FR940727-2-00123 FR940727-2-00070 Authority for maintenance of the system: 8 U.S.C. 1522(b) (Authorization for Programs for Initial Domestic Resettlement of and Assistance to Refugees); 22 U.S.C. 1157 (Annual Admission of Refugees and Admission of Emergency Situation Refugees); Letter of President Carter of January 13, 1981, 17 Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents, Pg. 2880 (Refugee Resettlement Grants Program). Categories of records in the system: Registration logbooks/cards; refugee applications and related forms and interview worksheets; letters of approval/denial; fingerprint cards; biographic and demographic information such as family trees and documents of identity; affidavits of relationship; sponsorship assurance forms; medical examination and immunization reports; communications from U.S. embassies, U.S. consulates general and consulates, voluntary agencies, U.S. Government agencies, international organizations, foreign missions, members of Congress, relatives and other interested parties; and International Organization for Migration (IOM) loan notes. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and purposes of such uses: The Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), overseas voluntary agencies' employees and contractors; participating domestic voluntary agencies; international organizations that assist applicants; consumer reporting agencies (31 U.S.C. 7311(f)) and debt collection contractors (31 U.S.C. 3718); members of Congress; and other federal, state, and local government agencies having statutory or other lawful authority will use this information to: (1) Provide necessary background information to the INS and the Department of State refugee and consular officers to determine the eligibility of an applicant for admission to the United States; (2) Provide selected information to participating voluntary agencies to ensure appropriate resettlement in the United States; (3) Collect case status and processing statistics concerning such individuals; and (4) Assist in the collection of indebtedness owed to IOM and/or the United States Government. Also see ``Routine Uses'' paragraph of the Prefatory Statement published in the Federal Register (42 FR 49699, September 27, 1977). Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Electronic media; hard copy; microfilm. Retrievability: By case number, alien number, and applicant name. Safeguards: All records containing personal information are maintained in secured file cabinets or in restricted areas, access to which is limited to authorized personnel of the Department of State, voluntary agencies, INS and its contractors, and others specifically authorized under the ``Guidelines for the Treatment of Refugee Records Maintained by Joint Voluntary Agencies.'' Where the records are computerized, access it under the direct supervision of the system manager. Retention and disposal: Retention of these records varies depending upon the specific kind of record involved. Files of closed and unprocessed cases are retired or destroyed in accordance with published record schedules of the Department of State and as approved by the National Archives and Records Administration. Files of approved refugees and denied applicants are transferred to the INS, and subject to its disposition schedules. More specified information may be obtained by writing to the Director, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy, and Classification Review, Room 1239, Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20520&hyph;1239.
