FR940725-0-00169 FR940725-0-00019 D. The Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Shipyard Employment Standard Complies With the Statutory Criteria Described Above and Is Not Subject to the Additional Constraints Applicable to Section 6(b)(5) Standards Standards which regulate hazards that are frequently undetectable because they are subtle or develop slowly or after long latency periods, are frequently referred to as ``health'' standards. Standards that regulate hazards, like explosions or electrocution, that cause immediately noticeable physical harm, are called ``safety'' standards. (See National Grain & Feed Ass'n v. OSHA (NGFA II), 866 F.2d 717, 731, 733 (5th Cir. 1989). As noted above, section 3(8) provides that all OSHA standards must be ``reasonably necessary or appropriate.'' In addition, section 6(b)(5) requires that OSHA set health standards which limit significant risk ``to the extent feasible.'' OSHA has determined that the Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Shipyard Employment standard is a safety standard, because the standard addresses hazards, such as asphyxiation, explosions, and fires, that are immediately dangerous to life or health, not the longer term, less obvious hazards subject to section 6(b)(5). The OSH Act and its legislative history clearly indicate that Congress intended for OSHA to distinguish between safety standards and health standards. For example in section 2(b)(6) of the OSH Act, Congress declared that the goal of assuring safe and healthful working conditions and preserving human resources would be achieved, in part: *␣*␣*by exploring ways to discover latent diseases, establishing causal connections between diseases and work in environmental conditions, and conducting other research relating to health problems, in recognition of the fact that occupational health standards present problems often different from those involved in occupational safety. The legislative history makes this distinction even clearer: [The Secretary] should take into account that anyone working in toxic agents and physical agents which might be harmful may be subjected to such conditions for the rest of his working life, so that we can get at something which might not be toxic now, if he works in it a short time, but if he works in it the rest of his life might be very dangerous; and we want to make sure that such things are taken into consideration in establishing standards. [ Leg. Hist. at 502&hyph;503 (Sen. Dominick), quoted in Benzene at 648&hyph;49] Additionally, Representative Daniels distinguished between ``insidious silent killers' such as toxic fumes, bases, acids, and chemicals'' and ``violent physical injury causing immediate visible physical harm'' ( Leg. Hist. at 1003), and Representative Udall contrasted insidious hazards like carcinogens with ``the more visible and well-known question of industrial accidents and on-the-job injury'' ( Leg. Hist. at 1004). (See also, for example, S. Rep. No. 1282, 91st Cong., 2d Sess. 2&hyph;3 (1970), U.S. Code Cong. & Admin. News 1970, pp. 5177, 5179, reprinted in Leg. Hist. at 142&hyph;143, discussing 1967 Surgeon General study that found that 65 percent of employees in industrial plants ``were potentially exposed to harmful physical agents, such as severe noise or vibration, or to toxic materials''; Leg. Hist. at 412; id. at 446; id. at 516; id. at 845; International Union, UAW at 1315.) In reviewing OSHA rulemaking activity, the Supreme Court has held that section 6(b)(5) requires OSHA to set ``the most protective standard consistent with feasibility'' ( Benzene at 643 n. 48). As Justice Stevens observed: The reason that Congress drafted a special section for these substances *␣*␣* was because Congress recognized that there were special problems in regulating health risks as opposed to safety risks. In the latter case, the risks are generally immediate and obvious, while in the former, the risks may not be evident until a worker has been exposed for long periods of time to particular substances. [ Benzene, at 649 n. 54.] Challenges to the grain dust and lockout/tagout standards included assertions that grain dust in explosive quantities and uncontrolled energy releases that could expose employees to crushing, cutting, burning or explosion hazards were harmful physical agents so that OSHA was required to apply the criteria of section 6(b)(5) when determining how to protect employees from those hazards. Reviewing courts have uniformly rejected such assertions. For example, the Court in International Union, UAW v. OSHA, 938 F.2d 1310 (D.C. Cir. 1991) rejected the view that section 6(b)(5) provided the statutory criteria for regulation of uncontrolled energy, holding that such a ``reading would obliterate a distinction that Congress drew between health and safety risks.'' The Court also noted that the language of the OSH Act and the legislative history supported the OSHA position ( International Union, UAW at 1314). Additionally, the Court stated: ``We accord considerable weight to an agency's construction of a statutory scheme it is entrusted to administer, rejecting it only if unreasonable'' ( International Union, UAW at 1313, citing Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. NRDC, 467 U.S. 837, 843 (1984)). The Court reviewing the grain dust standard also deferred to OSHA's reasonable view that the Agency was not subject to the feasibility mandate of section 6(b)(5) in regulating explosive quantities of grain dust ( National Grain & Feed Association v. OSHA (NGFA II), 866 F.2d 717, 733 (5th Cir. 1989)). It therefore applied the criteria of section 3(8), requiring the Agency to establish that the standard is ``reasonably necessary or appropriate'' to protect employees.
