FR940202-0-00040 FR940202-0-00006 Section 1.1274A&hyph;1␣Special Rules for Certain Transactions Where Stated Principal Amount Does Not Exceed $2,800,000 No comments were received on these regulations and no material changes were made to this section. Section 1.1275&hyph;1␣Definitions In response to a comment, the definition of issue has been expanded. As a result, debt instruments issued in different markets or for different consideration can be part of the same issue. Section 1.1275&hyph;2␣Special Rules Relating to Debt Instruments The proposed regulations provide that all payments (other than qualified stated interest payments) consist first of accrued but unpaid OID, then of principal. Several commentators suggested that unscheduled prepayments should be treated as partial retirements of the debt instrument. In response to these comments, the final regulations add new rules for the treatment of pro rata prepayments. In general, a pro rata prepayment is an unscheduled payment made on a debt instrument prior to maturity that results in a substantially pro rata reduction of each payment of principal and interest remaining on the instrument. If a prepayment on a debt instrument is a pro rata prepayment, the prepayment is treated as a payment in retirement of a portion of the instrument, which may result in gain or loss to the holder. The gain or loss is calculated by assuming that the debt instrument consists of two instruments, one that is retired and one that remains outstanding, and by allocating the adjusted issue price, the holder's adjusted basis, and the accrued but unpaid qualified stated interest between the two instruments based on the portion of the instrument that is treated as retired by the pro rata prepayment. In the case of a pro rata prepayment, the issuer may realize discharge of indebtedness income (as determined under §1.61&hyph;12) or repurchase premium (as determined under §1.163&hyph;7). Partial retirement treatment is restricted to pro rata prepayments because the IRS and Treasury believe that this type of prepayment is common. The extension of the rule to non-pro rata prepayments would add undue complexity to the regulations. In addition, extension of the rule to non-pro rata prepayments may cause inappropriate recognition of gain or loss if, in addition to a prepayment, the interest rate or the payment schedule is altered. Furthermore, as noted by one commentator, a rule for non-pro rata prepayments may not be necessary because an unscheduled prepayment may, depending on the circumstances, result in a deemed exchange under section 1001. The proposed regulations contain a number of rules that generally require a holder to follow the issuer's treatment of an item, such as whether a debt instrument is issued in a potentially abusive situation. In response to comments, the final regulations provide that the issuer must make information relating to its treatment of the item available to the holder in a reasonable manner. Section 1.1275&hyph;2T, which is published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , provides for an anti-abuse rule. Under the rule, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, in certain circumstances, can apply or depart from the final regulations in a manner that ensures a reasonable result in light of the purposes of the statutes governing OID.
