FR941117-0-00167 FR941117-0-00011 (3) Table of contents. The table of contents must list all of the exhibits to the application. (4) FCC Form 401. All information required for cellular applications on FCC Form 401 must be supplied. (5) Exhibits. The following exhibits must be set off by tabs and numbered as follows: (i) Exhibit I_full-size map. The scale of the full-size map must be 1:500,000, regardless of whether any different scale is used for the reduced map required in Exhibit II. The map must have a legend, a distance scale and correctly labeled latitude and longitude lines. The map must be clear and legible. The map must accurately show the cell sites (transmitting antenna locations), the entire CGSA, any extension of the composite service area boundary beyond the CGSA (see §22.911) and the relevant portions of the cellular market boundary. (ii) Exhibit II_reduced map. This map must be a proportional reduction, to 81/2 × 11 inches, of the full-size map required for Exhibit I, unless it proves to be impractical to depict the entire cellular market by reducing the full-size map. In such instance, an 81/2 × 11 inch map of a different scale may be substituted, provided that the required features of the full-size map are clearly depicted and labeled. (iii) Exhibit III_engineering. This exhibit must contain the data and methodology used to calculate the CGSA and service area boundary. (iv) Exhibit IV_channel plan. This exhibit must show which specific channels (or groups) are to be used at each cell site. Any necessary table for converting channel numbers to center frequencies must be provided. (v) Exhibit V_ownership information. This exhibit must contain the information required by §22.108. Additionally, individual applicants must disclose, in this exhibit, all interests (including those less than 5%) in publicly traded corporation(s) that have applications which are mutually exclusive with the individual's application. (vi) Exhibit VI_service proposal. This exhibit must describe the services proposed for subscribers and roamers, including the proposed method for handling complaints. (vii) Exhibit VII_cellular design. This exhibit must show that the proposed system design complies with cellular system design concepts, and must describe the method proposed to expand the system in a coordinated fashion as necessary to address changing demand for cellular service. (viii) Exhibit VIII_blocking level. This exhibit must disclose the blocking probability or other criteria to be used to determine whether it is necessary to take measures to increase system capacity to maintain service quality. (ix) Exhibit IX_start-up expenses. This exhibit must disclose in detail the projected cost of construction and other initial expenses of the proposed system, and how the applicant intends to meet these expenses and the costs of operation for the first year. (x) Exhibit X_interconnection arrangements. This exhibit is required for applicants that provide public landline message telephone service in any portion of the proposed CGSA. This exhibit must describe exactly how the proposed system would interconnect with the landline network. The description must be of sufficient detail to enable a competitor to connect with the landline system in exactly the same manner, if the competitor so chooses. (b) Existing systems. Applications for changes to existing systems need only contain the form required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section and the exhibits required by paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section. §22.955 Canadian condition. Pursuant to an agreement between the FCC and the Department of Communications in Canada, authorizations for cellular systems within 72 kilometers (45 miles) of the U.S.-Canadian border must have the following condition attached: This authorization is subject to the condition that, in the event that cellular systems using the same channel block as granted herein are authorized in adjacent territory in Canada, coordination of any of your transmitter installations which are within 72 kilometers (45 miles) of the U.S.-Canadian border shall be required to eliminate any harmful interference that might otherwise exist and to insure continuance of equal access to the channel block by both countries. §22.957 Mexican condition. Pursuant to an agreement between the United States and Mexico, FCC authorizations for cellular systems within 72 kilometers (45 miles) of the United States-Mexican border must have the following condition attached: This authorization is subject to the condition that, in the event cellular systems using the same frequencies granted herein are authorized in adjacent territory in Mexico, coordination of your transmitter installations which are within 72 kilometers (45 miles) of the United States-Mexico border shall be required to eliminate any harmful interference that might otherwise exist and to ensure continuance of equal access to the frequencies by both countries. The operator of this system shall not contract with customers in Mexico, and further, users of the system must be advised that operation of a mobile unit in Mexico is not permitted at this time without the express permission of the Mexican government. The above conditions are subject to modification pending further notice from the FCC. §22.959 Rules governing processing of applications for initial systems. Pending applications for authority to operate the first cellular system on a channel block in an MSA or RSA market continue to be processed under the rules governing the processing of such applications that were in effect when those applications were filed, unless the Commission determines otherwise in a particular case. Subpart I_Offshore Radiotelephone Service §22.1001 Scope. The rules in this subpart govern the licensing and operation of offshore radiotelephone stations. The licensing and operation of these stations and systems is also subject to rules elsewhere in this part that apply generally to the public mobile services. However, in case of conflict, the rules in this subpart govern. §22.1003 Eligibility. Offshore central station licenses may be licensed to communications common carriers. Offshore subscriber stations may be licensed to common carriers or users of the service. §22.1005 Priority of service. Facilities in the Offshore Radiotelephone Service are intended primarily for rendition of public message service between offshore subscriber and central stations. However, they may also be used to render private leased line communication service, provided that such usage does not reduce or impair the extent or quality of communication service which would be available, in the absence of private leased line service, to the general public receiving or subsequently requesting public message service from an offshore central station. §22.1007 Channels for offshore radiotelephone systems. The channels listed in this section are allocated for paired assignment to transmitters located in the specified geographical zones that provide offshore radiotelephone service. All channels have a bandwidth of 20 kHz and are designated by their center frequencies in MegaHertz. (a) Zone A_Southern Louisiana. The geographical area in Zone A is bounded as follows: From longitude W.87 ○45 ’ on the East to longitude W.94 ○00 ’ on the West and from the 4.8 kilometer (3 mile) limit along the Gulf of Mexico shoreline on the North to the limit of the Outer Continental Shelf on the South. (1) These channels may be assigned for use by offshore central (base/fixed) or subscriber stations (fixed, temporary fixed, surface and/or airborne mobile) as indicated, for voice-grade general communications:
