FR941128-2-00111 FR941128-2-00060 [OR&hyph;094&hyph;6334&hyph;04: GP5&hyph;037] Proposed Establishment of Supplementary Rules; Lane County, Oregon AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of proposed establishment of supplementary rules. SUMMARY: The Eugene District, Bureau of Land Management, proposes to establish supplementary rules for use of those public lands included in the West Eugene Wetlands Project in the Coast Range Resource Area, Eugene District, Lane County, Oregon. These supplementary rules are being proposed to provide for public safety and to protect the natural resources of the project area. These rules would be consistent with the City of Eugene regulations covering those project lands within the City of Eugene. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to Wayne Elliott, Coast Range Area Manager, Eugene District Office, P.O. Box 10226, Eugene, Oregon 97440&hyph;2226. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jock Beall, 503&hyph;683&hyph;6993. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Authority for the establishment of these supplemental rules is contained in 43 CFR 8365.1&hyph;6. A map showing the location of the lands subject to the proposed supplementary rules is available in the Eugene District Office. The proposed supplementary rules would apply to those lands already acquired and to lands that will be acquired as part of the West Eugene Wetlands Project. These supplementary rules will be subject to review and will be revised, if appropriate, to further the goals of providing for public safety and protecting natural resources. DATES: Comments must be received by December 28, 1994. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Eugene District, Bureau of Land Management, proposes to establish the following supplementary rules for the West Eugene Wetlands Project: 1. Use or operation of motor vehicles is prohibited except on those roads and parking areas specifically designated for motor vehicle use. Non-street legal motor vehicles are prohibited at all times. Motor vehicles being used by duly authorized emergency response personnel, including police, ambulance and fire suppression, as well as BLM vehicles engaged in official duties and other vehicles authorized by BLM, are excepted. 2. Possession, use and/or discharge of any weapons is prohibited, except that hunting on the Project lands outside the city limits of Eugene is permissible in accordance with federal and state laws. 3. Use and/or occupancy (including leaving personal property unattended) is prohibited between one half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise without the written permission of the authorized officer. 4. The collection, disturbance or possession of any natural resource is prohibited without the written permission of the authorized officer. 5. The possession or discharge of fireworks is prohibited. 6. Campfires or other open flame fires are prohibited without the written permission of the authorized officer. 7. No person shall, unless otherwise authorized, bring any animal onto the public lands unless such animal is on a leash not longer than six feet and secured to a fixed object or under control of a person, or is otherwise physically restricted at all times. This restriction does not apply to legal hunting activities with dogs outside the City of Eugene. 8. Bicycle travel and equestrian travel is limited to designated routes and areas, except as otherwise permitted in writing by the authorized officer. 9. The possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited. 10. Hiking and foot traffic may be limited or closed by the authorized officer in designated areas to protect natural resources. 11. Littering and the disposal of any commercial, industrial or household waste is prohibited. 12. Audio devices creating unreasonable noise and disturbance are prohibited without the written permission of the authorized officer. 13. Smoking may be prohibited by the authorized officer when necessary to protect natural resources and adjacent landowners. Date of Issue: November 18, 1994. Judy Ellen Nelson, District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29229 Filed 11&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;33&hyph;P
