FR941110-0-00219 FR941110-0-00016 To ensure proper development and execution of the plan, the commenters recommend that we require the State to submit its transfer plan to HCFA for approval. HCFA, in turn, should assess performance under the transfer plan annually, during the review of the State's enforcement performance. The commenters end their rewrite of proposed §488.240 with an enforcement recommendation that if the State's transfer plan is found inadequate, HCFA should take actions as described in proposed §488.243 (b) and (c). They also recommend that immediate implementation of the plan be waived during a crisis or disaster which makes it impossible to fully implement a State's transfer plan. In addition to the detailed rewrite of the section, the commenters recommend that the term ``all residents'' be defined, because the amount of assistance residents receive in the transfer process is directly related to their Medicaid, Medicare, or private payment status. For example, Medicaid residents receive services such as notice of closing, information about care options, counseling, transportation, and other types of relocation assistance. Medicare residents are often not offered any of these services, and private pay residents usually receive no help whatsoever. One commenter suggested that it is inappropriate to ``require'' the transfer of residents if the facility has not been delicensed by the State and the residents choose to remain at the facility. Further, one of the commenters states that the preamble and the text of the proposed regulation differ as to which agency has the responsibility for transferring residents, with the preamble stating that the State agency must arrange for transfer, proposed §488.240 stating that the State has the responsibility, and §441.11(a)(2) stating that the Medicaid agency does. Response: We believe the commenters inadvertently transposed proposed section numbers §488.234 (b) and (c) as there are no proposed sections §488.243 (b) and (c). We appreciate these very thorough and specific comments and the amount of effort that went into them. Although there are valid considerations in the suggested rewrite of this section, some of them may be impossible for the States to implement. We, therefore, choose not to impose such stringent requirements on the States. Existing regulations at §483.12(a) provide numerous procedural safeguards regarding the transfer and discharge of residents. In addition, the States are already required by sections 1819(h)(4) and 1919(h)(5) of the Act to provide for the orderly transfer of residents when a facility is terminated or closed, and at sections 1819(c)(2) and 1919(c)(2) of the Act, to provide notice of transfer at least 30 days in advance in most cases. We agree that proposed §488.240, now incorporated into §488.426, which uses the words ``all residents,'' may be overly broad and we are revising that section to specify that only Medicare and Medicaid residents are affected by this section. We accept the suggestion that the term ``orderly transfer'' be amended to ``safe and orderly transfer'' to maintain consistency with the language of sections 1819(h)(4) and 1919(h)(5) of the Act. Since sections 1819(h)(4) and 1919(h)(5) address immediate jeopardy terminations, we cannot accept the comment that it is appropriate to allow any Medicare or Medicaid residents to remain in a facility that is being terminated for such serious situations. To do so, would put these residents in jeopardy and would be clearly contrary to sections 1819(h)(4) and 1919(h)(5) of the Act. The following addresses what one of the commenters perceives as conflicting information regarding responsibility for the orderly transfer of residents. The preamble did indeed state that the survey agency is responsible for arranging for transfers, while proposed §488.240 (now incorporated into §488.426) is taken directly from sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act and places the responsibility generally on the State. We wish to give the States the greatest latitude in determining which State agencies they will use. Therefore, it is our intent to rely on the broader interpretation in proposed §488.240 and place the responsibility on the State as required by the Act. Although the commenter has correctly pointed out that §441.11(a)(2) places the responsibility on the Medicaid agency, we believe that each State should be given the flexibility to select the appropriate agency under its particular governmental structure. Therefore, we are revising §441.11(a)(2) accordingly. Comment: This commenter stated that, in the past, the responsibility for arranging for the orderly transfer of residents to another facility whenever a provider agreement is terminated has been placed on the facility operator subject to the State's oversight. This commenter stated that the proposed regulations would impose substantial costs and uncertain legal liabilities upon the State. Response: According to existing regulations at §483.12(a), the State, not the facility, has had the responsibility in the past for numerous procedural safeguards regarding the transfer and discharge of residents and has funded such costs. Sometimes the facilities cooperate in the transfer of residents and sometimes they do not. Sometimes they have no resources with which to help. Therefore, the ultimate responsibility for all aspects relative to transfer of residents in the case of a facility closure lies with the State to ensure that the well-being of residents is protected. Comment: Another commenter agreed with the regulatory text but wanted us to require, in the case of provider agreement termination, that the State permit a resident to remain in a terminated facility provided the resident arranges to pay for his or her care and the facility does not close. Response: It is not necessary to require States to allow residents to remain in terminated facilities because they already have that right. If a resident prefers to remain in a terminated facility that is still operating, and is able to pay for his or her own care, that resident has every right to do so. The government has fulfilled its obligation by providing notice to residents that the facility's provider agreement has been terminated. This applies whether or not immediate jeopardy exists. The State is the only entity that has the authority to close or delicense a facility. Comment: One commenter suggested that if residents are transferred because a facility is terminated, we should require that the State provide for such transfer, at its own expense, and that it be held liable for its action during such action.
