FR941205-0-00081 FR941205-0-00023 * * * * * 3. In §501.5, the heading of paragraph (f) is republished, paragraph (f)(4) is added, the introductory text of paragraph (k) is revised, paragraph (k)(3) is removed, and paragraph (k)(4) is redesignated as (k)(3) as follows: §501.5 Functions of the organizational components of the Federal Maritime Commission. * * * * * (f) The Office of the Managing Director . *␣*␣* (4) Is responsible for the administration and coordination of the Office of Information Resources Management. The Office of Information Resources Management, under the direction and management of the Office Director, provides administrative support with respect to information resources management to the program operations of the Commission. The Office interprets governmental policies and programs for information management and administers these in a manner consistent with Federal guidelines. The Office initiates recommendations, collaborating with other elements of the Commission as warranted, for long-range plans, new or revised policies and standards, and rules and regulations, with respect to its program activities. The Office's major functions include: administration of the information resources management program under the Paperwork Reduction Act; management studies and surveys; data telecommunications/database management and application development; records management; IRM contract administration; development of Paperwork Reduction Act clearances for submission to the Office of Management and Budget; computer security; and forms management. The Director of the Office serves as Senior IRM Manager, Forms Control Officer, Computer Security Officer, Records Management Officer, and ADP Coordinator for the Committee on Automated Data Processing. * * * * * (k) Under the direction and management of the Bureau Director, the Bureau of Administration is responsible for the administration and coordination of the Offices of: Administrative Services; Budget and Financial Management; and Personnel. The Bureau provides administrative support to the program operations of the Commission. The Bureau interprets governmental policies and programs and administers these in a manner consistent with Federal guidelines, including those involving procurement, financial management and personnel. The Bureau initiates recommendations, collaborating with other elements of the Commission as warranted, for long-range plans, new or revised policies and standards, and rules and regulations, with respect to its program activities. * * * * *
