FR940216-0-00049 FR940216-0-00010 A. Simple VOC Emissions Model The simple model for VOC emissions is comprised of fuel specifications for RVP and oxygen. Fuels sold at retail outlets must have an RVP during the high ozone season (June 1 through September 15) of no more than 7.2 psi in VOC control region 1 (the southern areas typically covered by ASTM class B during the summer) and 8.1 psi in VOC control region 2 (the northern areas typically covered by ASTM class C during the summer). 1 The differences in climate between these two types of areas requires a corresponding difference in gasoline volatility to achieve the same emissions effect. The period of June 1 through September 15 was chosen for the high ozone season because most of the ozone violations occur during this period. (See 56 FR 24242 for a discussion of the determination of this period.) 1 Lower RVP limits apply for fuels that comply under averaging. RVP controls also apply from May 1 to May 31 for facilities upstream of retail outlets. These issues are discussed elsewhere in this proposal. Section 211(k)(3) of the Act requires that at a minimum reformulated gasoline comply with the more stringent of either a 15% reduction in VOC emissions or a formula fuel described in that section, whichever is greater. EPA has determined that the formula fuel would achieve less than a 15% reduction in VOC. As such, the minimum VOC emission reduction required by the Act is 15%. As discussed in section IV, EPA believes that the VOC emission reduction in VOC control region 2 from a fuel with an RVP of 8.1 psi and 2.0 weight percent oxygen will be sufficient to achieve the minimum 15% VOC emission reduction relative to the Clean Air Act baseline gasoline (which has an RVP of 8.7 psi). In VOC control region 1, an 8.1 psi RVP fuel with 2.0 percent oxygen (which would meet the minimum 15% reduction requirement relative to the CAA baseline fuel) would actually have greater emissions than a fuel meeting EPA's Phase II RVP control standards for VOC control region 1 (maximum RVP of 7.8 psi). EPA believes that when Congress designated cities for inclusion in the reformulated gasoline program that it intended the program to provide emissions reductions in addition to those provided by the Phase II RVP requirements. If EPA merely required reformulated gasoline in VOC control region 1 to meet the RVP requirement for VOC control region 2, then no reduction in VOC emissions would accrue under the first phase of the reformulated gasoline program beyond those mandated by Phase II RVP standards. EPA projects that relative to Phase II RVP control levels, a fuel with 7.2 psi RVP and 2.0 weight percent oxygen would provide VOC emission reductions in VOC control region 1 similar to those obtained in VOC control region 2.
