FR940523-2-00075 FR940523-2-00041 (5) Documented evidence that the outreach and referral strategies promote the continuity of care, increase access to services, and link residents to resources which meet a wide range of health and social service needs; (6) Documented evidence of efforts to strengthen relationships with State Medicaid Agencies to enhance financing for primary care services; (7) Evidence which supports the reasonableness of the proposed budget, and adequacy of the budget justification; (8) Documented evidence of having successfully developed and implemented health services programs for residents of public housing, which must include examples of managing the delivery of health services to this population; (9) Documented evidence of having successfully incorporated the residents of public housing in the development, implementation and management of the health services program; and (10) Documented evidence of an effective working relationship with public housing resident organization(s) in the target public housing community. II. Minority Community Health Coalition Demonstration Program Related to HIV/AIDS Centered Education and Prevention Funding Grant awards for the Minority Community Health Coalition (MCHC) program will be made for amounts up to approximately $100,000 each for approximately 5 new projects for up to 3 years. A special initiative exists between the Office of Minority Health (OMH) and the Bureau of Primary Health Care (BPHC) aimed specifically at the Section 340A Public Housing Primary Care (PHPC) grantees. Only those grantees or applicants approved for FY 1994 funding, who have not previously received OMH/MCHC funds, are eligible for MCHC grants. Proposals for this OMH supplemental program must be submitted as part of the application for the PHPC grant. Project Requirements Grantees will be required: To develop community health coalitions; to identify minority-targeted health education and prevention strategies; and to implement the strategies they have identified. These strategies will help eliminate or reduce the risk for acquiring or transmitting HIV, and other health problems that are acquired and/or transmitted or associated with similar risk behaviors. The categories must include tuberculosis (TB), substance abuse and sexually-transmitted diseases (STD), and hepatitis B. Although TB is not directly related to risk behaviors underlying HIV transmission, it is a serious health problem aggravated by HIV infection. It warrants special attention in HIV education/prevention information because of its high level of communicability. Evaluation Criteria Proposals for the demonstration program will be evaluated on the following: (1) The relative need of the population to be served for the proposed HIV/AIDS centered education/prevention program; (2) The adequacy of the proposed plan to assure the development and operation of an effective coalition, which should include involvement of the target population; (3) The appropriateness of coordination and linkages with State and local health departments and other existing HIV-related activities such as the federally funded Ryan White Consortia; (4) The appropriateness of the proposed staffing pattern;
