FR941202-2-00171 FR941202-2-00098 In response to the accreditation program guidelines, certain chemistry analytes are scored by taking fixed intervals about the known target value, where good performance is defined as a result within those fixed target intervals, and unsatisfactory performance is any other result. For the potable water total coliforms, where qualitative analysis is required (i.e., presence/absence), a laboratory is required to maintain an average passing score of 90% on two consecutive tests. Laboratories being tested for the determination of radon in air are required to submit 5 sampling devices to the PE testing program. Four of these are exposed to a known concentration in a standard atmosphere exposure chamber, and the remaining device is left unexposed as a ``blank''. The devices are then returned to the laboratories for analysis, and they are required to report results within 25% of the target value on at least 4 of the 5 devices. 2.5␣Successful Participation Each laboratory must successfully participate in a PE testing program approved by NELAP for each field of testing in which the laboratory is accredited. If a laboratory's accreditation is suspended or revoked because it fails to participate in PE testing for one or more fields of testing, or voluntarily withdraws its accreditation for the failed field of testing, the laboratory must then demonstrate satisfactory performance on two consecutive PE test events, one of which may be onsite, before the primary accreditor will consider it for reinstatement. Laboratories shall agree to test additional samples at the option of the primary accreditor for the following situations: (a) A major change in ownership or supervision of the laboratory; (b) Complaints by users or employees; (c) Unsatisfactory performance on most recent PE test event; or (d) Request by the laboratory to be reinstated in a field of testing. Failure to participate in a PE test event shall result in an automatic rating of unsuccessful performance and results in a score of zero for the PE test event. Consideration may be given to those laboratories failing to participate in a PE test event only if: (a) Routine testing was suspended during the time frame allotted for testing and reporting PE test results; and (b) The laboratory notifies the primary accreditor and the PE testing program within the time frame for submitting PE test results of the suspension of routine testing and the circumstances associated with failure to perform tests on PE samples. Failure to return PE test results to the PE program within the time frame specified by the program is unsuccessful performance and results in a score of zero for the PE test event. The PE testing program will specify the conditions and procedures for late submissions, e.g., lost or broken samples. For those late submission categories, the participant will be allowed to test the samples on an alternate schedule. For any unsatisfactory PE test event for reasons other than a failure to participate, the laboratory must undertake appropriate training and employ the technical assistance necessary to correct problems associated with a PE test failure.
