FR940414-0-00073 FR940414-0-00028 4. Technical Corrections Comment: Use of curved length measurements would allow the retention of illegal-sized fish so the measurement should be defined and its use prohibited. Response: NMFS did not propose to allow use of curved length measurements to determine size classes of bluefin tuna. NMFS sought only to clarify the alternative measurement methods and to take comment on the feasibility of increasing the size class definitions to account for the curved length method. Once additional industry comments and field observations are made concerning the measurement techniques used by the industry for Atlantic bluefin tuna, NMFS will make a determination about what would be the appropriate method to use. If the curved length measurement were to become standard, the sizes would be adjusted accordingly. This adjustment would not allow retention of illegal-sized bluefin. 5. Request for Comments on Closure Notices Comment: Timely notice of closures is commendable but closures should err on the side of conservation. Response: NMFS attempts to keep harvests within allotted quota levels and has retained the reserve to account for overharvest in any category. 6. The Environmental Assessment's ``Finding of No Significant Impact'' Comment: Without more effective conservation measures, the proposed rule is likely to have significant impacts on bluefin stock recovery. Response: The proposed actions continue and facilitate implementation of ICCAT's long-term program for stock recovery. While the minor changes affecting the 1994 U.S. domestic fishery may not appear to significantly accelerate stock recovery, they are an integral part of an overall 15 percent ICCAT reduction for 1994. Analysis of more far-reaching management alternatives will continue as NMFS prepares a DEIS for the 1995 fishery. As evidence of commitment to this long-term process of stock rebuilding, NMFS issues these regulatory changes as an interim final rule, rather than a final rule. This interim final rule will be superseded when regulatory actions are implemented for the 1995 fishery after completion of the 1994 ICCAT meeting and the public review process required under the National Environmental Policy Act. Changes From the Proposed Rule The following changes were made to the proposed rule: In ยง285.22, the Angling category subquotas for school size tuna are indicated to one decimal place to reflect the total of 99 mt. In ยง285.24, a paragraph has been added to clarify the catch limits that apply to vessels holding permits for both the Angling and General categories.
