FR940721-2-00064 FR940721-2-00035 (3) There is reasonable probability that the objective for the use would be accomplished; and d. Requires the recipient to: (1) Establish reasonable administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of the record; (2) Removed or destroy the information that allows the individual to be identified at the earliest time at which removal or destruction can be accomplished consistent with the purpose of the request, unless the recipient presents an adequate justification for retaining such information; (3) Make no further use or disclosure of the record except; (a) In emergency circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual; (b) For use in another project under the same conditions, and with written authorization of HCFA; (c) For disclosure to a properly identified person for the purpose of an audit related to the project, if information that would enable project subjects to be identified is removed or destroyed at the earliest opportunity consistent with the purpose of the audits; or (d) When required by law; and (4) Secure a written statement attesting to the recipient's understanding of and willingness to abide by these provisions. The recipient must agree to the following: (1) Not to use the data for purposes that are not related to the evaluation of cost, quality, and effectiveness of care; (2) Not to publish or otherwise disclose the data in a form raising unacceptable possibilities that beneficiaries could be identified (i.e., the data must not be beneficiary-specific and must be aggregated to level when no data cells have ten or fewer beneficiaries); and (3) To submit a copy of any aggregation of the data intended for publication to HCFA for approval prior to publication. (22) To insurers, underwriters, third party administrators (TPAs), self-insurers, group health plans, employers, health maintenance organizations, health and welfare benefit funds. Federal agencies, a State or local government or political subdivision of either (when the organization has assumed the role of an insurer, underwriter, or third party administrator, or in the case of a State that assumes the liabilities of an insolvent insurer, through a State created insolvent insurers pool or fund), multiple-employer trusts, no-fault, medical, automobile insurers, workers' compensation carriers or plans, liability insurers, and other groups providing protection against medical expenses who are primary payers to Medicare in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 1395y(b), or any entity having knowledge of the occurrence of any event affecting (A) an individual's right to any such benefit or payment, Or (B) the initial or continued right to any such benefit or payment (for example, a State Medicaid Agency, State Workers' Compensation Board, or Department of Motor Vehicles) for the purpose of coordination of benefits with the Medicare program and implementation of the Medicare Secondary Payer provisions at 42 U.S.C. implementation of the Medicare Secondary Payer provisions at 42 U.S.C. 1395y(b). The information HCFA may disclose will be: •Beneficiary Name. •Beneficiary Address. •Beneficiary Health Insurance Claim Number. •Beneficiary Social Security Number. •Beneficiary Sex. •Beneficiary Date of Birth. •Amount of Medicare Conditional Payment. •Provider Name and Number. •Physician Name and Number. •Supplier Name and Number. •Dates of Service. •Nature of Service. •Diagnosis. The administer the Medicare Secondary Payer provision at 42 USC 1395y(b) (2), (3), and (4) more effectively, HCFA would receive (to the extent that it is available) and may disclose the following types of information from insurers, underwriters, third party administrator, self-insurers, etc.: •Subscriber Name and Address. •Subscriber Date of Birth.
