FR940825-1-00021 FR940825-1-00002 A. the ladders comply with OSHA requirement 29 CFR 1910.27, Fixed Ladders; B. to provide access to unoccupied roof or maintenance areas; and C. To provide a second means of escape from ATCTs only if fire conditions prevent the use of the primary means of egress or prevent other less dangerous means of escape or rescue. (d) Fire Escape Exterior Stairs. (1) Fire escape stairs shall be permitted in existing ATCTs but shall not constitute more than 50 percent of the required exit capacity. (2) Fire escape stairs shall provide a continuous, unobstructed, safe path of travel to the exit discharge or a safe area of refuge. (3) Fire escape stairs shall also comply with the other provisions of 1991 edition of NFPA 101_Life Safety Code, Chapter 5&hyph;2.8 for fire escape stairs. Exception: Existing noncomplying fire escape stairs may be continued to be used subject to the authority having jurisdiction. 18. Openings in exit enclosures shall be confined to those necessary for access to the enclosure from normally occupied spaces and for egress from the enclosure. k. Fire Protection 1. General. Fire detection, alarm, and suppression equipment including detectors, manual and automatic alarms, and portable extinguishers shall be provided at ATCT facilities. 2. Automatic Fire Detection and Alarm Systems. In every ATCT, automatic fire detection and alarm systems shall be provided to warn occupants of the existence of fire. (a) Fire detection and alarm systems. Fire detection and alarm systems shall be maintained and tested in accordance with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.164(c) and NFPA 72. (b) The fire alarm control panel which indicates the existence and location of a fire shall be installed in a constantly attended area in a location acceptable to the responding fire department, typically at the ATCT front entrance. (c) The system shall be fully supervised at all times in accordance with the following styles of wiring per NFPA 72: A. Initiating device circuits shall be Style D. B. Indicating appliance circuits shall be Style Z. C. If a multiplex system, signaling line circuits shall be Style 6 or 7. Exception: Any style of wiring that complies with NFPA 72 shall be permitted if the ATCT is fully sprinklered. (d) The fire detection and alarm system shall automatically notify the fire department providing service to the ATCT, or an effective plan for notifying the fire department shall be established. (e) Alarms shall sound in all occupied spaces at a sound level of 15 dBA above the ambient sound pressure level to assure notification of all personnel in accordance with NFPA 72. Exception: Alarm horns or bells are not required in ATCT cab or TRACON. An annunciator complying with k.2. (g), below, shall be provided. (f) Manual fire alarm stations shall be provided in the path of escape. The stations shall be plainly marked, and lighted for ease of use in an emergency. (g) When automatic sprinkler systems are employed, the systems shall be supervised by the alarm system. (h) An annunciator panel to indicate the location of an actuated manual station, automatic detector, or waterflow switch shall be provided in the ATCT cab and TRACON which incorporates a silencing feature in accordance with NFPA 72 and Underwriters Laboratory. Additionally, annunciators shall resound an alarm indication at the annunciator after a period of 90 seconds if the system has not been reset or cleared. (i) All detection and alarm equipment shall be listed by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL). (j) Products of combustion (smoke) detectors shall be provided in all areas throughout an ATCT. Spacing of detectors shall not exceed the maximum distance indicated by tests performed by the approving laboratory for the particular device used. (k) A secondary power source shall be provided for every fire detection and alarm system and shall operate automatically in the event of failure of the primary power source. Secondary power may be supplied by either an engine driven generator or by storage batteries of sufficient capacity. (l) Detectors need not be provided in spaces above suspended ceilings where no combustibles are present. (m) Detectors shall be installed below raised floors in accordance with the applicable provisions of NFPA 72. (n) Detectors shall be installed in air handling systems downstream of air handlers with a capacity of greater than 2,000 cubic feet per minute. Upon activation of a detector, the associated air handling unit will be shut down. 3. Standpipe Systems. Standpipe systems, where required by local building code, shall conform to those local building codes.
