FR940902-1-00015 FR940902-1-00002 The cost of software programs meeting the above requirements and having an estimated useful service life in excess of 1 year shall be recorded in Account 186, Miscellaneous Deferred Debits, and amortized to Account 107, Construction Work-in-Progress, over the estimated service life of the program not to exceed 5 years. All costs related to training personnel in the use of software shall be expensed as incurred. The accounting in this section is not intended to apply to immaterial amounts. When it is deemed that the costs of the recordkeeping necessary to amortize these costs outweigh the benefits to the members, software costs shall be expensed in the year incurred. For computer costs relating to load control equipment, refer to Item 118 of this section. * * * * * 17. In §1767.41, Interpretation No. 604 is revised to read as follows: * * * * * 604␣Deferred Compensation Many utilities participate in the NRECA Deferred Compensation Program. Based upon the provisions of the program, the following accounting entries shall be made: Dr. 186.XX, Miscellaneous Deferred Debits_Deferred Compensation Cr. 228.3, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits To increase the deferred compensation provision by the amount of the annual deposit to NRECA's Deferred Compensation Fund. Dr. 128, Other Special Funds_Deferred Compensation Cr. 131.1, Cash_General To record the annual deposit to NRECA's Deferred Compensation Fund. Dr. Construction Work-in-Progress, Retirement Work-in-Progress or Account 926, Employee Pensions and Benefits, as appropriate. Cr. 186.XX, Miscellaneous Deferred Debits_Deferred Compensation To record monthly accrual of deferred compensation. Note: If an employee joins the deferred compensation program during the year, use entry # 1 to record the additional deposit to the NRECA Deferred Compensation Fund and increase the monthly accrual in entry # 2 to reflect this deposit. NRECA provides an annual statement showing activity in the employee's accounts, units owned and value of units at statement date. Therefore, individual employee records do not have to be maintained. However, an entry shall be made to show the aggregate change in fund value during the year. This entry can be made by summarizing changes on the individual Statement of Accounts sent by NRECA for distribution to participating employees, as shown: Value of Units Held in Each Fund ^ Total Deposits through December 31, 19xx =Change in Fund Value Dr. 128, Other Special Funds_Deferred Compensation Cr. 228.3, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits To record an increase in fund value as of December 31, 19xx. ␣␣␣or Dr. 228.3, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits Cr. 128, Other Special Funds_Deferred Compensation To record a decrease in fund value as of December 31, 19xx. Payments made to participating employees because of retirement or separation for other reasons shall be recorded using the following entries: Dr. 131.1, Cash_General Cr. 128, Other Special Funds_Deferred Compensation To record the receipt of funds from NRECA. ␣␣␣and Dr. 228.3, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits Cr. 131.1, Cash_General To record payment to employee for deferred compensation. If the borrower has elected to bear the market risk of the funds which guarantee that the amount of money an employee receives will not be less than the amount of salary deferred, the following entry shall be recorded if total payment(s) from NRECA are less than the amount of salary deferred: Dr. 926, Employee Pensions and Benefits Cr. 131.1, Cash_General To record payment to employee for deferred compensation. Payment was made because amount returned did not equal salary deferred. Appropriate disclosure of the terms of the program shall be made in the notes to the financial statements. * * * * * 18. In §1767.41, Interpretation No. 626 is revised to read as follows: * * * * * 626␣Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program On December 21, 1987, Section 313, Cushion of Credits Payments Program, was added to the Rural Electrification Act. Section 313 establishes a Rural Economic Development Subaccount and authorizes the Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration to provide zero interest loans or grants to RE Act borrowers for the purpose of promoting rural economic development and job creation projects. Subpart B, Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program, 7 CFR Part 1703, sets forth the policies and procedures relating to the zero interest loan program and for approving and administering grants.
