FR940805-1-00044 FR940805-1-00008 Motorist Compliance Enforcement Under Section 51.361, States that are required to implement basic I/M Programs are required to ensure compliance with program requirements through the denial of motor vehicle registration or an alternative enforcement mechanism if the State can demonstrate that the alternative is as effective as registration denial. SIP submittals must include: a description of the enforcement process; a determination of the current compliance rate that includes an estimate of compliance loss due to loopholes; legal authority for enforcement; and a commitment to an enforcement level to be used for modeling purposes and to be maintained, at a minimum, in practice. The Minnesota Basic I/M program uses registration denial to ensure compliance with the vehicle inspection requirements. Section 51.361(c)(2) requires States to include in their submittals a determination of the current compliance rate that includes an estimate of compliance losses due to loopholes, counterfeiting, and unregistered vehicles. The SIP submittal estimates a compliance rate of 97%, which is computed by dividing the total number of vehicles that were actually tested by the number of vehicles that should have been tested. The State does not provide an estimate of the effect of closing the loopholes that allow vehicles to escape inspection. MPCA believes it's current compliance rate is sufficient since the State is not required to achieve 100% compliance. In the SIP submittal, the State commits to a compliance rate of 97% and a stringency rate of 23%. Section 51.361(a)(5) requires States to structure a penalty system to deter non-compliance with the registration requirement through the use of mandatory, minimum fines (meaning civil and monetary penalties) and through a requirement that vehicle owners demonstrate compliance before a case can be closed. Minnesota's basic I/M program allows the owner of a vehicle that has failed inspection to make the repairs necessary for the vehicle to pass reinspection. Vehicle owners are allowed two reinspections. If a vehicle does not pass the reinspections, then the owner can apply for compliance waiver. If a vehicle does not pass reinspection and does not qualify for a waiver, the owner is issued a report indicating noncompliance. Minnesota's penalty for noncompliance is the denial of vehicle registration. If a vehicle's registration is denied, then the owner is subject to receiving a citation from local, county or State law enforcement officials which averages $35.00. For as long as a vehicle owner continues to operate a vehicle that has not been properly registered, the owner will receive multiple fines. Motorists Compliance Enforcement Program Oversight Under Section 51.362, I/M SIP submittals are to include a description of enforcement program oversight and information management activities. The enforcement program must be audited regularly and follow effective program management practices. Minnesota's Basic I/M program includes several oversight activities which include: verification of exempt vehicle status; fines against testing stations for missing or unaccounted for documents; and methods for evaluating program effectiveness. Quality Assurance Section 51.363 requires States to operate on-going quality assurance programs aimed at discovering, correcting, and preventing fraud, waste and abuse. The quality assurance officer should also assess whether correct operating procedures are being followed and that testing equipment provides accurate measurements. SIP submittals must include a description of the quality assurance program, written procedures manuals covering covert and overt audits, records audits, and equipment audits. Section 51.363(a)(2) requires States to audit more frequently stations that employ inspectors suspected of violating regulations as a result of audits, data analysis, or consumer complaints. Section 51.363(a)(4) sets forth the criteria that covert audits must satisfy. Between July 1, 1992 and June 30, 1993, MPCA conducted a total of 24 covert audits. The USEPA has advised MPCA that, although the State does conduct covert audits as part of its quality assurance activities, the I/M program has not established an ongoing consistent audit program that meets the criteria of Section 51.363(a)(4). In the July 5, 1994, letter to USEPA, from Charles Williams, Commissioner, the MPCA has committed to implementing a covert audit schedule and an audit program that meets the requirements of Section 51.363 and includes the following actions: (1) Continued annual remote visual observations by the auditor of inspector performance at each of the eleven inspection stations and, recording of these observations. (2) Implementation of a covert audit schedule where a minimum of two covert audits will be conducted annually at each of the eleven inspection stations. The MPCA anticipates conducting an average of two covert audits a month. (3) Audits will be conducted using covert vehicles that are set to fail. (4) Vehicles used in covert audits will cover a full range of vehicle technology groups and malfunctions. (5) Auditors will record the covert audit and provide sufficient written documentation for building a legal case and conducting on going performance evaluations. The contractor will continue to run ``altered'' vehicles through the network of inspection stations to audit test procedures. A schedule for these audits will be developed and implemented and, written reports of the audits will be submitted to MPCA as required. USEPA proposes to conditionally approve the SIP based on this commitment. MPCA must submit these amendments as a SIP revision within one year of final conditional approval. Enforcement Against Contractors, Stations & Inspectors Section 51.364 requires I/M programs to include enforcement mechanisms that allow for the imposition of penalties against licensed stations, contractors or inspectors that violate program requirements. SIP submittals must describe the legal authority for imposing penalties, civil fines, license suspension, and revocations. Section 51.364(a)(1) requires States to develop a penalty schedule that establishes minimum penalties for violations of program rules and procedures. The penalty schedule should categorize and list violations and the minimum penalties to be imposed for violations. States that have contracted systems, may use compensation retainage in lieu of penalties. Section 51.364(a)(3) states that findings of serious violations of rules or procedural requirements shall result in mandatory fines or retainage. In the case of gross neglect, a first offense shall result in a fine or retainage of no less than $100 or 5 times the inspection fee, whichever is greater, for the contractor or the licensed station and inspector, if involved.
