FR941121-0-00027 FR941121-0-00001 3. Term share accounts . Term share accounts that pay different rates based solely on the amount of the initial share and deposit are not tiered-rate accounts. 4. Minimum balance accounts . A requirement to maintain a minimum balance to earn dividends does not make an account a tiered-rate account. If dividends are not paid on amounts below a specified balance level, then the account has a minimum balance requirement (required to be disclosed under §707.4(b)(3)(i)), but the account does not constitute a tiered-rate account. A zero rate (0%) cannot constitute a tier. Minimum balance accounts are single rate accounts with a minimum balance requirement. (z) Variable-Rate Account 1. General . Includes accounts in which the credit union does not contract to give at least 30 days advance written notice of decreases in the dividend rate. An account meets this definition whether the rate change is determined by reference to an index, by use of a formula, or merely at the discretion of the credit union's board of directors. An account that permits one or more rate adjustments prior to maturity at the member's option, such as a rate relock option, is a variable-rate account. 2. Differences between fixed-rate and variable-rate accounts . All ccounts must either be fixed-rate or variable-rate accounts. Classifying an account as variable-rate affects credit unions three ways: i. Additional account disclosures are required (§707.4(b)(1)(ii)); ii. Rate decreases are exempted from change-in-terms requirements (§707.5(a)(2)(i)); and iii. Advertising notice required (§707.8(c)(1)). Fixed-rate accounts require a contract term obligating the credit union to a 30-day advance, written notice to members before decreasing the dividend rate on the account. Term changes adversely affecting the member and rate decreases cannot take effect until 30 days after such fixed-rate change-in-terms notices are mailed or delivered to members (§707.5(a)). Section 707.3_General Disclosure Requirements (a) Form 1. General . Alal required disclosures (e.g., account disclosures, change-in-terms notices, term share renewal/maturity notices, statement disclosures and advertising disclosures) must be made clearly and conspicuously, in a form the member may retain. Disclosures need be made only as applicable (e.g., disclosures for a non-dividend-bearing account would not include disclosure of annual percentage yield, dividend rate, or other disclosures pertaining to dividend calculations). 2. Design requirements . Disclosures must be presented in a format that allows members and potential members to readily understand the terms of their account. Credit unions are not required to use a particular type size or typeface, nor are credit unions required to state any term more conspicuously than any other term. Disclosures may be made: i. In any order. ii. In combination with other disclosures or account terms. iii. In combination with disclosures for other types of accounts, as long as it is clear to members and potential members which disclosures apply to their account. iv. On more than one page and on the front and reverse sides. v. By using inserts to a document or filling in blanks. vi. On more than one document, as long as the documents are provided at the same time. 3. Consistent terminology. A credit union must use the same terminology to describe terms or features that are required to be disclosed. For example, if a credit union describes a monthly fee (regardless of account activity), as a ``monthly service fee'' in account opening disclosures, the periodic statements and change-in-terms notices must use the same terminology so that members and potential members can readily identify the fee. (b) General 1. Terms and conditions. Credit unions are required to have disclosures reflect the terms of the legal obligation between the credit union and a member at the time the member opens the account. This provision does not impose any contract terms or supersede state or other laws that define how the legal obligations between a credit union and its membership are determined. 2. Specificity of legal obligation . Credit unions may refer to the calendar month or to roughly equivalent intervals during a calendar year as a ``month.'' Use of estimates is prohibited in TISA disclosures. 3. Foreign language . Disclosures may be made in any foreign language, if desired by the board of directors of a credit union. However, disclosures must also be provided in English, upon request. (c) Relation to Regulation E 1. General rule . Compliance with Regulation E (12 CFR part 205) is deemed to satisfy the disclosure requirements of this regulation, such as when: i. A credit union changes a term that triggers a notice under Regulation E, and the timing and disclosure rules of Regulation E for sending change-in-terms notices. ii. A member adds an ATM access feature to an account, and the credit union provides disclosures pursuant to Regulation E, including disclosure of fees before the member receives ATM access. (See 12 CFR 205.7.) iii. A credit union complying with the timing rules of Regulation E discloses at the same time fees for electronic services (such as balance inquiry fees imposed if the inquiry is made at an ATM) that are required to be disclosed by this regulation, but not by Regulation E. iv. A credit union relies on Regulation E's rules regarding disclosures of limitations on the frequency and amount of electronic fund transfers, including security-related exceptions. But any limitation on the number of ``intra-institutional transfers'' to or from the member's other accounts at the credit union during a given time period must be disclosed, even though intra-institutional transfers are exempt from Regulation E.
