FR941227-2-00115 FR941227-2-00080 [Docket No. 50&hyph;213] Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company; Haddam Neck Plant; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. DPR&hyph;61, issued to Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company (CYAPCO, the licensee), for operation of the Haddam Neck Plant, located in Middlesex County, Connecticut. Environmental Assessment Identification of the Proposed Action The proposed amendment would revise Technical Specifications (TS) 3.4.1.1, ``Reactor Coolant Loops and Coolant Circular,'' TS 3.7.1.1., ``Safety Valves_Self Actuation Function,'' Table 3.7&hyph;1, ``Steam Line Safety Valves Per Loop,'' and their associated Bases sections. In addition, the TS change will add a new TS 3.7.1.1.2, ``Safety Valves_Remote Actuation Function,'' with an associated Bases change. The proposed action is in accordance with the licensee's amendment request dated May 4, 1993, as supplemented August 9 and 18, 1993, January 25, April 11, and June 22, 1994. The Need for the Proposed Action By letter dated May 4, 1993, CYAPCO informed the staff that during the Cycle 17 refueling outage, four main steam safety valves (MSSVs) (one per steam line) were replaced with valves that would provide remote manual operation. These valves have dual capability, as MSSVs (self-actuating function) and as atmospheric dump valves (ADV) (remote-actuation function). These valves will significantly increase the remote manual atmospheric steam dump capability of the Haddam Neck Plant. To assure the remote manual operation of the new MSSVs, the licensee has proposed adding the remote function of the MSSVs to the TS. The licensee is also removing the loop isolation valves from the TS. In addition, the appropriate Bases sections will be modified to include a discussion of the remote actuation capability of the MSSVs and remove the discussion regarding the use of the loop isolation valves for mitigation of a steam generator tube rupture (SGTR) event. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The TS changes, hardware modifications, and the associated analysis will change the licensing basis for mitigating a SGTR event at the Haddam Neck Plant. The new MSSVs can be operated remotely from the main control room, as well as locally (self-actuating) for steam generator overpressure protection. This modification provides the plant the ability to rapidly cool down and depressurize without reliance on the main condensor or other nonsafety-related balance of plant equipment. The plant will now mitigate a SGTR event with the use of the MSSVs as remote ADV rather than the loop isolation valves. The use of ADVs to limit break flow for a SGTR event is consistent with most other Westinghouse PWR plants. The Commission has completed its evaluation of the proposed TS changes and concludes that the new MSSVs still meet the original design (self-actuating function) and can also be used as atmospheric steam dump valves (remote-actuation function). The proposed TS changes will provide assurance of the operability of both functions. The removal of the loop isolation valves are acceptable because the licensee has demonstrated that SGTR events will now be mitigated with the use of the MSSVs as ADVs rather than the loop isolation valves. The Updated Final Safety Analysis Report will be revised to reflect the change in the licensing basis associated with the mitigation of a SGTR event. The proposed TS change will not increase the probability or consequences of accidents, no changes are being made in the types of any effluents that may be released offsite, and there is no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposure. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed TS amendment. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed amendment involves features located entirely within the restricted area as defined in 10 CFR part 20. It does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed amendment, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impact need not be evaluated. The principal alternative to the amendment would be to deny the amendment request. Such action would not enhance the protection of the environment. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not considered previously in the Final Environmental Statement for the Haddam Neck Plant. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the Connecticut State official regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. The State official had no comments. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed amendment. For further details with respect to the proposed action, see the licensee's letter dated May 4, 1993, as supplemented August 9, and 18, 1993, January 25, April 11, and June 22, 1994, which are available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC, and at the local public document room located at the Russell Library, 123 Broad Street, Middletown, CT 06547. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 16th day of December 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Phillip F. McKee, Director, Project Directorate I&hyph;4, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31775 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 9:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
