FR940119-2-00094 FR940119-2-00067 Application Type: Impose and Use PFC Revenue. PFC Level: $3.00 Total Approved PFC Revenue: $3,533,766. Estimated Charge Effective Date: March 1, 1994. Estimated Charge Expiration Date: March 1, 1998. Class of Air Carriers Not Required To Collect PFC's: Air taxi/commercial operators and on-demand charter operators. Determination: Approved. Based on information contained in the public agency's application, the FAA has determined that the proposed class accounts for less than 1 percent of the total enplanements at Long Beach Municipal Airport. Brief Description of Projects Approved for Collection and Use: Airfield lighting improvements, Airfield perimeter service road, Airport pavement management system, Taxiway F reconstruction, Runway 7R/25L rehabilitation, runway 7L/25R rehabilitation, Airfield lighting and signage improvements, Airfield sign system/pavement markings modifications, Taxiways J1, J2, and L5 rehabilitation, Airfield safety area improvements, Earth berm erosion control, North/south taxiway A pavement reconstruction, Airfield taxiway shoulder construction, taxiways D and K, Airfield lighting backup generator, Construction of tiedown facility on parcel O, Airfield perimeter service road, Midfield aircraft engine run-up pads, Aircraft rescue and firefighting vehicle (ARFF), Airport security fences and gate improvements, Security access control program, Terminal building rehabilitation, Terminal/airfield access improvements, Airport noise monitoring system. Brief Description of Projects Approved to Collect Only: Airfield pavement rehabilitation/reconstruction, Handicapped facilities. Brief Description of Projects Approved-in-Part for Collection and Use: Airfield pavement slurry seal. Determination: Approved in part. This project is eligible under Airport Improvement Program (AIP) criteria. Sources of financing for a portion of this project include an existing AIP grant. However, the remainder of the project also requires AIP funding, which the FAA is unable to commit to at this time. Also, that portion of the project which is not included in the existing AIP grant was not included in the description of the project provided to the air carriers during airline consultation. The city of Long Beach has not provided evidence to demonstrate that the carriers have had the opportunity to comment on that portion of the project not currently under grant. Therefore, the approved amount corresponds to that portion of the project already under AIP grant. Airfield pavement rehabilitation/reconstruction. Determination: Approved in part. A portion of the project, the reconstruction of taxiway K and service road B, was not included in the description of the project provided to the air carriers during airline consultation nor was it included in the description provided in the FAA's Federal Register notice on this application. The city of Long Beach has not provided evidence to demonstrate that the carriers have had the opportunity to comment on the rehabilitation of taxiway K and service road B. Therefore, those elements of the project have not been approved. Brief Description of Project Disapproved: ARFF training facility. Determination: Disapproved. The FAA has determined that this project does not enhance safety, security, or capacity, mitigate noise impacts, or furnish opportunities for enhanced competition between or among carriers. Therefore, this project is not PFC eligible. The ARFF training facility has been reviewed under AIP criteria (paragraphs 301b and 500 of FAA Order 5100.38A), which permits projects to be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. The FAA is currently implementing a policy of funding only regional ARFF training facilities. Long Beach Municipal Airport has not been designated as a regional ARFF training site by the FAA's Western-Pacific Region Airports Division. Decision Date: December 30, 1993. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John P. Milligan, Western Pacific Airports Division, (301) 297&hyph;1029. Issued in Washington, DC on January 12, 1994. Donna Taylor, Acting Manager, Airports Financial Assistance Division.
