FR940429-0-00127 FR940429-0-00013 Addition of a definition of campus for the purpose of section 668.47 of the Student Assistance General Provisions regulations (FR 57 30829 and FR 58 54904). Substantive Changes Reflected in These Final Regulations Changes Pursuant to the Higher Education Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;325 Sex Offenses, Forcible or Nonforcible Section 668.47(a)(12) of the final regulations has been changed to provide for the disclosure of certain policies and procedures, the purpose of which is to prevent forcible and nonforcible sex offenses and address various issues relating to these offenses. Institutions are required to establish campus sexual assault programs to prevent sex offenses and procedures for a victim to follow when a sex offense occurs. Section 668.47(a)(6)(i) of the final regulations has been changed to provide that for the purpose of disclosing statistics about campus crimes, institutions must compile and disclose statistics on rape for periods of time prior to August 1, 1992 and sex offenses, forcible and nonforcible, for periods of time on or after August 1, 1992. This change reflects an amendment to section 485(f)(1)(F)(ii) of the HEA made by section 486(c)(1) of Public Law 102&hyph;325. An institution must use the definition of rape through July 31, 1992 found in the Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) Handbook. In addition, an institution must use the definitions of forcible and nonforcible sex offenses found in the National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS) Edition of the UCR Handbook for collection of these statistics on or after August 1, 1992. Reporting of Crime Statistics Section 668.47(d)(1) of these final regulations, relating to the periods of time for which statistical data on campus crime must be compiled and disclosed, is changed to reflect §486(c)(3) of Public Law 102&hyph;325. Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the NPRMs, approximately 300 parties submitted comments on the proposed regulations. An analysis of the comments and of the changes in the regulations since publication of the NPRMs follows. Substantive issues are discussed under the section of the regulations to which they pertain. Technical and other minor changes and suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under the applicable statutory authority are not addressed. Section 668.47␣Institutional Security Policies and Crime Statistics Definition of Campus Security Authority Comments: Several commenters supported the intent of the statute and applauded the efforts to accurately collect and report information on crime and educate consumers, and believe the regulations are a deterrent towards criminal activity. The majority of commenters affirmed their support of the Secretary's removal of the term counselors from the proposed definition of campus security authority. A number of commenters believed that the proposed regulatory definition of campus security authority struck the appropriate balance between the needs of a crime victim and the need for crime reporting. Other commenters defended the inclusion of deans and residence directors in the proposed definition, maintaining that the definition allows victims to be served properly by reducing accusations concerning interference and coverup of crimes and, most importantly, reducing the risk of someone else becoming a victim of crime. Many commenters believed that the proposed definition was too broad, particularly because it included deans and residence directors. The commenters offered a variety of reasons for this belief, the most common reason being the belief that a student who is a victim of rape, date rape, or similar crime will often solicit a dean or residence director to help him or her work through the trauma of the event; the victim may decide not to file an official action with the legal authorities. In these instances, the commenters believe the proposed rules could limit the victim's ability to receive immediate assistance and would most likely prolong his or her trauma. Several commenters indicated that deans and residence directors should play a strong role in educating students in security matters and in developing a disciplinary environment that refuses to support criminal behavior.
