FR940208-0-00116 FR940208-0-00031 Service Response: The designation of critical habitat does not create a management plan for the listed species. It is the responsibility of land management agencies to ensure that actions they authorize, fund, or carry out do not destroy or adversely modify designated critical habitat. Several Federal agencies charged with management of the public's lands are preparing or already implementing management plans that include actions that will benefit the desert tortoise. Development of such land use plans should focus on recommendations provided in the desert tortoise recovery plan. Issue 38: Some people commented that the Service should prepare an Environmental Impact Statement pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) on the proposed designation of critical habitat prior to publishing a final rule. Service Response: The decision in Pacific Legal Foundation v. Andrus, 675 F.2d 829 (6th Cir. 1981), held that as a matter of law, an Environmental Impact Statement is not required for listings under the Act. The decision noted that preparing Environmental Impact Statements on listing actions does not further the goals of NEPA or the Act. The Service believes that, under the reasoning of this decision, preparing an Environmental Impact Statement on the proposed critical habitat designation would not further the goals of NEPA or the Act and is not legally required. NEPA documentation will be required for BLM plans and activities that involve critical habitat. The Service published a notice outlining this determination on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). The decision in Douglas County v. Babbitt, 810 F.Supp. 1470 (D. Ore. 1992), which held that the Service must comply with NEPA in designating critical habitat, has been stayed pending appeal of the decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Issue 39: One letter stated that final designation should include more definitive guidelines and specific examples for measuring adverse modification of critical habitat. Service Response: It is difficult for the Service to anticipate all activities that may be proposed within critical habitat. In addition, the Service should avoid prejudging the outcome of section 7 consultations. The Service will make a determination, on a case-by-case basis, if the proposed action is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of the species or destroy or adversely modify critical habitat. Issue 40: A number of organizations and individuals requested that the Service include within critical habitat the proposed site for the low-level radioactive waste repository (LLRWR) in Ward Valley (Chemehuevi CHU). Commenters provided a variety of reasons for inclusion of the LLRWR site, including potential threats to the desert tortoise should the LLRWR leak radionuclide-contaminated fluids, leachate contamination of the aquifer underlying the LLRWR site, the potential for contamination of the Colorado River and subsequent adverse effects to listed species that inhabit the Colorado River, and the alleged poor operating record of the proposed licensee. Some commenters stated that allowing the proposed LLRWR in Ward Valley would violate sections 2, 4(b)(2), and 7(a)(1) of the Endangered Species Act. Service Response: The Service has determined that the Ward Valley LLRWR facility site should be included in this critical habitat designation. Following designation of critical habitat, all current activities for which a Federal agency maintains discretionary action must undergo reinitiation of consultation to analyze whether or not they are likely to destroy or adversely modify critical habitat. As a result, the BLM will need to reinitiate consultation under section 7 to determine if its proposed transfer of lands to the State of California for the proposed LLRWR facility is likely to result in the adverse modification of critical habitat. Issue 41: One group stated that the Service must consider the cultural value to native peoples of lands within critical habitat. Specifically, these individuals stated that the cultural values of Ward Valley should be considered in the decision to include or exclude from critical habitat the proposed LLRWR site in Ward Valley.
