FR940721-0-00088 FR940721-0-00014 (5) If a manufacturer or allied supplier does not receive information from one or more of its suppliers concerning the U.S./Canadian content of particular equipment, the U.S./Canadian content of that equipment is considered zero. This provision does not affect the obligation of manufacturers and allied suppliers to request this information from their suppliers or the obligation of the suppliers to provide the information. (d) Determination of the U.S./Canadian percentage of the total value of a carline's passenger motor vehicle equipment. The percentage of the value of a carline's passenger motor vehicle equipment that is U.S./Canadian is determined by_ (1) Adding the total value of all of the equipment (regardless of country of origin) expected to be installed in that carline during the next model year; (2) Dividing the value of the U.S./Canadian content of such equipment by the amount calculated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and (3) Multiplying the resulting number by 100. §583.7 Procedure for determining major foreign sources of passenger motor vehicle equipment. (a) Each manufacturer, except as specified in §583.5 (f) and (g), shall determine the countries, if any, which are major foreign sources of passenger motor vehicle equipment and the percentages attributable to each such country for each carline on a model year basis, before the beginning of each model year. The manufacturer need only determine this information for the two such countries with the highest percentages. Items of equipment produced at the final assembly point (but not as part of final assembly) are treated in the same manner as if they were supplied by an allied supplier. In making determinations under this section, the U.S. and Canada are treated together as if they were one (non-foreign) country. (b) Determining the value of items of equipment. The value of each item of equipment is determined in the manner specified in §583.6(b). (c) Determining the country of origin of items of equipment. (1) Except as provided in (c)(2), the country of origin of each item of equipment is the country which contributes the greatest amount of value added to that item. (2) Instead of making country of origin determinations in the manner specified in (c)(1), a manufacturer may, at its option, use any other methodology that is used for customs purposes (U.S. or foreign), so long as a consistent methodology is employed for all items of equipment, and the U.S. and Canada are treated together. (d) Determination of the percentage of the total value of a carline's passenger motor vehicle equipment which is attributable to individual countries other than the U.S. and Canada. The percentage of the value of a carline's passenger motor vehicle equipment that is attributable to each country other than the U.S. and Canada is determined on a model year basis by_ (1) Adding up the total value of all of the passenger motor vehicle equipment (regardless of country of origin) expected to be installed in that carline during the next model year; (2) Adding up the value of such equipment which originated in each country other than the U.S. or Canada; (3) Dividing the amount calculated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section for each country by the amount calculated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and multiplying each result by 100. (e) A country is a major foreign source of passenger motor vehicle equipment for a carline only if the country is one other than the U.S. or Canada and if 15 or more percent of the total value of the carline's passenger motor vehicle equipment is attributable to the country. (f) If the sum of the percentage U.S./Canadian parts content (determined under §583.6) and the percentages of the two largest major foreign sources of content exceeds 100%, the major foreign source percentages are proportionately reduced to the extent necessary to bring the sum down to 100%. §583.8 Procedure for determining country of origin for engines and transmissions (for purposes of determining the information specified by §§583.5(a)(4) and 583.5(a)(5) only).
