FR940705-2-00128 FR940705-2-00090 Appendices P and Q are the result of several years of meetings and discussions involving research scientists and representatives from university, government, and industrial research sectors with expertise in several disciplines, including plant genetics, plant physiology, plant pathology, entomology, animal (including arthropod and aquatic species) physiology and reproduction, molecular biology, veterinary medicine, and human biomedical research. The Federal agencies involved in the development of Appendices P and Q include the NIH, the National Science Foundation (NSF), and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The process of developing Appendices P and Q was initiated when the USDA published an Advanced Notice of Proposed USDA Guidelines (USDA Guidelines) in the Federal Register on June 26, 1986 (51 FR 23367). This notice was followed by an announcement by the USDA regarding its intent to propose new guidelines for conducting all phases of research with domestic agriculture species, including both plants and animals modified through the application of genetic engineering techniques, in the Federal Register on December 9, 1986 (51 FR 44397). At that time, the NIH Guidelines did not include specific descriptions for containment conditions for research involving recombinant DNA containing whole plants and animals. The USDA convened a working group composed of university, government, and industrial scientists on December 13&hyph;14, 1986, with the purpose of discussing and redrafting guidelines for physical and biological containment of transgenic plant and animal species, and associated microorganisms. This meeting came to be known as the ``Arlington House Workshop.'' Participants of the ``Arlington House Workshop,'' including former members of the RAC, agreed that the USDA Guidelines should be incorporated into the NIH Guidelines. The workshop participants noted that merging these two documents would offer the distinct advantage of providing a single comprehensive source of information regarding conduct of research involving organisms containing recombinant DNA and plants and animals exposed to microorganisms containing recombinant DNA. A staff working group representing the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, NIH, and the Cooperative State Research Service, USDA, held meetings during the following six months. This working group met with the purpose of revising the containment section and developing a final incorporated document for RAC review, approval by the NIH Director, and incorporation into the NIH Guidelines. On June 28, 1987, and July 16, 1987, the RAC appointed the Working Group on Revision of the NIH Guidelines to meet and consider the draft documents, Appendices P and Q, and minor modifications to the NIH Guidelines, that would accommodate the proposed appendices. Appendices P and Q and the proposed revisions to the NIH Guidelines were published for public comment in the Federal Register on August 11, 1987 (52 FR 29800). Additional revisions to Appendices P and Q were proposed by the RAC and the Agricultural Research Service, USDA, at the September 17, 1987, RAC meeting. These modifications were published for public comment in the Federal Register on December 30, 1988 (53 FR 53262). The RAC Working Group on Transgenic Animals proposed additional modifications to Appendices P and Q which were published for public comment in the Federal Register on April 18, 1988 (53 FR 12752). Further revisions were approved by the RAC at its January 30, 1989, meeting. Throughout all of the meetings, discussions, and revisions, the intent of the Federal agencies and interested parties has been to describe working conditions that would minimize the risk to both the researcher and the environment from any possible harm or adverse effects due to the conduct of research involving recombinant DNA containing organisms. On June 24, 1994, an Environmental Assessment of Appendices P and Q was completed by the NIH and USDA, and there was a finding of no significant impact. Copies of the Environmental Assessment are available from the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. The actions are detailed in Section II_Summary of Actions. I accept these recommendations, and the NIH Guidelines will be amended accordingly.
