FR941230-0-00069 FR941230-0-00013 (v) An explanation of why a mandatory patent license is necessary for the petitioner to comply with the requirements of sections 111, 112 or 202 of the Act, and why the patented technology is not otherwise available; (vi) An explanation of why there are no other reasonable alternatives for accomplishing compliance with sections 111, 112 or 202 of the Act; (vii) An explanation of why the unavailability of a mandatory patent license may result in a substantial lessening of competition or a tendency to create a monopoly in any line of commerce in any section of the United States; (viii) A summary of efforts made by the petitioner to obtain a patent license from the owner of the patent, including the terms and conditions of any patent license proposed by petitioner to the patent owner; and (ix) The terms, if any, on which the owner of the patent has proposed to grant the petitioner a patent license. (5) Each petition shall include a proposed patent license that states all of the terms and conditions that the petitioner proposes for the patent license. (6) Petitions shall be addressed to the Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation, Mail Code 6101, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460. (c) Petitions that do not include all of the information required in paragraph (b) of this section shall be returned to the petitioner. The petitioner may supplement the petition and resubmit the petition. (d) If the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, finds that the criteria in ยง95.3 are not met, or otherwise decides to deny the petition, a denial of the petition shall be sent to the petitioner, along with an explanation of the reasons for the denial. (e) If the Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, finds that the criteria in ยง95.3 are met and decides to apply to the Attorney General for a patent license under section 308 of the Act, notice of such application shall be given to the petitioner, along with a copy of the application sent to the Attorney General. ยง95.3 Findings prior to application to Attorney General. The Administrator, or the Administrator's designee, may apply to the Attorney General for a mandatory patent license pursuant to section 308 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7608) either in response to a petition under ยง95.2 or on the Administrator's or designee's own initiative, only after expressly finding that each one of the following mandatory criteria is met: (a) The application is for a patent license covering no more than one patent; (b) The party to whom the proposed patent license is to be granted has presented the Administrator or designee with evidence that such party has made reasonable efforts to obtain a patent license from the patent owner with terms similar to the license terms to be proposed in the application to the Attorney General; (c) The patent under which a patent license is sought in the application to the Attorney General is being used or is intended for public or commercial use; (d) The mandatory patent license is necessary for a party to comply with the requirements of sections 111, 112 or 202 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7411, 7412 or 7521);
