FR941205-1-00044 FR941205-1-00014 The information form also inquires into the effect of the agreement on ports within its geographic range; it should be noted that it is unnecessary to segregate data on port calls by sub- trades. In addition, the information form imposes special requirements on any ``Class A'' agreement that authorizes ``capacity management'' or ``capacity regulation.'' Because such programs are designed to address problems of excess capacity, the information form inquires into each agreement member line's recent capacity utilization experience within the geographic service area to be covered by the proposed program and its initial capacity level under the program. These data are to be provided within a ``geographic service area'' because a capacity management or regulation program that is part of a larger agreement can be designed to cover less than the entire geographic scope of the agreement. This section of the form also requires the submission of any reports or studies dealing with capacity utilization and related topics, but only to the extent that such documents were both recently prepared and shared among the agreement lines, and thus may have influenced the formation of the capacity management program. If the new agreement were permitted to go into effect, then the reporting requirements for ``Class A'' agreements would become applicable. Changes in membership in other agreements would be reported, and the parties' market shares would continue to be tracked by entire agreement geographic scope and by sub-trade. Otherwise, the reporting requirements would mirror the information form in order to provide ``before and after'' depictions of the trade, with some additional provisions that can apply only to an effective agreement. For example, the special provisions of the information form applicable to a capacity management program would be expanded to carefully monitor the actual operation of the program. In addition, a new section entitled ``Independent Rate Actions'' would apply to ``Class A'' conference agreements and would require: For each sub-trade within the scope of the agreement, and for each of the leading commodities *␣*␣*, and for each party, state the number of independent rate actions taken during the calendar quarter that were applicable to that commodity moving in that sub-trade, and the total number of TEUs of that commodity covered by the independent actions. Also, state the name of each shipper for whom an independent rate was taken on that commodity during the calendar quarter, and state whether the shipper was a beneficial cargo owner, a non-vessel-operating common carrier, or a shippers' association. This provision would allow the Commission to monitor the level of independent rate activity (or the lack of such activity) on specific commodities, and to take appropriate action immediately if it appears that certain commodities or types of shipper are receiving more rigid rate treatment than others. 4. ``Class B'' agreements under the proposed rule As already stated, the proposed rule prescribes the same information form for ``Class B'' agreements as for ``Class A'' agreements. This establishes the same pre-agreement baseline as is done for ``Class A'' agreements. However, assuming the ``Class B'' agreement were allowed to go into effect, the reporting requirements are limited to quarterly updates on market share, agreement-wide cargo and revenue results, membership in other agreements, and changes in port service. The agreement would be monitored by the Commission, particularly the sub-trades where the agreement holds more than 50 percent of the market, and if there were indications of possible rate or service problems in a sub- trade, further information would be obtained_by either informal negotiation or a section 15 order_and compared against the original baseline data to determine whether further action was necessary. 5. ``Class C'' Agreements Under the Proposed Rule An agreement that authorizes service rationalization, such as space charters, coordination of service frequency and port rotations, and coordination of the size and capacity of vessels to be deployed by the parties, but does not authorize ``capacity management'' or ``capacity regulation'' (or any of the other five ``Class A/B'' activities), is a ``Class C'' agreement. Although such agreements have rarely presented serious regulatory concerns, some oversight is necessitated by section 6(g)'s admonition against agreements that cause unreasonable reductions in service. For a ``Class C'' agreement, the proposed rule provides for information form and reporting requirements limited to membership in other agreements and the level of service at the ports within the agreement's overall scope. Those provisions should provide the Commission with adequate warnings in case service rationalization reaches the point where a port, and the shippers which use that port, begin to suffer.
