FR940919-2-00193 FR940919-2-00081 41. We request comment on the advantages and disadvantages of using public funding to advance universal service goals. While that approach would be competitively neutral, public funding would represent a sharp departure from current funding policies and would likely encounter stiff opposition, given the Federal deficit and other budget priorities. We also seek comment on the efficacy of advertising as a vehicle for funding universal service in the 21st century. B. Distribution of Subsidies 42. The other facet of universal service funding concerns the distribution of subsidies. Currently, universal service support is provided in both targeted and untargeted fashions. As noted above, government regulators historically have mandated above-cost prices for certain services to reduce rates for residential POTS. This approach, however, effectively subsidizes all residential customers, including those who would be willing and able to pay cost-based rates for telephone service. Similarly, regulators have also directed subsidies towards high cost areas to ensure affordable POTS in those areas. 62 Once again, this approach benefits all households in high cost areas, whether or not they are low income or would terminate telephone service if faced with cost-based rates. 62 One such subsidy mechanism is the Universal Service Fund (USF) which provides monies to local telephone companies whose ``local loop'' costs ( i.e., the cost of the facility connecting the subscriber's home to the nearest company switching office) are more than 15 percent above the national average. The USF grew from $445 million in 1986 to more than $700 million in 1993, sparking an investigation by a Federal-State Joint Board and the FCC into the causes of its rapid growth. See also Amendment of Part 36 of the Commission's Rules and Establishment of a Joint Board, Notice of Inquiry, CC Docket No. 80&hyph;286 (released August 30, 1994). Another subsidy mechanism is the Rural Electrification Administration's telephone loan program which, since 1947, has provided low-cost loans directly to rural telephone companies and cooperatives. See 7 U.S.C. ยง901 et seq (1994). 43. Recently, government regulators have developed more carefully targeted funding programs. For example, the FCC's Link-Up America program allows States to reduce telephone installation charges for qualified households by as much as $30, as well as to use installment payments for installation charges without any interest charges to the customer. To date, forty-eight states and the District of Columbia have implemented Link-Up America programs. Funding of the program this year will be approximately $15.9 million. Under the FCC's Lifeline program, started in 1985, the FCC matches State rate discounts to eligible subscribers (up to the maximum Federally-mandated subscriber line charge of $3.50 per month). Thirty-five states and the District of Columbia have implemented some form of Lifeline assistance, at a projected cost of some $119 million in 1994. 44. Most experts contend that universal support should be provided only to those subscribers who could not otherwise afford telephone service. Some argue for targeting subsidies to low income users, high cost areas, and special needs groups. 63 NARUC's Universal Service Project recommends continuing some support mechanisms in place today, including targeted support in low cost areas and direct assistance to end users through Lifeline and Link-up programs. 64 Others also support some form of lifeline option to assist low income customers while avoiding subsidizing every household. 65 63 See NII Field Hearings, p. 10&hyph;11. 64 Staff Draft Position Paper, supra note 54, at 8. 65 Comments of Charles Smith, Vice President and General Manager, Pacific Bell, Los Angeles region, Transcript of Los Angeles Hearing at 55 (Feb. 16, 1994). 45. We seek comment on how best to target universal support funding. What criteria should be established to identify those eligible for subsidies? Should eligibility for support be linked to the eligibility standards associated with other social ``safety net'' programs. Should support be structured so that some defined package of telecommunications services consumes no more than a specified percentage of a household's annual income, or represents no more than a designated fraction of a household's yearly expenditures? 66 Should subsidies be applied to a limited set of services and, if so, how should that set of services be determined? 66 As noted above, telephone service comprised no more than 2.0&hyph;2.1% of the average U.S. household's annual expenditures. See supra note 26. 46. We also request comment on the current practice of providing support to firms providing service in high cost (predominantly rural) areas. Some have argued that rural telephone companies have higher average costs only if one considers the fixed costs of their telephone networks. When operating expenses ( e.g., labor costs, taxes, interest expenses) are factored in, total costs for some rural companies are lower than the costs incurred by companies operating in non-rural areas. 67 Commenters should address these analyses and their implications for universal service policies in rural areas. 67 See Joseph Fuhr, Jr., Should the U.S. Subsidize Rural Telephone Companies?, 12 J. of Pol. Analysis and Mgmt 310 (1993); Thomas Armstrong and Joseph Fuhr, Jr., Cost Considerations for Rural Telephone Service, 17 Tel. Pol. 80 (1993). 47. In a related vein, MFS suggests that subsidies for high cost areas be based on objective criteria such as population density, geography, and other subscriber statistics rather than actual telephone company costs to reduce any incentive of LECs to inflate costs so they can keep receiving subsidies. 68 Is that a viable funding strategy? Would it be more efficient to direct support to rural households, thereby subsidizing only those subscribers who could otherwise not afford telephone service? 68 See Petition of MFS, supra note 55, at Attachment I, p. 4. 48. Finally, we solicit comment on the appropriate recipients of universal service support. As noted above, subsidies are directed towards the providers of telephone service, in return for their commitment to provide below cost service to certain subscribers or in certain areas. Some observers have suggested providing subsidies directly to subscribers, either as a complement to or in place of transfers to carriers. There is growing interest, for example, in a voucher system to allow subsidies to be distributed directly to eligible subscribers who would choose their own providers. 69 Similarly, there is a proposal to give eligible customers credits on their monthly bills to reflect reductions in the price of basic service. 70 69 Comments of Mark T. Bryant, MCI Telecommunications 13, New Mexico Hearing (Dec. 16, 1993). See also Noam at 36&hyph;37. 70 See Petition of MFS, supra note 55, at 20. Carriers that provide basic exchange service would grant credits to eligible end users, and these credits would apply against the carriers' universal service obligations. 49. Directing support to end users, rather than to carriers, could give customers more control in choosing their providers, while continuing to ensure that all have access to affordable service. It might also stimulate competitive entry in some areas. Others have argued, however, that providing support to subscribers would encourage inefficient entry by new firms, jeopardize incumbent providers' ability to serve remaining customers, and actually increase universal service support requirements. 71 71 See Panzar and Wildman, supra note 21, at 20&hyph;25. 50. Should universal service support payments be made to service providers, to subscribers, or in some other fashion? Would directing subsidies to carriers encourage inefficient entry in some areas? If so, under what conditions? Could a subscriber-based subsidy program be structured to avoid such problems? How much would such a program cost to establish and operate? If support payments are made to service providers, should they be limited to certain categories of providers, such as ``carriers of last resort'' ( i.e., firms that agree to provide universal services throughout an entire geographic area)? If so, would it be feasible or efficient to designate (and provide subsidy payments to) multiple carriers of last resort in a particular area? What rules should dictate when carriers of last resort can enter or exit geographic areas? What is the most effective way to establish service in currently unserved areas? For example, would it be possible to award a franchise to service an unserved area via competitive bidding? What minimum franchise requirements would be necessary to make such an auction fair and attractive to potential bidders?
