FR941012-1-00012 FR941012-1-00004 First, under the proposed §258.74(e)(1)(i)(A), a firm could satisfy the financial component if its most recent bond rating is investment grade, that is, Aaa, Aa, A or Baa, as issued by Moody's, or AAA, AA, A, or BBB, as issued by Standard and Poor's. The Agency is proposing this option because it believes that a firm's bond rating incorporates an evaluation of a firm's financial management practices. Bond ratings reflect the expert opinion of bond rating services, which are organizations that have established credibility in the financial community for their assessments of firm financial conditions. An analysis of bond ratings showed that bond ratings have been a good indicator of firm defaults, and that few firms with investment grade ratings have in fact gone bankrupt. The proposal to include a bond rating option in this financial test is consistent with other Agency programs. For example, the regulations governing TSDFs under 40 CFR parts 264 and 265, petroleum underground storage tanks under 40 CFR part 280, UIC facilities under 40 CFR part 144, and PCB commercial storage facilities under 40 CFR part 761 all consider bond ratings as part of their financial tests. The local government financial test for owners and operators of MSWLFs under 40 CFR part 258, which was proposed on December 27, 1993 (58 FR 68353) also would allow a bond rating option. Second, to provide the regulated community with flexibility in meeting the financial test, the Agency is also proposing a ratio alternative to the bond rating. In order to satisfy the ratio requirement, a firm would have to have either: •a leverage ratio of less than 1.5 based on the ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth. This ratio attempts to show the degree to which a firm is leveraged. This particular measure shows the relationship between total liabilities to tangible net worth. Firms with higher values for this ratio are more likely to suffer net losses than those with lower values; or •a profitability ratio of greater than 0.10 based on the ratio of the sum of net income plus depreciation, depletion, and amortization, minus $10 million, to total liabilities. This ratio attempts to show cash-flow from operations relative to the firm's total liabilities. Firms with higher values for this measure are more likely to meet their obligations than those firms with lower values. The Agency selected these two specific financial ratios with their associated thresholds based on their ability to differentiate between viable and bankrupt firms. The Agency's analysis demonstrated that leverage ratios (i.e., total liabilities/net worth) and profitability ratios (i.e., cash flow/total liabilities) are particularly good discriminators of financial health. The Agency selected as thresholds for these ratios values that, together with the other financial test criteria, minimized the costs associated with demonstrating financial responsibility. A more detailed discussion of this analysis can be found in Section V. of this preamble and the Background Document developed in support of this rulemaking. c. Domestic Assets Requirement. In §258.74(e)(1)(iii), the Agency is proposing that all firms using the financial test have assets in the United States at least equal to the costs they seek to assure through a financial test. (see paragraph a. of this section, ``Minimum Size Requirement,'' for more discussion on assured costs) The domestic asset requirement is intended to ensure that the Agency has access to funds in the event of bankruptcy. Without this requirement, the Agency could experience substantial difficulty in accessing funds of bankrupt firms that have their assets outside of the United States. The Agency recognizes that this minimum assets requirement may be too low and solicits comment on an assets requirement that provides the Agency with adequate assurance that funds will be available in the event that an owner or operator enters bankruptcy, but does not overly burden the regulated community. 2. Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements (Section 258.74(e)(2)
