FR941017-1-00002 FR941017-1-00001 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Parts 50, 52 and 100 RIN 3150&hyph;AD93 Reactor Site Criteria Including Seismic and Earthquake Engineering Criteria for Nuclear Power Plants and Proposed Denial of Petition From Free Environment, Inc. et al. AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule and proposed denial of petition from Free Environment, Inc. et al. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is proposing to amend its regulations to update the criteria used in decisions regarding power reactor siting, including geologic, seismic, and earthquake engineering considerations for future nuclear power plants. The proposed rule would allow NRC to benefit from experience gained in the application of the procedures and methods set forth in the current regulation and to incorporate the rapid advancements in the earth sciences and earthquake engineering. In addition, this proposed rule benefits from the public comments received on the first proposed revision of the regulations. This proposed rule primarily consists of two separate changes, namely, the source term and dose considerations, and the seismic and earthquake engineering considerations of reactor siting. The Commission is also proposing to deny the remaining issue in petition (PRM&hyph;50&hyph;20) filed by Free Environment, Inc. et al. DATES: Comment period expires February 14,1995. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but the Commission is able to assure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Mail written comments to: Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Service Branch. Deliver comments to 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm, Federal workdays. Copies of the regulatory analysis, the environmental assessment and finding of no significant impact, and comments received may be examined at the NRC Public Document Room at 2120 L Street NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Andrew J. Murphy, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 415&hyph;6010, concerning the seismic and earthquake engineering aspects and Mr. Leonard Soffer, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 415&hyph;6574, concerning other siting aspects. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background. II. Objectives. III. Genesis. IV. Alternatives. V. Major Changes. A. Reactor Siting Criteria (Nonseismic). B. Seismic and Earthquake Engineering Criteria. VI. Related Regulatory Guides and Standard Review Plan Section. VII. Future Regulatory Action. VIII. Referenced Documents. IX. Electronic Format. X. Questions. XI. Finding of No Significant Environmental Impact: Availability. XII. Paperwork Reduction Act Statement. XIII. Regulatory Analysis. XIV. Regulatory Flexibility Certification. XV. Backfit Analysis.
