FR940603-2-00096 FR940603-2-00059 ADC's Proposed IMP in the FEIS identifies 6 elements. The Service has direct regulatory control or influence on 4 of these 6 elements. These specific elements are (1) continued development of JFKIA's on-airport program, (2) on-airport shooting of gulls, (3) laughing gull nest/egg destruction in Jamaica Bay, and (4) on-colony shooting of adult laughing gulls. The Service has no regulatory control or influence on (1) reduction of off-airport attractants and (2) display of gull models to harass gulls. The IMP/DOI has been split into 2 separate categories. Category 1 elements address management actions off the GNRA and Category 2 elements address management actions on the GNRA. Implementation of Category 1 elements will begin immediately, with all components monitored continuously by the Bird Control Unit (BCU) and evaluated at least annually by the Bird Hazard Task Force (BHTF). Category 1 activities would be continued until the annual reviews of these programs by the BCU and BHTF demonstrate that either Category 1 activities are no longer needed or that additional management is required. The BHTF will suggest improvements to this program, recommend additional research and monitoring needs and establish criteria to be used for initiation of Category 2 measures. The FEIS states that the National Park Service (NPS) will initiate steps to satisfy legislative and procedural requirements, as well as management review for on-colony elements (Category 2) whenever it is demonstrated that off-colony elements (Category 1) are ineffective. If initiation of Category 2 actions are justified, the NPS must define actions, analyze impacts and document decisions in the context of legal authorities and management policies in further NEPA analysis and documentation. 1. Category 1 actions include continued development of JFKIA's on-airport program, reduction of off-airport attractants, and the on-airport shooting of gulls. a. Continued development of JFKIA's on-airport program with emphasis upon improvements to the BCU and the BHTF. (1) Enhance the professional capability of the BCU (2) Establish in-house capability within the BCU to assess and monitor effectiveness of control programs on target species. (3) Prepare written plans for vegetation, insect control, solid waste, water management and other on-airport issues that address bird hazard management. (4) Reorganize the BHTF to assist as an independent review body. These above improvements will, by themselves, likely result in marginal reduction in gull-aircraft interactions. However, their implementation will improve the decisionmaking and evaluation process and provide a mechanism for determination of when Category 2 elements need to be considered, while having low environmental impacts (FEIS 5.5 and 6.2.2). The Service Actions within the Preferred Alternative are presented in the Findings and Decisions section. These Actions explain what improvements to the JFKIA on-airport program will be implemented and when these Actions will be implemented. b. Reduction of off-airport attractants (FEIS 5.4.2.4. and 6.2.1). As the FEIS states at page 6&hyph;4, reduction of off-airport attractants can be achieved provided cooperation of outside agencies can be obtained. Implementation of this program will likely result in a low reduction in gull-aircraft interactions. However, considering the absence of substantial environmental impacts, it was included as support to other Category 1 elements. c. Continue on-airport shooting of gulls (FEIS 5.7 and 6.3.2). Among on-airport lethal alternatives, only shooting is considered a feasible and effective option. Its environmental impacts are relatively low, as long as not more than approximately 14,500 laughing gulls are shot annually (according to ADC in the FEIS, p. 5-42). The on-airport shooting program could affect local and New York State laughing gull populations, unless another nesting colony is established in the State. Computer simulations indicate regional populations would not be impacted by an on-airport shooting program restricted to this level. The impact of the on-airport shooting program on herring, great black-backed and ringbilled gull populations has been minimal, e.g. the numbers of these species shot were 508, 128, and 59, respectively, in 1991; 1,338, 150 and 131 in 1992; and 554, 121, and 169 in 1993. Local, regional and national populations of these gull species would not be adversely impacted by the on-airport shooting. 2. Category 2 elements include laughing gull nest/egg destruction in Jamaica Bay (FEIS 5.6.1.2.1 and 6.3.1), on-colony shooting of laughing gulls (FEIS 5.6.2.2. and 6.3.1), and display of synthetic gull models to harass gulls (FEIS 5.4.2.3 and 6.2.1). If the potential risk to the flying public has been shown not to be reduced to acceptable levels as determined by the BHTF, the NPS will implement Category 2 control elements within the colony. On-colony actions will be proposed only after it has been judged that Category 1 actions have not been effective in reducing bird-aircraft interactions at JFKIA. The FEIS states that if initiation of Category 2 elements are justified, the NPS must define those actions, analyze those impacts and document its decision in the context of its legal authorities and its management policies and NEPA.
