FR940916-1-00145 FR940916-1-00016 (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, before it is put in service and at intervals that do not exceed 736 calendar days, each main reservoir other than an aluminum reservoir shall be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure of at least 25 percent more than the maximum pressure fixed by the chief mechanical officer. The test date, place, and pressure shall be recorded on Form F 6180.49A, and the person performing the test and that person's supervisor shall sign the form. (2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, each main reservoir other than an aluminum reservoir shall be hammer tested over its entire surface while the reservoir is empty, at intervals that do not exceed 736 calendar days. The test date and place shall be recorded on Form F 6180.49A, and the person performing the test and that person's supervisor shall sign the form. (3) Each welded main reservoir originally constructed to withstand at least five times the maximum working pressure fixed by the chief mechanical officer may be drilled over its entire surface with telltale holes that are three-sixteenths of an inch in diameter. The holes shall be spaced not more than 12 inches apart, measured both longitudinally and circumferentially, and drilled from the outer surface to an extreme depth determined by the formula: D=(.6PR/(S=0.6P)) where: D=extreme depth of telltale holes in inches but in no case less than one-sixteenth inch; P=certified working pressure in psi; S=one-fifth of the minimum specified tensile strength of the material in psi; and R=inside radius of the reservoir in inches. One row of holes shall be drilled lengthwise of the reservoir on a line intersecting the drain opening. A reservoir so drilled does not have to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, except the requirements for a hydrostatic test before it is placed in service. Whenever any such telltale hole shall have penetrated the interior of any reservoir, the reservoir shall be permanently withdrawn from service. A reservoir now in use may be drilled in lieu of the tests provided for in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, but it shall receive a hydrostatic test before it is returned to use. (4) Railroads may develop equivalent non-destructive tests for main reservoirs. If approved by the FRA, railroads may use the equivalent tests in place of the main reservoir tests described in §232.303 (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3). (d) Air gauges. (1) All gauges or transducer-driven displays of air gauges used by the engineer for braking the train or locomotive, except load meters used in conjunction with an auxiliary brake system, shall be tested by comparison with a dead-weight tester or a test gauge designed for that purpose. (2) Tests shall be performed not less frequently than once each 92 days. (e) Trip tests. A locomotive engineer shall know before each trip that the locomotive brakes and devices for regulating all pressures, including but not limited to the automatic and independent brake valves, operate as intended and that the water and oil have been drained from the air brake system. (f) Brake system maintenance. (1) Locomotive brake equipment shall be cleaned, repaired and tested at intervals not to exceed the following schedule: ␣ 1Device 1368 days 1736 days 11104 days Brake system filters/dirt collectors in main reservoir system X 26&hyph;L Brake Equipment devices X Other than 26&hyph;L brake cylinder relay valves, main reservoir safety valves, feed and reducing valves (including related dirt collectors and filters) X All other brake system operating portions and related dirt collectors and filters X
