FR940902-0-00114 FR940902-0-00010 (i) Compliance with the JTPA regulations; (ii) Assurance of nondiscrimination and equal opportunity as found in 29 CFR 34.20, Assurance required; duration of obligation; covenants. (3) In the case of awards to vendors, contain clauses that provide for: (i) Access by the recipient, the subrecipient, the Department of Labor, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives to any books, documents, papers, and records (including computer records) of the contractor or subcontractor which are directly pertinent to charges to the program, in order to conduct audits and examinations and to make excerpts, transcripts, and photocopies; this right also includes timely and reasonable access to contractor's and subcontractor's personnel for the purpose of interviews and discussions related to such documents; (4) In the case of awards to both subrecipients and vendors, contain clauses that provide for: (i) Administrative, contractual, or legal remedies in instances where contractors/subgrantees violate or breach agreement terms, which shall provide for such sanctions and penalties as may be appropriate; (ii) Notice of 29 CFR 97.34 requirements pertaining to copyrights (agreements which involve the use of copyrighted materials or the development of copyrightable materials); (iii) Notice of requirements pertaining to rights to data. Specifically, the awarding agency and the Department of Labor shall have unlimited rights to any data first produced or delivered under the agreement (agreements which involve the use/development of computer programs/ applications, or the maintenance of databases or other computer data processing program, including the inputing of data); (iv) Termination for cause and for convenience by the awarding agency, including the manner by which the termination will be effected and the basis for settlement; (v) Notice of awarding agency requirements and regulations pertaining to reporting; (vi) Audit rights and requirements; (vii) Payment conditions and delivery terms; (viii) Process and authority for agreement changes; and (ix) Provision against assignment; (5) The Governor may establish additional clauses, as deemed appropriate, for State and subrecipient procurements. (i) Disputes . (1) The Governor shall ensure that the recipient and each subrecipient have protest procedures to handle and resolve disputes relating to their procurements. A protester shall exhaust all administrative remedies with the subrecipient before pursuing a protest at a higher level. (2) Violations of law will be handled in accordance with the requirements contained in ยง627.500(c). (j) Each recipient and subrecipient shall maintain records sufficient to detail the significant history of a procurement. These records shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: rationale for the method of procurement, selection of agreement type, awardee selection or rejection, and the basis for the agreement price. ยง627.422 Selection of service providers. (a) Service providers selected under titles I, II, and III of the Act shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of section 107 of the Act, except that section 107(d) shall not apply to training under title III. (b) Consistent with the requirements of this section, the Governor shall establish standards to be followed by recipients and subrecipients in making determinations of demonstrated performance, prior to the award of all agreements under titles I, II, and III of the Act. These standards shall comply with the requirements of this section, ยง627.420, of this part, Procurement, and section 164(a)(3) of the Act. The standards shall require that determinations of demonstrated performance will be in writing, and completed prior to the award of an agreement. (c) Each recipient and subrecipient, to the extent practicable, shall select service providers on a competitive basis, in accordance with the standards established in ยง627.420(b) of this part, Procurement. When a State, SDA, SSG, or administrative entity determines that services other than intake and eligibility determination will be provided by its own staff, a determination shall be made of the demonstrated performance of the entity to provide the services. This determination: Shall be in writing; shall take into consideration the matters listed in paragraph (d) of this section; and may, if appropriate, be documented and described in the Job Training Plan, GCSSP, or EDWAA plan. (d) Awards are to be made to organizations possessing the demonstrated ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed subgrant or contract. Where comparable proposals have been received from an offeror which has demonstrated performance and a high-risk recipient/subrecipient, and a determination has been made that both proposals are fundable, the award should be made to the offeror which has demonstrated performance, unless other factors dictate a contrary result. Determinations of demonstrated performance shall be in writing, and take into consideration such matters as whether the organization has:
