FR941125-1-00034 FR941125-1-00008 5.1.4␣Optical Alignment Sight. Each analyzer must provide some method for visually determining that the instrument is optically aligned. The method provided must be capable of clearly indicating that the unit is misaligned when an error of no greater than # 2 percent opacity occurs due to misalignment at the installation monitoring pathlength. Instruments that are capable of providing a clear path zero check while in operation on a stack or duct with effluent present, and while maintaining the same optical alignment during measurement and calibration, need not meet this requirement (e.g., some ``zero pipe'' units). The owner and operator shall insure that the COMS manufacturer's written procedures and the certificate of conformance depict the correct alignment and the misalignment corresponding to a # 2 percent opacity shift as viewed using the alignment sight. 5.1.5␣Simulated Zero and Upscale Calibration System. Each analyzer must include a calibration system for simulating a zero and upscale calibration value. This calibration system must provide, as a minimum, a simultaneous system check of all of the active analyzer internal optics, all active electronic circuitry including the primary light source (lamp) and photodetector assembly, and electro-mechanical systems used during normal measurement operation. 5.1.6␣Automatic Zero and Upscale Value Compensation Indicator and Alarm. The COMS shall provide an automated means for determining and recording the actual amount of 24-hour zero compensation on a daily basis. The COMS also shall provide an alarm (visual or audible) when a # 4 percent opacity zero compensation has been exceeded. This indicator shall be at a location which can be seen or heard by the operator (e.g., process control room) and accessible to the operator (e.g., the data output terminal). 5.1.6.1␣During the operational test period, the COMS also must provide a means for determining and automatically recording the actual amount of upscale calibration value compensation at specified 1-hour intervals so that the actual 1-hour upscale calibration value shift can be determined (see section 7.2.3). 5.1.6.2␣If the COMS has a feature that provides automatic zero compensation for dirt accumulation on exposed optical and mechanical surfaces, the compensation allowance for dust may be included up to 20 percent opacity. For all other systems, the dirt accumulation on exposed optical and mechanical surfaces are limited to 4 percent opacity zero compensation allowance of section 5.1.6. The determination of dirt accumulation on all surfaces exposed to the effluent being measured shall include only those surfaces in the direct path of the measuring light beam under normal opacity measurement. The dust accumulation must actually be measured. 5.1.7␣External Calibration Filter Access. The COMS must be designed to accommodate an independent assessment of the total systems response to audit filters. An adequate design shall permit the use of external (i.e., not intrinsic to the instrument) neutral density filters to assess monitor operation. This system may include an external audit zero-jig as identified in section 3.0. 5.1.8␣Pathlength Correction Factor. The COMS shall display and record all opacity values corrected to the emission outlet pathlength. Equations 1&hyph;7 or 1&hyph;8 may be used. The system must be capable of independent display of the PLCF and automatically record any changes made to the PLCF. 5.1.9␣External Fault Indicator. The installed COMS must provide a means to automatically alert the owner or operator when a component or performance parameter has failed or been exceeded (e.g., projector lamp failure, zero or CD operation, purge air blower failure, data recorder failure). Indicator lights or alarms must be visible or audible to the operator(s). 5.1.10␣Data recorder resolution. The data recorder and data acquisition system shall record and display opacity values to 0.5 percent opacity. Table 1&hyph;1._COMS Design Specifications 1␣ ␣1. Peak spectral response. ␣2. Mean spectral response. ␣3. Angle of view. ␣4. Angle of projection. ␣5. Optical alignment sight. ␣6. Simulated zero and upscale calibration system. ␣7. Automated zero compensation recording and indicating system. ␣8. Automated upscale calibration compensation recording and indicating system. ␣9. External calibration filter access. 10. Pathlength correction factor recording and indicating system.
