FR941220-0-00062 FR941220-0-00011 Most of the comment letters received regarding the proposals were supportive of the Commission's efforts to increase flexibility in the selection of the reporting currency and to streamline the reconciliation process for foreign private issuers. 6 The Commission believes that this flexibility can be provided to foreign private issuers with no loss of material information that is necessary for a U.S. investor to make an informed investment decision. The amendments are being adopted largely as proposed, with certain modifications and clarifications in response to public comments. 6 Fourteen comment letters on the proposal were received. Those letters and a summary of the comments are available for public inspection and copying in File No. S7&hyph;11&hyph;94 at the Commission's Public Reference Room in Washington, DC. II. Reporting Currency of Foreign Private Issuers A. Selection of a Reporting Currency The amendments adopted today permit a foreign private issuer to state the amounts in its primary financial statements using any currency which it deems appropriate. The proposed requirement that the reporting currency also be used to report to a majority of the issuer's nonaffiliated securityholders has been deleted in response to comments, as discussed below. Commenters generally agreed with the Proposing Release on the need to increase flexibility in the selection of the reporting currency. Commenters agreed that rules regarding reporting currency have been troublesome for some foreign issuers that operate in various currencies. Compliance with the rule previously governing selection of the reporting currency was problematic for some issuers because no primary economic environment could be identified, and the country of incorporation had minimal significance to operations. In addition, several commenters cited the preference of U.S. investors for financial statements prepared using the U.S. dollar as the reporting currency. A number of commenters expressed the view that, as proposed, the rule was overly restrictive in requiring that the reporting currency used in filings with the Commission also be used in financial statements that are distributed to the majority of the issuer's nonaffiliated shareholders. Commenters believed that requirement would force some foreign issuers to distribute an additional set of financial statements, stated in the currency used for reporting to the Commission, to securityholders outside the U.S. who would find the additional material of no interest or benefit. Mandating delivery of financial statements in foreign countries is not appropriate or necessary for the protection of U.S. investors. Accordingly, the restriction has been deleted from the rule as adopted. Several commenters favored increased flexibility but suggested various limiting criteria for determining the appropriate currency. A few commenters indicated a view that an issuer should use the same reporting currency for all external reporting. One commenter suggested that the Commission ask the Financial Accounting Standards Board (``FASB'') to undertake a project on the selection of reporting currency. The Commission does not believe that a need for new restrictions on a registrant's choice of reporting currency has been demonstrated, and does not believe reporting currency is an issue that needs to be addressed by the FASB. Moreover, restricting an issuer that chooses to sell its securities in U.S. public markets to a single reporting currency in all external reports in any jurisdiction is not practical or necessarily helpful to U.S. investors. Foreign law or custom may require an issuer to publicly distribute financial statements in a currency that is not as meaningful and relevant to U.S. investors as another currency. The Commission believes management and its advisors should be free to select the reporting currency that is most useful for U.S. markets. Of course, reporting practices will continue to be monitored to assess the practiced application of today's amendments. One commenter that generally supported increased flexibility in the selection of the reporting currency indicated that issuers should not be permitted to report in U.S. dollars if the currency of its primary economic environment or the currency in which dividends are paid is a currency of a hyperinflationary economy or is subject to material exchange restrictions. That suggestion has not been followed. Domestic issuers that conduct substantial operations in countries whose currency is hyperinflationary consolidate those operations and present them in U.S. dollars. While translation from a currency of a hyperinflationary environment into a more stable currency presents some practical problems, the accounting profession has addressed these situations. SFAS 52 provides guidance on the translation of operations in hyperinflationary economies under U.S. GAAP, and IAS 21, as discussed in a separate section of this release, also prescribes a method of translation. The rule has not been revised, as suggested by one commenter, to address material foreign exchange restrictions and controls because the resolution of such issues typically is dependent on the particular facts and circumstances. Registrants are encouraged to discuss unique issues regarding exchange restrictions or controls involving the registrant and its subsidiaries and other affiliates with the Commission's staff prior to filing. The amended rule requires, as was proposed, specific disclosure in a note to the financial statements if the currency in which the issuer expects to declare dividends is different from the reporting currency, or there are material exchange restrictions affecting the reporting currency or the currency in which dividends are paid. Registrants are reminded that to the extent that depicted trends and reported results are affected by exchange rate fluctuations, explanatory disclosure should be provided in filings with the Commission as part of the explanation of the material changes from year to year required by management's discussion and analysis in Regulation S&hyph;K 7 as well as the comparable sections presented in Item 9 of Form 20&hyph;F. 8 7 17 CFR 229.303. 8 17 CFR 249.220f.
