FR940202-0-00123 FR940202-0-00013 Issue 24: The critical habitat designation would result in more stringent local permitting and approval processes. Service Response: The Service has no authority to require local agencies to implement land use restrictions consistent with the regulations protecting designated critical habitat although the Service would support such actions. The commenters who raised this issue are land owners in San Diego County. The Service contacted the San Diego County Department of Planning and Land Use (DPLU) with respect to this issue and was informed that the DPLU does not anticipate any changes in local ordinances as a result of critical habitat designation (T. Oberbauer, County of San Diego, Department of Planning and Land Use, pers. comm.). Issue 25: The Service should not designate critical habitat on Camp Pendleton Marine Corps Base because the Service and the Marine Corps have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that was designed to accomplish the same degree of habitat protection as critical habitat would provide. The management program for the least Bell's vireo on Camp Pendleton eliminates the need for special management considerations, and therefore, designation of critical habitat is unnecessary. Service Response: The Service believes that the MOU is providing an adequate level of protection to the vireo and its habitat on Camp Pendleton. Under the MOU, the Service agreed to offer technical assistance and to consult under section 7 of the Act when requested. The Marine Corps agreed to consult under section 7 of the Act on activities that may affect the least Bell's vireo, to request formal consultation on various programmatic issues such as road maintenance and fire control, to maintain 1,200 acres (480 ha) of vireo quality habitat along the Santa Margarita River, and to continue cowbird trapping efforts (which were initiated in 1983) and nest monitoring activities (which were initiated in 1981) as long as funding was available. The Santa Margarita River supported 1,200 acres of quality vireo habitat and 98 territorial male least Bells' vireos when the MOU was signed in 1986. Since 1986, the Marine Corps has continued cowbird trapping efforts, and until 1991 carried out a thorough monitoring program. The vireo population along the Santa Margarita River on Camp Pendleton has increased from 98 to 212 territorial males from 1986 to 1991. Although this area is essential to the conservation of the species, the Service finds that a formal critical habitat designation is unnecessary because the MOU contains provisions for section 7 consultation for proposed actions that may destroy or adversely modify vireo habitat. The Service also finds that a level of protection equivalent to or greater than that provided by a critical habitat designation can be achieved for the vireo on this portion of the Santa Margarita River through cooperation with the Marine Corps under the MOU. However, the Service will reconsider its position to designate critical habitat at this locality if conditions warrant. The Service will use its authority under sections 7 and 9 of the Act to insure compliance with the prohibitions on unauthorized take. For these reasons, the Service has removed about 9,600 acres (3,840 ha) on Camp Pendleton from the critical habitat designation. National Environmental Policy Act The Service has determined that an Environmental Assessment, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in connection with regulations adopted pursuant to section 4(a) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). Regulatory Flexibility Act and Executive Order 12866 This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The Department of the Interior has determined that this designation will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). Based on the information discussed in this rule concerning public projects and private activities within the critical habitat areas, it is not expected that significant economic impacts will result from the critical habitat designation. In addition, there are a limited number of actions on private land that have Federal involvement through funds or permits that would affect or be affected by the critical habitat designation; the potential economic impact of the critical habitat designation on these actions will be minor. Also, no direct costs, enforcement costs, or information collection or recordkeeping requirements are imposed on small entities by this designation. This action does not impose any recordkeeping requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. References Cited Barry, D., L. Harroun, and C. Halverson. 1992. For conserving listed species, talk is cheaper than we think: The consultation process under the Endangered Species Act. World Wildlife Fund, Washington, DC.
