FR940527-0-00009 FR940527-0-00004 Headquarters means the Corporation's offices at 2 Democracy Center, 6903 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817. Non-commercial scientific institution means an institution that is not operated on a ``commercial'' basis and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. Records means books, papers, maps, photographs, or other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by the Corporation in connection with the transaction of the Corporation's business and preserved by the Corporation as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the Corporation or because of the informational value of data in them. The term does not include inter alia, books, magazines, or other materials acquired solely for library purposes and available through any officially designated library of the Corporation, or records that have been prepared by a contractor, and are available to the Corporation pursuant to the terms of a contract between the Corporation and the contractor ( e.g., the contract for the operation and maintenance of the Corporation's leased gaseous diffusion plants), but which have not been delivered to the Corporation. Representative of the news media means any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. The term ``news'' means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large and publishers of periodicals (but only in those instances when they can qualify as disseminators of ``news'') who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. Moreover, as traditional methods of news delivery evolve ( e.g., electronic dissemination of newspapers through telecommunications services), such alternative media would be included in this category. In the case of ``freelance'' journalists, they will be regarded as working for a news organization if they can demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization, even though not actually employed by it. Review means the process of examining documents located in response to a commercial use request to determine whether any portion of any document located is permitted to be withheld. It also includes processing any documents for disclosure, e.g., doing all that is necessary to excise them and otherwise prepare them for release. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions. Search means all the time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents. The search should be conducted in the most efficient and least expensive manner. Searches may be done manually or by computer using existing programming. Working days means all days except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays. ยง1102.3 Policy. The Corporation will make records concerning its operations, activities, and business available to the public upon request. Records will be withheld from the public only in accordance with the FOIA and this part. Records that may be exempt from disclosure may be made available as a matter of discretion when disclosure is not prohibited by law, and it does not appear adverse to legitimate interests of the public, the Corporation, or any person. The Corporation will attempt to provide assistance to requesting parties, including information about how a request may be submitted. The Corporation will act on requests for records in a timely manner. ยง1102.4 Public Reading Room. (a) The Corporation will maintain in a public reading room at its headquarters the materials which are required by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) and (5) to be made available for public inspection and copying, unless it is determined that such records should be withheld and are exempt from mandatory disclosure under the FOIA and ยง1102.6 of this part. (b) The public reading room will maintain and make available for public inspection and copying current indices of the materials which are required to be indexed by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) or other applicable statutes. Because publication of such indices is unnecessary and impracticable and because current versions thereof will be available for inspection at the Corporation's public reading room, it is determined and so ordered that the Corporation will not publish the indices in the Federal Register. (c) Certain records maintained in the public reading room or otherwise made available pursuant to this part may be ``edited'' by the deletion of identifying details concerning individuals, to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. In such cases the record shall have attached to it a full explanation of the deletion.
