FR940616-2-00142 FR940616-2-00094 Details on Planning The proposal should show evidence of adequate lead/planning time to ensure a successful exchange program. A proposed time frame should also be included, as should provisions for monitoring and evaluating the program. Proposed Budget Organizations must submit a comprehensive line item budget for which specific details are available in the application packet. Grants awarded to eligible organizations with less than four years of experience in conducting international exchange programs will be limited to $60,000. Organizations should be familiar with grant regulations described in OMB circulars A110, A122, and A133. Cost sharing is encouraged. Cost sharing may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. The grant recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as cost to be paid by the Federal government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A110, Attachment E_Cost Sharing and Matching, and should be described in the proposal. In the event the recipient does not provide the minimum amount of cost sharing as stipulated in the recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the recipient's contribution. Allowable Costs Grant-funded expenditures will generally be limited to the following categories: _In-country travel and per diem; i.e., lodging, meals, clothing, maintenance, and incidentals, or stipends. _Orientation, honoraria, or preparation costs; briefing materials. Honoraria is limited to $150/day/speaker. _Educational and cultural enrichment activities up to a limit of $150 per program youth participant. _Tuition, conference/seminar registration fees, and other program admission fees. _International travel, normally limited to partial support for Americans traveling to the NIS, Baltic Republics, or Central and East Europe, and Central and East Europeans traveling to the U.S. The American participants and/or the American organization should be encouraged to fund a portion of the Americans' travel costs, although full funding of participants from economically disadvantaged backgrounds is encouraged. The NIS partner organizations should also be encouraged to make a contribution toward international travel, but in this regard one should avoid a situation in which participants are chosen largely or wholly on the basis of their ability to pay, thus creating an unrepresentative group. In some cases 100% of the travel costs for NIS participants will be paid from USIA funds. _Proposals should demonstrate substantial cost sharing in both program and administrative expenses. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the appropriate geographic area office, and the budget and contracts offices. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Agency's Office of General Counsel. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with the USIA's grants officer. Review Criteria Technically eligible applications will be reviewed according to the following criteria in addition to what has been outlined already in this RFP: 1. Quality of Program Idea Quality of the program plan and adherence of proposed activities to the criteria and conditions described above.
