FR941220-2-00016 FR941220-2-00010 Retention and disposal: Records of individual loans will be archived twelve months after a loan is closed. The loan will be archived to optical disk for economical and efficient storage. An Optical Disk Maintenance Program will be implemented to lengthen the shelf-life of the exposure on the optical disk. The Department will retain and dispose of NSLDS records in accordance with the ED Comprehensive Records Disposition Schedule, Part 10 item 16(a)(b)(c)(d)(e), which permits retention for a maximum period of ten years after the loan is closed. System manager(s) and address: Director, Division of Program Systems Service, U. S. Department of Education, Office of Postsecondary Education, 600 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5175. Notification procedure: If an individual wishes to determine whether a record exists regarding him or her in this system of records, the individual must provide the system manager his or her name, date of birth, social security number, and the name of the school or lender from which the loan or grant was obtained. Requests for notification about an individual must meet the requirements of the Department of Education's Privacy Act regulations at 34 CFR 5b.5. Record access procedures: If an individual wishes to gain access to a record in this system, he or she must contact the system manager and provide information as described in the notification procedures. Contesting record procedures: If an individual wishes to change the content of a record in the system of records, he or she must contact the system manager with the information described in the notification procedures, identify the specific item(s) to be changed, and provide a written justification for the change, including any supporting documentation. Requests to amend a record must meet the requirements of the Department of Education Privacy Act regulations at 34 CFR 5b.7. Record source categories: Information is obtained from guaranty agencies, schools, and the Title IV Program Files (Privacy Act System of Records Number 18&hyph;4000&hyph;24). However, lenders and guaranty agencies are not a source of information for participants in the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program because the Department maintains individual records of borrowers. System exempted from certain provisions of the act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31242 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
