FR940804-2-00048 FR940804-2-00021 Department of the Army Request for Nominations to the Inland Waterways Users Board AGENCY: Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), DOD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Section 302 of Public Law 99&hyph;862 established the inland Waterways Users Board. The Board is an independent Federal advisory committee. Its eleven members are appointed by the Secretary of the Army. This notice is to solicit nominations for five appointments or reappointments to two-year terms that will begin January 1, 1995. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), Department of the Army, ATTN: Inland Waterways Users Board Nominations Committee, Washington, DC 20310&hyph;0103. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Mr. John Zirschky, Acting Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), (703) 697&hyph;4671. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The selection, service and appointment of board members are covered by provisions of Section 302 of Public Law 99&hyph;662. The substance of those provisions is as follows: Selection. Members are to be selected from the spectrum of commercial carriers and shippers using the inland and intracoastal waterways, to represent geographical regions and to be representative of waterway commerce as determined by commodity ton-mile statistics. Service. The Board is required to meet at least semi-annually to develop and make recommendations to the Secretary of the Army on waterways construction and rehabilitation priorities and spending levels for commercial navigation improvements, and report its recommendations annually to the Secretary and the Congress. Appointment. The operation of the Board and appointment of its members are subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Public Law 92&hyph;463 as amended) and Departmental implementing regulations. Members serve without compensation, but their expenses due to Board activities are reimbursable. The considerations specified in Section 302 for the selection of the Board members, and certain terms used therein, have been interpreted, supplemented, or otherwise clarified as follows: Carriers and Shippers. The law uses the terms ``primary users and shippers.'' Primary users has been interpreted to mean the providers of transportation services on inland waterways such as barge or towboat operators. Shippers has been interpreted to mean the purchasers of such services for the movement of commodities they own or control. Individuals are appointed to the Board, but the must be either a carrier or a shipper, or represent a firm that is a carrier or shipper. For that purposes a trade or regional association is neither a shipper or primary user. Geographical Representation. The law specifies ``various'' regions. For the purpose of selecting Board members, the waterways subjected to fuel taxes and described in Public Law 95&hyph;502, as amended, have been aggregated into six regions. These are: (1) the Upper Mississippi River and its tributaries above the mouth of the Ohio; (2) the Lower Mississippi River and its tributaries below the mouth of the Ohio and above Baton Rouge; (3) the Ohio River and its tributaries; (4) the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway in Louisiana and Texas; (5) the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway east of New Orleans and associated fuel-taxed waterways east of New Orleans and associated fuel-taxed waterways including the Tennessee-Tombigbee, plus the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway below Norfolk; and (6) the Columbia-Snake River System and Upper Willamette. The intent is that each region shall be represented by at least one board member, with that representation determined by the regional concentration of the individual's traffic on the waterways. Commodity Representation. Waterway commerce has been aggregated into six commodity categories based on ``inland'' ton-miles shown in Waterborne Commerce of the United States. In rank order they are: (1) Farm and Food Products; (2) Coal and Coke; (3) Petroleum, Crude and Products; (4) Minerals, Ores, and Products; (5) Chemicals and Allied Products; and (6) All other. A considerable in the selection of Board members will be, that the commodities carried or shipped by those individuals or their firms will be reasonably representative of the above commodity categories. Reflecting preceding selection criteria, the present representation by Board members is as follows: The five members whose terms expire December 31, 1994, include one shipper representative representing the Upper Mississippi River region (Region 1) and farm and food products, ethanol and coal; one shipper representative representing the Lower Mississippi River region (Region 2), and farm and food products; one carrier representative representing the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway in Louisiana and Texas (Region 4), and petroleum and petroleum products; one carrier representative representing the Ohio River region (Region 3), and coal and coke, minerals, and metals, petroleum products, farm and food products and chemicals; and, one carrier representative representing the Columbia-Snake River system and Upper Willamette (Region 6), and farm and food products, petroleum products, chemicals, containers, and forest products. The members representing Regions 2, 3 and 6 are eligible for reappointment.
