FR940516-0-00055 FR940516-0-00013 Notes for Telecommunications Advisory Note 1: [Reserved] * * * * * Advisory Note 8: Licenses are likely to be approved, as administrative exceptions, for exports to satisfactory end-users in the People's Republic of China of test and inspection equipment and specially designed components and accessories therefor controlled by 5B01A or 5B02A and ``software'' and technology for such equipment, components and accessories, for the repair of telecommunications equipment, provided that: a. Such equipment, components, accessories, ``software'' and technology: 1. Are specially designed for repair; 2. Are to be used to repair controlled equipment authorized for export or equipment that is not controlled for national security reasons; 3. Are shipped in reasonable quantities necessary for the types and quantities of exported equipment being serviced; 4. Do not provide local production facilities; 5. Do not provide for testing of individual electronic components; and 6. Do not include ``software'' in ``source code'' controlled by 5D03.a; b. The repair does not upgrade the equipment or ``software''; c. All the records of repair activity are kept by a representative of the Western supplier; and d. The information to accompany each license application shall include: 1. A complete list of equipment to be provided; and 2. A clear identification of the users and their activities. N.B.: Nothing in this Advisory Note 8 shall be construed as overriding controls in other ECCNs contained in the Commerce Control List. * * * * * Advisory Note 11: Licenses are likely to be approved, as administrative exceptions, for exports to satisfactory end-users in Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Mongolia, Romania, or Vietnam of telecommunications equipment for optical fibers controlled by 5A02.d.1, provided that the transmission wavelength does not exceed 1,370 nm. Advisory Note 12: Licenses are likely to be approved, as administrative exceptions, for exports to satisfactory end-users in Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Mongolia, Romania, or Vietnam of cables or fibers controlled by 5A05, provided that: a. Quantities are normal for the envisaged end-use; and b. They are for a specified civil end-use. Advisory Note 13: Licenses are likely to be approved, as administrative exceptions, for exports to satisfactory end-users in Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Mongolia, Romania, or Vietnam of optical fiber test equipment controlled by 5B01.c using a transmission wavelength not exceeding 1,370 nm. Advisory Note 14: Licenses are likely to be approved, as administrative exceptions, for exports to satisfactory end-users in Country Groups QWY and the People's Republic of China of digital radio equipment or systems controlled by 5A02.a or f, provided that: a. The equipment or system is intended for general commercial international traffic in an international civil telecommunication system, one end of which is in a COCOM member country; b. It is to be installed in a permanent circuit under the supervision of the licensee; c. No means are to be provided for the transmission of traffic between points in a single proscribed country other than a country in Country Group Q or W; d. The ``digital transfer rate'' at the highest multiplex level does not exceed 156 Mbit/s; e. The equipment does not employ either of the following: 1. Quadrature Amplitude Modulation (QAM) techniques above level 64; or 2. Other digital modulation techniques with a ``spectral efficiency'' exceeding 6 bit/s/Hz; f. The equipment is not controlled by 5A02.e or .h or by the ``information security'' entries in Category 5; g. Spare parts shall remain under the control of the licensee or the licensee's designated representative;
