FR940721-2-00023 FR940721-2-00015 e. Ability to handle classified documents 3. Space and physical support requirements a. Floor space (footprint) b. Height c. Volume d. Requirement for multi-deck installation e. Supporting hardware f. Staging/stowage area for supplies or raw material 4. Shipboard load/stability factors a. Absolute weight b. Center of gravity/moment as installed on ship 5. Reliability a. Mean time between critical failures (MTBCF) b. Types of failures (critical, noncritical, discrepancies, persistent) c. Qualitative assessment of impact on crew d. Effects of heat, humidity, ocean climate and shipboard vibration 6. Maintainability (at sea) a. Preventive maintenance requirements b. Mean Time to Repair (MTTR) c. Mean Logistics Delay Time (MLDT); average time to get spare parts d. Maximum Allowable Time to Make Repairs (Mmax) 7. Staffing a. Number of manhours required for operation b. Availability of required skills aboard ship c. Training requirements 8. Compatibility with military mission a. Electromagnetic radiation b. Electronic/electrical interference c. Acoustic signature d. Visible emissions 9. Interoperability with other shipboard systems 10. Survivability in a marine/combat environment 11. Logistics support a. Availability or repair parts b. Technical data and maintenance requirements c. Supply support d. Support equipment (e.g., special tools) e. Spares and consumables requirement 12. Safety and Health considerations a. Noise levels produced b. Fire/explosion hazards c. Chemical/biological hazards d. Odor production e. Temperature of equipment/system surfaces and contribution to ship heating/cooling load f. Physical hazards, including those associated with moving or rotating parts 13. Costs associated with: a. Research, development, test and evaluation (RDT&E) b. Procurement c. Installation e. Operation f. Logistic support. Dated: July 15, 1994. Lewis T. Booker, Jr., LCDR, JAGC, USN, Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17711 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3810&hyph;AE&hyph;P
