FR941006-2-00174 FR941006-2-00113 • Expressions of Interest By Judges and/or Court Personnel. Does the proposed program have the support of the court system leadership, and of judges, court managers, and judicial education personnel who are expected to attend? (This may be demonstrated by attaching letters of support.) • Budget and Matching State Contribution. A copy of budget Form E (see Appendix IV) and a budget narrative (see Section VII.B.) that describes the basis for the proposed costs and the source of the match offered. •Local courts should attach a concurrence signed by the Chief Justice of the State or his or her designee. (See Form B, Appendix V.) Letters of application may be submitted at any time. However, applicants should allow at least 90 days between the date of submission and the date of the proposed program to allow sufficient time for needed planning. The Board of Directors has delegated its authority to approve Curriculum Adaptation grants to its Judicial Education Committee. The committee anticipates acting upon applications within 45 days after receipt. Formal grant awards will be made only after committee approval and negotiation of the final terms of the grant. (4) Grantee Responsibilities. A recipient of a Curriculum Adaptation grant must: (a) Comply with the same quarterly reporting requirements as other Institute grantees (see Section X.L., infra); (b) Include in each grant product a prominent acknowledgment that support was received from the Institute, along with the ``SJI'' logo, and a disclaimer paragraph based on the example provided in Section X.Q. of the Guideline; and (c) Submit two copies of the manuals, handbooks, or conference packets developed under the grant at the conclusion of the grant period, along with a final report that explains how it intends to replicate the program in the future. Applicants seeking other types of funding for developing and testing educational programs must comply with the requirements for concept papers and applications set forth in Sections VI and VII or the requirements for renewal applications set forth in Section IX. ii. National and Regional Education Programs. This category includes support for national or regional training programs developed by any provider, e.g., national organizations, State courts, universities, or public interest groups. Within this category, priority will be given to training projects which address issues of major concern to the State judiciary and other court personnel. Ordinarily, national and regional education projects are expected to develop curricula (as defined in Section III.K.) that may be adapted by State and local courts. Programs to be supported may include: •Training programs or seminars on topics of interest and concern that transcend State lines including the factors that should be considered in deciding child custody and termination of parental rights; •Multi-State or regional training programs sponsored by national organizations, non-profit groups, State courts or universities; •Interdisciplinary and, as appropriate, interbranch educational programs for State trial and appellate court judges, State and local court managers including clerks of court, and non-supervisory staff or other court personnel, including seminars based on Institute-supported research, and programs designed to develop better working relationships across court divisions and between courts and criminal justice, social service, and treatment agencies; and •Innovative independent study models that would enhance the availability of judicial education, especially for judges and court personnel who do not have ready access to training programs, and possible models for the credentialing of this type of continuing judicial education. iii. Judicial Education Technical Assistance. Unlike the preceding categories which support direct training, ``Technical Assistance'' refers to services necessary for the development of effective educational projects for judges and other court personnel. Projects in this category should focus on the needs of the States, and applicants should demonstrate their ability to work effectively with State judicial educators. The Institute is currently funding the following judicial education technical assistance projects: the Judicial Education Reference Information and Technology Transfer Project (JERITT), which collects and disseminates information (as well as providing technical assistance) on continuing education programs for judges and court personnel; the Judicial Education/Adult Education Project (JEAEP), which provides expert assistance on the application of adult and continuing education theory and practices to court education programs; the Leadership Institute in Judicial Education, which offers an annual training program and follow-up assistance to State judicial education leadership teams to help them develop improved approaches to court education; and NASJE NEWS, a newsletter of the National Association of State Judicial Educators. iv. Conferences. This category includes support for regional or national conferences on topics of major concern to the State judiciary and court personnel. Applicants are encouraged to consider the use of videoconference and other technologies to increase participation and limit travel expenses in planning and presenting conferences. Applicants also are reminded that conference sites should be accessible to persons with disabilities in accordance with the Americans With Disabilities Act. In planning a conference, applicants should provide for a written, video, or other product that would widely disseminate the information, findings, and any recommendations resulting from the conference. The Institute is particularly interested in supporting:
