FR941102-1-00079 FR941102-1-00018 D. Miscellaneous The three component prices: butterfat, protein, and the other solids, will be expressed on a per pound basis with four places to the right of the decimal. Analysis has shown that by expressing these prices to the nearest one-hundredth of a cent, the accuracy of the prices is significantly enhanced over expressing the prices to the nearest cent. Additionally, the difference between what is paid into the producer settlement fund and what is drawn from the producer settlement fund is much closer to zero than when prices are rounded to the nearest full cent. In contrast to other orders that have multiple component pricing provisions, this decision incorporates only one protein price as well as one other nonfat solids price. The pooling of the components to include the Class I skim portion is incorporated within the computation of the producer price differential. This feature of the pricing plan allows for the elimination of separate handler and producer protein prices and separate handler and producer other solids prices, and resulting confusion over which price, handler or producer, should be used when. In addition, a handler's per pound price for protein or other solids is the same whether the handler is buying milk from producers or from other handlers. The producer price differential, which represents the additional value of Class I and Class II milk in the pool and any positive or negative effect of Class III&hyph;A, will be determined by computing for each handler, and then accumulating for all handlers, the differential value (from Class III) of the Class I, Class II, and Class III&hyph;A product pounds. The differential value is adjusted, when appropriate, for shrinkage and overage, inventory reclassification, receipts of other source milk allocated as Class I, receipts from unregulated supply plants, location adjustments, and, in the Chicago Regional order, transportation and assembly credits. For the purpose of eliminating differences between handler and producer component values, the value of the Class I skim milk and the values of the protein and other solids contained in the skim milk allocated to Class II and Class III will be added to, and the values of the protein and other solids contained in all producer milk subtracted from, the differential pool. The accumulated total for all handlers is then adjusted by total producer location adjustments and one-half the unobligated balance in the producer settlement fund. The resulting value is then divided by the total pounds of producer milk in the pool, and an amount not less than four cents nor more than five cents is deducted. The result is the producer price differential to be paid to producers on a per hundredweight basis. It is possible for the producer price differential to be negative. A negative producer price differential can result for two reasons. Any of the Class I, II, or III&hyph;A differential prices may be negative and/or the minus adjustments may be large enough to offset any positive contribution from the differential price. A negative producer price differential would be equivalent to a uniform price less than the Class III price. An issue that was not directly addressed in this proceeding concerned testing for protein. The five orders included in this hearing currently base protein testing on the standard Kjeldahl method, which tests for nitrogen and then converts the nitrogen result to protein. Since there is a certain amount of free nitrogen in milk this test somewhat overstates the protein content of milk. Recent developments in testing allow for testing for true protein which is a more accurate reflection of protein content. In no way does this decision mandate a specific testing procedure. However, when (or if) the industry does move to testing for true protein, this decision should not be viewed as a hindrance to that conversion. At the time a change to testing for true protein may occur, a change in the 1.32 factor may be necessary.
