FR941007-1-00146 FR941007-1-00009 (ii) Total the points for the three tests, and use that total to determine the composite rating according to the chart below. However, if the total exceeds twice the number of points attributable to the bank's lending test performance (as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this appendix), determine the composite rating using twice the number of points attributable to the bank's lending test performance. ␣ 1Points 1Composite rating 18 or over Outstanding 9 through 17 Satisfactory 5 through 8 Needs to Improve 0 through 4 Substantial Noncompliance. (c) Community development test for wholesale or limited purpose banks. The FDIC shall assign each wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance one of the four ratings described below. (1) Outstanding. The FDIC shall rate a wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance ``outstanding'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (i) A high level of qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (ii) Extensive use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services, to support community development initiatives; and (iii) Excellent responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs in its service area(s). (2) Satisfactory. The FDIC shall rate a wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance ``satisfactory'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (i) An adequate level of qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (ii) Occasional use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services, to support community development initiatives; and (iii) Adequate responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs in its service area(s). (3) Needs to improve. The FDIC shall rate a wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance as ``needs to improve'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (i) A poor level of qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (ii) Rare use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services, to support community development initiatives; and (iii) Poor responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs in its service area(s). (4) Substantial noncompliance. The FDIC shall rate a wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance in ``substantial noncompliance'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (i) Few, if any, qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (ii) No use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services, to support community development initiatives; and (iii) Very poor responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs in its service area(s). (d) Assessment standards for small banks. The FDIC shall rate each small bank's performance as described below.
