FR941103-0-00030 FR941103-0-00007 While many of the comments expressed dissatisfaction with the Commission's current pricing policy, the comments indicated no consensus for any one alternative pricing method. However, the commenters expressed general agreement that some type of transmission pricing reform by the Commission is needed. There was a strong consensus that such reform should: (1) Allow greater pricing flexibility; (2) provide pricing that is ``transparent'' 10 and easy to administer; (3) promote economic efficiency, that is, allow transmission customers to make informed decisions as to the economic consequences of their choices, and encourage transmission owners to make efficient use of, and investment in, the transmission grid; (4) ensure equity and fairness; and (5) facilitate the development of RTGs. 11 10 We interpret the commenters to mean that transmission pricing would be identified separately from generation pricing, that transmission pricing would identify all cost components of the transmission service ( e.g., identify ancillary service costs) and that pricing information would be readily available to all bulk power participants. 11 Two RTG agreements recently filed with the Commission postpone dealing with the transmission pricing issue by simply providing that pricing shall be consistent with the Commission's transmission pricing policy. See Pacificorp et al. (on behalf of Western Regional Transmission Association), 69 FERC ¶ XXXX (1994); Southwest Regional Transmission Association, 69 FERC ¶ XXXX ) (1994). However, there was disagreement regarding the degree to which reform of transmission pricing should stress administrative simplicity versus accuracy. Some commenters advocated the continued use of traditional contract path and postage stamp rates, in part because these rates are simple to administer. Other commenters proposed methods, such as distance sensitive and flow-based rates, that may give better price signals but involve more complexity. In response to the comments received, the Commission has decided to revise its policies to permit utilities much greater flexibility. We are prepared to accept a variety of pricing methods in addition to Northeast Utilities pricing. Northeast Utilities pricing will still be acceptable because it fully comports with the pricing principles we adopt today. However, based on the record developed herein, a variety of other pricing methods will also be acceptable. The Commission concludes that greater pricing flexibility is now required for several reasons. First, exclusive use of methods that worked reasonably well in the past does not provide sufficient flexibility to accommodate the evolving needs of transmission owners and users in a more competitive era. 12 It is important to gain practical experience with alternative transmission pricing approaches in order to assess how best to accommodate the current and future needs of the industry in providing efficient and reliable power supply as the industry becomes increasingly competitive. Second, our existing ``or'' pricing policy may not always encourage the most efficient investments in and use of the transmission grid. Third, regional differences ( e.g., power flow patterns and population densities) justify a more flexible policy that can account for such differences. Fourth, a more flexible pricing policy may be necessary to implement effectively our RTG policy, which encourages RTGs to deal with a broad range of issues, including pricing, and which suggests that the Commission, in appropriate circumstances, will defer to RTG decision-making. 13 The Commission is convinced that a more flexible pricing policy can help to achieve broader policy goals and be implemented in a manner that is just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. 12 See American Electric Power Service Corporation, 67 FERC ¶ 61,168 at 61,490 (1994). 13 Policy Statement Regarding Regional Transmission Groups, 58 FR 41626 (Aug. 5, 1993) III FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶ 30, 976 (July 30, 1993) (RTG Policy Statement). In developing a more flexible transmission pricing policy, the Commission's basic premise is that comparable access to efficiently priced transmission services is critical to the continued development of a competitive wholesale power market. With this fundamental underpinning in mind, the Commission has developed several pricing principles that new pricing proposals should follow. Some of these principles reflect existing pricing requirements that any new proposal must continue to follow. Other principles, while important, may have to be balanced against one another.
