FR940426-2-00009 FR940426-2-00004 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Authority The Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, Pub. L. No. 100&hyph;418, Title II, sec. 2303, 102 Stat. 1342, 15 U.S.C. 4723. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) No. 11.112, Market Development Cooperator Program. Program Description The objective of the Market Development Cooperator Program is to develop, maintain, and expand foreign markets for nonagricultural goods and services produced in the United States. The intended beneficiaries are U.S. producers of nonagricultural goods or services that seek to export such goods or services. Market Development Cooperator Program funds should not be viewed as a replacement for funding from other sources, either public or private. An important goal of this program is to increase the sum of Federal and non-Federal export market development activities. This goal can best be achieved by using program funds to encourage new initiatives. In addition to new initiatives, expansion of the scope of an existing project also may qualify for funding consideration. The Department of Commerce will consider such projects as entirely new initiatives. Applicants are encouraged to propose activities that would be most appropriate to the market development needs of their industry or industries. The following are examples of activities which might be included in an application (no one of these activities or any combination of these activities must be included for an application to receive favorable consideration): (1) Opening an overseas office or offices to perform a variety of market development services for companies joining a consortium to avail themselves of such services; such an office should not duplicate the programs or services of the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service (US&FCS) post(s) in the region; (2) Detailing a private sector individual to a US&FCS post in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 4723(c); (3) Entering into a contract with a bona fide market research company to conduct detailed, product-specific market research; (4) Assigning industry specialists to work with Department of Commerce/U.S. Executive Director Procurement Liaison Offices at the Multilateral Development Banks to seek out and develop procurement opportunities; (5) Underwriting the cost of overseas market research or participation in overseas trade exhibitions and trade missions to promote U.S. exports, or covering the expenses of reverse trade missions and/or foreign buyer group travel to U.S. domestic trade shows; (6) Overseas product demonstrations; (7) Export seminars in the United States or market penetration seminars in the market(s) to be developed; (8) Technical trade servicing that helps overseas buyers to choose the right U.S. good(s) or service(s) and to use the good or service efficiently; (9) Joint promotions with foreign customers; (10) Training of foreign nationals to perform after-sales service or to act as distributors; (11) Working with organizations in the foreign marketplace responsible for setting standards and for product testing to improve market access; and (12) Publishing an export resource guide or an export product directory for the industry or industries in question if no comparable one exists. Funding Availability The total amount of funds available for this program is $2.5 million for fiscal year (FY) 94. It is contemplated that a minimum of four (4) cooperative agreements will be concluded with eligible entities for this program. Each cooperative agreement will not exceed a total of $500,000 regardless of the duration of the award.
