FR940817-1-00011 FR940817-1-00004 Under the proposed amendments, the total of the itemized expenses in the statement of operations, including the expenses paid with commission dollars, would be shown as the fund's ``total expenses.'' As discussed below, the total expense figure also would be used in determining the fund's expense ratio, its ``Other Expenses'' listed in the fee table, and its yield. The total expenses would be reduced by the total amount paid with commission dollars and the remainder shown on the statement of operations as ``net expenses.'' 11 The following example illustrates the adjustments to the statement of operations that would be required by the proposed amendments if custodian fees were paid with commission dollars: 11 Because only expenses, and not realized gains/losses or unrealized appreciation/depreciation, would be adjusted in the statement of operations, the presentation of ``net expenses'' would be necessary so that net investment income remains the same. ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Expenses: Management Fee 50 [Other direct fund expenses] 48 Custodian Fee [would include 8 paid by brokers] 10 n,s Total Expenses 108 Fees Paid with Commission Dollars (8)12 n,s Net Expenses 100 The additional ``cost'' reflected on the statement of operations would be the amount that the fund would have paid for the services if commission dollars had not been used. If a fund negotiates the service provider's fees directly with the service provider, the cost of the services for purposes of making the required adjustments would be the amount negotiated, presumably the same amount the fund would have paid for the service in the absence of the arrangement. When the broker arranges for the services or provides them itself or through an affiliate, however, the actual cost of the services may not be readily determinable by the fund. In this case, the proposed amendments would require that the fund reflect in its financial statements an amount determined by making a good-faith estimate of the amount the fund would have paid had it contracted for the services directly in an arms-length transaction. 13 Comment is requested whether there are alternative methods for valuing services provided or arranged by brokers. 12 A footnote would be required to identify the specific services paid for with commission dollars. Any expense that, as a result of the proposed amendments, was increased by five percent or more over the amount paid directly by the fund, as well as the amount of the increase, would be required to be separately identified in the footnote. Amounts that were individually less than five percent of the unadjusted expense could be aggregated. The total of these amounts, which should equal the amount of the ``Fees Paid with Commission Dollars'' line item, also would be required to be stated in the footnote. 13 The good-faith estimate could be based upon price quotes for the services obtained by the fund or the amount funds of similar size and having similar investment objectives pay for the services. The amendments would specifically except research services, as that term is used in section 28(e) of the 1934 Act, from the services the cost of which must be reflected as expenses. 14 The cost of research ``purchased'' by an adviser with fund commission dollars could also be considered an expense of the fund which is not reflected as an expense in the statement of operations and other financial information. The Commission is concerned that the adoption of these disclosure rules might lead some funds to discontinue brokerage/service arrangements and purchase more research through traditional soft dollar arrangements, which, under these proposals, would not be required to be treated as an expense. Comment is requested whether these proposals would have this effect. 14 Because research services are typically provided to the adviser, not the fund, the specific exception may be unnecessary. However, in light of the widespread use of research soft-dollar arrangements, the Commission is proposing a specific exception. The Commission is studying whether the cost of research services provided by brokers should be reflected as fund expenses and requests comment on this issue. 15 Commenters favoring inclusion of research services in the amendments should address how such services should be valued and how the value of the services should be allocated among clients of the adviser that may benefit from them. If research services cannot be valued, should the Commission require that assumptions be made about their value by extrapolation from the brokerage commissions paid? For example, should the difference between a brokerage commission paid on a transaction and the lowest commission paid by the fund be considered a fund expense for research? Alternatively, should the Commission require only that the values of research services that have readily ascertainable values be quantified, such as subscriptions to newspapers, price quotation or valuation services, or research that is received in return for the direction of a determinable amount of brokerage? 15 Funds are required to describe their soft-dollar practices in the Statement of Additional Information that must be provided to investors upon request. See, e.g., Item 17 of Form N&hyph;1A. 2. An Alternative Accounting Method As an alternative to the accounting changes being proposed, funds could be required to allocate each commission paid between execution cost and payment for fund services and to present their financial statements based upon those allocations. This method would require separating commissions into brokerage and expense components, and reflecting the expense component as an expense in the financial statements. The allocation method would assess the actual economic character of a fund's brokerage commissions and adjust all fund financial information to reflect this assessment. Under the allocation method, the portion of a commission properly allocated to expenses would have to be estimated and may need to be adjusted as the total amount of commission dollars paid to the broker increases. 16 This adjustment, in turn, would require that the cost bases and sales prices of particular securities be adjusted periodically based upon the transactions directed to a particular broker. Therefore, using the allocation method to account for expenses paid with commission dollars could prove to be costly and lead to undesirable uncertainties in accounting. 16 If the benefits received by a fund from a given brokerage/service arrangement remain constant ( e.g., the payment of a specified fund expense), the portion of each commission used to pay for that benefit will decrease as the amount of commissions directed to the broker increases.
