FR941025-2-00081 FR941025-2-00053 Fish and Wildlife Service Notice of Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for Spectacled Eiders for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for spectacled eiders ( Somateria fischeri ). The species occurs in arctic and sub-arctic regions of western and northern Alaska and along the arctic coast of Russia. The Service is proposing emphasis on recovery actions in these geographic areas. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before February 23, 1995 to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting Teresa Woods at 1011 E. Tudor Rd., Anchorage, Alaska, 99503&hyph;6199 and 907/786&hyph;3505. Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to Teresa Woods at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Teresa Woods at the above address and telephone number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened animal or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq .) (Act) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during the public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised Recovery Plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The spectacled eider is a large-bodied sea duck and one of three species in the genus Somateria. Spectacled eiders historically nested discontinuously along the west coast of Alaska from Nushagak Peninsula north to Barrow and east nearly to the Yukon Territory border (Bailey 1948; Dau and Kistchinski 1977; Derksen et al. 1981; Johnson and Herter 1989; Warnock and Troy 1993). They also have nested on St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, in the Bering Sea (Fay 1961). Along the arctic coast of Russia, spectacled eiders nest from the north side of the Chukotsk Peninsula west to the Lena River Delta and Novosibirski Islands (Buturlin 1910; Dementev and Gladkov 1952; Portenko 1972). Today, primary nesting grounds are the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta and north central arctic coast (Cape Simpson to the Sagavanirktok River, hereafter referred to as the North Slope) of Alaska and the Chaun Gulf and Kolyma, Indigirka and Yana river deltas in Russia.
