FR940606-0-00011 FR940606-0-00006 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION 36 CFR Parts 1252, 1254, and 1260 RIN 3095&hyph;AA53 Public Use of Records and Donated Historical Materials AGENCY: National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) is updating and clarifying its regulations relating to public use of records and donated historical materials that have been transferred to NARA. Most of the changes in this regulation merely clarify existing practices and will have no significant impact upon the public. Changes in research room rules, such as requiring a picture identification when applying for a research card and prohibiting ink pens and chewing gum in rooms where original records are present, are intended to provide greater protection for the historically valuable holdings of NARA. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary Ann Hadyka or Nancy Allard on 301&hyph;713&hyph;6730 or TDD 301&hyph;713&hyph;6760. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: As stated in its proposed rule published on October 22, 1993 (58 FR 54540), NARA is making some minimal changes in research room rules. We received three comments to these proposed rule changes. The three comments were received from customers who use the regional archives. Since many researchers in the regions travel long distances, they felt the proposed 3-hour limit and ``first come first served'' policy for use of microfilm readers would create a ``hardship'' to their research. Currently, some regional archives allow reservations of microfilm readers and impose time limits on use that reflect local demand for the equipment. NARA is amending this rule to give the regional archive directors the discretion to modify this new rule in a way that benefits the users of their facility. In ยง1254.26, we have made two additional nonsubstantive changes. We updated the title, Reference Services Branch Chief, to reflect a reorganization of the unit responsible for the research rooms. The revised title is Director, User Services Division. We have also clarified the procedure in ยง1254.26(a) concerning permission for research privileges for students under the age of 16 to state explicitly that prospective student researchers are encouraged to contact the National Archives in advance of their visit to determine their eligibility to do research. This reminder should particularly assist out-of-town and foreign students in making their research plans. Since all the records from the Pickett Street facility have moved to the new NARA facility in College Park, Maryland (National Archives at College Park), all references to the Pickett Street facility have been changed to National Archives at College Park. In addition, a reference has been added to self-service copiers in National Archives at College Park for the records transferred from the National Archives Building and the Washington National Records Center. Because this change affects only the location of records, and not any conditions on their use, and because the location of the records was the subject of a separate rule making upon which public comment was invited (59 FR 6899), these changes are being made final without prior notice of proposed rule making. This final rule contains two information collections, application for researcher identification cards and request to microfilm records, for which OMB approval has been received. This is not a significant regulation under Executive Order 12866 and has not been reviewed by OMB. As required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act, it is hereby certified that this rule will not have a significant impact on small entities. List of Subjects 36 CFR Part 1252 Archives and records. 36 CFR Part 1254 Archives and records, Confidential business information, Freedom of information, Micrographics, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 36 CFR Part 1260 Archives and records, Classified information. For the reasons set forth in the preamble under 44 U.S.C. 2104(a), chapter XII of title 36 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows:
