FR941110-2-00170 FR941110-2-00115 Alternative Strategies for the Long-Term Management of Depleted Uranium Hexafluoride Resources at Several Geographic Locations AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Advance notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy is providing advance notice of its intent to prepare an environmental impact statement pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA). The environmental impact statement will assess the potential environmental impacts of alternative strategies for the long-term management or uses of depleted uranium hexafluoride (UF 6 ) resources currently stored at Paducah, Kentucky; Portsmouth, Ohio; and Oak Ridge, Tennessee. This environmental impact statement will consider general strategy options, including the general impacts of siting potential facilities or transporting materials to or from such facilities. In addition, such analyses would focus on those issues that would affect strategy selection, such as consolidation at one site. The specific environmental impacts of the transportation of materials or impacts from the actual siting of any projects that would result from strategy selection would be further assessed by any necessary project NEPA documents to follow. DATES AND ADDRESSES: The Department of Energy requests comments by January 9, 1994, but comments sent after that time will be considered to the extent possible. The anticipated date for the formal notice of intent is June 1995. The dates and locations of all scoping meetings will be announced in that notice of intent or subsequent Federal Register notices as well as in local media, prior to the planned meetings. Written comments on the scope of the environmental impact statement, questions concerning the proposed action, and requests for copies of referenced material should be directed to: Mr. Charles E. Bradley Jr., Office of Uranium Programs, Office of Nuclear Energy, United States Department of Energy, 19901 Germantown Road, Germantown, Maryland 20874, (301) 903&hyph;4781. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general information on the Department of Energy NEPA review process, please contact Ms. Carol M. Borgstrom, Director, Office of NEPA Oversight, United States Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20585, (202) 586&hyph;4600 or 1&hyph;800&hyph;472&hyph;2756. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Depleted UF 6 is stored as a solid compound of uranium and fluorine in large cylinders. It is produced by an enrichment process that divides a single stream of UF 6 into two separate streams_one enriched in uranium-235 and one depleted in uranium-235. The enriched UF 6 is withdrawn from the process and used to produce fuel for commercial nuclear power plants. The depleted UF 6 is withdrawn from the process and stored in large cylinders. The purpose of the environmental impact statement is to assess the potential impacts of a range of technological or market options related to the management of depleted UF 6 (currently stored at Paducah, Kentucky; Portsmouth, Ohio; and Oak Ridge, Tennessee), including use, reuse, conversion, or disposal, and to select a strategy for the long-term management of such depleted UF 6 in light of the changed missions and functions. Should the Department of Energy develop any proposal in the future to use any fraction of the depleted UF 6 inventory for its own research or other activity, that proposal would be the subject of a separate NEPA document, and would not affect this notice. The environmental impact statement will focus on the Department of Energy's depleted UF 6 stored at the Paducah, Portsmouth, and Oak Ridge sites. Other forms of depleted uranium (e.g., uranium oxides and uranium metal) and depleted UF 6 used or stored at other sites would not be analyzed in the environmental impact statement since they exist only in small quantities (taken all together they total about 7 percent of the quantity of the subject depleted UF 6 ), would not affect strategy selection, and would involve different management and potentially different uses. Should the Department propose an action that involves these other forms of depleted uranium, such a proposal would receive appropriate NEPA review. The Department of Energy is publishing elsewhere in today's Federal Register a Request for Recommendations for potential uses for the depleted UF 6 , which includes a request for suggestions of technologies that could facilitate the long-term management of the material. The request will also be published in industry and trade publications. The Department of Energy intends to use technical experts to evaluate the responses that are received from the requests. Following the Department's receipt of the technical evaluations, the Department will determine which responses evaluated are reasonable and include them as alternatives to be assessed in the environmental impact statement. The Department will provide opportunities for the public to participate in the technology evaluation process. The Department will also initiate a separate study on the costs of the depleted UF 6 uses and management options assessed in the environmental impact statement. This request to the public, industry, and other Government agencies is the first step in the process to consider alternative approaches. The request and the evaluations that follow will help to ensure that the resulting long-range management strategy will consider all reasonable alternatives.
