FR940412-1-00039 FR940412-1-00008 ยง403.260 Notes to financial statements. (a) All matters which are not clearly identified in the body of the financial statements of the Association, but which may materially influence interpretations or conclusions that may reasonably be drawn in regard to financial condition or earnings position of the Association, shall be clearly and completely stated as footnotes to the financial statements. (b) Financial items which are not otherwise required to be reported in the Association financial statements, but which may affect ratemaking calculations, are required to be reported to the Director in the notes to the financial statements. Any financial items that are not reported to the Director will not be imputed by the Director during ratemaking procedures contained in part 404 of this chapter. Subpart C_Balance Sheet ยง403.300 General. (a) The balance sheet accounts are designed to show the financial conditions of the Association as of a given date, reflecting the asset and liability balances carried forward subsequent to the closing or constructive closing of the Association's books of account. (b) The balance sheet accounts prescribed in this system of accounts are listed in appendix A of this part. ยง403.305 Balance sheet account groupings. (a) Current Assets. (1) Each Association shall include in this classification all resources which may reasonably be expected to be realized in cash or sold or consumed within one year, including but not limited to: (i) Unrestricted cash; (ii) Assets that are readily convertible into cash; or (iii) Assets held for current receivables and claims against others to the extent settlement is reasonably assured. (2) Securities of investment and special fund accounts at date of acquisition need not be reclassified until disposition. (3) Inventories of all materials, supplies, lubricating oils, motor fuels, and expendable spares shall be physically verified at least annually. Differences between the inventory account and the actual physical inventory due to shortage, overage, shrinkage, etc. shall be adjusted by charges or credits to the appropriate expense account. (4) Items of general current asset characteristics which are not expected to be realized or consumed within one year may be included in this classification provided the noncurrent portion is not substantial in amount and classification as a current item will not impair the significance of working capital. (b) Investments and special funds. (1) Each Association shall include in this classification long-term investments in securities of others exclusive of United States Government securities, including: (i) Securities which are not readily marketable; (ii) Funds set aside for specific purposes or involving restrictions preventing current use; (iii) Contract performance deposits and other securities receivable; or (iv) Funds not available for current operations. (2) Investments in United States Government securities shall be included in the current assets account group. (3) Investments in securities of others shall be recorded at cost exclusive of amounts paid for accrued interest or dividends. (c) Property and equipment. (1) All investments of the Association in land and units of tangible property and equipment shall be included within this general classification. (2) The property and equipment records shall be maintained so as to identify property with each pool operation, with nonpool operations, and joint pool or nonpool operations. Property used by two or more pools or nonpool operations will be maintained to permit an equitable proration of depreciation, amortization, and repair and maintenance cost. (3) Operating and nonoperating property and equipment shall be accounted for separately as follows: (i) Investment in property and equipment shall be recorded at total cost including all expenditures applicable to acquisition, other costs of a preliminary nature, costs incidental to placing in position and conditioning for operation, and costs of additions, betterments, improvements and modifications. (ii) Upon disposal by sale, retirement, abandonment, dismantling, or otherwise, of equipment depreciated on a unit basis, the Association shall:
