FR940825-2-00078 FR940825-2-00050 6. Collect, review and catalog information and education materials on adult immunization. 7. Develop strategies, action plans, and mechanisms to increase public and private collaboration on activities to improve the number of vaccinated adults. 8. Develop national and local networks for sharing information among groups concerned about improving the immunization status of adults. 9. Provide a mechanism for distributing information about membership, promotional literature and activities, and current adult immunization statistics. 10. Assist in the development and growth of State and local coalitions by providing training, technical assistance, and resource materials to them on an ongoing basis. 11. Establish working relationships with adult health care providers to enhance their interest and participation in the NCAI. 12. Work with targeted national organizations or with a specific institution's Immunization Committee, having staff qualified to facilitate operational research and studies related to adult vaccine preventable diseases. 13. Assist member organizations, State, and local coalitions in conducting information campaigns as needed to promote adult immunizations. 14. Provide an annual report to the Steering Committee, coalition members and the NIP_Adult Immunization Coordinator, summarizing activities and accomplishment of the NCAI. B. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Activities 1. Provide technical assistance through telephone calls, correspondence, and site visits in the area of program and agenda development, implementation, and priority setting related to the cooperative agreement. 2. Provide scientific collaboration for appropriate aspects of the activities, including information on disease impact, vaccination coverage levels, and prevention strategies. 3. Provide speakers, when possible, on such topics as the impact of vaccine preventable diseases on adults, vaccination coverage levels among adults, and disease prevention strategies. 4. Review and comment on draft and final plan or agendas for proposed activities prior to the release of funds. 5. Assist in reporting and validating relevant adult immunization information made available to Federal, State, local health agencies, health care providers, and volunteer organizations. 6. Review and comment on information and educational materials developed and distributed by the NCAI Action Groups. 7. Provide representatives to attend NCAI Steering Committee and Action Group Meetings. Review and Evaluation Criteria The application will be evaluated according to the following criteria: A. The applicant must document an understanding of the importance of adult health issues, and the feasibility of accomplishing the desired outcome (15%). B. The extent to which the applicant has an established national network of state or local chapters and/or affiliates. This includes signed workplans, agreements, or other evidence of collaboration describing collaborative efforts (20%). C. The extent to which background information and other activities demonstrate that the applicant has the administrative support and accessibility to an adequate number of member organization representatives (15%).
