FR940616-0-00054 FR940616-0-00009 For analog television channels we will assess fees as follows: ␣ 1Analog television channel size in MHz 1Number of equivalent 64 KB circuits 36 630 24 288 18 240 D. Cable Services 99. Several commenters contend that the fee prescribed for cable television services should be paid on an exact per subscriber count rather than per 1,000 subscribers, as we proposed. 41 These commenters argue that the latter formulation would cause small cable systems to pay a disproportionately high regulatory fee. For example, a cable system with 100 subscribers would be subject to the same fee as a system with 1,000 subscribers. 41 These commenters include the United States Small Business Administration, Cable Services, Inc., the Cable Telecommunications Association, the National Cable Television Associations, Nationwide Communications, Inc. and the Small Cable Business Association. 100. The text of section 9(g)'s fee schedule provides for the assessment of a fee for cable television systems at the rate of $370.00 per 1,000 subscribers. Upon further consideration, we agree with the commenters that Congress did not intend that this provision required that a system pay its fee as if it served 1,000 subscribers when in fact it provides services to fewer than 1,000 subscribers. 42 Following this formulation to its logical extreme would impose on small cable systems a disproportionate burden of the aggregate cable service regulatory fee since it would result in the assessment of larger fees upon small systems, particularly those with fewer than 1,000 subscribers. Thus, we believe Congress' purpose was to require cable systems to formulate their fee based on the schedule's assessment of $370.00 per 1000 subscribers, but to pay the fee on an exact per subscriber count. Payment of the cable fee on the basis of the exact count of a system's subscribers will eliminate the inequity perceived by the commenters. 42 We reject the Joint Commenters' argument that the regulatory fee for cable systems be reduced when any of a system's channels are made available to competitors pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §532. Congress has based the regulatory fee for cable systems upon the number of subscribers served, not the number of a system's channels available for the system's direct use. 101. NCTA and Nationwide support our proposal to permit cable systems to submit their regulatory fees on the basis of the aggregate fee payable by commonly owned systems. 43 Therefore, we will permit commonly-owned cable systems to combine their fee payments for submission to our lockbox bank. Finally, for purposes of calculating the fee due from cable operators, we will adopt the definition of a cable subscriber, including bulk rate subscriber, used for FCC Form 325. See FCC Form 325 Instructions (Page 3). 43 NCTA, the Joint Commenters and Continental request authority for cable systems to pass through their regulatory fees to cable television subscribers as extenal costs. Only those items currently itemized in the rule as external costs may be passed through to cable subscribers. Regulatory fees are not among the enumerated items and the pass through process is not the subject of this proceeding. Therefore, this matter should be addressed separately. V. Amendments to Application Fee Rules 102. In addition to the new rules for regulatory fees, we are revising several sections of our rules governing fees associated with applications and other filings. Filing fees are required pursuant to section 8 of the Communications Act and are administered separately from the regulatory fees authorized under section 9. 44 44 We will publish in the FCC Record actions, including actions taken on delegated authority, related to the application and regulatory fee rules that have precedential value.
