FR940128-2-00225 FR940128-2-00143 Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Hard copy, electronic media. Retrievability: By individual name and Freedom of Information Act or Privacy Act case number. Safeguards: All employees and contractors of the Department of State have undergone a thorough background security investigation. Access to the Department and its annexes is controlled by security guards, and admission is limited to those individuals possessing a valid identification card or individuals under proper escort. All records containing personal information are maintained in secured file cabinets or in restricted areas, access to which is limited to authorized personnel. The Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review is located within a secure area of the Department. Access to computerized files is password-protected and under the direct supervision of the system manager. The system manager has the capability of printing audit trails of access from the computer media, thereby permitting regular ad hoc montioring of computer usage. Retention and disposal: Retention of records of re-employed annuitants, prospective employees and contractors is indefinite because of a need to maintain a record of work availability over an extended period of time. The record is destroyed five years after the re-employed annuitant or contractor who is the subject of the record is no longer employed or under contract by the Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review. More specific information may be obtained by writing the Director, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy, and Classification Review, Room 1239, Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520&hyph;1239. System manager and address: Director, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy, and Classification Review, Room 1239, Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520&hyph;1239. Notification procedure: Individuals who have reason to believe that the Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy, and Classification Review might have records pertaining to themselves should write to the Director, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review, Room 1239, Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520&hyph;1239. The individual must specify that he/she wishes the Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review WAE Re-employed Annuitants and Contractor Records to be checked. At a minimum, the individual must include: Name, date and place of birth, current mailing address and zip code, and signature. Record access and amendment procedures: Individuals who wish to gain access to or amend records pertaining to themselves should write to the Director, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review (address above). Record source categories: The individual, Department of State Personnel Records and Department officials who endorse the nomination of an annuitant. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1917 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;24
