FR940114-1-00053 FR940114-1-00008 The utilization of traffic engineering principles and expertise in the planning, design, construction, and maintenance of the public roadways, and in the application of traffic control devices. A traffic control device plan which includes: An inventory of all traffic control devices; Periodic review of existing traffic control devices, including a systematic upgrading of substandard devices to conform with standards endorsed by the Federal Highway Administrator; A maintenance schedule adequate to insure proper operation and timely repair of control devices, including daytime and nighttime inspections; And where appropriate, the application and evaluation of new ideas and concepts in applying control devices and in the modification of existing devices to improve their effectiveness through controlled experimentation. An implementation schedule which utilizes traffic engineering resources to: Review road projects during the planning, design, and construction stages to detect and correct features that may lead to operational safety difficulties; Install safety-related improvements as part of routine maintenance and/or repair activities; Correct conditions noted during routine operational surveillance of the roadway system to rapidly adjust for the changes in traffic and road characteristics as a means of reducing the frequency and severity of crashes; Conduct traffic engineering analyses of all high crash locations and the development of corrective measures; Analyze potentially hazardous locations_such as sharp curves, steep grades, and railroad grade crossings_and develop appropriate countermeasures. Identify traffic control needs and determine short and long range requirements. Evaluate the effectiveness of specific traffic control measures in reducing the frequency and severity of traffic crashes; Conduct traffic engineering studies to establish traffic regulations, such as fixed or variable speed limits. A method to ensure a continuing statewide inventory of pedestrian-motor vehicle crashes identifying the location and times of the crash, as well as the age of the pedestrian and circumstances of the incident. Statewide operational procedures for improving the protection of pedestrians through the application of traffic engineering practices, careful land-use planning in newly developed areas, physical separation of pedestrian pathways from vehicle roadways, and environmental illumination of high volume and/or potentially hazardous pedestrian crossings. Periodic evaluation of each of the Roadway Safety projects by the State, or appropriate Federal department or agency where applicable. The evaluation should provide information detailing the program's effectiveness in terms of crash reduction and the end results of crashes, and the Federal Highway Administration should be provided with an evaluation summary. Companion Highway Safety Program Manuals (February, 1974), which supplement Guidelines 9, 12, and 13 and provide additional information to assist State and local agencies in implementing their roadway safety programs are available from the Federal Highway Administration's Office of Highway Safety. Issued on: January 4, 1994. Rodney E. Slater, Administrator, Federal Highway Administration. Howard M. Smolkin, Executive Director, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;660 Filed 1&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M
