FR941013-2-00112 FR941013-2-00080 II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The CBOE has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to add Rule 17.14 to the exchange's rules to provide for the reporting by the Exchange to the CRD,3 for disclosure to the public, of information concerning pending formal Exchange disciplinary proceedings. 4 Currently, the Exchange discloses to the CRD information with respect to formal Exchange disciplinary proceedings only upon the conclusion of such proceedings. 3 The CRD is an automated industry database containing employment and disciplinary history of members and associated persons registered with self-regulatory organizations (``SROs'') and state securities agencies. The CRD is operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'') with input on policy and other matters from federal and state agencies and other SROs including the Exchange. 4 The CBOE represents that information concerning final disciplinary actions taken by the Exchange, the NASD, and other SROs, as well as information concerning certain criminal convictions contained in the CRD, has been disclosed to the public pursuant to the NASD's 800 number service since October 1991. On July 1, 1993, the Commission approved an NASD rule change to make more information available to the public regarding pending disciplinary proceedings or actions taken by federal or state agencies and SROs that relate to securities and commodities transactions, and regarding criminal indictments and information. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32568 (July 1, 1993), 58 FR 36723 (July 8, 1993). In addition, the Commission recently approved rule changes by both the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. and the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. to provide information to the CRD concerning their pending formal disciplinary proceedings. See Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 33844 (March 31, 1994), 59 FR 16669 (April 7, 1994), and 34516 (August 10, 1994), 59 FR 42317 (August 7, 1994), and 34516 (August 10, 1994), 59 FR 42317 (August 17, 1994). Under the proposed rule change, the amount of information concerning formal Exchange disciplinary proceedings 5 reported by the Exchange to the CRD would be expanded to include the issuance of a statement of charges in such proceedings and all significant changes in the status of such proceedings while such proceedings are pending. For the purposes of Rule 17.14, a formal Exchange disciplinary proceeding would be considered to be pending from the time that a statement of charges is issued in the proceeding 6 until the outcome of the proceeding becomes final. In addition, under Rule 17.14, significant changes in the status of a formal Exchange disciplinary proceeding would be deemed to include, but not be limited to, the scheduling of a disciplinary hearing, the issuance of a decision by the BCC, the filing of an appeal to the Exchange's Board of Directors, and the issuance of a decision by the Exchange's Board of Directors. 5 According to the Exchange, for the purposes of Rule 17.14, an Exchange disciplinary proceeding would be considered to be a formal disciplinary proceeding if it is initiated by the Exchange pursuant to Exchange Rule 17.2, et seq . 6 The Exchange states that CBOE Rule 17.4(b) provides, in part, that whenever it shall appear to the Exchange's Business Conduct Committee (``BCC'') from the report of the staff of the Exchange that there is probable cause for finding a violation within the disciplinary jurisdiction of the Exchange and that further proceedings are warranted, the BCC shall direct the staff of the Exchange to prepare a statement of charges against the person or organization alleged to have committed a violation (the ``Respondent'') specifying the acts in which the Respondent is charged to have engaged and setting forth the specific provisions of the Act, as amended, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the constitutional provisions, by-laws, rules, interpretations, or resolutions of which such acts are in violation. In addition, Rule 17.4(b) further provides that a copy of the charges shall be served upon the Respondent. According to the Exchange, information on pending formal Exchange disciplinary proceedings, among other events, is currently in the CRD, but only to the extent that reports are made by Exchange members, member organizations, and associated persons pursuant to their reporting obligations on the Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration or Transfer (Form U&hyph;4) and Form BD, the uniform application form for broker-dealer registration. The proposed rule change would expand the information available to the public concerning pending formal Exchange disciplinary proceedings by requiring the Exchange to report information concerning such pending proceedings to the CRD. In addition to the foregoing, the proposed rule change would renumber the provisions which are currently contained in Rule 17.12 (Miscellaneous Provisions) without affecting the substance of these provisions. Specifically, under the proposed rule change, the current provisions of Rule 17.12 would be separated into two rules, Rule 17.12 and Rule 17.13. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, 7 in particular, in that it will protect investors and the public interest by enhancing the public's access to information regarding disciplinary proceedings involving Exchange members, member organizations, and associated persons. 7 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1988). (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the Exchange consents, the Commission will: (a) by order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CBOE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CBOE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;33 and should be submitted by November 3, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 8 8 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12 (1993) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25279 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
