FR940722-0-00125 FR940722-0-00019 153. We have decided not to adopt any other auction-related measures specifically for rural telephone companies in this Order. We believe that the partitioning plan we are adopting will provide rural telephone companies with substantial capabilities to acquire licenses to provide broadband PCS in their rural telephone service areas, consistent with our statutory mandate. In addition, our eligibility criteria for bidding in the entrepreneurs' blocks, discussed below, will permit virtually all telephone companies whose service areas are predominantly rural to bid on licenses in frequency blocks C and F without competition from the large telephone companies and other deep-pocketed bidders. Thus, virtually all rural telephone companies will be able to bid for broadband PCS licenses and defer payment in accordance with the installment payment plans we are adopting for the entrepreneurs' blocks. We also note that if a rural telephone company meets the definition of a small business or a business owned by minorities and/or women, it would enjoy a bidding credit and ``enhanced'' installment payments applicable to those groups when bidding on licenses in these blocks. We do not think that any other measures are necessary in order to satisfy the statute's directive that we ensure that rural telephone companies have the opportunity to participate in the provision of spectrum-based services, and to satisfy our goals to ensure that PCS is provided to all areas of the country including rural areas. I. Upfront Payments 154. Upfront payment requirements are designed to ensure that bidders are qualified and serious and to provide the Commission with a source of funds in the event that it becomes necessary to assess default or bid withdrawal penalties. 130 The upfront payment ensures that bids during the course of the auction are bona fide and convey information about the value of the underlying licenses. Our standard upfront payment for broadband PCS is $0.02 per MHz per pop, which is equivalent to roughly six percent of the license value, based on an estimate in a Congressional Budget Office report of the total value of the auctionable spectrum. 131 A number of commenters assert that the Commission could enhance the opportunity of designated entities to participate in competitive bidding by reducing the required upfront payment for those applicants. 132 We agree that the $0.02 per MHz per pop upfront payment requirement might impose a barrier for smaller entities wishing to participate in the auctions. Moreover, we note that most bidders in the entrepreneurs' blocks will be entitled to pay for their licenses in installments, which requires a down payment of only five percent of the winning bid. We are concerned that requiring an upfront payment that may be larger than the down payment that the winning bidder is required to tender could discourage auction participation. 130 Second Report and Order, ¶¶169&hyph;80. 131 Id. at ¶177. 132 See e.g., comments of AWCC at 31&hyph;32, Minnesota Equal Access at 2, NAMTEC at 20, Rural Cellular Corp. at 2, U.S. Intelco at 22&hyph;23. 155. For these reasons, we will reduce the upfront payment requirement to $0.015 per MHz per pop for bidders in the entrepreneurs' blocks. This 25 percent discount should facilitate auction participation by capital-constrained companies and permit them to conserve resources for infrastructure development after winning a license. Moreover, since the upfront payment is still substantial, ranging from slightly below $20,000 for a 30 MHz license in the smallest BTAs to more than $10 million for the New York BTA, insincere bidding will be discouraged and the Commission will have access to funds if it must collect default or bid withdrawal penalty payments. J. Definitions and Eligibility 1. Eligibility to Bid in the Entrepreneurs' Blocks 156. As noted previously, eligibility to bid in the two entrepreneurs' blocks, C and F, is limited to companies that, together with their affiliates and investors, had gross revenues of less than $125 million in each of the last two years and have total assets of less than $500 million at the time their short form applications are filed. In addition, we will prohibit an applicant from bidding in these blocks if any one individual investor or principal in the applicant has $100 million or greater in personal net worth at the short form application filing date.
