FR940104-2-00052 FR940104-2-00033 Exchange 5 Tracts to be acquired have not yet been identified, but the proponent has offered to purchase land along the North or South Forks of the John Day River. Appraisals for these exchanges have not yet been completed. Therefore, the amount of land traded may be different than that shown after values are equalized. The purpose of the exchanges are to acquire and block up lands in Grant County, particularly along the forks of the John Day River. These lands have high public value for riparian, fisheries, wildlife, recreation and scenic quality. Acquisition of this land would be consistent with the Bureau's planning system after the plan is amended. The value of the lands has not been determined; however, upon completion of the final appraisal, the acreage will be adjusted or money will be used to equalize values. The public lands will be transferred subject to: (1) A reservation to the United States of a rights-of-way for ditches or canals constructed by the authority of the United States, Act of Aug. 30, 1890 (43 U.S.C. 945); (2) All valid existing rights-of-way, leases, permits or licenses in effect at the time of exchange. The mineral estate is expected to be included in the exchange. Interest has also been expressed in a tract of public land described as: ␣ 1␣ 1Acres T. 13 S., R. 31 E., Sec. 26: SW1/4SW1/4 40 35: NW1/4NW1/4 40 Approximately 80 n,s This land would be retained for use associated specifically with the airport and allow for expansion of airport activities. If not used in conjunction with the airport, the tract will become available for exchange. The publication of this notice in the Federal Register segregates the public lands described above from appropriation under the public land laws, including the mining laws, but not from exchange pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976. This segregative effect shall terminate upon issuance of a patent to such lands, upon publication in the Federal Register of a Notice of Termination of the segregation or 18 months from date of this publication, whichever occurs first. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Copies of the scoping document, as well as detailed information concerning the proposed exchanges and land use plan amendment, are available for review at the Prineville District Office, 185 East Fourth St., Prineville, OR 97754, (503) 447&hyph;4115 and the Central Oregon Resource Area, 2321 E. Third St., (503) 447&hyph;7003. Contact Dick Cosgriffe, Area Manager or Ron Lane, Realty Specialist. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN AMENDMENT: Major issues involved in the plan amendment are the identification of public lands in the Central Oregon Resource Area located in Grant County for retention for multiple use management, the identification of public lands suitable for disposal by sale, exchange or public purpose lease, the general identification of areas of private land suitable for acquisition and access to the public lands by people of the United States. Disciplines to be represented on the interdisciplinary team preparing the plan amendment and associated Environmental Assessment (EA) are: Wildlife, fisheries, recreation, watershed, lands and realty, cultural, forestry, economics and land use planning. Copies of the scoping document, as well as more detailed information are available at the Prineville District Office or the Central Oregon Resource Area Office, both located in Prineville, Oregon. A 45-day period for public review and comment is provided to meet the requirements for both the Notice of Intent and Notice of Realty Action. Scoping of issues and management alternatives which have been identified will also be refined through this process. The 45-day comment period will begin with the publication of this Notice in the Federal Register. There will be an open house in Prineville on February 2, 1994, in the BLM office at 2321 E. Third Street from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. to provide information and answer questions regarding the proposals in this plan. A public meeting will also be held in John Day on February 3, 1994 at 7 p.m. in the Grant County Senior Center, located at 142 NE Dayton Street. Additional meetings and a 60-day public comment opportunity will be provided upon completion of the draft management plan amendment and environmental assessment in the spring of 1994. Dates, times and locations of those meetings and public comment opportunities will be published in the Federal Register , as well as in local newspapers. Notices will also be mailed to all known interested parties. Dated: December 23, 1993. James L. Hancock, District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;33&hyph;M
