FR940826-0-00040 FR940826-0-00014 (1) Advance payment mechanisms include, but are not limited to, Treasury check and electronic funds transfer. (2) Advance payment mechanisms are subject to 31 CFR Part 205. (3) Recipients shall be authorized to submit requests for advances and reimbursements at least monthly when electronic fund transfers are not used. (d) Requests for Treasury check advance payment shall be submitted on SF&hyph;270, ``Request for Advance or Reimbursement,'' or other forms as may be authorized by OMB. This form is not to be used when Treasury check advance payments are made to the recipient automatically through the use of a predetermined payment schedule or if precluded by special Federal awarding agency instructions for electronic funds transfer. (e) Reimbursement is the preferred method when the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section cannot be met. Federal awarding agencies may also use this method on any construction agreement, or if the major portion of the construction project is accomplished through private market financing or Federal loans, and the Federal assistance constitutes a minor portion of the project. (1) When the reimbursement method is used, the Federal awarding agency shall make payment within 30 days after receipt of the billing, unless the billing is improper. (2) Recipients shall be authorized to submit a request for reimbursement at least monthly when electronic funds transfers are not used. (f) If a recipient cannot meet the criteria for advance payments and the Federal awarding agency has determined that reimbursement is not feasible because the recipient lacks sufficient working capital, the Federal awarding agency may provide cash on a working capital advance basis. Under this procedure, the Federal awarding agency shall advance cash to the recipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for an initial period generally geared to the awardee's disbursing cycle. Thereafter, the Federal awarding agency shall reimburse the recipient for its actual cash disbursements. The working capital advance method of payment shall not be used for recipients unwilling or unable to provide timely advances to their subrecipient to meet the subrecipient's actual cash disbursements. (g) To the extent available, recipients shall disburse funds available from repayments to and interest earned on a revolving fund, program income, rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries and interest earned on such funds before requesting additional cash payments. (h) Unless otherwise required by statute, Federal awarding agencies shall not withhold payments for proper charges made by recipients at any time during the project period unless paragraph (h)(1) or (h)(2) of this section apply: (1) A recipient has failed to comply with the project objectives, the terms and conditions of the award, or Federal reporting requirements; or (2) The recipient or subrecipient is delinquent in a debt to the United States as defined in OMB Circular A&hyph;129, ``Managing Federal Credit Programs.'' Under such conditions, the Federal awarding agency may, upon reasonable notice, inform the recipient that payments shall not be made for obligations incurred after a specified date until the conditions are corrected or the indebtedness to the Federal Government is liquidated. (i) Standards governing the use of banks and other institutions as depositories of funds advanced under awards are as follows.
