FR940830-0-00027 FR940830-0-00005 (h) Approval by stockholders _(1) General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this section, an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of any constituent Federal savings association shall be required for approval of the combination agreement. If any class of shares is entitled to vote as a class pursuant to ยง552.4 of this part, an affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of each voting class and two-thirds of the total voting shares shall be required. The required vote shall be taken at a meeting of the savings association. (2) General exception. Stockholders of the resulting Federal stock association need not authorize a combination agreement if: * * * * * (iii) Each share of stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective date of the combination is to be an identical outstanding share or a treasury share of the resulting Federal stock association after such effective date; and (iv) Either: (A) No shares of voting stock of the resulting Federal stock association and no securities convertible into such stock are to be issued or delivered under the plan of combination, or (B) The authorized unissued shares or the treasury shares of voting stock of the resulting Federal stock association to be issued or delivered under the plan of combination, plus those initially issuable upon conversion of any securities to be issued or delivered under such plan, do not exceed 15% of the total shares of voting stock of such association outstanding immediately prior to the effective date of the combination. * * * * * (j) Articles of combination. (1) Following stockholder approval of any combination in which a Federal savings association is the resulting institution, articles of combination shall be executed in duplicate by each constituent institution, by its chief executive officer or executive vice president and by its secretary or an assistant secretary, and verified by one of the officers of each institution signing such articles, and shall set forth: (i) The plan of combination; (ii) The number of shares outstanding in each depository institution; and (iii) The number of shares in each depository institution voted for and against such plan. (2) Both sets of articles of combination shall be filed with the Office. If the Office determines that such articles conform to the requirements of this section, the Office shall endorse the articles and return one set to the resulting institution. (k) Effective date. No combination under this section shall be effective until receipt of any approvals required by the Office. The effective date of a combination in which the resulting institution is a Federal stock association shall be the date of consummation of the transaction or such other later date specified on the endorsement of the articles of combination by the Office. If a disappearing institution combining under this section is a Federal stock association, its charter shall be deemed to be cancelled as of the effective date of the combination and such charter must be surrendered to the Office as soon as practicable after the effective date. (l) Mergers and consolidations: transfer of assets and liabilities to the resulting institution. Upon the effective date of a merger or consolidation under this section, if the resulting institution is a Federal savings association, all assets and property (real, personal and mixed, tangible and intangible, choses in action, rights, and credits) then owned by each constituent institution or which would inure to any of them, shall, immediately by operation of law and without any conveyance, transfer, or further action, become the property of the resulting Federal savings association. The resulting Federal savings association shall be deemed to be a continuation of the entity of each constituent institution, the rights and obligations of which shall succeed to such rights and obligations and the duties and liabilities connected therewith, subject to the Home Owners' Loan Act and other applicable statutes. Subchapter D_Regulations Applicable to All Savings Associations PART 563_OPERATIONS 12. The authority citation for part 563 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1462, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1468, 1817, 1828, 3806; Pub. L. 102&hyph;242, sec. 306, 105 Stat. 2236, 2355 (1991). 13. Section 563.22 is amended by: a. revising paragraphs (a) and (b); b. redesignating paragraphs (c) through (e) as paragraphs (d) through (f), respectively; c. adding a new paragraph (c); d. revising newly designated paragraph (d); e. removing the introductory text of newly designated paragraph (e) and paragraph (e)(1); f. redesignating newly designated paragraph (e)(2) as paragraph (e)(1) and revising it;
