FR940317-1-00018 FR940317-1-00007 Explanation of Changes Section 1.6662&hyph;3(a) of the regulations generally provides that if any portion of an underpayment, as defined in section 6664(a) of the Code and ยง1.6664&hyph;2, of any income tax imposed under subtitle A of the Code that is required to be shown on a return is attributable to negligence or disregard of rules or regulations, there is added to the tax an amount equal to 20 percent of such portion. Section 1.6662&hyph;3(b)(1) defines ``negligence'' to include any failure to make a reasonable attempt to comply with the provisions of the internal revenue laws or to exercise ordinary and reasonable care in the preparation of a tax return. Currently, ยง1.6662&hyph;3(c) generally provides that no penalty under section 6662(b)(1) may be imposed on any portion of any underpayment that is attributable to negligence or a position contrary to a rule or regulation if the position is adequately disclosed and is not frivolous, if the requirements of that section are met. Section 1.6662&hyph;4(a) of the regulations generally provides that if any portion of an underpayment of any income tax imposed under subtitle A of the Code that is required to be shown on a return is attributable to a substantial understatement of such income tax, there is added to the tax an amount equal to 20 percent of such portion. Section 1.6662&hyph;4(a) further provides that, except in the case of any item attributable to a tax shelter, an understatement is reduced by the portion of the understatement that is attributable to positions for which there was substantial authority or adequate disclosure. Currently, under ยง1.6662&hyph;4(e)(2), this adequate disclosure exception will not apply if the position on the return is frivolous. As a result of OBRA 1993, the minimum standard that a disclosed return position must satisfy to avoid either the penalty for disregarding rules or regulations or for a substantial understatement of income tax has been raised from ``not frivolous'' to ``reasonable basis.'' In addition, there is no longer a disclosure exception for the negligence penalty and, to avoid that penalty, the return position generally must satisfy the new reasonable basis standard. These rules generally apply to returns that are due (without regard to extensions for filing) after December 31, 1993. However, the rules relating to changes to the penalties for negligence or disregard of rules or regulations will not apply to returns, including qualified amended returns, filed on or before March 14, 1994. Special Analyses It has been determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, this notice of proposed rulemaking will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Comments and Public Hearing Before the adoption of these proposed regulations, consideration will be given to any written comments that are submitted timely (a signed original and eight copies) to the Internal Revenue Service. All comments will be available for public inspection and copying in their entirety. A public hearing will be held on July 12, 1994, in the IRS Auditorium, Internal Revenue Building, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC. Because of access restrictions, visitors will not be admitted beyond the building lobby more than 15 minutes before the hearing starts. The rules of 26 CFR 601.601(a)(3) apply to the hearing. Persons who wish to present oral comments at the hearing must submit written comments, an outline of the topics to be discussed, and the time to be devoted to each topic by June 21, 1994. A period of 10 minutes will be allotted to each person for making comments. An agenda showing the scheduling of the speakers will be prepared after the deadline for receiving outlines has passed. Copies of the agenda will be available free of charge at the hearing. Drafting Information
