FR940606-1-00026 FR940606-1-00008 The proposed standards require inorganic HAP emissions from depainting operations to be reduced by 99 percent using particulate filters such as baghouses, cartridge filters, or dry filter media. The EPA is proposing the use of Method 5 in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 to determine removal efficiency. The proposed standards would require retesting whenever the particulate filter or supplier of the filter media changes, or whenever modifications are made to the emission collection system. d. Chemical Milling Maskants. The same basic test methods and procedures identified for primer and topcoat application operations are also being proposed for chemical milling maskants, requiring the determination of total organic HAP weight fraction, density, and volume of chemical milling maskants as applied. Simpler procedures are being proposed, as for primer and topcoat application operations, to demonstrate compliance where only compliant chemical milling maskants are being used. As for primer and topcoat application operations, any control device, including a carbon adsorber, used to control emissions from chemical milling maskant application operations must have an overall control efficiency of at least 81 percent and must control, except for incidental emissions, all of the emissions from the maskant operation. Test methods that would be used to determine the overall control efficiency are identical to those given previously for primer and topcoat application operations. e. Handling and storage of waste. No test methods are being proposed. 2. Monitoring Requirements Monitoring is required by the proposed standards to determine whether a source is in continuous compliance. This can be accomplished by continuously measuring site-specific operating parameters, the values of which are established by the owner or operator during the initial compliance test. The operating parameter value is defined as the minimum or maximum value established for a control device or process parameter that, if achieved by itself or in combination with other operating parameter values, determines that an owner or operator is complying with the applicable emission limitation or standards. This type of enhanced monitoring would be required for those emission points for which the standards are expressed as a percent control. In addition, the owner or operator is expected to install and operate the equipment properly. For owners or operators complying with the proposed standards for spray gun cleaning through the use of enclosed spray gun cleaners, compliance would be demonstrated through recordkeeping (see section II.F). The proposed rule would require temperature to be monitored, using a continuous recorder, for incinerators. For catalytic incinerators, temperature monitors would be placed immediately before and after the catalyst bed. For other incinerators, the temperature monitor would be placed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox and before any substantial heat exchange occurs. All monitoring equipment would be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturer's specifications. Section 63.6(g) of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, allows an owner or operator of an affected source to request the use of alternative methods of emission reduction for complying with design, equipment, work practice, or operational emission standards, or combination thereof, established under this part. 6 Under the proposed rule, an owner or operator of an affected source may also use control devices other than those specifically identified in the proposed rule as a means for achieving compliance with any portion of the rule. If devices other than those identified are used, the proposed standards would require the owner or operator to submit the parameters to be monitored to the Administrator for approval. 6 Ibid.
