FR940407-1-00059 FR940407-1-00012 (4) Investment in other property and equipment; accumulated depreciation other property and equipment (Schedule A&hyph;IV and A&hyph;IV(A)). (i) Actual investment, representing original cost to the carrier or to any related company, reduced to reflect the use of funds from the Capital Construction Fund's capital gains account or ordinary income account, in other fixed assets employed in the Service, shall be reported as of the beginning of the year. Accumulated depreciation for these assets shall be reported both as of the beginning and as of the end of the year. The arithmetic average of the two amounts shall also be shown and shall be the amount deducted from original cost in determining rate base. The cost of additions and deductions during the period, adjusted to reflect the use of the Capital Construction Fund, shall also be reported. The carrier shall report as though all such changes took place at midyear, except those involving substantial sums, which shall be prorated on a daily basis. Allocation to the Trade shall be based upon the actual use of the specific asset or group of assets within the Trade. For those assets employed in a general capacity, such as office furniture and fixtures, the voyage expense relationship shall be employed for allocation purposes. The basis of allocation to the Trade shall be set forth and fully explained. (ii)␣*␣*␣* (5) Working Capital (Schedule A&hyph;V). Working capital for vessel operators shall be determined as average voyage expense. Average voyage expense shall be calculated on the basis of the actual expenses of operating and maintaining the vessel(s) employed in the Service (excluding lay-up expenses) during the average length of time of all voyages (excluding lay-up periods) during the period in which any cargo was carried in the Trade. Expenses for operating and maintaining vessels employed in the Trade shall include: Vessel Operating Expense, Vessel Port Call Expense, Cargo Handling Expense, Administrative and General Expense and Interest Expense allocated to the Trade as provided in paragraphs (c) (2), (4) and (5) of this section. * * * * * (9) Capitalization of leases (Schedules A&hyph;VII and A&hyph;VII(A)). *␣*␣* (10) Accumulated Deferred Taxes (Schedules A&hyph;VIII and A&hyph;VIII(A)). Accumulated deferred taxes, excluding deferred taxes that may arise from the Capital Construction Fund or the expired Investment Tax Credit, shall be reported both as of the beginning and the end of the year and the arithmetic average of the two amounts shall be shown. Allocation to the Trade shall be based upon the ratio of Trade Investment in Vessels (Schedules A&hyph;I and A&hyph;I(A)) less Accumulated Depreciation (Schedules A&hyph;II and A&hyph;II(A)) plus Other Property and Equipment less Accumulated Depreciation (Schedules A&hyph;IV and A&hyph;IV(A)) to total company investment in vessels and other property and equipment less accumulated depreciation. (c)␣*␣*␣* * * * * * (5) Interest expense and debt payments (Schedules B&hyph;IV and B&hyph;IV(A)). This schedule shall set forth the total interest and debt payments, apportioned between principal and interest, short and long-term, on debt and lease obligations. Payments on long-term debt are to be calculated consistent with the method set forth in §552.6(e)(7) for computing the cost of long-term debt capital. Principal and interest shall be allocated to the Trade in the ratio that Trade rate base less working capital bears to company-wide assets less current assets. Where related company assets are employed by the filing company, the balance sheet figures on the related company's books for such assets shall be added to the company-wide total in computing the ratio. In those instances where interest expenses are capitalized in accordance with paragraph (b)(9) of this section, a deduction shall be made for the amount so capitalized. * * * * * (10) Provision for income tax. Federal, State, and other income taxes shall be listed separately. If the company is organized outside the United States, it shall indicate the entity to which it pays income taxes and the rate of tax applicable to its taxable income for the subject year. Federal, State and other income taxes shall be calculated at the statutory rate. Such tax rates are to be identical to those set forth in Schedules F&hyph;VI or F&hyph;VI(A) used in determining the carrier's allowable rate of return unless the carrier is a subsidiary of a parent company and a consolidated capital structure is to be used in that determination. * * * * * (d) Rate of Return (Exhibits C and C(A))_ (1) General. All carriers are required to calculate rate of return on rate base. However, the Commission or individual carriers, at the Commission's discretion, may also employ fixed charges coverage and/or operating ratios as provided for in paragraph (f) of this section. (2) Return on rate base. The return on rate base will be computed by dividing Trade net income plus interest expense by Trade rate base. (e) Maximum allowable rate of return on rate base (Exhibits F and F(A))_ (1) General. A carrier's maximum allowable rate of return on rate base shall be set equal to the carrier's weighted average cost of capital calculated on a before-tax basis (``BTWACC''). The BTWACC is defined mathematically by the following expression: E:GraphicsEP07AP94.013 where: K d is the carrier's cost of long-term debt capital; K p is the carrier's cost of preferred (and preference) stock capital; K e is the carrier's cost of common-stock equity capital; D is the average book value of the carrier's long-term debt capital outstanding; P is the average book value of the carrier's preferred (and preference) stock capital outstanding; E is the average book value of the carrier's common-stock equity capital (par value plus earned and capital surplus) outstanding; and T is the carrier's composite statutory corporate income tax rate.
