FR940816-2-00114 FR940816-2-00083 7. The Contracts will provide for the deduction of a 1.25% annual asset charge that will be paid to ITT Hartford on a daily basis for providing mortality and expense guarantees with respect to the Contracts. ITT Hartford estimates that this charge will be composed of a .90% mortality risk component and a .35% expense risk component. The mortality undertaking provided by ITT Hartford, assuming the selection of one of the forms of life annuities, is to make monthly annuity payments (determined in accordance with the 1983(a) Individual Annuity Mortality Table with ages set back one year and other provisions contained in the Contract) to Contract Owners regardless of how long an annuitant may live, and regardless of how long all annuitants as a group may live. ITT Hartford also incurs a mortality risk because of its liability to pay a minimum death benefit under the Contract. ITT Hartford may experience a profit or a loss on the mortality component of the charge, depending on the actual mortality experience of Contract owners and Contract annuitants. The expense risk assumed by ITT Hartford is the risk that the administrative fees may be insufficient to cover actual expenses. The rate of the mortality and expense risk charge cannot be increased. If the charge is insufficient to cover the actual cost of the expense risk undertaking, ITT Hartford will bear the loss. Conversely, if the charge proves more than sufficient, the excess will be surplus to ITT Hartford and will be available for any proper corporate purpose. ITT Hartford expects a reasonable profit from the mortality and expense risk charge. 8. Applicants ask that the requested order apply to the Separate Account and to future separate accounts issuing contracts that are substantially similar to the Contracts. Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Applicants request an order under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act granting exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act to the extent necessary to permit the deduction of the mortality and expense risk charge. Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) prohibit a registered unit investment trust and any depositor or underwriter thereof from selling periodic payment plan certificates unless the proceeds of all payments are deposited with a trustee or custodian having the qualifications prescribed by Section 26(a)(1) of the 1940 Act and are held under an agreement that provides that no payment to the depositor or principal underwriter shall be allowed except a fee, not exceeding such reasonable amount as the Commission may prescribe, for bookkeeping and other administrative services. Applicants' proposed mortality and expense risk charge would not be considered a bookkeeping and administrative expense. 2. Applicants have consented that the requested exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) may be made subject to the following representations: (a) The mortality and expense risk charge is reasonable in relation to the risks assumed by ITT Hartford under the Contracts; (b) The mortality and expense risk charge is within the range of industry practice for comparable annuity contracts as determined by a survey of comparable contracts issued by a large number of other insurance companies. Applicants' Contract is comparable to the contracts of other insurance companies in that (i) current charge levels are approximately the same; (ii) all provide minimum death benefit guarantees the same as or lower than Applicants' Contract: (iii) all have guaranteed annuity purchase rates; (iv) all have the same special accounting system for separate account unit value administration; and (v) all are offered in the same market. ITT Hartford undertakes to maintain at its Home Office available to the Commission upon request a memorandum setting forth in detail the methodology and contracts of other insurance companies underlying this representation. (c) There is the likelihood that the proceeds from explicit sales loads will be insufficient to cover the expected costs of distributing the Contracts. Any shortfall will be covered from the assets of the general account, which may include profit from the mortality and expense risk charge. Therefore, ITT Hartford has concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that the Separate Account's distribution financing arrangement will benefit the Separate Account and Contract Owners. ITT Hartford undertakes to maintain at its Home Office and make available to the Commission upon request a memorandum setting forth the basis for this representation; and (d) The Separate Account will invest only in open-end management companies which have undertaken to have a board of directors, a majority of whom are not interested persons of the open-end management company, formulate and approve any plan under Rule 12b&hyph;1 to finance distribution expenses. Applicants' Conclusion Applicants request exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act so that they may offer and sell the Contracts subject to the charge for mortality and expense guarantees described above. Applicants submit that, for all of the reasons stated herein, the requested exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) meet the standards set out in Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act. Applicants assert that the requested exemptions are necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19959 Filed 8&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
