FR941216-2-00080 FR941216-2-00043 b. An ``instantaneous flow measurement'' is a measure of flow taken at the time of sampling, when both the sample and flow will be representative of the total discharge. c. Where monitoring requirements for pH or dissolved oxygen are specified in Part I of the permit, the values are generally reported in the ``Quality or Concentration'' column on the DMR. 5. Types of Samples a. Grab Sample: A ``grab sample'' is a single influent or effluent portion which is not a composite sample. The sample(s) shall be collected at the period(s) most representative of the total discharge. 6. Calendar Day A calendar day is defined as the period from midnight of one day until midnight of the next day. However, for purposes of this permit, any consecutive 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day may be used for sampling. 7. Hazardous Substance A hazardous substance means any substance designated under 40 CFR Part 116 pursuant to Section 311 of the Clean Water Act. 8. Toxic Pollutant A toxic pollutant is any pollutant listed as toxic under Section 307(a)(1) of the Clean Water Act. Section F. Application Requirements a. For expired individual NPDES permits, dischargers desiring coverage under this general permit are required to submit a notice of intent (NOI) to the Permit Issuing Authority. The NOI shall include (1) the name and address of the person that the permit will be issued to (2) the name, and address of the operation, including county location, (3) the applicable individual NPDES number(s), (4) the identification of any new discharge location not contained in the expired permit, (5) evidence that the operation has obtained approval of a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) Order from the FDEP, (6) a map showing the facility and discharge location (including latitude and longitude), (7) the name of the receiving water, and (8) for discharges lasting over one (1) year a pollution prevention plan. (See Part IV.2) Operators having several individual permits are encouraged to consolidate requests for coverage into one NOI for all individual permits. The previous submission of the proper forms in the renewal application does not relieve the permittee desiring coverage under the general permit of the requirement to file a NOI. b. All facilities continued by the previous general permit, will be required to submit a NOI requesting continued coverage under the reissued general permit by [insert date 60 calendar days after the date of publication in the Federal Register ]. The NOI shall contain the same information specified in paragraph a above. c. Dischargers with current individual NPDES permits that desire coverage under this general permit are required to file an NOI to the Permit Issuing Authority at least thirty (30) days prior to expiration of their current permit(s). The NOI shall contain the same information specified in paragraph a above. Permittees desiring to renew their individual permit are required to submit the appropriate application forms at least 180 days before expiration of their individual permit. d. Dischargers who have not previously obtained an individual NPDES permit are required to submit to EPA the FDEP approval order letter approving the site RAP. The RAP approval order shall be attached to an NOI to be covered by the general permit and shall contain the same information specified in paragraph (a) above. The application for coverage under the general permit must be made at least fourteen (14) days before the discharge is to commence. e. Dischargers seeking coverage under Part I A.3.a. will be required to submit to EPA the date the discharge is expected to cease, results of analytical data and the same information in paragraph a above, except items (3), (4), (5) and (8). Notification of coverage to discharge will be upon receipt of EPA's short-term coverage letter. f. Notification of coverage will be given by the Permit Issuing Authority by certified mail to the permittee (except for short-term pump tests, 8-hours in duration or less), for dischargers seeking coverage under Part I Sections A.1 and A.2, with the issuance date for each facility being the effective date of coverage by the Permit Issuing Authority. Short-term pump tests, shall be covered automatically once the permittee receives acceptable groundwater screening values, and the permittee will be responsible meeting the requirements of Parts I.A.1 or A.2. The DMR's for these pump tests shall be submitted to within thirty (30) days after discharge ceases. g. Dischargers meeting the conditions set forth in Part I A.3.c. are not required to submit an detailed NOI as outlined above, but must submit a copy of the analytical tests and a summary of the proposed activity one (1) week after discharge begins. These dischargers are covered upon receipt of the data, unless notified otherwise by EPA. h. The coverage of the permit shall expire on December 6, 1999. i. In accordance with 40 CFR 122.28(a)(2) permittees who are covered by this general permit who seek to be continued under this general permit, shall submit an complete NOI in accordance with paragraph a, to EPA 180 days before the expiration of this permit. Section G. Additional General Permit Conditions 1. The Permit Issuing Authority may require any person authorized by this permit to apply for and obtain an individual NPDES permit when: a. The discharge(s) is a significant contributor of pollution; b. The discharger is not in compliance with the conditions of this permit;
