FR940114-2-00164 FR940114-2-00102 Section 402(o) of the Act stipulates that NPDES permits may not be reissued to contain effluent limitations that are less stringent than comparable water quality standards and technology based effluent limitations in the previous permit. EPA has determined that this general permit complies with these anti-backsliding provisions of the Act. B. Technology-Based Limitations 1. Mechanical Operations. The CWA requires industries to apply treatment technology representing BAT that is economically achievable. The BAT requirements specify the use of settling ponds plus total recirculation of process wastewater as the selected treatment technology. However, the regulation does allow the discharge of incidental waters (including waters that enter a mine through precipitation, snow melt, drainage water, ground water infiltration and the melting of permafrost) which have commingled with process waters, provided that these incidental waters are in excess of the make-up water required, are treated in settling ponds and do not exceed 0.2 ml/l settleable solids prior to discharge. For the purpose of this permit, discharged wastewater consists of incidental waters commingled with process waters used to move the ore to and through the beneficiation process, water used to aid in classification, and water used in gravity separation. Pursuant to 40 CFR 440.143, BAT requirements are as follows: a. The concentration of settleable solids in wastewater discharged from an open-cut mine plant or a dredge plant site must not exceed an instantaneous maximum of 0.2 ml/l. b. The volume of wastewater which may be discharged from an open-cut mine plant or dredge plant site must not exceed the volume of infiltration, drainage and mine drainage waters which is in excess of the make-up water required for operation of the beneficiation process. These technology-based requirements are specified in Parts II.A.1.a. and b. of the proposed permit. The effect of requirement II.A.2. of the proposed permit is to prohibit the discharge of any wastewater during periods when new water is allowed to enter the plant site. C. Water Quality Based Limits In addition to the BAT effluent limitations, the permit includes effluent limitations which are required to ensure compliance with WQS (Alaska Regulations 18 AAC 70). These standards vary with the beneficial use they are established to protect. In water bodies with more than one designated beneficial use, the more restrictive criteria apply. The WQS protect most fresh water sources for use in drinking, agriculture, aquaculture and industrial water supply, contact and secondary recreation, and the growth and propagation of fish, shellfish, and other aquatic life (Alaska Regulations 18 AAC 70.050). All permits being issued in this round of permitting must protect for all the above uses. EPA has concluded, based on review of the WQS and available sampling data, that the parameters of turbidity and arsenic must be limited in order to meet the State WQS. Also, the sediment standard must be applied to discharges from operations utilizing the hydraulic removal of overburden. The arsenic, turbidity and sediment limits were established pursuant to section 301(b)(1)(C) of the CWA, which requires imposition of ``*␣*␣* any more stringent limitation, including those necessary to meet water quality standards, *␣*␣* or required to implement any applicable water quality standard established pursuant to this Act.'' The NPDES regulations, at 40 CFR 122.44(d), require NPDES permits to include conditions to ``Achieve water quality standards established under section 303 of CWA *␣*␣*.'' 1. Turbidity: a. Mechanical and Hydraulic Removal of Overburden According to the WQS, the most restrictive turbidity criteria applies to fresh water sources classified for water contact recreation uses. These criteria (18 AAC 70.020(b)(1)(B)(i)(4)) state that turbidity *␣*␣* ``Shall not exceed 5 NTU above natural conditions when the natural turbidity is 50 NTU or less; and more than 10% increase in turbidity when the natural condition is more than 50 NTU, not to exceed a maximum increase of 15 NTU.'' The proposed draft permit contains a turbidity limit that would assure compliance with water quality standards under worst case conditions. That is, the turbidity in the effluent must not exceed 5 NTUs above the background turbidity level in the receiving stream. This condition accounts for naturally occurring turbidity in the receiving water and allows the effluent to contain an additional 5 NTUs of turbidity where the receiving water is naturally turbid. The permit condition does not account for those situations where naturally occurring turbidity would allow an increase of up to 15 NTUs, nor does it account for the dilution effects of the receiving stream. The reason for assuming worst case conditions is that EPA does not have current site-specific information to establish end-of-pipe limitations for each of the permits being processed. Although worst case conditions are assumed in the proposed draft permit, EPA will consider modifying the NTU limitation to account for the dilution effects of the receiving stream. EPA's approach in setting higher turbidity limitations is dependent upon receipt of the NOI with information from the permittee or from the Alaska Department of Natural Resources (ADNR) acting on behalf of the permittee demonstrating that the dilution effect of the receiving water justifies a less stringent limit. EPA is operating under the assumption that the permit applicant bears the burden of providing information necessary to issue the permit (40 CFR 124.85(a)(1)). Where the applicant does not provide the site-specific information that would justify a less stringent turbidity limit, the permit issued to a site will contain the turbidity limit proposed in the draft permit.
