FR940505-1-00372 FR940505-1-00012 ( 4 ) Roll coat; ( 5 ) Dip coat; ( 6 ) Hand application methods; or ( 7 ) Other coating application methods that are demonstrated to have transfer efficiency at least equal to HVLP spray equipment in the application, and which are used in such a manner that the parameters under which they were tested are permanent features of the method. Such coating application methods shall be approved in writing by EPA. (B) A person shall not apply coatings by any of the methods listed in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section unless the coating is applied with properly operating equipment and operated according to procedures recommended by the manufacturer. (iv) Cleanup solvent use. Solvents used for surface preparation, equipment cleanup, and thinning operations, including storage and disposal of VOC-containing materials, shall be subject to the provisions and requirements of ยง52.2961(a). (v) Emission control system. A person may comply with the provisions of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section by using an emission control system, provided that this system maintains a control efficiency (capture efficiency times destruction or removal efficiency) of the VOC emissions of at least 85 (eighty-five) percent by weight. (vi) Prohibition of specifications. (A) A person shall not solicit from, or require any other person to use in the affected area, any VOC-containing material subject to the provisions of this section which, when applied as supplied or thinned or reduced according to the manufacturer's recommendation for application, does not meet the limits and requirements of this section. The prohibition against soliciting, or requiring the use of VOC-containing materials shall not apply with respect to solicitations from or requirements of persons operating pursuant to an approved emission control system, as provided for in paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section. (B) The requirements of this paragraph shall apply to all written or oral agreements executed and entered into. (4) Exemptions. (i) The provisions of paragraphs (c)(3) (i) and (iii) of this section shall not apply to: (A) Touch-up coatings; or (B) Stencil coatings. (ii) The exemptions described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) (A) and (B) of this section shall not apply to aerosol container applications. (5) Recordkeeping requirements. Any person subject to this section shall comply with the following require ments: (i) The person shall maintain and have available during an inspection the listed category of each of the coatings and the type of vehicle or equipment to which each coating was applied. (ii) The person shall maintain and have available during an inspection a current list of coatings in use which provides all of the coating data necessary to evaluate compliance, including the following information, as applicable: (A) Coating, catalyst, additives, and reducer used; (B) Mix ratio of components used; and (C) VOC content of coating as applied. (iii) The person shall maintain records on a daily basis, including the following information: (A) Coating and mix ratio of components in the coating used; and (B) Quantity of each coating applied. (iv) Any person using an emission control system as a means of complying with this section shall maintain daily records of key system operating and maintenance procedures which will demonstrate continuous operation and compliance of the emission control device during periods of emission-producing activities. Key system operating parameters are those necessary to ensure compliance with VOC content of coating requirements such as temperatures, pressures, and flowrates. (v) All records shall be retained at the facility for at least five years and shall be provided to EPA upon request. (6) Test methods. For the purposes of this section, the following test methods shall be used: (i) VOC content. (A) The VOC content of coatings shall be determined by EPA Method 24 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A); (B) The VOC content of emissions shall be determined by EPA Method 18 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A); and (C) The exempt compound content of coatings shall be determined by ASTM Test Method D&hyph;4457&hyph;85. (ii) Determination of iridescent particles in metallic/iridescent topcoat. The metal and silicon content of metallic/iridescent topcoat shall be determined by SCAQMD Method 26 (SCAQMD ``Laboratory Method of Analysis for Enforcement Samples'' manual). (iii) Acid content in pretreatment coatings. The acid content of pretreatment coatings shall be determined by ASTM Test Method D&hyph;1613&hyph;85 (modified). (iv) Determination of efficiency of emission control systems. (A) Capture efficiency. The efficiency of the collection device of the emission control system, as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section, shall be determined by the EPA method described at ยง52.741(a)(4)(iii). (B) Destruction or removal efficiency. The efficiency of the control device, as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section, shall be determined by the EPA method described at ยง52.741(a)(4)(iv). The VOC content measured and calculated as carbon in the control device exhaust gases shall be determined by EPA Method 25 or 25A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A).
