FR940516-1-00066 FR940516-1-00005 For new BLR facilities, the standards would be based on the technology used by the best performing facility in the category for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater, which is the use of a 99 percent efficient water scrubber on all process vents coupled with recirculation of the scrubber effluent to the process, and 99 percent control of emissions from wastewater. As for existing facilities, new facilities would be required to implement the LDAR program of subpart H to control equipment leak emissions. For existing wet strength resin facilities, the proposed standards would require an emission limit of 10 lb HAP/MM lb product from process vents, wastewater, and storage tanks combined. No emission limits or equipment standards are required for equipment leaks; however, facilities may elect to implement the subpart H LDAR program in lieu of complying with the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater, as this alternative would achieve a greater emission reduction. Similar to BLR production, for new wet strength resin facilities, the standards would be based on the technology used by the best performing source in the category. This technology is the use of a water-cooled condenser, from which the outlet gas temperature shall be no higher than 25 ○C, on the batch reactor and no methanol by-product formation or hydrochloric acid usage, or the implementation of the subpart H LDAR program to control equipment leak emissions. F. Certification of Compliance 1. Existing sources a. Process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater emission points. To determine compliance with the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater combined, the owner or operator of an existing BLR or WSR manufacturing facility would calculate the total emissions per product produced by summing the production-based emission values for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater according to the following equation: E= S PV= S ST= S WW␣␣(1) where: E=Emissions, lb HAP/10 6 lb product PV=Process vent emissions, lb HAP/10 6 lb product ST=Storage tank emissions, lb HAP/10 6 lb product WW=Wastewater emissions, lb HAP/10 6 lb product The required calculation methods for each type of emission point are described below for the BLR and WSR source categories.
