FR940720-2-00088 FR940720-2-00068 The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. There is no significant increase in the possibility or consequences of an accident. It is proposed that the channel calibration frequency for the volume control tank instrumentation be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). The sub-cooling margin monitoring function is not relied upon during normal operation. There is no reference to its use in the Indian Point Unit 2 standard operating procedures. No credit is taken for this monitoring function within the safety analysis for either the prevention or mitigation of an accident. The increase in ``normal'' operating uncertainty, due to the longer operating cycle, as well as ``adverse'' uncertainties, is being incorporated in the EOPs [Emergency Operating Procedures]. Therefore, the slight increase in uncertainty associated with a longer operating cycle between surveillances will not cause a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed has not been created. The sub-cooling margin serves no purpose during normal operation for prevention of an accident. No credit is taken within the FSAR Safety Analysis for accident mitigation. The sub-cooling margin monitor is relied upon within the Emergency Operating Procedures. Thus, the normal uncertainty due to a 30 month operating cycle, as supplemented by the instrument loop error due to a post-accident harsh environment, is being factored into the Emergency Operation Procedures in accordance with Emergency Response Guidelines. Thus, it is concluded that the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed has not been created. 3. There has been no reduction in the margin of safety. Because the sub-cooling margin monitor serves no purpose during normal operation and appropriate measures have been implemented to reflect the additional uncertainty due to a 30 month operating cycle into the EOPs, it is concluded that there will be no significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: White Plains Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue, White Plains, New York 10610. Attorney for licensee: Brent L. Brandenburg, Esq., 4 Irving Place, New York, New York 10003. NRC Project Director: Michael L. Boyle, Acting. Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Docket No. 50&hyph;247, Indian Point Nuclear Generating Unit No. 2, Westchester County, New York Date of amendment request: June 1, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise the Technical Specifications to allow extended Rod Position Indication (RPI) deviation limits and on-line calibration of the RPI channels. Specifically, Section 3.10.6.1 would be changed to allow extended RPI deviation limits, and Section 3.10.4.4 would be changed to allow on-line calibration of the RPI channels. The Basis for Section 10 would be changed to reflect the above, and in addition, Section 3.10.6.2 would be changed to clarify the operability requirements during calibration. The proposed changes to Sections 3.10.6.1 and 3.10.4.4 include power limits to be included in the Core Operating Limit Report (COLR). The use of a COLR for cycle specific core operating limits was proposed by the licensee by submittal of October 29, 1993, and is currently under review by the NRC staff. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. Does the proposed license amendment involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated? Response: Neither the probability nor the consequences of an accident previously analyzed is increased due to the proposed changes. All peaking factors will remain within the limits of the Technical Specifications. Both the shutdown margin and the axial flux difference will be maintained within the limits of the Technical Specifications. There will be no fuel damage due to the changes. All design and safety criteria will be met. 2. Does the proposed license amendment create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated? Response: The changes will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident. The calibration will be performed using plant procedures that have been reviewed and approved by Con Edison's Safety Committees. It has been shown that even with the new RPI deviation bands and on-line calibration, all power distribution limits will be met. 3. Does the proposed amendment involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety? Response: The proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. There will be no change in the power distribution limits used in the design and safety analyses and the required shutdown margin will be maintained. It has been shown that there is no fuel failure as a result of this change. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: White Plains Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue, White Plains, New York 10610. Attorney for licensee: Brent L. Brandenburg, Esq., 4 Irving Place, New York, New York 10003.
