FR941117-2-00074 FR941117-2-00053 IV Remedies Available to Potential Private Litigations Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. §15) provides that any person who has been injured in his business or property as a result of conduct forbidden by the antitrust laws may bring suit in federal court to recover three times the damages suffered, as well as costs and reasonable attorneys fees. Entry of the proposed Final Judgment will neither impair nor assist the bringing of any private antitrust damage action. Under the provisions of Section 5(a) of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. §16(a)), the proposed Final Judgment has no prima facie effect in any subsequent private lawsuit that may be brought. V Procedure Available for Modification of the Proposed Final Judgment The United States and defendant have stipulated that the proposed Final Judgment may be entered by the Court after compliance with the provisions of the APPA, provided that the United States has not withdrawn its consent. The APPA conditions entry upon the Court's determination that the proposed Final Judgment is in the public interest. The APPA provides a period of at least 60 days preceding the effective date of the proposed Final Judgment within which any person may submit to the United States written comments regarding the proposed Final Judgment. Any person who wishes to comment should do so within 60 days of the date of publication of this Competitive Impact Statement in the Federal Register. The United States will evaluate the comments, determine whether it should withdraw its consent, and respond to comments. The comments and the response of the United States will be filed with the Court and published in the Federal Register. Written comments should be submitted to: Roger W. Fones, Chief, Transportation, Energy, and Agriculture Section, Antitrust Division, Judiciary Center Building, 555 4th Street, N.W., Rm 9104, Washington, D.C. 20001. VI Alternative to the Proposed Final Judgment The alternative to the proposed Final Judgment would be a full trial of the case against ARTA. In the view of the Department of Justice, such a trial would involve substantial cost to the United States and is not warranted because the Proposed Final Judgment provides relief that will remedy the violations of the Sherman Act alleged in the United States' Complaint. VII Determination Materials and Documents There are no materials or documents that the United States considered to be determinative in formulating this proposed Final Judgment. Accordingly, none are being filed with this Competitive Impact Statement. Dated: October 25, 1994. ␣␣Respectfully submitted, Robert D. Young, Attorney, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28440 Filed 11&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
