FR940826-2-00178 FR940826-2-00095 (1) Salaries and benefits; (2) Communications (fax, phone, postage, etc.); (3) Office supplies; (4) Other direct costs. Please refer to the Application Package for complete budget guidelines. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines stated herein and in the Application Package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the budget and contracts offices, as well as the USIA Office of East European and NIS Affairs and USIA posts overseas. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel or by other Agency elements. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the USIA Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with the USIA contracts officer. Review Criteria Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria: (A) Quality of program plan_including academic rigor, thorough conception of project (including a timeline of activities and identification of participants), understanding of the needs of the partner institution, potential to address partner needs, and proposed follow-up. (B) Feasibility of the program plan and the capacity of the organization to conduct the exchange; e.g., qualifications of program staff and participants, commitment of the institution's administration to internationalize its faculty outlook and curricula. Each proposal should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program objectives and execute the program plan. (C) Track record_relevant Agency and outside assessments of the organization's experience with international exchanges; for organizations that have not worked with USIA, the demonstrated potential to achieve program goals will be evaluated. (D) Multiplier effect/impact_the impact of the exchange activity on the wider community and on the establishment of continuing ties, as well as the contribution of the proposed activity in promoting mutual understanding. (E) Value to U.S.-partner country relations_the assessment by USIA's geographic area office and posts of the potential impact and significance of the project with the partner country. (F) Cost effectiveness_greatest return on each grant dollar; degree of cost-sharing exhibited. (G) Adherence of proposed activities to the criteria and conditions described above. (H) Institutional commitment as demonstrated by financial and in-kind support of the program. (I) Follow-on Activities_each proposal must provide a plan for follow-on activity (without USIA support) which ensures that the USIA-supported program is not an isolated event. Each proposal must clearly demonstrate long-term commitment from all partners. (J) Support of Diversity_proposals should demonstrate the recipient's commitment to promoting the awareness and understanding of diversity throughout the program. This can be accomplished through documentation (such as a written statement or account) summarizing past and/or on-going activities and efforts that further the principle of diversity within both the organization and the program activities. (K) Evaluation plan_proposals must provide a plan for evaluation by the grantee institution. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about Monday, January 2, 1994. Awards made will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: August 23, 1994. Dell Pendergrast, Deputy Associate Director, Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21124 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
