FR941202-2-00026 FR941202-2-00011 [I.D. 112594C] New England Fishery Management Council; Meeting AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of public meeting. SUMMARY: The New England Fishery Management Council (Council) will hold a 2-day public meeting on December 7&hyph;8, 1994, to consider actions affecting the New England fisheries in the exclusive economic zone. The meeting will be held at the King's Grant Inn, Route 128 and Trask Lane, Danvers, MA 01923; telephone: (508) 774&hyph;6800. The meeting will begin on December 7, at 10:00 a.m. and on December 8, at 8:30 a.m. The Council meeting on December 7 will begin with a report from the Interspecies Committee. Subjects scheduled for discussion include a review of consolidation alternatives and the potential use of Special Management Areas in the context of several proposals before the Council, involving aquaculture or similar projects. The Lobster Committee will report in the afternoon on the management proposals forwarded by the Council's Effort Management Teams. In addition, it will discuss any recommendations concerning a change in the qualifications for limited access permits. There will be an update on the outcome of the recent International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas Advisory Committee meeting. This will be followed by a recommendation from the Monkfish Committee to approve a control date for the limited access monkfish fishery. On December 8, the Groundfish Committee will review the results of Committee discussions about the use of time and area closures to address the decline of key groundfish stocks and about the timetable for Amendment #7 to the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan (FMP). During the afternoon session, the Sea Scallop Committee will recommend initiation of the scoping process in preparation for a possible plan amendment to address consolidation in the scallop fishery. The day will conclude with reports from the Council Chairman and Vice Chairman, Council Executive Director, NMFS Regional Director, Northeast Fisheries Science Center liaison, Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council liaison, and Coast Guard. Abbreviated Rulemaking Action_Northeast Multispecies The Council will consider final action on an adjustment to the Multispecies FMP under the framework for abbreviated rulemaking contained in 50 CFR 651.40. The Council will accept comments on a framework adjustment that would exempt from the permit-splitting prohibition those vessels subject to having multispecies permits cancelled that were acquired prior to the implementation date of Amendment #5. This measure would retain the permit-splitting prohibition from being implemented retroactively. This would be the second and final Council meeting under the process for framework adjustments. If the Regional Director for the Northeast Region concurs with the Council's recommendation, NMFS will publish them as a final rule in the Federal Register . Abbreviated Rulemaking Action_Atlantic Sea Scallops The Council will consider initial action on two adjustments to the Sea Scallop FMP under the framework for abbreviated rulemaking contained in 59 CFR 650.40. The Council will accept comments on a framework adjustment that would extend indefinitely the maximum crew size limit of seven people for sea scallop vessels. The purpose of the measure is to supplement other efforts to reduce the catch of small scallops and protect aggregations of small scallops in the Mid-Atlantic region. The second framework adjustment would prohibit any limited-access scallop vessel from fishing with nets, unless the vessel has not used a scallop dredge since 1987, and also prohibit the use of twine tops. The intended effect is to prevent scallop dredge vessels from using nets to catch sea scallops. The Council meeting will conclude after a discussion about the structure of the effective use of advisory committees. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Douglas G. Marshall, Executive Director, New England Fishery Management Council, 5 Broadway, Saugus, MA 01906; telephone: (617) 231&hyph;0422. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This meeting is physically accessible to people with disabilities. Requests for sign language interpretation or other auxiliary aids should be directed to Douglas G. Marshall at (617) 231&hyph;0422, at least 5 days prior to the meeting date. Dated: November 28, 1994. David S. Crestin, Acting Director, Office of Fisheries Conservation and Management, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29661 Filed 12&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;F
