FR941206-1-00053 FR941206-1-00007 Table 5._ Compliance and Monitoring Requirements 1Proposed requirement 1Initial compliance method 1Continuous compliance method 1. Emission limits for finishing materials: (a) Achieve a weighted average HAP limit across all finishing materials; or. (a) Submit the results of the averaging calculation for the first month after the compliance date; submit information with compliance status information report required by §63.9(h) (a) For each finishing material, maintain copies of the CPDS and the monthly usage quantities, and calculate the weighted average emission limit across all finishing materials and solvents for each monthly period. Submit calculation results and compliance certification 2x/yr. (b) Use compliant stains, washcoats, sealers, topcoats, basecoats, enamels, and thinners; or. (b) Submit the compliance status information report required by §63.9(h) (b) Maintain copies of the CPDS for each finishing material and thinner and records of the VHAP content, in kg VHAP/kg solids (lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied, for each finishing method. Submit compliance certification 2x/yr. (c) Use a control device; or. (c) Conduct performance testing in accordance with §63.804(e)(3) of the proposed rule and with the General Provisions to subpart A of part 63 (c) Conduct continuous parameter monitoring in accordance with §63.804(f)(3) of the proposed rule and with the General Provisions to subpart A of part 63. (d) A combination of (b) and (c). (d) Meet the requirements of (b), and (c), as applicable (d) Meet the requirements of (b) and (c), as applicable. 2. Emission limits for adhesives: (a) Use compliant contact adhesives; or. (a) Submit the compliance status information report required by §63.9(h) (a) Maintain copies of the CPDS for each glue used and records of the VHAP content, in kg VHAP/kg solids (lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied, for each contact adhesive. Submit compliance certification 2x/yr. (b) Use a control device (b) Conduct performance testing in accordance with 63.804(e)(6) of the proposed rule and with the General Provisions to subpart A of part 63. §63.9(h) (b) Conduct continuous parameter monitoring in accordance with 63.804(f)(6) of the proposed rule and with the General Provisions to subpart A to part 63. 3. Emission limits for cleaning: Use compliant spray booth material Submit the compliance status information report required by §63.9(h) Maintain copies of CPDS for each spray booth material. Submit compliance certification 2x/yr. 4. Work practice standards: All work practices Prepare and maintain work practice standards implementation plan Follow work practice standards implementation plan. Submit compliance certification 2x/yr.
