FR940722-2-00096 FR940722-2-00061 2. For a period of three years from the date of this Order, Mr. John W. Boomer shall provide a copy of this Order to any prospective employer who engages in NRC-licensed activities (as defined in 1 above) prior to his acceptance of employment with such prospective employer. The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that the employer is aware of Mr. Boomer's prohibition from engaging in NRC-licensed activities. 3. The first time Mr. Boomer is employed in NRC-licensed activities following the three year prohibition, he shall notify the Regional Administrator, NRC Region II, 101 Marietta Street, NW., Suite 2900, Atlanta, Georgia 30323, at least five days prior to the performance of licensed activities or his being employed to perform NRC-licensed activities (as described in 1 above). The notice shall include the name, address, and telephone number of the NRC or Agreement State licensee and the location where the licensed activities will be performed. 4. If Mr. Boomer is currently involved in NRC-licensed activities at an employer or entity, Mr. Boomer shall, in accordance with Paragraph 1 above, immediately cease such activities and provide notice within 20 days of the date of this Order to the Director, Office of Enforcement, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555 of the name, address and telephone number of the employer or entity where the licensed activities are being conducted. Further, Mr. Boomer shall provide a copy of this Order to his employer if his employer is engaged in NRC-licensed activities. The Director, Office of Enforcement, may, in writing, relax or rescind any of the above conditions upon a showing by Mr. Boomer of good cause. V In accordance with 10 CFR 2.202, Mr. Boomer must, and any other person adversely affected by this Order may, submit an answer to this Order, and may request a hearing on this Order, within 20 days of the date of this Order. The answer may consent to this Order. Unless the answer consents to this Order, the answer shall, in writing and under oath or affirmation, specifically admit or deny each allegation or charge made in this Order and shall set forth the matters of fact and law on which Mr. Boomer or any other person adversely affected relies and the reasons as to why the Order should not have been issued. Any answer or request for a hearing shall be submitted to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Attn: Chief, Docketing and Service Section, Washington, DC 20555. Copies also shall be sent to the Director, Office of Enforcement, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555; to the Assistant General Counsel for Hearings and Enforcement at the same address, to the Regional Administrator, NRC Region II, 101 Marietta Street NW., suite 2900, Atlanta, Georgia 30323, and to Mr. Boomer if the answer or hearing request is by a person other than Mr. Boomer. If a person other than Mr. Boomer requests a hearing, that person shall set forth with particularity the manner in which his or her interest is adversely affected by this Order and shall address the criteria set forth in 10 CFR 2.714(d). If a hearing is requested by Mr. Boomer or a person whose interest is adversely affected, the Commission will issue an Order designating the time and place of any hearing. If a hearing is held, the issue to be considered at such hearing shall be whether this Order should be sustained. Pursuant to 10 CFR 2.202(c)(2)(i), Mr. Boomer, or any other person adversely affected by this Order, may, in addition to demanding a hearing, at the time the answer is filed or sooner, move the presiding officer to set aside the immediate effectiveness of the Order on the ground that the Order, including the need for immediate effectiveness, is not based on adequate evidence but on mere suspicion, unfounded allegations, or error. In the absence of any request for hearing, the provisions specified in Section IV above shall be final 20 days from the date of this Order without further Order or processing. An answer or a request for hearing shall not stay the immediate effectiveness of this Order. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 14th day of July 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Hugh L. Thompson, Jr., Deputy Executive Director for Nuclear Materials Safety, Safeguards and Operations Support. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17844 Filed 7&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
