FR940505-1-00036 FR940505-1-00012 Lacking detailed, specific information about every emissions source in each FIP area, the choice EPA has made in this proposal is to seek further reductions in all categories of pollution sources generally in the same proportion as their remaining contribution to the problem. Given EPA's distant starting point in this area of regulation (i.e. EPA is not the local air board) this approach is as fair as EPA can be. This means that the FIPs' reductions are generally apportioned in an ``equal,'' across-the-board fashion even though individual pollution sources or source categories may vary substantially in their starting points (the extent to which they have already reduced their emissions) and in their ability to achieve further emission reductions. Local air boards have a greater capacity for developing the kind of detailed, specific information about local emissions sources which can improve and replace these policies. EPA encourages the local boards to do so wherever possible. As a result, significant further reductions must be achieved by industrial sources, such as petroleum refineries, which may have already invested hundreds of millions of dollars in control equipment. EPA is proposing that these sources reduce their VOC and NO X emissions still further, not only through conventional, technology-based regulations (for example, the fugitive emissions regulation presented in section III.C.3.j.), but also through market-based ``cap'' rules, which allow sources the flexibility to select their reduction approach so long as overall emissions are reduced annually (see section III.C.5.). Area source emissions must also be dramatically reduced through regulations that apply either to individuals or, in some cases, the national manufacturers and distributors of materials whose application, storage, or use contribute evaporative VOC emissions. The category of area sources proposed for new (or further) regulation in the FIPs includes such diverse substances or activities as clean-up solvents, architectural coatings, waste burning, landfills, pesticides, consumer products, livestock waste, and residential water heaters (see sections III.C.3. and III.C.4.). Certain of the area sources present special challenges both to the regulated community and to the regulator. For example, today's NPRM includes a proposal that manufacturers of pesticides not only continue to comply with existing state and federal rules that address toxics concerns but also reformulate their products sold in California to diminish VOC emissions (section III.C.4.d.). Regulation of other area sources, including most categories of consumer products, involves complex considerations of the extent to which additional reductions can be achieved without negatively affecting the products' quality or its effectiveness. 7 7 In the case of consumer products, CARB has already undertaken these analyses and adopted regulations. These FIPs do not include any new requirements for these consumer product categories, but would make the existing state requirements federally enforceable.
