FR940826-0-00006 FR940826-0-00002 This action terminates the provisions of the marketing orders regulating the handling of navel and Valencia oranges grown in Arizona and designated parts of California and lemons grown in California and Arizona. On May 16, 1994, the Deputy Secretary announced in a press release that it was the Department's intention to terminate the marketing orders for California-Arizona navel oranges, Valencia oranges, and lemons. The decision noted the division and turmoil in the industry surrounding the California-Arizona citrus orders. The press release stated that there is a clear indication that the programs are not working as they should. The California-Arizona citrus orders have been marked by industry divisiveness and widespread order violations. In an effort to reach a satisfactory resolution of industry differences, the Secretary suspended the weekly volume regulation provisions of the orange orders on June 18, 1993, and invited the industry to submit proposed amendments to the orders that could achieve the program objectives. After a year, serious differences remain, with no apparent consensus among the industry. Instead, the orders themselves are contributing to the divisiveness in the industry and are working to the detriment of growers, packers, and consumers. Therefore, based on the above considerations, pursuant to section 8c(16)(A) of the Act and ยง907.83, ยง908.83, and ยง910.84 of the respective marketing orders, it is found that 7 CFR Parts 907, 908, and 910 no longer tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, and they are hereby terminated. Section 8c(16)(A) of the Act requires the Secretary to notify Congress 60 days in advance of the termination of a Federal marketing order. Congress was so notified on May 16, 1994, and the termination of Marketing Orders Nos. 907, 908, and 910 shall become effective on August 26, 1994. Based on the unanimous recommendations of the Navel Orange Administrative Committee (NOAC), the Valencia Orange Administrative Committee (VOAC), and the Lemon Administrative Committee (LAC), the Secretary has determined that Alvin Freisen (VOAC chairperson), and all five members of the joint executive committee for the NOAC and the VOAC, will serve as trustees for the NOAC and the VOAC and that all six members of the executive committee of the LAC (including alternates) will serve as trustees for the LAC in order to oversee the administrative affairs of the respective orders. The trustees will be responsible for completing the orders' unfinished business, including ensuring termination of all outstanding agreements and contracts, and the payment of all obligations. The trustees will be responsible for safeguarding program assets, holding committee records, and arranging for a financial audit to be conducted. All such actions by the trustees are subject to the approval of the Secretary. Those designated as trustees for the NOAC and VOAC are Ms. Darlene V. Ohnemus (VOAC and NOAC member), Mr. Robert O. Bream (NOAC member), Mr. Christopher R. Frame (NOAC chairperson), Mr. William E. Slattery (VOAC member), Mr. David R. Giller (VOAC member), and Mr. Alvin Friesen (VOAC chairperson). Those designated as trustees for the LAC are Mr. Solon J. Boydston (LAC member), Ms. Darlene V. Ohnemus (LAC member), Mr. David R. Giller (LAC member), Mr. Alvin Friesen (LAC member), Mr. Charles R. Bell (LAC member), and Mr. Christopher R. Frame (LAC member). The trustees shall continue in their capacity until discharged by the Secretary. The remainder of the reserves, after immediate expenses are paid, will be held by the trustees to be used to cover unforeseen, outstanding expenses obligated by the committees. It is also found and determined upon good cause that it is impracticable, unnecessary, and contrary to the public interest to give preliminary notice or to engage in further public procedure prior to putting this action into effect and that good cause exists for not postponing the effective date of this action until 30 days after publication because: (1) Growers and handlers are aware of this action since notice was given to Congress and the termination was announced in a press release issued by the Secretary on May 16, 1994; (2) this action relieves restrictions on handlers by terminating the requirements of the marketing orders regulating the handling of California-Arizona navel oranges, Valencia oranges, and lemons; and (3) no useful purpose would be served by delaying this action. Based on available information, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. List of Subjects 7 CFR Parts 907 and 908 Marketing agreements, Oranges, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 7 CFR Part 910 Lemons, Marketing agreements, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, under the authority of 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674, 7 CFR Parts 907, 908, and 910 are amended as follows: PART 907_[REMOVED] 1. Part 907_Navel Oranges Grown in Arizona and Designated Part of California is removed. PART 908_[REMOVED] 2. Part 908_Valencia Oranges Grown in Arizona and Designated Part of California is removed. PART 910_[REMOVED] 3. Part 910_Lemons Grown in California and Arizona is removed. Dated: August 22, 1994. Patricia Jensen, Acting Assistant Secretary, Marketing and Inspection Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21079 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
