FR941205-1-00041 FR941205-1-00014 •Joint service, which is defined by the Commission's regulations as *␣*␣* *␣*␣*␣an agreement between ocean common carriers operating as a joint venture whereby a separate service is established which: (1) Holds itself out in its own distinct operating name; (2) independently fixes its own rates, charges, practices and conditions of service or chooses to participate in its operating name in another agreement which is duly authorized to determine and implement such activities; (3) independently publishes its own tariff or chooses to participate in its operating name in an otherwise established tariff; (4) issues its own bills of lading; and (5) acts generally as a single carrier. The common use of facilities may occur and there is no competition between members for traffic in the agreement trade; but they otherwise maintain their separate identities. 46 CFR 572.104(n). While the introduction of a joint service into a trade by outside lines may increase the level of competition and the range of services available for shippers, there can be negative effects on competition and service if the joint service is formed by lines that up to that point had been competing in the trade, and especially if the new entity would have substantial market power. •``Capacity management'' or ``capacity regulation''. This relatively new technique for dealing with overtonnaging and depressed rates limits the availability of vessel space to shippers but does not reduce the real capacity of the carriers. Therefore, such programs have the potential to perpetuate economic inefficiencies and unnecessary costs for shippers, particularly if they remain in place beyond short-term cargo declines or surges in capacity. Agreements authorizing such programs have sufficiently serious ramifications under the 1984 Act to warrant thorough monitoring. •Regulation or discussion of service contracts. Most agreements engaging in this activity are conference agreements, which would already be covered by the ``ratemaking'' criterion discussed above. However, agreements among non-conference lines may include authority to confer and to reach ``non-binding'' agreements on service contract terms, and such authority may well diminish price and service competition.
