FR940405-1-00061 FR940405-1-00013 Exposures that cause hypersensitivity reactions include microorganisms, fumes, vapors, and dusts (Table III&hyph;5). These exposures are associated with the development of hypersensitivity pneumonitis or a less serious variant, humidifier fever [Ex. 4&hyph;33]. Many of these contaminants are found in the nonindustrial workplace. Birds and rodents are common pests. Air intakes can be contaminated with bird droppings and other avian-associated problems when used as nesting sites. These problems can affect the quality of the air being brought into the ventilation system through these air intakes. Rodent infestations affect work areas directly. Many of the chemicals listed in Table III&hyph;5 are commonly found in most workplaces. In summary, exposure to contaminants in nonindustrial workplaces will vary according to the characteristics of the building. These include its age, types of materials used in construction and the type of equipment and supplies that are used by building occupants. The design, maintenance, and operation of the building's HVAC system as well as the general housekeeping of the building, can greatly influence the levels of contaminants that exist. OSHA requests data on the levels of these contaminants in nonindustrial workplaces. Table III&hyph;5._ Indoor Air Contaminants Associated With Hypersensitivity Pneumonitis1 1Class 1Typical examples Animals: Avian High and low molecular weight proteins from feathers and droppings. Rodent Low molecular weight proteins from urine and feces. Arthropods: Weevils Sitophilus spp. Mites Ascaris spp. Altered Host Proteins or Chemical Hapten-Carrier Conjugates Amines, anhydrides, epoxy resins vegetable gums, and isocyanates. Microbes: Bacteria Thermoactinomycetes spp., Bacillus spp. Fungi Aspergillus spp., Auerobasillium spp., Cephalosporium spp., Penicillium spp. Organic Dusts & Particulates: Wood Bark, Sawdust and Pollen. Grain Arthropod- and microbially-contaminated grains and flours. Cleaning Products Dust residues from carpet cleaning agents. 1Source: Ex. 4&hyph;33.
