FR940817-2-00214 FR940817-2-00113 Wednesday August 17, 1994 Part III Environmental Protection Agency Final Report: Principles of Neurotoxicity Risk Assessment; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 158␣/␣Wednesday, August 17, 1994␣/␣Notices ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5050&hyph;9] Final Report: Principles of Neurotoxicity Risk Assessment AGENCY: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Final Document. SUMMARY: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is publishing a document entitled Final Report: Principles of Neurotoxicity Risk Assessment , which was prepared by the Working Party on Neurotoxicology under the auspices of the Subcommittee on Risk Assessment of the Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology (FCCSET). The purpose of this report is to articulate a view of neurotoxicology that scientists generally hold in common today and to draw on this understanding to generate a series of general principles that can be used to establish guidelines for assessing neurotoxicity risk. It is not the intent of this report to provide specific directives for how neurotoxicity risk assessment should be performed. The intent of this document is to provide the scientific basis for the development of a cogent strategy for neurotoxicity risk assessment. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This document is the result of the combined efforts of senior scientists of 13 Federal agencies comprising the ad hoc Interagency Committee on Neurotoxicology, including the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Department of Agriculture, Department of Defense, Environmental Protection Agency, National Center for Toxicological Research, National Institutes of Health, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, and National Toxicology Program. Discussions were held under the auspices of the Working Party on Neurotoxicology of the Subcommittee on Risk Assessment of the Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology. The draft report, a product of the Working Party on Neurotoxicology, contains six chapters: an introduction, an overview of the discipline of neurotoxicology, a review of methods for assessing human neurotoxicity, a review of methods for assessing animal neurotoxicity, an overview of principles of neurotoxicity risk assessment, and a general summary. The draft report was prepared in view of the decision-making processes currently used by many regulatory agencies relating to neurotoxicity risk assessment. It is intended that the principles reviewed in this document will serve as the basis for consistent regulatory neurotoxicity guidelines to be used by Federal agencies to meet their respective legislative mandates. This document is not meant to be used to perform risk assessment nor does it recommend one approach or strategy. The document reviews the science of neurotoxicology and attempts to formulate general assumptions and principles that could lead to such approaches or strategies. The draft report has undergone interagency review under the auspices of the Subcommittee on Risk Assessment of FCCSET. Public comments received were used in the preparation of the final report by the Working Party on Neurotoxicology. Dated: August 9, 1994. Ken Sexton, Director, Office of Health Research.
