FR940223-1-00047 FR940223-1-00007 POSTAL SERVICE 39 CFR Part 111 Classification of Computer-Readable Periodical Publications AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Postal Service seeks comments from interested parties concerning the possible admissibility of periodicals produced on electronic media into second-class mail. This request for comments is prompted by the increasing usage of these electronic media, and may lead to a change in the requirement that second-class mail be formed of printed sheets. DATES: Comments must be received by April 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Address all comments to the Manager, Publications, USPS Headquarters, 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW., Washington, DC 20260&hyph;2409. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lyn E. Seidler, (202) 268&hyph;2261. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Postal Service has noted that a number of publications which currently have second-class mailing privileges are also available to subscribers in alternate media, such as floppy diskettes and CD&hyph;ROMs. These alternate media, even if containing exactly the same information that is available in the paper version of the second-class publication, are not currently eligible for second-class mailing privileges because the Postal Service has interpreted the requirement that ``second-class must be formed of printed sheets'' to exclude this material. (See section 200.0103 of the Domestic Mail Classification Schedule, reprinted in 39 CFR part 3001, subpart C, appendix A.) While current usage of these alternate media appears to be limited, it is expected that future usage will increase. It is also expected that new types of information not available in traditional second-class publications (e.g., videos or musical accompaniment) will become available in these alternate media, and that new ways of presenting and using this information may make simple analogies to traditional second-class publications more difficult. The Postal Service believes it might be useful at this time to review the printed sheet requirement pertaining to the mailing of second-class publications and other aspects of the classification of non-print media. Commenters should keep in mind that the other requirements for second-class matter have not been identified for reconsideration at this time. These requirements include that the matter must be originated and published for the purpose of disseminating information of a public character or devoted to literature, the sciences, art or some special industry; that it must be issued at stated intervals no less than four times per year; that there be limited advertising in issues; and that there be a list of subscribers/requesters, as applicable. Options available for the classification of non-print media include, but are not limited to: 1. Allowing publications in non-printed sheet formats to be mailed at second-class rates, if they meet all other current requirements of second class. 2. Requiring matter not on printed sheets to be mailed at non-second class rates, such as first-, third-, or fourth-class mail. 3. Allowing only some material, in highly specific formats (such as 100% non-advertising content), to be eligible for second-class rates. 4. Establishing an entirely new classification (class, subclass or rate category) to meet the service and pricing needs of mailers of non-printed sheet publications. Therefore, in view of the foregoing, the Postal Service requests from interested parties, comments and proposals on the following subjects: 1. How are publications on diskette or CD&hyph;ROM currently mailed or distributed (e.g., via first-class mail, third-class mail, alternate delivery services, etc.)? 2. Should publications in non-printed sheet formats be eligible for second-class? a. Would allowing formats other than printed paper sheets maintain the integrity of second-class? b. Should computer diskettes and CD&hyph;ROMs be considered ``printed sheets?'' c. If formats other than printed sheets are to be allowed, should these formats be limited to computer diskettes and CD&hyph;ROMS, or should other formats be eligible? What would these other formats be? d. If additional formats are to be eligible, would the material have to meet the other existing criteria for second-class eligibility, such as periodicity? e. Should second-class eligibility be limited to media that contain information nearly identical to the paper-based issues already eligible for second class? For example, should publications containing audio or video segments be excluded? If they are not to be excluded, how are they to be measured for postage computation purposes? How much or what kind of variance between the paper and non-paper formats would be appropriate? f. If additional formats are allowed, there may be an impact, either positive or negative, on postal handling and administrative costs, and subsequently, rates. Therefore, should there be additional machinability and/or preparation requirements for the new formats? g. How should the Postal Service handle the determination and verification of advertising percentage, postage, weight, and other factors that are physically measurable with printed sheets? Given industry trends, is it likely that publications in additional formats will evolve in such a way as to make both editorial and advertising content increasingly difficult to measure? h. Should mixed formats be allowed in a mailing (e.g., paper and CD&hyph;ROM)? 3. If any commenter believes that the Postal Service should request a recommended decision from the Postal Rate Commission to establish a new classification (class, subclass or rate category) that would include materials in electronic formats that may or may not meet the current requirements for second-class publications, such as periodicity or a subscriber/requester list, the commenter is asked to also comment on the following: a. If a new rate category were to be established, what are the current and anticipated future rate and service requirements for materials in additional formats? For example, within how many days of issue do they need to be delivered locally, nationally, etc.? b. What should be eligible for this new classification? Should eligibility be limited to publications, or should other items in electronic format be included? c. Should this classification be a new class, subclass or rate category: The Postal Service will evaluate the comments and proposals received in response to this notice and issue a notice of proposed rulemaking if it determines that such action is appropriate. Stanley F. Mires, Chief Counsel, Legislative. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3920 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7710&hyph;12&hyph;M
