FR940725-2-00043 FR940725-2-00033 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Care Financing Administration Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority; Administrative and Program Delegations of Authorities Part F of the Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority for the Department of Health and Human Services, Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), ( Federal Register , Vol. 59, No. 60, pp. 14645&hyph;14647, dated Tuesday, March 29, 1994) is amended to reflect a change to the functional statements for the Management Planning and Analysis Staff and the Division of Staffing and Employee Services, within the Office of Human Resources, Office of Financial and Human Resources, Associate Administrator for Operations and Resource Management. The Specific Amendments to Part F Are as Follows: •Section F.20.D.3.a. (Functions) Management Planning and Analysis Staff is amended by deleting both the administrative and program delegations of authorities and the management studies from the current functional statement and replacing it with the new functional statement which read as follows: a. Management Planning and Analysis Staff (FLA&hyph;1) •Provides Agency-wide services, policy, direction, and coordination with respect to HCFA's management analysis, planning, and control programs including: work planning, productivity improvement, internal controls, Office of Inspector General audit resolutions' functions, advisory and assistance services certification, contracting of commercial and industrial activities, the administrative issuances system, memoranda of understanding and interagency agreements, paperwork reduction, and information collection budget programs. •Advises the OFHR Director in management analysis activities. •Provides services, policy direction, and coordination regarding the HCFA paperwork reduction activities. •Section F.20.D.3.a.(3) (Functions) Division of Staffing and Employees Services is amended by adding the program delegations of authority and the management studies functions to the functional statement and replacing it with the new functional statement which read as follows: (3) Division of Staffing and Employee Services (FLA23) •Provides service to all central office HCFA components in the areas of recruitment, in-service staffing, selective placement, and pre-employment investigations, and personnel security clearances for all types of appointments and all occupational classes and levels of work (except Senior Executive Service, Schedule C, and related appointments). •Provides advice, guidance, and consultation to HCFA supervisory and management officials on such issues as optimal staffing mixes, recruitment sources, and qualification factors. •Interprets regulations, guides, directives, and bulletins related to staffing and personnel services. •Establishes and maintains the employment data base for routine and special reports and statistical studies related to the employee population. •Plans and controls the central system for all personnel and payroll employee transaction processes, (except U.S. Savings Bonds), serves as the official custodian for all personnel folder clearances, confidential reports, employment agreements and other related areas. •Plans, administers, and evaluates HCFA-wide employee benefits, health, and wellness program activities. •Provides general employee counseling on such matters as retirement, life insurance, health plans, workers' compensation claims, and unemployment compensation claims. •Serves as the central HCFA reference point for inquiries, guidance, and interpretation on employee benefits, health, and wellness matters. •Processes insurance claims and annuity applications for retirees and survivors of deceased employees. Processes the full range of employee benefit and payroll transaction documents, with the exception of U.S. Savings Bonds. •Directs programs for occupational health services, employee health enhancement, physical fitness, and blood assurance programs. Plans and administers the Agency's contract for the Employee Assistance Program. •Directs and administers HCFA's child care initiative. Directs the Agency's Voluntary Leave Transfer and Video Display Terminal Eye Care Programs. •Under direction of the HCFA Deputy Ethics Officer, plans and administers the entire ethics program for both central and regional offices. Reviews financial disclosure reports prior to departmental submittal and coordinates outside activity requests and approvals. •Directs and coordinates all Agency medical determinations related to employability issues, such as fitness for duty and reasonable accommodation. •Develops, reviews, analyzes, and maintains existing or proposed Agency-wide program delegations of authority. •Conducts special studies and analyses concerning Agency-wide and cross cutting OFHR issues and other broad based administrative issues. Dated: July 1, 1994. Steven A. Pelovitz, Associate Administrator for Operations and Resource Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18005 Filed 7&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
