FR940902-2-00014 FR940902-2-00011 Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS); Demonstration Project in Europe AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, DoD. ACTION: Notice of a CHAMPUS demonstration project to be implemented in Europe. SUMMARY: Military force reductions in Europe have resulted in diminished military medical services for many areas, particularly those where the active duty end strength has fallen below levels which would support a military health clinic. Service members and their families, particularly those in remote areas, have experienced significant access problems in areas where military medical services have either been substantially reduced or eliminated. Although some military families currently use civilian providers, differences in U.S. and local national billing practices have resulted in payment delays which are unacceptable to host nation providers. Because local systems are not conducive to calculation and collection of beneficiary deductibles and cost shares, these payments by beneficiaries are often overlooked or substantially delayed and have become a source of major dissatisfaction among local providers. As a result, some local providers have indicated they are no longer willing to accept CHAMPUS patients while others have begun to require payment for services in advance. This demonstration is proposed for the purpose of testing whether special agreements with host nation medical providers and elimination of CHAMPUS deductible and cost shares can enhance beneficiary access to required care. Although earlier demonstration proposals for Europe limited participation to medically remote or underserved areas, payment issues which have become barriers to access affect all active duty families in Europe who must seek care in host nation hospitals and clinics. For this reason, the demonstration is proposed for the entire region. Demonstration participants will include family members of all active duty personnel in the uniformed services located in countries served by OCHAMPUS EUROPE. Under Title 10, U.S. Code, Section 1092, the Department is authorized to test different methods of financing delivery of health care services under CHAMPUS. DATES: Beginning 1 October 1994, active duty family members in countries served by OCHAMPUS EUROPE who cannot obtain required services in military hospitals and clinics may obtain those services from civilian providers without paying cost shares and deductibles normally required under standard CHAMPUS. CHAMPUS eligible beneficiaries other than active duty family members are not eligible for participation. Standard CHAMPUS is still available for individuals who do not qualify under this program. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: CDR Deborah Kamin, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs), (703) 697&hyph;8975. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under this CHAMPUS demonstration, active duty family members who are unable to access services in a military medical treatment facility (MTF) may obtain both inpatient and outpatient services through local national medical facilities. Where possible, written agreements will be executed between these local national medical facilities and elements of the uniformed services in areas served by OCHAMPUS EUROPE. Care received under this demonstration project would require neither the cost share nor the deductible normally collected for inpatient and outpatient services under standard CHAMPUS. While the primary demonstration component, elimination of CHAMPUS cost shares and deductibles, applies to all active duty families, development of referral networks and agreements with host nation providers will be phased, with earliest attention directed at remote or underserved areas which have experienced significant reduction or elimination of military medical services. Initial development of referral networks and agreements will occur in Germany. Demonstration participation will be restricted to active duty dependents. Active duty service members will be included in provider agreements; separate procedures and funding will be used to account and process payment for care rendered to active duty personnel as required by current regulation. The Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs) will act as executive agent for purposes of this demonstration and will assume overall responsibility for demonstration policy, implementation, and monitoring. DURATION: This demonstration will operate for one year with two additional option years. Continuation of the program will depend on a program evaluation conducted toward the end of the first year of operation. It is our hypothesis that specific agreements with local national providers will clarify relationships and forge stronger links between U.S. and host nation providers. These links will become more critical as troop withdrawals continue to affect U.S. military medical presence and capabilities in Europe. Elimination of the beneficiary cost share and deductible should ease a major source of conflict with respect to payment of host nation providers, thereby improving access to care for our beneficiaries. A decreasing military presence in Europe can be likened to a shrinking ``market power'' and, hence, less capability for area commanders to negotiate favorable arrangements and/or access to local civilian medical services. Formal agreements which clarify DoD's commitment to payment procedures and deadlines and a streamlined administrative process without copayments and deductibles should provide positive incentive for local facilities to accept CHAMPUS beneficiaries. EXCLUSIONS TO THE EUROPE DEMONSTRATION PROJECT: Participation in this demonstration is limited to active duty dependents. All current CHAMPUS rules, unless this notice specifically provides otherwise, will continue to apply. This notice reflects the changes under this demonstration which is expected to start 1 October 1994. Dated: August 29, 1994. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21705 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
