FR940725-1-00080 FR940725-1-00010 (2) A downward pitching motion of the airplane that results from the activation of a stall avoidance device (for example, stick pusher); or (3) The control reaching the stop. (c) Normal use of elevator control for recovery is allowed after the downward pitching motion of (b)(1) or (b)(2) has unmistakably been produced, or after the control has been held against the stop for not less than the longer of two seconds or the time employed in the minimum steady flight speed determination of ยง23.49. (d) During the entry into and the recovery from the maneuver, it must be possible to prevent more than 15 degrees of roll or yaw by the normal use of controls. (e) Compliance with the requirements of this section must be shown under the following conditions: (1) Wing flaps. Retracted, fully extended, and each intermediate normal operating position. (2) Landing gear. Retracted and extended. (3) Cowl flaps. Appropriate to configuration. (4) Power: (i) Power off; and (ii) 75 percent of maximum continuous power. However, if the power-to-weight ratio at 75 percent of maximum continuous power results in extreme nose-up attitudes, the test may be carried out with the power required for level flight in the landing configuration at maximum landing weight and a speed of 1.4 V SO , except that the power may not be less than 50 percent of maximum continuous power. (5) Trim. The airplane trimmed at a speed as near 1.5 V S1 as practicable. (6) Propeller. Full increase r.p.m. position for the power off condition. 34. Section 23.203 is amended by revising the section heading and introductory text, paragraph (a), the introductory text of paragraph (b), paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5), the introductory text of paragraph (c), and paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(4), and by adding new paragraphs (b)(6) and (c)(6) to read as follows: ยง23.203 Turning flight and accelerated turning stalls. Turning flight and accelerated turning stalls must be demonstrated in tests as follows: (a) Establish and maintain a coordinated turn in a 30 degree bank. Reduce speed by steadily and progressively tightening the turn with the elevator until the airplane is stalled, as defined in ยง23.201(b). The rate of speed reduction must be constant, and_ (1) For a turning flight stall, may not exceed one knot per second; and (2) For an accelerated turning stall, be 3 to 5 knots per second with steadily increasing normal acceleration. (b) After the airplane has stalled, as defined in ยง23.201(b), it must be possible to regain wings level flight by normal use of the flight controls, but without increasing power and without_ * * * * * (4) Exceeding a bank angle of 60 degrees in the original direction of the turn or 30 degrees in the opposite direction in the case of turning flight stalls; (5) Exceeding a bank angle of 90 degrees in the original direction of the turn or 60 degrees in the opposite direction in the case of accelerated turning stalls; and (6) Exceeding the maximum permissible speed or allowable limit load factor. (c) Compliance with the requirements of this section must be shown under the following conditions: (1) Wing flaps: Retracted, fully extended, and each intermediate normal operating position; * * * * * (4) Power: (i) Power off; and (ii) 75 percent of maximum continuous power. However, if the power-to-weight ratio at 75 percent of maximum continuous power results in extreme nose-up attitudes, the test may be carried out with the power required for level flight in the landing configuration at maximum landing weight and a speed of 1.4 V SO , except that the power may not be less than 50 percent of maximum continuous power. * * * * *
