FR940920-1-00046 FR940920-1-00007 Although the above technologies are effective at removing Cd, Pb, and other metals, they do not consistently remove Hg without integrating some other form of Hg control. A discussion of Hg control is presented below. b. Mercury Control Technologies. The EPA estimates that typical uncontrolled Hg emission levels from MWC's in the United States range from 0.20 to 1.4 mg/dscm at 7 percent O 2 . Unlike other metals, Hg has a high vapor pressure at typical operating temperatures of air pollution control devices; therefore, collection of Hg by the PM control device is highly variable. The EPA collected test data from more than 30 MWC's with various air pollution control device systems that indicate a wide range of Hg control. High-efficiency PM control, lower flue gas temperatures in the air pollution control system, and a sufficient level of carbon in the fly ash facilitate Hg control. Higher levels of carbon in the fly ash and reduced flue gas temperatures enhance Hg adsorption onto the carbon, which can then be removed by the PM control device. To promote Hg adsorption, it is important to operate the control systems at temperatures less than about 150 to 200 ○C. Low flue gas temperature is inherent to acid gas control. Municipal waste combustors with high combustion efficiency will have effective carbon burnout and, therefore, will have low fly ash carbon content. These units may achieve little or no Hg control even when equipped with acid gas/PM control systems, and the control may be highly variable even at the same site. Three techniques of Hg control are currently being used: Activated carbon injection, sodium sulfide (Na 2 S) injection, and wet scrubbing. Activated carbon injection and Na 2 S injection are used in conjunction with an acid gas control device. Brief discussions of these three Hg control technologies and their capabilities are presented below. Injection of powdered activated carbon into the flue gas prior to the acid gas/PM control device has been tested at U.S. MWC's. The removal mechanism is not fully understood, but it is believed that activated carbon is a catalyst for the oxidation of elemental Hg to mercuric oxide and mercuric chloride, which can more readily be captured in the air pollution control device. This technology has been applied commercially to MWC's in Europe equipped with SD/ESP's and during test programs in Europe and Canada to MWC's with SD/FF's and DSI/FF's. The EPA also recently tested activated carbon injection at the Stanislaus County MWC in California and the Camden County MWC in New Jersey. The Stanislaus County MWC is equipped with an SD/FF, and the Camden County MWC is equipped with an SD/ESP. Test results show Hg reductions greater than 85 percent when injecting activated carbon. Another Hg control technology that has been applied to MWC's is Na 2 S injection. Sodium sulfide is a crystalline solid that dissolves in water. The resulting Na 2 S solution is sprayed into the flue gas prior to the acid gas/PM control device. The reaction of Na 2 S and Hg precipitates solid mercuric sulfide (HgS) that is collected in the PM control device. Three MWC's in Sweden, two in Germany, and one in Canada have used Na 2 S injection to control Hg emissions. All of these facilities use DSI/FF systems for acid gas/PM control, and injection of Na 2 S occurs prior to the DSI/FF system at flue gas temperatures of 130 to 250 ○C. In addition, Hg emission tests were conducted at the Stanislaus County MWC in California while using Na 2 S injection. Results from tests at European, Canadian, and U.S. MWC's have shown Hg removal efficiencies of 40 to 90 percent when using Na 2 S injection. Wet scrubbing is a form of acid gas control that also controls Hg without use of an add-on Hg control system. This technology has primarily been used on MWC's in Europe and Japan. Typically, the flue gas is first directed through an ESP to reduce PM, followed by wet scrubbing, which involves passing the flue gas through a one- or two-stage absorber system where the gas stream is saturated with an alkaline solution. During this process, flue gas temperatures are reduced to as low as 55 ○C. The low absorber operating temperature promotes Hg condensation, resulting in an Hg reduction of greater than 80 percent. The alkaline solution used in the wet scrubbing process, typically containing calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH) 2 ), reacts with the acid gas to form salts, which are generally insoluble and may be removed by sequential clarifying, thickening, and vacuum filtering. The dewatered salts or sludges are then sent to a landfill. The disadvantages of wet scrubbing include the quantity of water required, potential difficulties with waste handling, and undefined performance at U.S. MWC units firing U.S. MSW streams.
