FR940721-1-00059 FR940721-1-00014 Referral payments, commenters repeatedly pointed out, permit vertically integrated real estate companies to provide financial incentives to their employees to make all settlement service referrals to affiliated companies. As a result, settlement service providers tied to a real estate company are ``insulated from competition on prices and services.'' RESPA was adopted, one commenter observed, because of Congress' recognition that the very nature of the real estate transaction is arcane and cumbersome, and that the typical consumer lacks any comparable economic experiences. The Consumers Federation of America (CFA) noted that the consumer has traditionally relied for assistance on the real estate broker (who ordinarily is an agent of the seller)_a person in ``a highly privileged position of influence over the consumer *␣*␣*.'' CFA concluded that RESPA evidences congressional recognition that this influence can be easily abused for broker self-gain at the material expense of consumers. The Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) and other commenters remarked that in the absence of referral fees, real estate agents may be expected to afford good advice to home buyers. The real estate agent has an incentive (the prospect of a sales commission, as well as potential business referrals and repeat business) to send a buyer to a lender offering the best combination of service and price. However, when the person making the referral has another motive_a direct financial interest_it becomes less clear that the agent or broker's referral will be made with the best interests of the home buyer uppermost, the MBA asserted. According to its opponents, the principal consequences of the employer-employee exemption were: (i) Failure to refer home buyers to lenders and other settlement service providers that provide the best service and prices; and (ii) Ultimate reduction or elimination of competition in the industry, brought about by ``unfair competition'' driving out small, independent settlement service providers. CFA echoed the arguments of lenders, attorneys, and title insurance providers who repeatedly asserted that home buyers lacked the experience to be sophisticated consumers: For better or worse, consumers are simply not effective financial services shoppers *␣*␣*. Since there is no possibility of one-stop shopping because the consumer is not shopping, the core claim of consumer benefit offered by controlled business arrangement advocates_consumer choice_crumbles under the weight of economic reality *␣*␣*. Although shopping may not be occurring, there is, nonetheless, the profound opportunity for `reverse competition' created by a captive market willing to pay higher-than-market prices. What this rule champions is not one-stop shopping, but, rather, one-stop pick-pocketing of the consumer through the multi-layers of a diversified financial services holding company. 3 3 CFA cited and characterized a report commissioned by HUD from Peat Marwick in 1980 as finding that two-thirds of home buyers included in that sample did no ``shopping'' at all for a lender, and that more than 80 percent failed to ``shop'' for settlement services. Commenters opposed to referral payments were not persuaded by arguments in the 1992 final rule in support of permitting employer-employee referrals. ``What matters,'' one commenter said, ``is not that the payment is going from employer to employee *␣*␣* [but] that there is payment for a raw referral, creating the very anti-competitive and anti-consumer financial incentive Section 8 [of RESPA] was intended to eliminate.'' (b) Legal Arguments Against Referral Payments . Many of the same commenters who opposed referral payments on policy or economic grounds also argued that permitting employer-employee payments for referrals directly violated the RESPA statute. CFA, after characterizing the events that led to the Congress' 1983 controlled business arrangement amendments to RESPA, asserted that the Congress' clear intent was to permit controlled business arrangements ``only under certain specific conditions.'' The final rule, CFA claimed, ``grossly exceeds any reasonable interpretation of statutory authority, and *␣*␣* has returned the settlement service marketplace_or at least the controlled business arrangement market_to the pre-RESPA era of anti-consumer and anti-competitive brokerage steering.'' MBA and other commenters observed that Section 8(c)(4)(C) of RESPA states that controlled business arrangements are permissible as long as ``the only thing of value that is received from the arrangement, other than payments permitted under this subsection, is a return on the ownership interest or franchise relationship.'' MBA argued that because the final rule permits employees to receive a ``bonus'' when they refer settlement business to affiliates, the rule ``fails to give effect to the plain language of the statute.'' (c) Arguments in Support of the Employer-Employee Exception . Several institutional commenters, along with real estate brokers, lenders, insurance companies, and vertically integrated real estate service providers, expressed support for the employer-employee exception provided for in §3500.14(g)(2)(ii) of the final rule. The Director of the Consumer and Community Affairs Division of the Federal Reserve System supported the rule's exemption for employer payments to its own employees for referral services, saying that it is a ``legitimate expectation'' that an employee would make referrals for the employer and be compensated for the referrals. Prohibiting payment for referrals, the Federal Reserve spokesperson said, would prove difficult from an enforcement standpoint, since examiners would then be required to review employer bonus and salary policies to determine whether compensation was based on general performance, or whether it included payments for referrals. The Federal Reserve spokesperson also expressed a concern related to the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2901 et seq.) and to the Federal Reserve's efforts to encourage banks to refer business to community-based lenders: *␣*␣* A bank may support these efforts by rewarding employees for referring potential applicants who have not previously considered the [Community Reinvestment target] bank an accessible community lender. An adverse interpretation by HUD of this provision could be detrimental to future innovations and developments in community lending. The Real Estate Services Providers Council (RESPRO) pointed out that the November 2, 1992, rule makes clear that employer payments to employees cannot be reimbursed by the party receiving the referral, or that employer payments cannot be made to nonemployees. The Consumer Bankers Association (CBA), although generally supportive of the final rule, urged HUD to go further by expanding the exemption to the referral fee prohibition to allow payment for referrals to employees of affiliated businesses. In the absence of such an expansion, CBA argued, the structure of the institution could determine whether an employee could receive a payment for referrals. CBA urged that the difference in the legal treatment of a referral payment based on the internal structure of a banking organization lacks any policy justification. Other commenters asked for expansion of the employer payments principle to allow entities with common ownership to pay referral fees to affiliated companies.
