FR940602-1-00051 FR940602-1-00013 §1918.67 Notifying the ship's officers before using certain equipment. (a) The employer shall notify the officer in charge of the vessel before bringing aboard ship internal combustion or electric powered tools, equipment or vehicles. (b) The employer shall also notify the officer in charge of the vessel before using the ship's electric power for the operation of any electric tools or equipment. §1918.68 Grounding. The frames of portable electrical equipment and tools, other than double insulated tools and battery operated tools shall be grounded through a separate equipment conductor run with or enclosing the circuit conductors. §1918.69 Tools. (See Scope and Application, §1918.1). Subpart H_Handling Cargo §1918.81 Slinging. (a) Drafts shall be safely slung before being hoisted. Loose dunnage or debris hanging or protruding from loads shall be removed. (b) Cargo handling bridles, such as pallet bridles, which are to remain attached to the hoisting gear while hoisting successive drafts, shall be attached by shackles, or other positive means shall be taken to prevent them from being accidentally disengaged from the cargo hook. (c) Drafts of lumber, pipe, dunnage and other pieces, the top layer of which is not bound by the sling, shall be slung in such a manner as to prevent sliders. Double slings shall be used on unstrapped dunnage, except when, due to the size of hatch or deep tank openings, it is impractical to use them. (d) Case hooks shall be used only with cases designed to be hoisted by these hooks. (e) Bales of cotton, wool, cork, wood pulp, gunny bags or similar articles shall be hoisted only by straps strong enough to support the weight of the bale. At least two hooks, each in a separate strap, shall be used. (f) Unitized loads bound by bands or straps may be hoisted by the banding or strapping only if the banding or strapping is suitable for hoisting and is strong enough to support the weight of the load. (g) Additional means of hoisting shall be employed to ensure safe lifting of unitized loads having damaged banding or strapping. (h) Loads requiring continuous manual guidance during handling shall be guided by guide ropes (tag lines) that are long enough to control the load. (i) No draft shall be hoisted unless the winch or crane operator(s) can clearly see the draft itself or see the signals of a signalman in observation of the draft's movement. (j) Intermodal containers shall be handled in accordance with §1918.85. (k) The employer shall require that employees stay clear of the area beneath overhead drafts or descending lifting gear. (l) Employees shall not be permitted to ride the hook or the load. Except that: As provided for in §1918.85(g). §1918.82 Building drafts. (a) Drafts shall be built or means shall be taken to prevent cargo from falling from them. (b) Buckets and tubs used in handling bulk or frozen cargo shall not be loaded above their rims. §1918.83 Stowed cargo; tiering and breaking down. (a) When necessary to protect personnel working in a hold, stowed cargo in ship's holds which is likely to shift or roll shall be secured or blocked. (b) In breaking down stowed cargo, precautions shall be taken to prevent remaining cargo from falling. (c) Employees trimming bulk cargo shall be checked in and out by the foreman. Before securing any reefer compartment, a check shall be made to ensure that no employee remains inside. Frequent checks shall be made to ensure the safety of any employee working alone in a tank or cargo compartment. §1918.84 Bulling cargo. (a) Bulling cargo shall be done with the bull line led directly from the heel block. However, bulling may be done from the head of the boom when the nature of the cargo and the surface over which it is dragged are such that the load cannot be stalled, or when the winch actually does not have sufficient strength, with the purchase used, to overload the boom.
