FR940104-0-00056 FR940104-0-00015 B. Comments Regarding Risk Assessment Five commenters responded to the risk assessment presented in the proposed rule. One commenter stated that the EPA incorrectly converted units of measurement in the record sampling data used for the risk assessment causing the overestimation of incremental risk for the fish/shellfish consumption and soil ingestion pathways by a 1,000-fold. The EPA agrees with the commenter. The dioxin concentrations in the formulation at one of the affected facilities (Aquasco, MD) were reported in the wrong units, causing a 1,000-fold error to be incorporated into the risk estimates for the fish and shellfish ingestion and soil ingestion scenarios. When this error is corrected, the TCDD-TEQ dioxin levels used as the source concentration (the concentration of formulation dripping onto the ground) for affected facilities (cross-contamination from past use of chlorophenolic formulations) and used in the lifetime individual risk estimates for the soil ingestion scenario and fish and shellfish ingestion scenario were reduced by a 1,000-fold. The lifetime individual risk values using the corrected data are presented in Table 1. Table 1._ Individual Risk From Cross-Contamination From Past Usage of Chlorophenolic Formulations From Fish and Shellfish Ingestion 1Population 1Recreational fishers 2Central tendency 2High end 1General population 2Central tendency 2High end Constituent: 2,3,4,7,8-TCDD TEQ1 2E&hyph;12 3E&hyph;11 8E&hyph;13 1E&hyph;11 1Excess lifetime cancer risk. The estimated risk to any one individual using the corrected values are 1,000-fold lower than the risk estimated in the proposed rule from cross-contamination due to past use. In this case for the typically exposed individual in the general population, the incremental risk of developing cancer is a chance of 0.8 in a trillion (8E&hyph;13); in the recreational fisher person, the risk of developing cancer is increased by only 2E&hyph;12. The estimated incremental population risk is also reduced, after correction, approximately by a 1,000-fold, to 0.0002 cases/70 years for the anticipated increase in the development of cancer as a result of exposure to ingestion of fish/shellfish contaminated with wastes from the use of chlorophenolic formulations for wood surface protection. Chart 1 in Section V Part A of this final rule shows the original values reported in the April 27, 1993 proposed notice. The soil ingestion scenarios also were based on the storage yard soil concentrations. The soil ingestion scenario assumed that children ages 1 to 6 could come into contact with the contaminated soil at the sawmill sites because sawmill sites could be converted to rural residential land use and the child's play area could be located on the area previously used as a storage yard area. The lifetime individual risks, using the corrected formulation concentration values for dioxin, associated with the soil ingestion scenario for cross-contamination from past users of chlorophenolic formulations are presented in Table 2. Table 2._ Individual Risk From Cross-Contamination From Past Usage of Chlorophenolic Formulations From Direct Soil Ingestion 1Source 1Storage yard 2Central tendency 2High end Constituent: 2,3,7,8-TCDD TEQ1 7E&hyph;10 2E&hyph;9 1Upper bound excess lifetime cancer risk.
