FR940930-0-00242 FR940930-0-00029 (ii) If at least one uniformed law enforcement officer (including a railroad police officer) provides warning to highway traffic at the crossing, trains may proceed through the crossing at normal speed. (2) If there is not an appropriately equipped flagger providing warning for each direction of highway traffic, or if there is not at least one uniformed law enforcement officer providing warning, trains with the locomotive or cab car leading, may proceed with caution through the crossing at a speed not exceeding 15 miles per hour. Normal speed may be resumed after the locomotive has passed through the crossing. In the case of a shoving move, a crewmember shall be on the ground to flag the train through the crossing. (3) In lieu of complying with paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section, a railroad may temporarily take the warning system out of service if the railroad complies with all requirements of §234.105, ``Activation failure.'' (d) A locomotive's audible warning device shall be activated in accordance with railroad rules regarding the approach to a grade crossing. §234.109 Recordkeeping. (a) Each railroad shall keep records pertaining to compliance with this subpart. Records may be kept on forms provided by the railroad or by electronic means. Each railroad shall keep the following information for each credible report of warning system malfunction: (1) Location of crossing (by highway name and DOT/AAR Crossing Inventory Number); (2) Time and date of receipt by railroad of report of malfunction; (3) Actions taken by railroad prior to repair and reactivation of repaired system; and (4) Time and date of repair. (b) Each railroad shall retain for at least one year (from the latest date of railroad activity in response to a credible report of malfunction) all records referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. Records required to be kept shall be made available to FRA as provided by 45 U.S.C. 20107 (formerly §208 of the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 437)). Subpart D_Maintenance, Inspection, and Testing Maintenance Standards §234.201 Location of plans. Plans required for proper maintenance and testing shall be kept at each highway-rail grade crossing warning system location. Plans shall be legible and correct. §234.203 Control circuits. All control circuits that affect the safe operation of a highway-rail grade crossing warning system shall operate on the fail-safe principle. §234.205 Operating characteristics of warning system apparatus. Operating characteristics of electromagnetic, electronic, or electrical apparatus of each highway-rail crossing warning system shall be maintained in accordance with the limits within which the system is designed to operate. §234.207 Adjustment, repair, or replacement of component. (a) When any essential component of a highway-rail grade crossing warning system fails to perform its intended function, the cause shall be determined and the faulty component adjusted, repaired, or replaced without undue delay. (b) Until repair of an essential component is completed, a railroad shall take appropriate action under §234.105, ``Activation failure,'' or §234.107, ``False activation,'' of this part. §234.209 Interference with normal functioning of system. (a) The normal functioning of any system shall not be interfered with in testing or otherwise without first taking measures to provide for safety of highway traffic that depends on normal functioning of such system.
