FR940124-2-00012 FR940124-2-00007 An application must receive at least 70% of the points assigned to each evaluation criteria category to be considered programmatically acceptable and responsive. Those applications determined to be acceptable and responsive will then be evaluated by the Director of MBDA. Final award selections shall be based on the number of points received, the demonstrated responsibility of the applicant, and the determination of those most likely to further the purpose of the MBDA program. Negative audit findings and recommendations and unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an applicant not being considered for award. The applicant with the highest point score will not necessarily receive the award. MBDCs shall be required to contribute at least 15% of the total project cost through non-Federal contributions. To assist in this effort, the MBDCs may charge client fees for management and technical assistance (M&TA) rendered. Based on a standard rate of $50 per hour, the MBDC will charge client fees at 20% of the total cost for firms with gross sales of $500,000 or less, and 35% of the total cost for firms with gross sales of over $500,000. Quarterly reviews culminating in year-to-date evaluations will be conducted to determine if funding for the project should continue. Continued funding will be at the total discretion of MBDA based on such factors as the MBDC's performance, the availability of funds and Agency priorities. DATES: The closing date for applications is March 1, 1994. Applications must be postmarked on or before March 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Chicago Regional Office, 55 E. Monroe Street, suite 1440, Chicago, Illinois 60603, (312) 353&hyph;0182. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David Vega, Regional Director, Chicago Regional Office, telephone (312) 353&hyph;0182. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Anticipated processing time of this award is 120 days. Executive order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' is not applicable to this program. The collection of information requirements for this project have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0640&hyph;0006. A pre-bid conference will be held on February 4, 1994, at 10 a.m. at the Chicago Regional Office. Questions concerning the preceding information can be answered by the contact person indicated above, and copies of application kits and applicable regulations can be obtained at the above address. Pre-Award Costs _Applicants are hereby notified that if they incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal assurance that an applicant may have received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce to cover pre-award cost. Awards under this program shall be subject to all Federal laws, and Federal and Departmental regulations, policies, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. Outstanding Account Receivable _No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either the delinquent account is paid in full, repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received, or other arrangements satisfactory to the Department of Commerce are made. Name Check Policy _All non-profit and for-profit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing charges such as fraud, theft, perjury or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. Award Termination _The Departmental Grants Officer may terminate any grant/cooperative agreement in whole or in part at any time before the date of completion whenever it is determined that the award recipient has failed to comply with the conditions of the grant/cooperative agreement. Examples of some of the conditions which may cause termination are failure to meet cost-sharing requirements; unsatisfactory performance of the MBDC work requirements; and reporting inaccurate or inflated claims of client assistance. Such inaccurate or inflated claims may be deemed illegal and punishable by law. False Statements _A false statement on an application for Federal financial assistance is grounds for denial or termination of funds, and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. Primary Applicant Certifications _All primary applicants must submit a completed Form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying.'' Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension _Prospective participants (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, Section 105) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, ``Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies. Drug Free Workplace _Grantees (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, Section 605) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, Subpart F, ``Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies. Anti-Lobbying _Persons (as defined at 15 CFR part 28, Section 105) are subject to the lobbying provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1352, ``Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions,'' and the lobbying section of the certification form prescribed above applies to applications/bids for grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for more than $100,000. Anti-Lobbying Disclosures _Any applicant that has paid or will pay for lobbying using any funds must submit an SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,'' as required under 15 CFR part 28, Appendix B. Lower Tier Certifications _Recipients shall require applications/bidders for subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other lower tier covered transactions at any tier under the award to submit, if applicable, a completed Form CD&hyph;512, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying'' and disclosure form, SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.'' Form CD&hyph;512 is intended for the use of recipients and should not be transmitted to DOC. SF&hyph;LLL submitted by any tier recipient or subrecipient should be submitted to DOC in accordance with the instructions contained in the award document. 11.800 Minority Business Development (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance) Dated: January 14, 1994. David Vega, Regional Director, Chicago Regional Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1503 Filed 1&hyph;21&hyph;94; 10:00 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;21&hyph;M
