FR940805-1-00089 FR940805-1-00013 (31) Transfer of health information and records. Summaries or copies of the health record shall be sent routinely to the health authority of any facility to which the juvenile is transferred. The juvenile shall authorize, in writing, the transfer of health records and information, unless otherwise provided by law or administrative regulation having the force and effect of law. (l) Release_ (1) Court programs. The facility shall cooperate with and assist in coordinating court intervention and diversion programs, pretrial release and probation services. (2) Temporary release. Temporary release programs shall include: (i) provision for release for funerals and ritual or ceremonial purposes; (ii) sanction by the appropriate court; (iii) operating, screening and selection procedures; (iv) written rules of juvenile conduct; (v) a requirement for supervision of juveniles while on release; (vi) a record-keeping system that documents dates, times and authorization for release; (vii) a system to evaluate program effectiveness; and (viii) efforts to obtain community cooperation and support. (3) Work or education release. The administrator or designee shall allow juveniles in this classification to participate in work or education release programs. The appropriate court shall sanction education and work release. (4) Final release. Written procedures for final release of juveniles shall include, but not be limited to: (i) verification of identity and release authority; (ii) completion of release arrangements, including person or agency to whom the juvenile is to be released; (iii) verification that all juvenile property leaves with the juvenile that no facility property leaves the facility: (iv) completion of any pending action, such as grievances or claims for damages or lost possessions; (v) transfer of health information if appropriate; and (vi) transportation arrangements, if required. (5) Detainers. The presence of a detainer shall not automatically prevent the release of a juvenile from the detention facility. ยง10.24 Juvenile programs and services. (a) Program coordination_ (1) Availability of programs. The facility shall make available juvenile programs and services, appropriate to the needs of the juvenile population. These programs and services shall include, but not limited to social services, religious services, including traditional religious practices and ceremonies, recreation and leisure time activities, counseling, including crisis intervention, library services, education programs and substance abuse programming. The administrator or designee shall link facility programs and services to existing community resources. (2) Program participation and refusal. Juveniles shall have the option to refuse to participate in uncompensated work assignments, unless the work is related to housekeeping, maintenance of the facility or grounds, personal hygienic needs, or part of an approved training or community service program. Program participation and refusal shall be documented in writing. (3) Program coordinator. A facility of fifty or more juveniles shall have a full-time, qualified staff person to plan, coordinate and, if applicable, supervise all juvenile programs. Smaller facilities shall designate a qualified staff person to plan, coordinate and, if applicable, supervise juvenile programs. (b) Education and work programs _(1) Education program. In conjunction with the applicable education authority, the administrator or designee shall develop a written plan for the comprehensive education of juveniles. The administrator and applicable education authority shall update the plan as needed, review it annually, and support it with a Memorandum of Agreement. At a minimum, the plan shall include: (i) the roles and responsibilities of the facility and the school district, compliant with the provisions of Title 94; (ii) education release and in-facility education services: (iii) education materials and equipment; (iv) developmental, remedial, special and cultural education; and (v) tutorial services as needed. (2) Work programs. The administrator or designee shall develop a written juvenile work plan that provides for work for juveniles including the disabled. Work may include facility maintenance duties and community service projects. The administrator shall prohibit discrimination in juvenile work assignments based on race, creed, gender, age, marital status, disability or tribal affiliation. (3) Regulation of work programs. Facility juvenile work programs shall comply with applicable federal regulations. Juveniles shall not be permitted to perform any work prohibited by federal or tribal regulations and/or statutes pertaining to child labor. (c) Recreation, library and religious programming _(1) Comprehensive recreation program. The administrator or designee shall develop a written recreation and leisure time plan that includes at a minimum one hour per day of large muscle activity and one hour of structured leisure time activities. Juveniles shall have access to a variety of fixed and movable equipment for indoor and outdoor recreation. (2) Library. The administrator or designee shall develop a written plan to provide reading materials to juveniles. The plan shall include the criteria for the selection and maintenance of library materials, the location where reading materials are kept, the process by which juveniles obtain and return these materials and designation of the staff member or trained volunteer who is responsible for library services. The administrator shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. (3) Religious programs. Juveniles shall have the right to practice their religion, subject only to the limitations necessary to maintain institutional order and security.
