FR941125-1-00031 FR941125-1-00008 Appendix B to Part 60_Performance Specifications * * * * * Performance Specification 1_Specifications and Test Procedures for Continuous Opacity Monitoring Systems in Stationary Sources 1. Applicability and Principle 1.1␣Applicability. 1.1.1␣This specification contains requirements for the design, performance, and installation of instruments for continuous opacity monitoring systems (COMS's) and data computation procedures for evaluating the acceptability of a COMS. Certain design requirements and test procedures, established in this specification, may not apply to all instrument designs proposed for installation after the effective date of these specifications. In such instances, approval for the use of alternative design requirements and test procedures shall be obtained from the Administrator prior to a demonstration of conformance with these specifications. 1.1.2␣Performance Specification 1 (PS&hyph;1) applies to COMS's installed on or after the effective date which is the date of promulgation of these specifications. The COMS's installed prior to the effective date are required to comply with the provisions and requirements of PS&hyph;1 as promulgated on March 30, 1983 (48 FR 13322). 1.1.3␣A COMS installed before the effective date of these specifications need not be re-tested to demonstrate compliance with these PS's unless specifically required by regulatory action other than the promulgation of PS&hyph;1. If a COMS installed prior to the effective date is replaced or relocated, this PS&hyph;1 shall apply to the COMS replacement or as relocated. 1.2␣Principle. 1.2.1␣The opacity of particulate matter in stack emissions is continuously monitored and corrected to a stack exit pathlength by a measurement system, based upon the principle of transmissometry. Light, having specific spectral characteristics, is projected from a lamp through the effluent in the stack or duct, and the intensity of the projected light is measured by a sensor. The projected light is attenuated because of absorption and scatter by the particulate matter in the effluent; the percentage of visible light energy attenuated is defined as the opacity of the emission. 1.2.2␣This specification establishes specific design, performance, and installation criteria for the COMS. Prior to installation, source owners and operators must provide verification that the COMS has met the design specifications. Prior to installation, it is recommended that the COMS installation location be reviewed and approved by the appropriate regulatory authority. Then, the owner and operator calibrates, installs, and operates the COMS for a specified test period. During this specified test period, the COMS is further evaluated to determine conformance with PS&hyph;1. 2. Definitions 2.1␣Angle of Projection (AOP). The angle that contains all of the radiation projected from the lamp assembly of the analyzer at a level of greater than 2.5 percent of the peak illuminance. 2.2␣Angle of View (AOV). The angle that contains all of the radiation detected by the photodetector assembly of the analyzer at a level greater than 2.5 percent of the peak detector response. 2.3␣Calibration Drift (CD). The difference in the COMS output readings from the upscale calibration value after a stated period of normal continuous operation during which no unscheduled maintenance, repair, or adjustment took place. 2.4␣Calibration Error. The difference between the opacity values indicated by the COMS and the known values of a series of calibration attenuators (filters or screens). 2.5␣Centroid Area. A concentric area that is geometrically similar to the stack or duct cross-section and is no greater than 1 percent of the stack or duct cross-sectional area. 2.6␣Continuous Opacity Monitoring System. The total equipment required for the determination of opacity. The system consists of the following major subsystems: 2.6.1␣Analyzer. That portion of the installed COMS that senses the pollutant and generates an output that is a function of the opacity. 2.6.2␣Data Recorder. That portion of the installed COMS that provides a permanent record of the analyzer output in terms of opacity. The data recorder may include automatic data reduction capabilities. 2.6.3␣Sample Interface. That portion of the installed COMS that protects the analyzer from the effects of the stack effluent and aids in keeping the optical surfaces clean. 2.7␣External Audit Device. The inherent design, equipment, or accommodation of the COMS allowing the independent assessment of system calibration and operation. An adequate design shall permit the use of external (i.e., not intrinsic to the instrument) neutral density filters to assess monitor operation. 2.8␣External Zeroing Device (Zero-Jig). An external, removable device for simulating or checking the cross-stack zero alignment of the COMS. 2.9␣Full Scale. The maximum data display output of the COMS. For purposes of recordkeeping and reporting, full scale shall be greater than 80 percent opacity. 2.10␣Mean Spectral Response. The mean response wavelength of the wavelength distribution for the effective spectral response curve of the transmissometer. 2.11␣Opacity. The fraction of incident light that is attenuated by an optical medium. Opacity (Op) and transmittance (Tr) are related by: Op=1&hyph;Tr. 2.12␣Operational Test Period. A period of time (336 hours) during which the COMS is expected to operate within the established PS's without any unscheduled maintenance, repair, or adjustment.
