FR940721-1-00058 FR940721-1-00014 C. Issue 3: Preemption There are no proposed changes to the preemption provisions. The Secretary has concluded that change to these provisions is not warranted at this time. D. Issue 4: Controlled Business Disclosure Form The rule would be amended to add an acknowledgement provision on the controlled business disclosure form and to make other small revisions. IV. Discussion of Comments A. Commenters Opposing the 1992 Revised RESPA Rule The following summarizes the nature of the commenters and comments opposing and supporting provisions on which HUD invited comment in its July 6, 1993, notice (58 FR 38176), as well as the positions taken in this proposed rule. In general, commenters were responsive to the notice's invitation and focused their remarks on the four identified provisions of the rule. A few comments raised other issues concerning the final rule, but the focus of the hearing and request for comments was the four specific areas listed. This proposed rule deals only with the four issues on which comment was invited. Eleven hundred forty-eight commenters opposed provisions of the final rule. Commenters included mortgage lenders, realtors, and State or regional organizations representing mortgage lending professionals. The Department received an additional 325 comments critical of the rule from law firms and title insurance providers. Opposition was also expressed by six national organizations representing elements of the mortgage finance or title insurance industries, two national consumer organizations, an economist, a legal aid society, a real estate consultant, a law student, and four commenters whose professional interest could not be ascertained. A few national or regional computer service providers also commented on the rule. Finally, 3 Federal agencies_the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the Office of Thrift Supervision_submitted comments on the final rule, and 4 opposition comments were received from State Attorneys General, including 1 comment representing the unified position of the Attorneys General of 16 States. B. Commenters in Support of the Revised RESPA Rule Comments wholly or generally supportive of the final rule were received from 24 individuals and organizations engaged in real estate-related industries, including 15 lenders or title insurance providers; 6 real estate brokers or agents; an organization composed of controlled businesses, including realtors, which was formed in part to support the final rule (RESPRO); a builder; and the Federal Reserve. 2 2 Support for portions of the final rule was also expressed in scattered comments received from individuals and businesses writing to criticize other specific features. The only issue receiving an appreciable amount of positive comment from critics of the rule's other features was Issue number 4 of the July 6 notice_the controlled business disclosure form. C. Summary of the Comments In the ensuing discussion, arguments presented by the commenters related to these four issues will be summarized under the four issue headings. When commenters have asserted related arguments affecting the disposition of two or more of these issues, those comments will be mentioned in the course of discussing the issue that HUD perceives to be the core argument made by the particular commenter. (1) Issue 1: The Employer-Employee Exception The employer-employee exception provision in §3500.14(g)(2)(ii) of the final rule_allowing ``an employer's payment to its own employees for any referral activities *␣*␣*''_was the subject of more adverse comment than any other issue raised by the July 6, 1993, notice. Hundreds of lenders, attorneys, and settlement agents objected to the rule's provision permitting employer payments to employees for ``referral activities''. Objections were focused, in large part, on what commenters perceived as the anticompetitive effect of permitting referral-based payments. Additionally, the Mortgage Bankers Association, sixteen State attorneys general, and a large number of other institutional and individual commenters saw the referral payment provision as being directly contrary to the RESPA statute, or, at a minimum, as contravening statutory intent. The supporting commenters cited the desirability of vertical integration and the difficulty in enforcing employer-employee arrangements when the employer controlled all of the relevant documentation. (a) ``Anticompetitive'' Arguments Against Referral Payments . The central argument raised by numerous commenters, including the combined comments of attorneys general of several States, was that referral payments were a breach of the trust of prospective home purchasers, particularly in transactions involving real estate agents and affiliated companies: Consumers expect to be treated fairly by their real estate agents and therefore trust that a referral to a settlement service provider is based solely on their agent's knowledge of comparative prices and service features. When there was no financial incentive for the [real estate agent], consumers were justified in thinking that they were referred to a settlement service provider because that provider offered good service at a reasonable price, not because the agent received a payment in exchange for the referral. This is no longer the case. Comments of State Attorneys General
