FR941007-0-00013 FR941007-0-00003 New paragraph (a) establishes qualifications for registered handler certification. The committee or its duly authorized agent inspects handling facilities to determine if those facilities meet the requirements for certification. The facilities must be located in the regulated area and be permanent, non-portable buildings. The equipment in the facilities must also be nonportable and capable of properly washing, grading, sizing, and packing of tomatoes grown in the production area. These requirements are the same as those in the current definition for Adequate facilities in paragraph (e) of §966.323, with the addition of washing as an activity and the reference to where the tomatoes are produced. The definition is removed from paragraph (e) of §966.323 and, as modified, added to new paragraph (a) of §966.113 to define, in the appropriate place in the rules and regulations, the kind of facilities and equipment needed for certification as a registered handler. New paragraph (b) of §966.113 specifies the information requested by the committee in the application for registered handler certification. The information requested is common business identification information. New paragraph (c) of §966.113 provides that the committee or an agent of the committee make the determination that an applicant's facilities meet requirements. Such certification will be made in writing by the committee. Denial of certification, and the basis thereof, will also be made in writing to the applicant by the committee. New paragraph (d) of §966.113 establishes criteria for cancellation of a registered handler's certification, with the approval of the Secretary, based on failure to pay assessments on a timely basis and failure to provide required reports. A registered handler's certification will also be subject to cancellation, with the approval of the Secretary, if the handler no longer has adequate facilities, as that term is defined in §966.113(a). A cancelled certification will be reinstated once a handler demonstrates compliance with assessment, reporting and facility requirements. New paragraph (d) also includes the exemption, currently in §966.113, concerning persons who make deliveries of ungraded tomatoes to handling facilities. New paragraph (e) of §966.113 provides that any inspection certificate of tomatoes offered for inspection by a non-registered handler contains a statement to that effect. The inspection certificate for all such tomato lots will read ``Fails to meet the requirements of Marketing Order No. 966 because the handler is not a registered handler.'' Such failing certificate will be issued, regardless of the grade, size or containerization of the tomatoes inspected. The committee will keep the Federal State Inspection Service (inspection service) abreast of all handlers' status. Any handler who is denied a registered handler certificate or who has a registered handler certificate cancelled, may appeal to the committee for reconsideration. Such appeal must be made in writing. The Florida Road Guard Bureau of the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services releases tomato shipments for interstate commerce only if the inspection certificates indicate that such shipments meet marketing order requirements. Thus, persons or handlers not certified as a registered handler by the committee will not be able to ship tomatoes outside the regulated area. The committee recommended that this provision be included under a separate title and paragraph. Because inspection certification is dependent on handler certification, the Department includes this recommendation as part of the new provision on certified registered handlers in §966.113. For emphasis and to provide consistency in regulations, the Department also adds this requirement to paragraph (a)(4) Inspection in §966.323. Section 966.113 provides that handlers must pay assessments on a timely basis to maintain their registered handler certification. For emphasis and to provide consistency in regulations, the Department also adds this requirement as new paragraph (e) Assessments under §966.323.
