FR940323-2-00152 FR940323-2-00114 Corrective Action Pursuant to 14 CFR 161.505(c), the County may rescind or agree to permanently not enforce Ordinance 90&hyph;12. Related Matters Both the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association and the National Business Aircraft Association have filed formal complaints under 14 CFR Part 13 which allege that the curfew violates the obligation of the County under its Federal grant assurances to allow access on fair and reasonable terms, without unjust discrimination. A decision by the County to adopt a restriction that relaxes the curfew and allows equal access to all operators could render both this proceeding and the formal complaints moot. In accordance with Senate Report 103&hyph;150, the General Accounting Office (GAO) has issued a Report on Mountain Flying which examined the FAA's oversight of general aviation safety in mountainous areas. GAO Report to the Chairman, Subcommittee on Aviation, Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, U.S. Senate. Aviation Safety, FAA Can Better Prepare General Aviation Pilots for Mountain Flying Risks, GAO/RCED&hyph;94&hyph;15 (December 1993) Overall, GAO recommended additional efforts to prepare general aviation pilots for the greater risks of flying in mountainous areas. In Chapter Four of the report GAO presents its views of the legal and safety issues involved with Pitkin County's prohibition against general aviation night operations at Aspen Airport, but makes no recommendations. Conclusion Based on the available information, the FAA has determined to issue this Notice of Proposed Termination. The FAA will review any additional comments, statements and data which are submitted and any other available information to determine whether the County has provided satisfactory evidence of compliance or has taken satisfactory corrective action. If the FAA finds satisfactory evidence of compliance, the FAA will provide written notice to the County and publish notice of compliance in the Federal Register. If the FAA determines that the County has imposed an access restriction in violation of ANCA or Part 161 the FAA will issue an order in accordance with Part 161 terminating eligibility for new airport grants and discontinuing payments of airport grant funds as well as disapproving the County's PFC application. Issued in Washington, DC on March 17, 1994. David L. Bennett, Assistant Chief Counsel, Airports and Environmental Law. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6795 Filed 3&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
