FR940114-1-00044 FR940114-1-00008 Provide information rapidly and accurately; Provide routine compilations of data for management use in the decision making process; Provide data for operational planning and execution; Interface with a variety of data systems, including statewide traffic safety records system; and Be accessible to enforcement, planners, and management. VI. Training Training is one of the most important activities in a law enforcement agency, and it is essential to support the special requirements of traffic law enforcement and safety. It is essential for operational personnel to be prepared to effectively perform their duties. Traffic enforcement training can be conducted by the agency, the State Police Officer Standards and Training (POST) agency, or a commercial trainer. A. Purpose and Goals of Training Training accomplishes a wide variety of important and necessary goals. Proper training should: Prepare officers to act decisively and correctly; Increase compliance with agency enforcement goals; Assist in meeting priorities; Improve compliance with established policies; Result in greater productivity and effectiveness; Foster cooperation and unity of purpose; Help offset liability actions; and Motivate and enhance officer professionalism. B. State and Local Law Enforcement Agencies Should Periodically assess enforcement activities to determine training needs; Require traffic enforcement knowledge and skills in all recruits; Provide traffic enforcement in-service training to experienced officers; Provide specialized CMV in-service training to traffic enforcement officers; Conduct training to implement specialized traffic enforcement skills, techniques, or programs; and Train instructors, to increase agency capabilities and to ensure continuity of specialized enforcement skills and techniques. VII. Evaluation The SHSA, in conjunction with State and local law enforcement agencies, should develop a comprehensive evaluation program to measure progress toward established project goals and objectives; effectively plan and implement statewide and local PTS programs; optimize the allocation of limited resources; measure the impact of traffic enforcement on reducing crime and traffic crashes, injuries, and deaths; and compare costs of criminal activity to costs of traffic crashes. Law enforcement managers should: Include evaluation in initial program planning efforts to ensure that data will be available and that sufficient resources will be allocated; Report results regularly to project and program managers, to police field commanders and officers, and to the public and private sectors; Use results to guide future activities and to assist in justifying resources to legislative bodies; Conduct a variety of surveys to assist in determining program effectiveness, such as roadside sobriety surveys, speed surveys, license checks, belt use surveys, and surveys measuring public knowledge and attitudes about traffic enforcement programs; Evaluate the effectiveness of services provided in support of priority traffic safety areas; and Maintain and report traffic data to the International Association of Chiefs of Police Traffic Data Report and other appropriate repositories, such as the FBI Uniform Crime Report, FHWA's SAFETYNET system, and annual statewide reports. * * * * *
