FR941202-2-00204 FR941202-2-00098 _Sample preparation (includes cleanup and separation protocols, ID # s, volumes, weights, instrument printouts, meter readings, calculations, reagents, etc.); _Sample analysis; _Standard and reagent origin, receipt, preparation, and use; _Equipment receipt, use, specification, operating conditions and preventative maintenance; _Calibration criteria, frequency and acceptance criteria; _Data and statistical calculations, review, confirmation, interpretation, assessment and reporting conventions; _Method performance criteria including expected quality control requirements; _Quality control protocols and assessment; _Electronic data security, software documentation and verification, software and hardware audits, backups, and records of any changes to automated data entries; _All automated sample handling systems; _Records storage and retention; and _Sample disposal including the date of sample or subsample disposal and name of the responsible person. (b) Laboratory Support Activities_In addition to documenting all the above-mentioned activities, the following shall be retained: _All original raw data, whether hard copy or electronic, for calibrations, samples and quality control measures, including analysts work sheets and data output records (chromatograms, strip charts, and other instrument response readout records); _Copies of final reports; _Archived standard operating procedures; _Correspondence relating to laboratory activities for a specific project; _All corrective action reports, audits and audit responses; _Performance evaluation results and raw data; and _Data review and cross checking. (c) Analytical Records_The essential information to be recorded on all raw data associated with analysis (e.g., strip charts, tabular printouts, computer data files, analytical notebooks, run logs, etc.) shall include: _Laboratory sample ID number; _Date of analysis; _Instrumentation identification and instrument operating conditions/parameters (or reference to such data); _Analysis type; _All calculations (automated and manual); and _Analyst's or operator's initials/signature. 5.11.1.2␣Record Keeping System and Design Each organization shall design and maintain a record keeping system that is succinct, self-explanatory and efficient and allows historical reconstruction of all laboratory activities that produced the resultant sample analytical data. The history of the sample must be readily understood through the documentation. This shall include interlaboratory transfers of samples and/or extracts. All information relating to the laboratory facilities equipment, analytical methods, and related laboratory activities (e.g., sample receipt, sample preparation, data review, etc.) shall be documented. All documentation shall be maintained to reflect current operating protocols. The organization should establish essential personnel qualifications and shall maintain records on personnel training.
