FR940902-0-00152 FR940902-0-00010 (iv) Is participating in a schoolwide project as set forth at section 263(g) of the Act. (b) Eligibility determination verification. The SDA may accept the same documentation utilized by the local educational agency for approving free lunch meals or an assurance by school officials concerning the students' participation in the free school lunch program under the National School Lunch Act. §628.705 SYETP Authorized services. (a) The services that may be provided under this subpart are those described at section 253 of the Act. (b) Basic and remedial education and preemployment and work maturity skills training. The SDA shall ensure the availability of basic or remedial education and preemployment and work maturity skills training for SYETP participants pursuant to the assessment process described in §628.515 of this part from funds available to the SDA or by other education and training programs, including, but not limited to, the Job Corps, the JOBS program, youth corps programs or alternative or secondary schools. (c) Work experience. (1) Work experience shall be conducted consistent with the provisions of §627.245 of this chapter. (2) Work experience provided under this subpart, to the extent feasible, shall include contextual learning opportunities which integrate the development of general competencies with the development of academic skills. (d) Concurrent enrollment. (1) Youth being served under the SYETP or the Youth Training Program authorized under title II&hyph;C of the Act (see subpart H of this part) are not required to be terminated from participation in one program to enroll in the other. The SDA may enroll such youth concurrently in programs under this subpart and subpart H of this part, pursuant to guidance to be issued by the Secretary, in order to promote continuity and coordination of services. (2) The requirement that not less than 65 percent of the total number of title II&hyph;C participants shall have one or more barriers to employment pursuant to section 263(c) and (d) of the Act shall apply to youth who are concurrently enrolled and will participate in the program under title II&hyph;C. (e) Followup services. (1) The SDA shall make followup services available for participants if the ISS indicates that such services are appropriate (section 253(d)). (2) Title II&hyph;B funds may be used for such followup services for one year after program participation, which may be concurrent with a period of any subsequent participation in the Title II&hyph;C program. (3) Followup services include the full array of supportive services described in section 4(24) of the Act, except for financial assistance, and may include such followup services as counseling, mentoring, or tutoring. (f) Classroom training. Classroom training provided under this subpart shall, to the extent feasible, include opportunities to apply knowledge and skills relating to academic subjects to the world of work. (g) Educational linkages. (1) In conducting the program assisted under this subpart, service delivery areas shall establish linkages with the appropriate educational agencies responsible for service to participants. (2) Such linkages shall include arrangements to ensure that there is a regular exchange of information relating to the progress, problems and needs of participants, including the results of assessments of the skill levels of participants. §628.710 Period of program operation. (a) Except as provided under paragraph (b) of this section, the SYETP shall be conducted during the school vacation period occurring during the summer months. (b) An SDA operating within the jurisdiction of one or more local educational agencies that operate schools on a year-round full-time basis may offer SYETP activities to participants in such a jurisdiction during the school vacation period(s) treated as the period(s) equivalent to a school summer vacation. Subpart H_Youth Training Program §628.800 Scope and purpose. This subpart contains the regulations for the Year-round Youth Program under part C of title II of the Act. The regulations in part 627 of this chapter and subpart E of this part apply to the Year-round Youth program to the extent that they do not conflict with the provisions of this subpart. §628.803 Eligibility. (a) Out-of-school youth. An out of school youth is a youth who does not meet the definition of in-school youth as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. An out-of-school youth shall be eligible to participate in programs under this subpart, if such individual is: (1) Age 16 through 21, and (2) Economically disadvantaged. (b) In-school youth. Definition. In-school youth means a youth who has not yet attained a high school diploma and is attending school full time. An in-school youth shall be eligible to participate in programs under this subpart, if such individual is:
