FR940110-2-00103 FR940110-2-00075 Q. What should be disseminated? A. The criterion ``Demonstration'' encourages applicants to use certain dissemination strategies but does not preclude the use of additional strategies that are appropriate for a particular project. Projects should distribute materials that will help others to adopt promising practices arising from the project, such as assessment instruments, recruitment materials, job task analysis materials, staff development materials, curricula, etc. The Department does not expect or anticipate that partnerships will disseminate trade secrets or other protected information. However, a project's dissemination activities should clearly benefit businesses and workplaces outside of the partnership. Q. What is the Department of Education's Program Effectiveness Panel? A. As mentioned in the note to the criterion ``Evaluation plan,'' the Program Effectiveness Panel (PEP) is a mechanism that the Department has developed for validating the effectiveness of educational programs developed by schools, universities, and other agencies. Specific criteria for PEP review are found at 34 CFR 786.12 or 787.12. For further information about PEP, prospective applicants may wish to read Making the Case: Evidence of Effectiveness in Schools and Classrooms, which contains criteria and guidelines for submitting project results to PEP. This publication is available from the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Educational Research and Improvement, 555 New Jersey Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20208&hyph;5645. Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;2134. Q. How many copies of the application should I submit and must they be bound? A. The original application should be bound and clearly marked as the original application bearing the original signatures. In addition six copies should be submitted and marked as copies. Local or State Agencies may choose to submit two copies with the original. Applications should not include foldouts, photographs, audio-visuals, or other materials that are hard to duplicate. Q. When will I find out if I'm going to be funded? A. You can expect to receive notification within 8 to 9 months of the application closing date, depending on the number of applications received and the number of competitions with closing dates at about the same time. Q. Will my application be returned? A. We do not return applications. Therefore, applicants should retain at least one copy of the application. Q. What happens during negotiations between high ranking applicants and the U.S. Department of Education grants office? A. During negotiations, technical and budget issues may be raised. These are issues that have been identified during panel and staff reviews that require clarification. Sometimes issues are stated as ``conditions.'' These are issues that have been identified as so critical that the award cannot be made unless those conditions are met. Questions may also be raised about the proposed budget. Generally, these issues are raised because there is inadequate justification or explanation of a particular budget item, or because the budget item seems unimportant to the successful completion of the project. If you are asked to make changes that you feel could seriously affect the project's success, you may provide reasons for not making the changes or provide alternative suggestions. Similarly, if proposed budget reductions will, in your opinion, seriously affect the project activities, you may explain why and provide additional justification for the proposed expenses. An award cannot be made until all negotiation issues have been resolved. Q. Where can copies of the Federal Register , program regulations, and Federal statutes be obtained? A. Copies of these materials can often be found at your local library. If not, they can be obtained from the Government Printing Office by writing to the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. Telephone: (202) 783&hyph;3238. When requesting copies of regulations or statutes, it is helpful to use the specific name, public law number, or part number. The materials related to this notice should be referred to as follows: (1) The Augustus F. Hawkins-Robert T. Stafford Elementary and Secondary School Improvement Amendments of 1988, Public Law 100&hyph;297, title III, sections 301&hyph;385. (2) The National Literacy Act of 1991, title II, Public Law 102&hyph;73, section 202. (3) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) (34 CFR parts 74, 75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86). (4) 34 CFR parts 460 and 472 (National Workplace Literacy Program). Note: Amendments to 34 CFR 472 are published in this issue of the Federal Register . (5) Small Business Size Regulations (13 CFR part 121). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;443 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
