FR940503-1-00050 FR940503-1-00010 (a) A request for confidential treatment of a document or portion thereof may be made by the respondent on the basis that the information is: (1) Confidential financial information, trade secrets, or other material exempt from disclosure by the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552); (2) Required to be held in confidence by 18 U.S.C. 1905; or (3) Otherwise exempt by law from disclosure. (b) The respondent must submit the request for confidential treatment to the Presiding Officer in writing and must state the reasons justifying nondisclosure. Failure to make a timely request may result in a document being considered as nonconfidential and subject to release. §59.14 Consent agreements and consent orders. (a) At any time before final Agency action, the complainant and the respondent may settle an action, in whole or in part, by agreeing upon a civil penalty, with or without conditions. The parties shall memorialize such an agreement in the form of a consent agreement. The Presiding Officer shall thereafter enter a consent order in accordance with the terms of the consent agreement. Such consent order may not be appealed to federal court by either party. (b) If the filing of the consent order with the Hearing Clerk pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section does not wholly conclude the action, the Presiding Officer shall promptly inform the parties of the schedule of the remaining proceedings. §59.15 Prehearing conference. (a) Within thirty (30) days following receipt of the respondent's response to the field citation, the Presiding Officer may, in his discretion, hold a prehearing conference. The Presiding Officer may conduct the conference in person or by telephone. (b) At the prehearing conference, the Presiding Officer: (1) May attempt to simplify issues and assist the parties in reaching a stipulation as to facts that are not in dispute; (2) May, upon request of either party, schedule an exchange of information in accordance with §59.16; (3) Shall establish a time and place for the hearing; and (4) May discuss other appropriate matters. (c) The Presiding Officer may issue a prehearing order to the parties, no later than twenty (20) days following the conference, which memorializes the rulings of the Presiding Officer made at the prehearing conference. §59.16 Information exchange. (a) Subject to any limitation imposed by the Presiding Officer in a prehearing order issued pursuant to §59.15(c) each party shall provide, in writing, the following information: (1) The name of each witness it intends to present at the hearing and the subject matter of the intended testimony; and (2) Each document it intends to introduce at the hearing. (b) The respondent shall provide the following information in writing, to the Agency: (1) If the respondent contends that it is unable to pay the proposed penalty, the respondent shall submit financial information in support of such claim, including, but not limited to, complete copies of its federal income tax returns for the previous three years; (2) The respondent's net profits, delayed or avoided costs, or any other form of economic benefit resulting from any activity or failure to act by the respondent which is alleged in the field citation; and (3) The respondent's good faith efforts to comply with the applicable Clean Air Act requirements. (c) The parties shall conduct the exchange of information according to the schedule established by the Presiding Officer pursuant to §59.15(c). (d) Each party shall file its information exchange with the Hearing Clerk and shall simultaneously serve copies thereof personally or by certified mail (or any other manner of service that is no less speedy and reliable), with an attached certificate of service, upon the other party and the Presiding Officer. (e) The Presiding Officer has the discretion to impose on any party that fails to comply with the requirements of this section any sanction that is just and proper.
