FR941116-1-00043 FR941116-1-00011 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Public Hearings and Reopening of Comment Period on Proposed Endangered Status for the Cumberland Elktoe, Oyster Mussel, Cumberlandian Combshell, Purple Bean, and Rough Rabbitsfoot AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule; notice of public hearings and reopening of comment period. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) provides notice that two public hearings will be held on the proposed determination of endangered status for five freshwater mussels (Cumberland elktoe ( Alasmidonta atropurpurea ), oyster mussel ( Epioblasma capsaeformis ), Cumberlandian combshell ( Epioblasma brevidens ), purple bean ( Villosa perpurpurea ), and rough rabbitsfoot ( Quadrula cylindrica strigillata )) and that the comment period on the proposal is being reopened. These mussels are found at various locations in the Cumberland and Tennessee River basins in Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia. DATES: Public hearings on the proposal will be held on December 13, 1994, from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. central standard time in Jamestown, Tennessee, and on December 15, 1994, from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. central standard time in Lewisburg, Tennessee. The comment period is reopened on the proposal from November 23, 1994, through December 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: The December 13, 1994, public hearing will be held in the Auditorium at the York Institute, Route 127 North, Jamestown, Tennessee. The December 15, 1994, public hearing will be held in the 3rd floor Circuit Courtroom, Marshall County Courthouse, Public Square, Lewisburg, Tennessee. Comments should be sent to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Asheville Field Office, 330 Ridgefield Court, Asheville, North Carolina 28806. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Richard G. Biggins at the above field office address (704/665&hyph;1195, Ext. 228). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background All five mussels have undergone significant reductions in range and now exist as relatively small, isolated populations. The Cumberland elktoe exists in very localized portions of the upper Cumberland River system in Kentucky and Tennessee. The oyster mussel and Cumberland combshell persist at extremely low numbers in portions of the Cumberland and Tennessee River basins in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia. The purple bean and rough rabbitsfoot currently survive in a few river reaches in the Tennessee River system in Tennessee and Virginia. These species were historically eliminated from much of their range by impoundments. Presently, they and their habitat are impacted by water quality and habitat deterioration resulting from siltation contributed by poor land use practices and coal mining practices and by other water pollutants. The mussels' limited distribution also makes them vulnerable to toxic chemical spills. On July 14, 1994, the Service published in the Federal Register (59 FR 35900) a proposal to list these five mussels. Section 4(b)(5)(E) of the Act provides for a public hearing on a proposed listing if requested within 45 days of the proposal's publication. The Service received several public hearing requests during the allotted time period from within the following counties: Fentress, Cumberland, and Marshall Counties, Tennessee; and McCreary County, Kentucky.
