FR940805-2-00019 FR940805-2-00013 Financial Assistance Award: The State of Illinois AGENCY: Department of Energy, Pittsburgh Energy Technology Center. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy (DOE), Pittsburgh Energy Technology Center, announces that pursuant to 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i) criteria (A), (B), and (D) it intends to make a Non-Competitive Financial Assistance Award (Cooperative Agreement) to the State of Illinois for the ``Support of High Sulfur Coal Research.'' FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: U.S. Department of Energy, Pittsburgh Energy Technology Center, Acquisition and Assistance Center, P.O. Box 10940, MS 921&hyph;118, Pittsburgh, PA 15236, Attn.: Nancy Toppetta, Telephone: (412) 892&hyph;5715. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The objective of the program is to continue broad-based research on high sulfur coal and thereby expand the technology base that will allow for the increased use of high sulfur coals in an economically and environmentally acceptable manner. The following are areas in which research will be conducted: Coal preparation (Cleaning, Characterization, and Reconstruction); Gas cleanup (Combustion and Gasification Gas Cleanup); Coal-Related waste management (Combustor, Gasifier, Preparation Plant, and FGD Waste); Coal conversion (Gasification, Liquefaction, Mild Gasification and Processing); Develop advanced combustion technologies and perform combustion testing; and other activities which include technology transfer activities, operation of the coal sample bank, market surveys/analyses and addressing global climate issues. In accordance with criteria under 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i) criteria (A), (B), and (D), the State of Illinois has been selected as the cooperative agreement recipient. Criterion (A) is satisfied since the research effort to be supported is a continuation of work presently being jointly funded by DOE and State of Illinois. Criterion (B) is satisfied since similar research projects would be conducted by the State using their own resources; however, additional DOE support will enhance the public benefit by permitting a larger number of more complex projects to be supported. Presently, neither the State nor DOE know of another entity which is conducting or is planning to conduct a similar high-sulfur coal research activity. Criterion (D) is also satisfied. The State has the unique domestic capability necessary to perform the planned research activities in view of the extensive program it has already conducted. The State also maintains a large database along with expertise gained through its Department of Energy & Natural Resources, Illinois Coal Development Board, Illinois Clean Coal Institute, Coal Industry Committee, and other dedicated State agencies. The project period for the cooperative agreement is for three years with an initial funding period of twelve months. The estimated value for the initial funding period is $2,000,000.00. The State of Illinois is required to provide at least fifty percent cost sharing from non-federal sources. Issued in Washington, DC on July 15, 1994. Richard D. Rogus, Contracting Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19150 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
