FR941216-1-00137 FR941216-1-00012 (e) Laboratories shall use no more explosives than absolutely required for a given operation. Particularly hazardous laboratory operations involving new or relatively unknown explosives should be done by remote control. Operational shields shall be used in these operations and in new or untested applications of explosives. (f) When laboratories and testing facilities are shielded properly to prevent the release of fragments, the minimum incremental safe separation distances of Appendices A and B to this subpart shall apply to operations, facilities, and personnel. (g) If the proposed storage facilities will confine the blast and fragments, or if the incremental safe separation distances are as indicated in §184.167(f), up to 15 pounds of explosives, may be stored without consideration of storage compatibility. However, the operation shall be reviewed, as stated in §184.167(d). §184.168 Electrical testing of ammunition and ammunition components. (a) Type of test equipment . Electrical and electronics test equipment should use the weakest possible power source. Batteries shall be preferred to 110-volt power sources. No Power source should be capable of initiating the explosives item being tested. When exceptions shall be made because more power is needed, steps shall be taken to prevent delivery of power to the explosives item in quantities sufficient to initiate. Safeguards shall be provided against the possibility of human error. (b) Layout of test equipment . Test equipment shall be placed in hazardous atmospheres only when absolutely necessary. Unless the test equipment is, under all circumstances, incapable of initiating the test item, operational shields are required for personnel protection. The most reliable way of attaining and retaining this initiation incapability is by protecting the test equipment, including leads, from electromagnetic induction and radiation fields and electrostatic energy, and by providing the test equipment with a weak power source. (c) Use of test equipment . Test equipment shall be used only as intended by original design. The equipment shall be maintained by qualified personnel, with operator adjustments limited to those required for testing. §184.169 Heat-conditioning of explosives and ammunition. (a) All ovens, conditioning chambers, dry houses, and similar devices and facilities shall be provided with dual independent fail-safe heat controls. For devices or facilities heated by steam only, the requirement for dual heat controls shall be satisfied if the steam pressure is controlled by a reducing valve (maximum pressure of 5 psi, unless otherwise authorized) on the main building steam supply, and a thermostat. (b) Heat-conditioning devices shall be able to discharge overpressure from an internal explosion. Barriers or catching devices shall restrain blowout panels, doors, and other venting apparatus, to prevent excessive displacement during an accidental explosion. (c) Heat-conditioning devices shall be vented to permit any gases produced to escape. (d) Steam should be used to heat conditioning devices; when electric heating elements are unavoidable, they shall be located where there is no possibility of contact with explosives or flammable materials. (e) The blades of a fan in a heat-conditioning device shall be of non-sparking material; its electric motor shall be installed externally. The air shall not recirculate if the heating surfaces exceed 228 ○F or if the air contains materials that could collect on the heating coils. (f) Electrical equipment and fixtures in or on a heat-conditioning device used for explosives or flammable material shall be approved for use in the hazardous atmosphere in question. (g) The interior of a heat-conditioning device shall be free of crevices, openings, and other protuberances not easily cleaned, where dust or flammable material could lodge. (h) All noncurrent-carrying metal parts of a heat-conditioning device shall be interconnected and electronically grounded. (i) Heat-conditioning devices should be installed in isolated locations, set up to give personnel maximum protection from the effects of an incident. When warranted, operational shields and other personnel protection measures shall be used. (j) Safe separation distances or protective construction shall ensure against an explosives incident in one heat conditioning device from propagating to others. No hazardous materials shall be placed in a room or cubicle containing a heat-conditioning device, unless it can be shown that an accident in the conditioning device would not involve the other materials. (k) Heat-conditioning device operating procedures require: (1) Limiting the explosive materials in the device to the type and quantity authorized for the specific device. (2) Familiarity with the critical parameters of explosives compositions before processing in a heat-conditioning device. The device shall not exceed limits established for the hazardous composition being conditioned. (3) Checking heat-conditioning device temperatures at specified intervals during operation. (4) Cleaning the conditioning devices, ducts, vacuum lines, and other parts of the equipment subject to contamination by hazardous materials, before introducing a different item or composition for conditioning. §184.170 Spray painting. (a) Loaded ammunition shall not be electrostatically spray painted. (b) Water wash or dry filter-type spray booths shall be used for loaded ammunition.
