FR940916-1-00113 FR940916-1-00016 Section 232.323. This section proposes the requirements for performing train brake system tests using yard air, which are basically unchanged from what is currently required. An important factor for maintaining the train brake system in proper condition is the quality of the air used in charging the train. Since a large majority of train brake systems are charged and tested from yard air plants, FRA feels that this air should be as free of contaminants as practical. One way to ensure this is the use of air dryers in the yard system. Consequently, FRA proposes to require that all equipment used to produce yard air after January 1, 1996 be equipped with air dryers. Furthermore, in order to ensure proper testing when using yard air, FRA intends to require the periodic calibration of all yard test devices and gauges. Subpart E This subpart contains the inspection and test standards for conventional passenger, commuter, and excursion train brake systems. This subpart was developed in order to address the concerns of railroads that operate passenger-type trains. These commenters stated that the current regulations do not cover many aspects of their operations and that many of the currently existing freight standards are not applicable to passenger-type equipment. Consequently, many of the requirements contained in this proposed subpart mirror the requirements applicable to conventional freight trains but are tailored toward passenger service operations. Section 232.401. The test and inspection standards proposed for conventional passenger locomotives are identical to the standards proposed for conventional freight locomotives (§232.303). Thus, §232.401 refers to the standards stated in that section. Section 232.403. This section contains general requirements regarding the development of written procedures for conventional passenger, commuter, and excursion train brake system tests. The proposed requirements contained in this section are similar to those contained in §232.305 regarding conventional freight trains. Consequently, the discussion contained at §232.305 is equally applicable to this section. Section 232.405. This section contains general requirements regarding Class 1 brake tests on conventional passenger trains. Since these types of trains are responsible for hauling large numbers of members of the general public and because the brake systems used in these operations tend to be more complex than those used in conventional freight trains, FRA proposes to require that all Class 1 brake tests on conventional passenger trains be conducted by qualified brake system inspectors. Consequently, unlike conventional freight trains, brake system tests on passenger trains shall not be conducted by qualified crew members. FRA intends that a Class 1 brake test be conducted on all conventional passenger trains prior to departure from an initial terminal point. Section 232.407. This section outlines the tasks comprising a Class 1 train brake test for conventional passenger trains. Many of the tasks required in this section are identical to those required for conventional freight trains (see §232.309). However, FRA has eliminated the air flow method as an alternative method of qualifying brake systems on passenger and commuter trains. Due to the short length of passenger and commuter trains, the use of the air flow method would allow these trains to operate with excessive brake pipe leakage. Furthermore, in order to bring the regulation into line with current industry practice, FRA proposes to require that the minimum rear-car pressure for passenger trains be increased from 70 psi to 85 psi. In addition, FRA will require that a pre-departure mechanical inspection equivalent to the freight car inspection required by §215.13(b) of this chapter be performed by qualified inspectors. As trains are permitted to travel longer distances between brake system tests, FRA believes that the mechanical condition of a train plays a major role in ensuring that the brake system on a train remains in safe working condition for the entire distance travelled. FRA also believes that these mechanical inspections are necessary to ensure that these trains, which are responsible for the movement of large numbers of people, are in quality condition, from a safety standpoint, prior to departing an initial terminal point. Sections 232.409, 232.411, and 232.413. These sections contain the provisions regarding the distance between required Class 1 brake system tests, the general requirements for performing Class 2 brake system tests, and the required tasks of Class 2 brake system tests for conventional passenger trains. The requirements proposed in these sections essentially parallel the requirements stated in §§232.311, 232.313, and 232.315 regarding conventional freight trains. Consequently, the discussions of those sections are applicable to these sections. Section 232.415. This section proposes the requirements for the performance of running tests on conventional passenger trains, which are identical to the current requirements. FRA received no comments or recommendations for changing the current requirements. Section 232.417. This section contains the general requirements regarding the performance of single passenger car or single passenger train set tests. FRA proposes to eliminate the periodic ``clean, oil, test and stencil'' (COT&S) requirement for passenger-type brake equipment as was done with freight brakes in 1992. In its stead, FRA proposes that a periodic single car test be performed no less frequently than every six months. FRA also proposes that a single car test be performed when certain wheel or brake equipment is removed, repaired, or replaced. The details of these tests will be further developed in the discussion of the proposed single car testing requirements contained in subpart G. Several passenger and commuter railroads requested that FRA do away with the time-based COT&S requirement and suggested that in its place a single car test be required each time a car is on the repair track or each time a car comes in for preventive maintenance, which they stated was about every 120 days. The proposed single car test requirements are based not only on those recommendations, but also upon the belief of the industry and FRA that the single car test is a much better and more comprehensive method of detecting and eliminating defective brake equipment and components than the time-based COT&S requirement. The various individual tests that FRA proposes as part of any single passenger car test are derived directly from the current AAR manual covering the performance of single car tests on passenger cars. FRA expects that operators of passenger cars will establish a preventive maintenance program for the brake equipment that will coincide with other scheduled maintenance.
