FR940928-2-00086 FR940928-2-00065 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste Working Group Meeting on Groundwater Dating; Meeting The ACNW Working Group on Groundwater Dating will hold a meeting on October 21, 1994, at the Hotel San Remo, 115 E. Tropicana Avenue, Las Vegas, Nevada. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance. The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows: Friday, October 21, 1994&hyph;8:30 a.m. until the conclusion of business The purpose of this Working Group meeting on groundwater dating is to examine current methods for dating natural groundwater, including their underlying assumptions, reliabilities, limitations and time scales for application. The Working Group will also assess new or emerging methods that may be applicable to the Yucca Mountain site; and review current results of dating methods used at Yucca Mountain to discern patterns and rates of groundwater flow. In addition, the Working Group will compare those results for consistency, and review the implications of these results to groundwater travel time requirements. The Working Group will bring together experts dealing with different aspects of groundwater dating including those working on aspects of groundwater issues at Yucca Mountain. Oral statements may be presented by members of the public with the concurrence of the ACNW Working Group Chairman; written statements will be accepted and made available to the Working Group. Electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public, and questions may be asked only by members of the Working Group, its consultants, and staff. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the ACNW staff member named below five days prior to the meeting, if possible, so that appropriate arrangements can be made. During the initial portion of the meeting, the ACNW Working Group, along with any of its consultants who may be present, may exchange preliminary views regarding matters to be considered during the balance of the meeting. The ACNW Working Group will then hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff and their consultants, national laboratories, State officials, and other interested parties, as appropriate. Further information regarding the agenda for this meeting, whether the meeting has been cancelled or rescheduled, the Chairman's ruling on requests for the opportunity to present oral statements and the time allotted therefor can be obtained by a prepaid telephone call to the cognizant ACNW staff member, Ms. Lynn Deering (telephone 301/415&hyph;6887) between 8:15 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. (EST). Persons planning to attend this meeting are urged to contact the above named individual five days before the scheduled meeting to be advised of any changes in schedule, etc., that may have occurred. Dated: September 20, 1994. R.K. Major, Chief, Nuclear Waste Branch. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23947 Filed 9&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
