FR940902-0-00016 FR940902-0-00006 1. The authority citation for 39 CFR part 491 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 5520a; 39 U.S.C. 401; E.O. 12897. 2. 39 CFR Chapter 1, subchapter F, is amended by adding part 491 as follows: PART 491_GARNISHMENT OF SALARIES OF EMPLOYEES OF THE POSTAL SERVICE AND THE POSTAL RATE COMMISSION Sec. 491.1␣Authorized Agent to receive service. 491.2␣Manner of service. 491.3␣Sufficient legal form. 491.4␣Identification of employees. 491.5␣Costs. 491.6␣Response to process. 491.7␣Release of information. 491.8␣Execution of process. 491.9␣Restrictions on garnishment. §491.1 Authorized Agent to receive service. Notwithstanding the designation, in §2.2 of this title, of the General Counsel as agent for the receipt of legal process against the Postal Service, the sole agent for service of garnishment process directed to the pay of Postal Service employees and employees of the Postal Rate Commission (``employees'') is the Manager, Payroll Processing Branch, 1 Federal Drive, Ft. Snelling, MN 55111&hyph;9650 (``Authorized Agent''). The Authorized Agent shall have sole authority to receive service of legal process in the nature of garnishment (hereinafter sometimes referred to as ``process'') arising under the law of any state, territory, or possession, or the order of a court of competent jurisdiction of any state, territory, or possession (including any order for child support and alimony). No process shall be effectively served until it is received by the office of the Authorized Agent. No other employee shall have the authority to accept service of such process. Service of process in conformity with Rule 4(i) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure is not waived for any suit or action wherein the Postal Service, its officers, or employees are parties. §491.2 Manner of service. Service of process on the Authorized Agent may be made in person or by certified or registered mail, with return receipt requested, at the address of the Authorized Agent. Service may also be made on the Authorized Agent by means of any private delivery service pursuant to its authority for the private carriage of letters under an exception to the Private Express Statutes, 39 U.S.C. 601&hyph;606, provided that the private delivery organization issues a receipt bearing the name and address of both the addressee and sender, as well as the date of delivery and the signature of the receiving agent. No garnishment is effectively served until it is received by the Authorized Agent regardless of the chosen mode of delivery. Process addressed to, delivered to, or in any manner given to any employee, other than the Authorized Agent, may, at the sole discretion of the employee, be returned to the issuing court marked ``Not Effectively Served.'' A copy of or reference to these regulations may be included. Employees are not authorized to redirect or forward garnishment process to the Authorized Agent. In the event that the address of the Authorized Agent is changed, mail may be forwarded from his or her last published address to the new official address until such time as these regulations are amended to reflect the new address. §491.3 Sufficient legal form. No document purporting to garnish employee wages shall be deemed sufficient unless it can be determined from the face of the document that it is legal process in the nature of garnishment; that it is issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or an authorized official pursuant to an order of such a court or pursuant to state or local law, evidenced by a signature of the issuing person; and that it contains the name of the garnished party, with his or her social security number, orders the employing agency to withhold from pay a specific amount of money, specifically describes the judgment of debt or administrative action complete with statutory citation and contains specific advice as to where to send the funds withheld including the complete ZIP Code (ZIP+4). Documents deficient in any of these respects may be returned to the issuing court or authorized official inscribed ``Insufficient as to legal form.'' §491.4 Identification of employees. Garnishments must be accompanied by sufficient information to permit prompt identification of the employee and the payments involved. Garnishment of an employee whose name and social security number are similar to but not identical with the name and social security number on the garnishment will not be processed. An exact match of both name and social security number is required in order to permit processing; otherwise, the garnishment will be returned marked ``Insufficient identifying information.'' Garnishments that are insufficient in regard to identifying information will not be held pending receipt of further information. §491.5 Costs. The Postal Service's administrative costs in executing the garnishment action shall be added to each garnishment and the costs recovered shall be retained as offsetting collections.
