FR940303-2-00211 FR940303-2-00099 a. Quality of program plan_including academic rigor, thorough conception of project (including a timeline of activities and identification of participants), potential to address partner needs, understanding of the needs of the partner institution, and proposed follow-up. b. Feasibility of the program plan and the capacity of the organization to conduct the exchange; e.g., qualifications of program staff and participants, commitment of the institution's administration to internationalize its faculty outlook and curricula. Each proposal should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program objectives and execute the program plan. c. Track record_relevant Agency and outside assessments of the organization's experience with international exchanges; for organizations that have not worked with USIA, the demonstrated potential to achieve program goals will be evaluated. d. Multiplier effect/impact_the impact of the exchange activity on the wider community and on the establishment of continuing ties, as well as the contribution of the proposed activity in promoting mutual understanding. e. Value to U.S.-partner country relations_the assessment by USIA's geographic area office of the potential impact and significance of the project with the partner country. f. Cost effectiveness_greatest return on each grant dollar; degree of cost-sharing exhibited. g. Adherence of proposed activities to the criteria and conditions described above. h. Institutional commitment as demonstrated by financial and in-kind support of the program. i. Follow-on Activities_each proposal must provide a plan for follow-on activity (without USIA support) which ensures that the USIA-supported program is not an isolated event. Each proposal must clearly demonstrate long-term commitment from all partners. j. Evaluation plan_proposals must provide a plan for evaluation by the grantee institution. Notice The terms and conditions published in the RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Federal Government. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about August 31, 1994. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: February 24, 1994. David Michael Wilson, Acting Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4690 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
