FR940721-2-00154 FR940721-2-00086 Note: Applicants from the Native American Pacific Islands are not required to provide a 20% match for the non-Federal share if it is under $200,000 and may not have points reduced for this policy. They are, however, expected to coordinate non-ANA resources for the proposed project, as are all ANA applicants. (2) Organizational capabilities and qualifications . (10 points). (a) The management and administrative structure of the applicant is explained. Evidence of the applicant's ability to manage a project of the proposed scope is demonstrated. The application clearly shows the successful management of projects of similar scope by the organization, and/or by the individuals designated to manage the project. (b) Position descriptions or résumés of key personnel, including those of consultants, are presented. The position descriptions and résumés relate specifically to the staff proposed in the Approach Page and in the proposed Budget of the application. Position descriptions very clearly describe each position and its duties and clearly relate to the personnel staffing required to achieve the project objectives. Résumés demonstrate that the proposed staff are qualified to carry out the project activities. Either the position descriptions or the résumés contain the qualifications and/or specialized skills necessary for overall quality management of the project. Note: Applicants are strongly encouraged to give preference to Native Americans in hiring staff and subcontracting services under an approved ANA grant. (3) Project objectives, approach and activities. (45 points). The application proposes specific project objective work plans with activities related to each specific objective. The objective work plan(s) in the application includes project objectives and activities for each budget period proposed and demonstrates that each of the objectives and its activities: •Is measurable and/or quantifiable in terms of results or outcomes; •Supports the community's social and economic development strategy; •Clearly relates to the community's long-range goals;
