FR940928-1-00033 FR940928-1-00011 Additional background and rationale for the measures discussed above are contained in Amendment 2, the availability of which was announced in the Federal Register on August 29, 1994 (59 FR 44398). Additional Measures Proposed by NMFS This proposed rule would eliminate unnecessary language; change the scientific names of corals to conform to current standards of the American Fisheries Society; add definitions of additional terms; correct the address and telephone number of the Regional Director, Southeast Region, NMFS; clarify that all coral in a habitat area of particular concern (HAPC), including allowable octocoral, is prohibited coral; require identification markings on vessels in the live rock fishery; prohibit the use or possession of a toxic chemical in the EEZ; prohibit the possession of coral in the Flower Garden Banks HAPC; prohibit the use of dredges in the Flower Garden Banks HAPC; prohibit making a false statement to an authorized officer concerning the taking of coral, coral reefs, or live rock; and prohibit interference with an investigation, search, seizure, or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Magnuson Act. The requirement for identification markings and the added prohibitions are necessary for effective enforcement of existing and added management measures and would conform the regulations to current standards applicable to other federally-managed fisheries in the Gulf of Mexico and off the southern Atlantic states. NMFS proposes to simplify the existing permitting and reporting requirements. Specifically, this rule proposes to remove the requirement for Federal permits for and reports on taking allowable octocoral that are landed in Florida and for taking fish with an allowable chemical that are landed in Florida. Florida requires permits and reports for these activities, whether or not the allowable octocoral or fish are harvested in the EEZ or State waters. Currently, all but one of the Federal permits for these activities involve landings in Florida. Duplicate Federal/State permitting and reporting serve no useful purpose. NMFS proposes to broaden the ban on the use of power- assisted tools. Amendment 2 proposes to ban the use of power- assisted tools for the taking of aquacultured live rock, wild live rock in the Gulf EEZ during the phase-out period, and allowable octocoral. Since chipping of wild live rock would be banned in the South Atlantic EEZ during the phase-out period, power-assisted tools implicitly would be banned in the EEZ in that area. Amendment 2 does not explicitly address prohibited coral in either area or allowable octocoral in the South Atlantic EEZ. NMFS believes the rationale for the ban on power-assisted tools is equally applicable to prohibited coral and allowable octocoral throughout the EEZ_extension of the ban to those species and additional areas is necessary to enhance enforcement. Classification Section 304(a)(1)(D) of the Magnuson Act requires the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) to publish regulations proposed by a council within 15 days of receipt of an amendment and regulations. At this time the Secretary has not determined that Amendment 2 is consistent with the national standards, other provisions of the Magnuson Act, and other applicable laws. The Secretary, in making that determination, will take into account the data, views, and comments received during the comment period. This proposed rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. The Councils prepared an FSEIS for Amendment 2 that will be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency for public review and comment; a notice of its availability for public comment for 30 days will be published in the Federal Register . According to the FSEIS, the proposed actions would benefit the natural environment by phasing out activities that result in damage to live bottom habitat areas. Potential adverse economic impacts on fishermen would be mitigated by the harvest of aquacultured live rock.
