FR941230-2-00155 FR941230-2-00072 Juveniles Taken Into Custody (JTIC): Interagency Agreement_$200,000 The U.S. Bureau of the Census is working with OJJDP and the National Council on Crime and Delinquency to develop a comprehensive national statistical reporting system that is responsive to the information requirements of the OJJDP Act, the needs of the juvenile justice field for data on juvenile custody populations, and the needs of State legislatures and juvenile justice professionals for data to assist in making informed planning and policymaking decisions. The Census Bureau acts as the data collection agent for the JTIC program under an interagency agreement. No additional applications will be solicited in fiscal year 1995. Enhancing Enforcement Strategies for Juvenile Impaired Driving Due to Alcohol and Other Drug Use_$150,000 Through a $75,000 interagency agreement with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) of the U.S. Department of Transportation, OJJDP is supporting an initiative on Enhancing Enforcement Strategies for Juvenile Impaired Driving Due to Alcohol and Other Drug Use. The goals of this program are: (1) to increase the use of the arrest sanction among law enforcement agencies in cases where juvenile drivers are impaired by alcohol and other drugs, by developing and testing a model comprehensive program in selected demonstration sites and by disseminating training and technical assistance materials for police, prosecutors, judges, and probation officers on effective procedures and law enforcement strategies; and (2) to increase community reliance on a unified systemwide response to juvenile impaired driving by involving the criminal juvenile system and other elements of the community in encouraging enforcement efforts that use the arrest sanction. This three-phase program is entering its third and final phase. To date, the grantee, the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF), has developed a draft comprehensive Juvenile Driving Under the Influence Enforcement Working Model, training curricula, and technical assistance materials. Five sites have been selected and are testing the model and receiving training and technical assistance from PERF. The demonstration sites are Albany County, New York; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Astoria, Oregon; Hampton, Virginia; and Phoenix, Arizona. In the third phase of the program, the observations and lessons learned from the demonstration sites will be categorized, analyzed, consolidated, and organized into a replicable model. The model will be presented to law enforcement and other interested public and private organizations through a variety of ``how-to'' materials. Project work products will be developed as a series of discrete, stand-alone publications to be published and distributed with the notation that the materials, like the various model components, must be coordinated in order to produce the desired result_a cooperating local criminal justice system that supports its police in the use of the arrest sanction as a principle deterrent to juvenile impaired driving. No additional applications will be solicited in fiscal year 1995. Training in Cultural Differences for Law Enforcement/Juvenile Justice Officials_$100,000 Under a previous OJJDP award, The American Correctional Association (ACA), in collaboration with the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF), developed and tested a 21/2 day cultural diversity training curriculum that is applicable to all juvenile justice system components. The curriculum has been presented by ACA and PERF trainers, and has been well received by training attendees, particularly juvenile justice/law enforcement trainers. In addition, the ACA has received numerous requests from juvenile justice agencies to provide the training to their personnel. In recognition of the need for and benefits of cultural diversity training, OJJDP proposes to continue support for the above project in fiscal year 1995. The purpose of the additional funding would be to enable the grantee to implement additional State and regional training-of-trainers programs across the country in response to requests from the field. The competitively awarded grant to the ACA for this project would be supplemented in fiscal year 1995 in the amount of $100,000.
