FR940204-0-00052 FR940204-0-00021 Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana was distinguished from C. pungens var. pungens by James Reveal and Clare Hardham (1989) after they noticed a difference between the coastal form and an inland form found ``in the Ben Lomond sand hills area.'' The name Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens was retained to represent the coastal form of the plant. Reveal and Hardham noted that the type for C. pungens var. hartwegiana was dissimilar to the plant that was called C. pungens var. hartwegii . The recent article describing Chorizanthe (Reveal and Hardham 1989) treats C. pungens var. pungens and C. pungens var. hartwegiana as distinct varieties. Though Hickman (1993) did not treat Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana separately in The Jepson Manual, he did state that plants with ``more erect petals with pink to purple involucral margins have been called var. hartwegiana Rev. & Hardham.'' For the purposes of this final rule, the Service lists C. pungens var. pungens and C. pungens var. hartwegiana separately because the former variety qualifies for threatened status and the latter qualifies for endangered status under the Act. Even if the conservative Hickman (1993) treatment were used, C. pungens (inclusive of vars. pungens and hartwegiana ) faces the same threats as described under the section entitled ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species'' and would qualify for listing under the Act. Chorizanthe robusta was first described by Charles Parry in 1889 based on a collection he made 6 years earlier ``north of Aptos along Monterey Bay'' (Parry 1889). Willis Jepson considered it to be a variety of C. pungens and thus combined the taxon under the name C. pungens var. robusta in his Flora of California in 1914 (Jepson 1914). In their revision of the genus in 1989, Reveal and Hardham (1989) recognized Parry's treatment and retained the taxon as C. robusta . Although they placed in this synonymy the type of C. pungens var. hartwegii , Reveal and Hardham noted that the definition of the taxon was still not settled with their review. Concurrent with the publication of the Reveal and Hardham revision, the first collection in over 50 years was made of the inland form that matched Hartweg's original collection made in 1847. Reveal was therefore able to reconfirm its affinity with Chorizanthe robusta , while recognizing the distinctness of this taxon as a variety. Reveal, along with local botanist Randall Morgan, published the combination C. robusta var. hartwegii (Reveal and Morgan 1989), inclusive of the type of C. pungens var. hartwegii . The recent article describing Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii (Reveal and Morgan 1989) treats C. robusta var. robusta and C. robusta var. hartwegii as distinct varieties. Though Hickman (1993) did not treat C. robusta var. hartwegii separately in The Jepson Manual, he did state that plants with ``more erect petals with pink involucral margins have been called var. hartwegii (Benth.) Rev. & R. Morgan.'' For the purposes of this listing, the Service adds the entire species of C. robusta (inclusive of C. robusta var. hartwegii and C. robusta var. robusta ) to the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants. During the Service's review of a petition to list Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii , Dr. John Thomas questioned the taxonomic validity of Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii (John Thomas, Stanford University, in litt., 1990). To address these concerns, the Service reviewed specimens of Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii and other closely related taxa in the Pungentes subsection of the genus with plant taxonomists at the University of California. The Service's review indicates that specimens ascribed to C. pungens and C. robusta have five morphologically recognizable phases that correspond to ecological and geographical patterns. Four of these five phases generally correspond to C. pungens var. pungens , C. pungens var. hartwegiana, C. robusta var. robusta , and C. robusta var. hartwegii . The fifth phase consists of specimens that were identified as C. robusta or C. pungens (Ertter 1990). This final rule, by addressing the subject four varieties of Chorizanthe , includes all five phases reviewed. Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens and Chorizanthe robusta var. robusta are endemic to sandy soils of coastal habitats in southern Santa Cruz and northern Monterey Counties. The inner rim of Monterey Bay is characterized by broad, sandy beaches backed by an extensive dune formation. Just inland from the immediate coast, maritime chaparral occupies areas with well-drained soils. Coastal dune and coastal scrub communities exist along the inner rim of Monterey Bay, but portions were affected by habitat modification or destruction.
