FR940810-0-00030 FR940810-0-00016 Section 507(a)(3) requires the designation of a State office to serve as the Ombudsman for small business stationary sources. The State has met this requirement by designating the WDOD as the Ombudsman, using several services offered by WDOD, including the Small Business Ombudsman Clearinghouse, the Permit Information Center, and the 800 telephone service. Two additional WDOD staff will be added to handle the additional responsibilities and workload that cannot be met through existing WDOD services. Wisconsin's Small Business Ombudsman performs many duties, including: serving as an information and assistance center for small businesses affected by the Act; assuming responsibility for program evaluation, information collection and dissemination, and dispute resolution for small businesses; and working with other State agencies and organizations that provide Act related services to small businesses to ensure that information is useful and efficiently provided. 3. Compliance Advisory Panel Section 507(e) requires the State to establish a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP) that must include two members selected by the Governor who are not owners or representatives of owners of small businesses; four members selected by the State legislature who are owners, or represent owners, of small businesses; and one member selected by the head of the agency in charge of the Air Pollution Permit Program. The number of CAP members will be appointed and consistent with statues according to section 507(e)(2). In addition to establishing the minimum membership of the CAP, the Act delineates four responsibilities of the Panel: (1) To render advisory opinions concerning the effectiveness of the SBAP, difficulties encountered, and the degree and severity of enforcement actions; (2) to periodically report to USEPA concerning the SBAP's adherence to the principles of the Paperwork Reduction Act, the Equal Access to Justice Act, and the Regulatory Flexibility Act; 2 (3) to review and assure that information for small business stationary sources is easily understandable; and (4) to develop and disseminate the reports and advisory opinions made through the SBAP. The State has met these requirements by establishing the Small Business Environmental Council (SBEC) to meet these responsibilities. The SBEC consists of representatives of small businesses, the public, the WDNR and the WDOD, and oversee the activities of the SBAP to advise the program on how to improve its services. In addition, the Ombudsman staff and SBAP staff will provide support for the SBEC in its efforts to carry out these responsibilities. 2 Section 507(e)(1)(B) requires the CAP to report on the compliance of the SBAP with these three Federal statutes. However, since State agencies are not required to comply with them, U.S. EPA believes that the State PROGRAM must merely require the CAP to report on whether the SBAP is adhering to the general principles of these Federal statutes. 4. Eligibility Section 507(c)(1) of the Act defines the term ``small business stationary source'' as a stationary source that: (A) Is owned or operated by a person who employs 100 or fewer individuals, (B) Is a small business concern as defined in the Small Business Act; (C) Is not a major stationary source; (D) Does not emit 50 tons per year (tpy) or more of any regulated pollutant; and (E) Emits less than 75 tpy of all regulated pollutants. The State of Wisconsin has established a mechanism for ascertaining the eligibility of a source to receive assistance under the PROGRAM, including an evaluation of a source's eligibility using the criteria in section 507(c)(1) of the Act. Wisconsin intends to use these mechanisms only if the resources of the PROGRAM are abused by those for whom it was not intended, or if the PROGRAM becomes overburdened by providing assistance to sources which do not meet the small business stationary source definition. Pursuant to section 507(c)(2) of the Act, the State of Wisconsin has provided for public notice and comment on grants of eligibility to sources that do not meet the provisions of sections 507(c)(1)(C), (D), and (E) of the Act but do not emit more than 100 tpy of all regulated pollutants. In response to petition by a stationary source, WDNR may, by rule, extend the definition of small business stationary source as outlined above.
