FR940222-1-00020 FR940222-1-00005 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD07&hyph;93&hyph;110] Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, FL AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes to change regulations governing the operation of the State Road 402, Max Brewer bridge, at mile 878.9, at Titusville, Florida, by permitting the draw to remain closed during different periods. This proposal is being made to synchronize the existing closed periods with the periods of peak vehicular traffic. This action should accommodate the needs of vehicular traffic, while still providing for the reasonable needs of navigation. DATES: Comments must be received on or before April 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Commander (oan), Seventh Coast Guard District, 909 SE 1st Avenue, Miami, Florida 33131&hyph;3050, or may be delivered to room 406 at the above address between 7:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. The telephone number is (305) 536&hyph;4103. The Commander, Seventh Coast Guard District maintains the public docket for this rulemaking. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection or copying at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Walter Paskowsky, Project Manager, Bridge Section at (305) 536&hyph;4103. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking [CGD07&hyph;93&hyph;110] and the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give the reason for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying. If not practical, a second copy of any bound material is requested. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to Mr. Walt Paskowsky at the address under ADDRESSES. The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Walter Paskowsky, Project Manager, and LT J.M. Losego, Project Counsel. Background and Purpose This bridge presently opens on signal except that from 6:15 a.m. to 7:15 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays, the draw need not open. NASA, whose employees commute to and from the John F. Kennedy Space Center across the bridge, requested a 30 minute increase in the morning closed period extending from 6 a.m. to 7:30 a.m. This change was requested to ensure continuous uninterrupted flow of highway traffic during the heaviest daily commuter traffic periods. The bridgeowner, Brevard County, concurred with this proposal.
