FR940506-2-00028 FR940506-2-00013 2. Mandatory Observer Coverage Under the current regulations (50 CFR 227.72), NMFS must propose a temporary rule in order to require mandatory observer coverage in any non-shrimp fishery that may take sea turtles. Non-shrimp fisheries using longlines, bottom trawls, gillnets, pound nets and traps are suspected to be major causes of sea turtle mortality at sea. The NAS recommended that NMFS conduct a comprehensive observer-based assessment of incidental capture of sea turtles in non-shrimp fisheries. NMFS is considering establishing a mandatory observer requirement in those fisheries that are not already required to carry observers upon NMFS request. The observer system would require NMFS to publish a finding that a specific fishery is believed to be taking sea turtles. This finding would notify the fishery that the Regional Director may require observers at any time, and will notify vessel owners by personal communication. An observer requirement might also include a registration requirement, observer access requirement and observer treatment standards. 3. Emergency Response Framework Under the current regulations (50 CFR 227.72), NMFS cannot take timely action during emergencies that result in mass turtle strandings. Unpredictable situations, despite compliance with current regulations, may require immediate sea turtle conservation measures that cannot wait for lengthy agency and public review. Emergency rulemaking can take 2 weeks to 2 months to implement, depending on the required measures and complexity of the rule. NMFS is considering the establishment of framework measures to respond to specific sea turtle emergencies. For example, if NMFS determines that high concentrations of small juvenile turtles that are not excluded by standard TEDs are occurring with fishing activity, it may notify the fishery (through the Federal Register and various media) of immediate conservation measures such as gear modification, observers, or area closures. Because the industry will have been notified in advance through rulemaking that specific emergency measures may be required for specific purposes, delayed effectiveness and prior notice would not be required. Emergency conservation measures could be in effect for up to 30 days. ( Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4332 et seq.; 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) Dated: April 28, 1994. William W. Fox, Jr., Director, Office of Protected Resources, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10962 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
