FR940204-2-00027 FR940204-2-00019 Department of the Army Notice of Availability of a Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the Theater Missile Defense Extended Test Range AGENCY: Department of the Army, Department of Defense. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: The Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Theater Missile Defense (TMD) Extended Test Range proposal is now available for review and comment. The DEIS has assessed potential impacts associated with conducting extended range missile and sensor tests at four alternative test range areas. The TMD program would allow for the development of a means to protect deployed U.S. forces, as well as U.S. friends and allies around the world, against attacks by short- and medium-range ballistic, cruise, or air-to-surface missiles armed with conventional, nuclear, biological, or chemical warheads. These tests would consist of multiple demonstration and developmental missile launches along proposed flight paths from off-range locations, with intercepts of targets over existing range areas or open sea areas located within and outside of the United States. Surface-to-surface missile tests are also proposed. These flights are needed to validate system design and operational effectiveness. The DEIS addresses, to the extent possible, the potential environmental impacts that would result from test site modifications, launch preparation requirements, missile flights along the proposed flight paths, and intercepts of targets over existing ranges or open sea areas. It also identifies any mitigation measures that could avoid or lessen those impacts. Environmental resource topics evaluated include: air quality, airspace, noise, geology and soils, water resources, socioeconomics, hazardous materials and waste, health and safety, land use, infrastructure and transportation, and biological and cultural resources. Lead agency: U.S. Army Space and Strategic Defense Command Cooperating agencies: Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, United States Air Force, United States Navy, Bureau of Land Management, Federal Aviation Administration. Proposed action: The proposed action is to conduct extended range tests of target missiles, defensive missiles, and sensor systems at one or more of four test range areas. The tests would involve target and defensive missile launches from existing test ranges and from off-range locations. Potential off-range launch locations may include land areas and sea-based platforms. Missile-to-missile intercepts would occur over existing test range areas or over open sea areas. Approximately 100 flight tests could occur during the period 1994 to 2000, from more than one off-range location, and potentially from more than one test range area. Alternatives for conducting these missile flight tests and intercepts, which are evaluated in the TMD Extended Test Range DEIS, are: 1. White Sands Missile Range (WSMR), NM. This alternative includes missile launches and sensor testing at WSMR and Ft. Bliss, TX, with off-range missile launches from Ft. Wingate Depot Activity, NM, and the Green River Launch Complex, UT. 2. Eglin Air Force Base (AFB), FL. This alternative includes missile launches and sensor testing at Eglin AFB on Santa Rosa Island and at Cape San Blas, with off-range missile launches from a sea-based platform in the Gulf of Mexico. 3. The Western Range, CA. This alternative includes missile launches and sensor testing at Vandenberg AFB, San Nicolas Island, and San Clemente Island, with off-range missile launches from a sea-based platform in the Pacific Ocean. 4. Kwajalein Missile Range (KMR), U.S. Army Kwajalein Atoll, Republic of the Marshall Islands. This alternative includes missile launches and sensor testing at KMR and Wake Island with off-range missile launches from a sea-based platform in the Pacific Ocean. DATES: The Army will conduct public hearings concerning the Draft EIS in the following communities. Public comments are invited through 28 March, 1994. February 22, 1994_Gallup, New Mexico, Oxnard, California February 23, 1994_Crownpoint, New Mexico, Lompoc, California March 1, 1994_Shiprock, New Mexico, Ft. Walton Beach, Florida March 2, 1994_Moab, Utah, Port St. Joe, Florida ADDRESSEE: Written comments may be forwarded to: Mr. David Hasley, U.S. Army Space and Strategic Defense Command, ATTN: CSSD&hyph;EN&hyph;V, P.O. Box 1500, Huntsville, AL 35807&hyph;3801. Written comments should be received by 28 March 1994. To record requests for further information, call toll free 1&hyph;800&hyph;603&hyph;3030. Dated: January 28, 1994. Lewis D. Walker, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army, (Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health) OASA (I,L&E). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2506 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
