FR940630-1-00024 FR940630-1-00005 EPA's review of the material indicates that with the conditions and contingencies described above the Commonwealth has adopted an enhanced I/M program in accordance with the requirements of the Act. EPA is proposing to conditionally approve the Pennsylvania SIP revision and the addendum to the revision for an enhanced I/M program, which were submitted on November 5, 1993 and March 30, 1994, respectively, subject to the conditions and contingencies described above. EPA is soliciting public comments on the issues discussed in this notice or on other relevant matters. These comments will be considered before taking final action. Interested parties may participate in the Federal rulemaking procedure by submitting written comments to the EPA Regional office listed in the Addresses section of this notice. Proposed Action EPA is proposing to conditionally approve this revision to the Pennsylvania SIP for an enhanced I/M program based on certain contingencies. The conditions for approvability are as follows: (1) by December 31, 1994 a notice must be published in the Pennsylvania Bulletin by the Secretary of the Department of Transportation which certifies that the enhanced I/M program is required in order to comply with federal law, certifies the geographic areas which are subject to the enhanced I/M program (the geographic coverage must be identical to that listed in Appendix A&hyph;1 of the November 5, 1993 SIP submittal), and certifies the commencement date of the enhanced I/M program. This notice must be submitted to EPA as an amendment to the SIP by December 31, 1994; (2) by December 31, 1994 the Commonwealth must revise and submit to EPA as a SIP amendment, the amendments to the Pennsylvania I/M regulation, 67 PA Code Chapter 178.202&hyph;205, which require EPA approval prior to implementation of any alternate purge test procedure and incorporate the transient emission standards for Tier 1 vehicles, the Phase 2 standards for all vehicle types and model years, and the transient and evaporative purge test procedures found in the final version of the EPA document entitled ``High-Tech I/M Test Procedures, Emission Standards, Quality Control Requirements, and Equipment Specifications'', EPA&hyph;AA&hyph;EPSD&hyph;IM&hyph;93&hyph;1, April 1994, (3) within one year from the date that EPA conditionally approves the Pennsylvania I/M SIP, the Commonwealth must submit the PADOT procedures manual for motorist compliance enforcement program oversight as an amendment to the SIP and (4) within one year from the date that EPA conditionally approves the Pennsylvania I/M SIP, the Commonwealth must submit the PADOT procedures manual for quality assurance as an amendment to the SIP. The contingencies for approvability are as follows: (1) if penalties are assessed against the contractor under the Contractor Responsibility Program in lieu of the penalties in 67 PA Code ยง178.602(b) of the Pennsylvania I/M regulation, the penalties must be equal to or more stringent than those in the Commonwealth's I/M regulation and (2) the present contractor or any future contractors for the Pennsylvania I/M program may not have any business interest in a vehicle repair facility anywhere in the continental United States. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. Conditional approvals of SIP submittals under section 110 and subchapter I, part D of the Act do not create any new requirements but simply approve requirements that the Commonwealth is already imposing. Therefore, because the Federal SIP approval does not impose any new requirements, I certify that it does not have a significant impact on any small entities affected. Moreover, due to the nature of the Federal-State relationship under the Act, preparation of a flexibility analysis would constitute Federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of Commonwealth action. The Clean Air Act forbids EPA to base its actions concerning SIPs on such grounds. Union Electric Co. v. U.S. EPA, 427 U.S. 246, 255&hyph;66 (1976); 42 U.S.C. 7410(a)(2). If the Commonwealth fails to meet any of the conditions of this approval action, the EPA Regional Administrator would directly make a finding, by letter, that the conditional approval had converted to a disapproval and the clock for imposition of sanctions under section 179(a) of the Act would start as of the date of the letter. Subsequently, a notice would be published in the Federal Register announcing that the SIP revision has been disapproved. If the conditional approval is converted to a disapproval under section 110(k), based on the Commonwealth's failure to meet the commitment, it will not affect any existing Commonwealth requirements applicable to small entities. Federal disapproval of the Commonwealth's submittal does not affect its state-enforceability. Moreover, EPA's disapproval of the submittal does not impose a new Federal requirement. Therefore, EPA certifies that this disapproval action does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities because it does not remove existing requirements nor does it substitute a new federal requirement. Under Executive Order 12866, this action is not significant. It has not been submitted to OMB for review. The Administrator's decision to approve or disapprove the Pennsylvania I/M SIP revision will be based on whether it meets the requirements of section 110(a)(2)(A)&hyph;(K) of the Clean Air Act, as amended, and EPA regulations in 40 CFR part 51. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Carbon monoxide, Hydrocarbons, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Nitrogen dioxide, Ozone, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: June 23, 1994. Stanley L. Laskowski, Acting Regional Administrator, Region III. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15982 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
