FR940613-0-00120 FR940613-0-00015 Axles must be those designed for the width of the body. All braking systems must comply with State and Federal requirements. In addition, fast air transmission and release valves must be provided on all semitrailer and converter-dolly axles. A brake force limiting valve, sometimes called a ``slippery road'' valve, may be provided on the steering axle. Anti-sail type mud flaps are recommended. The use of single tires on any combination vehicle requiring an overweight or oversize permit shall not be allowed on single axles. A single axle is defined as one having more than 8 feet between it and the nearest axle or group of axles on the vehicle. When traveling on a level, smooth paved surface, the trailing units must follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side when the towing vehicle is moving in a straight line. Each combination shall maintain a minimum distance of 500 feet from another commercial vehicle traveling in the same direction on the same highway. Loads shall be securely fastened to the transporter with material and devices of sufficient strength to prevent the load from becoming loose, detached, dangerously displaced, or in any manner a hazard to other highway users. The components of the load shall be reinforced or bound securely in advance of travel to prevent debris from being blown off the unit and endangering the safety of the traveling public. Any debris from the special permit vehicle deposited on the highway shall be removed by the permittee. Bodily injury and property damage insurance is required before a special Transportation Permit will be issued. In the event any claim arises against the State of Utah, Utah Department of Transportation, Utah Highway Patrol, or their employees from the operation granted under the permit, the permittee shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless each of them from such claim. PERMIT: Permits must be purchased. The Utah DOT Motor Carrier Safety Division will, on submission of an LCV permit request, assign an investigator to perform an audit on the carrier, which must have an established safety program that is in compliance with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (49 CFR parts 387&hyph;399), the Federal Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR parts 171&hyph;178), and a ``Satisfactory'' safety rating. The request must show a travel plan for the operation of the vehicles. Permits are subject to Highway Patrol supervision and permitted vehicles may be subject to temporary delays or removed from the highways when necessary during hazardous road, weather, or traffic conditions. The permit will be cancelled without refund if violated. Expiration dates cannot be extended except for reasons beyond the control of the permittee, including adverse weather. Permits are void if defaced, modified, or obliterated. Lost or destroyed permits cannot be duplicated and are not transferable. ACCESS: Routes approved by the Utah DOT plus local delivery destination travel on two-lane roads. ROUTES: All NN routes, except that, in addition, truck tractor and two trailing unit combinations with a cargo-carrying length of more than 85 feet are restricted to: ␣ 1␣ 1From 1To I&hyph;15 Arizona Idaho. I&hyph;70 Jct. I&hyph;15 Colorado. I&hyph;80 Nevada Wyoming. I&hyph;84 Idaho Jct. I&hyph;80. I&hyph;215 Entire length in the Salt Lake City area UT&hyph;201 I&hyph;80 Exit 102 Lake Point Jct 300 West Street Salt Lake City. LEGAL CITATIONS: Utah Code 27&hyph;12&hyph;154 and &hyph;155; Utah Administrative Code, Section R&hyph;909&hyph;1.
