FR940725-0-00179 FR940725-0-00019 (3) Any toxic materials in the atmosphere associated with cargo, fuel, tank coatings, or inerting media are within permissible concentrations at the time of the inspection; and (4) Any residues or materials associated with the work authorized by the Marine Chemist, Certified Industrial Hygienist, or competent person will not produce uncontrolled release of toxic materials under existing atmospheric conditions while maintained as directed. Space means an area on a vessel or vessel section or within a shipyard such as, but not limited to: cargo tanks or holds; pump or engine rooms; storage lockers; tanks containing flammable or combustible liquids, gases, or solids; rooms within buildings; crawl spaces; tunnels; or accessways. The atmosphere within a space is the entire area within its bounds. Upper explosive limit (UEL) means the maximum concentration of flammable vapor in air above which propagation of flame does not occur on contact with a source of ignition. Vessel section means a sub-assembly, module, or other component of a vessel being built, repaired, or broken. Visual inspection means the physical survey of the space, its surroundings and contents to identify hazards such as, but not limited to, restricted accessibility, residues, unguarded machinery, and piping or electrical systems. ยง1915.12 Precautions before entering confined and enclosed spaces and other dangerous atmospheres. (a) Oxygen content. (1) The employer shall ensure that the following spaces are visually inspected and tested by a competent person to determine the atmosphere's oxygen content prior to initial entry into the space by an employee: (i) Spaces that have been sealed, such as, but not limited to, spaces that have been coated and closed up, and non-ventilated spaces that have been freshly painted; (ii) Spaces and adjacent spaces that contain or have contained combustible or flammable liquids or gases; (iii) Spaces and adjacent spaces that contain or have contained liquids, gases, or solids that are toxic, corrosive, or irritant; (iv) Spaces and adjacent spaces that have been fumigated; and (v) Spaces containing materials or residues of materials that create an oxygen-deficient atmosphere. (2) If the space to be entered contains an oxygen deficient atmosphere, the space shall be labeled ``Not Safe for Workers'' or, if oxygen-enriched, ``Not Safe for Workers_Not Safe for Hot Work.'' If an oxygen-deficient or oxygen-enriched atmosphere is found, ventilation shall be provided at volumes and flow rates sufficient to ensure that the oxygen content is maintained at or above 19.5 percent and below 22.0 percent by volume. The warning label may be removed when the oxygen content is equal to or greater than 19.5 and less than 22.0 percent by volume. (3) An employee may not enter a space where the oxygen content, by volume, is below 19.5 percent or above 22.0 percent. Exception: An employee may enter for emergency rescue or for a short duration for installation of ventilation equipment necessary to start work in the space provided: (i) The atmosphere in the space is monitored for oxygen content, by volume, continuously; and (ii) Respiratory protection and other appropriate personal protective equipment and clothing are provided in accordance with Subpart I of this part. Note to paragraph (a): Other provisions for work in IDLH atmospheres are located in Subpart I of this part. (b) Flammable atmospheres. (1) The employer shall ensure that spaces and adjacent spaces that contain or have contained combustible or flammable liquids or gases are: (i) Inspected visually by the competent person to determine the presence of combustible or flammable liquids; and (ii) Tested by a competent person prior to entry by an employee to determine the concentration of flammable vapors and gases within the space. (2) If the concentration of flammable vapors or gases in the space to be entered is equal to or greater than 10 percent of the lower explosive limit, the space shall be labeled ``Not Safe for Workers'' and ``Not Safe for Hot Work.'' Ventilation shall be provided at volumes and flow rates sufficient to ensure that the concentration of flammable vapors is maintained below 10 percent of the lower explosive limit. The warning labels may be removed when the concentration of flammable vapors is below 10 percent of the lower explosive limit.
