FR940902-2-00083 FR940902-2-00035 Notice of Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Sensitive Joint-Vetch for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announces the availability for public review of a draft Recovery Plan for the sensitive joint-vetch ( Aeschynomene virginica ). The sensitive joint-vetch is an annual legume that occurs in intertidal areas along river systems in North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, and New Jersey. The species was listed as a threatened species in 1992 due to destruction and degradation of its habitat. The primary recovery strategy for this species is to protect extant sensitive joint-vetch sites within six watersheds in Virginia, Maryland, and New Jersey. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft Plan. DATES: Comments on the draft Recovery Plan must be received by December 1, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft Recovery Plan can obtain a copy from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Virginia Field Office, Mid-County Center, U.S. Route 17, White Marsh, Virginia 23183, telephone (804) 693&hyph;6694. Comments should be sent to this address, to the attention of Cindy Schulz. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Cindy Schulz (see ADDRESSES ). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened animal or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare Recovery Plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery Plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of Recovery Plans for listed species unless such a Plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during Recovery Plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised Recovery Plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing Recovery Plans. The document submitted for review is the draft Sensitive Joint-Vetch ( Aeschynomene virginica ) Recovery Plan. The Sensitive joint-vetch is an annual legume of the bean family native to the eastern United States. This species occurs in freshwater tidal river systems; currently, it is known from a total of 24 extant sites, including one in New Jersey, one in Maryland, two in North Carolina and 20 in Virginia. Almost every population of this species is subject to water withdrawal projects or habitat loss, modification, or degradation from development. The goal of the sensitive joint-vetch recovery program is to protect, maintain, and increase the species and its habitat, enabling eventual removal of this plant from the Federal list of endangered and threatened wildlife and plants. This will be accomplished through habitat protection (preventing habitat destruction and deterioration) at the landscape level and possibly by finding additional populations. The draft Recovery Plan is being submitted for agency review. After consideration of comments received during the review period, the Plan will be submitted for final approval. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the Recovery Plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the Plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: August 26, 1994. Cathy Short, Acting Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21775 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
