FR941021-0-00088 FR941021-0-00017 50 CFR Part 640 [Docket No. 941090&hyph;4290; I.D. 081194A] RIN 0648&hyph;AH27 Spiny Lobster Fishery of the Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: NMFS publishes this final rule to amend the regulations implementing the Fishery Management Plan for the Spiny Lobster Fishery of the Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic (FMP) to remove the requirement for Federal vessel permits in the commercial spiny lobster fishery in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) off Florida, make technical corrections and revisions, and add a prohibition against making false statements to authorized officers. The intended effect of this final rule is to relieve a restriction in the fishery and to facilitate enforcement. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of documents supporting this action may be obtained from the Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council, 5401 West Kennedy Boulevard, Suite 331, Tampa, FL 33609. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Georgia Cranmore, 813&hyph;570&hyph;5305. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The spiny lobster fishery is managed under the FMP. The FMP was prepared by the Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic Fishery Management Councils (Councils) and is implemented through regulations at 50 CFR part 640 under the authority of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act. NMFS published proposed and final rules on July 24, 1992 (57 FR 32956) and November 30, 1992 (57 FR 56516), respectively, to amend the regulations that implement the FMP (regulatory amendment). The regulatory amendment, among other things, adopted in the EEZ off Florida, Florida's spiny lobster trap certificate, trap reduction, and trap identification programs. The regulatory amendment was initiated by the Councils under the FMP's framework procedure for implementing specified gear and harvest restrictions, and included a provision to discontinue the issuance of Federal commercial permits for spiny lobster in the EEZ off Florida when Florida's trap certificate, and identification programs were in place and when Florida designated spiny lobster as a restricted species, thus limiting the sellers of spiny lobster to individuals who have restricted species endorsements on their Florida saltwater products licenses. Florida's trap certificate and identification programs were implemented July 1, 1993, and spiny lobster was designated a restricted species August 1, 1994. The conditions of the regulatory amendment for discontinuing the requirement for Federal vessel permits for commercial spiny lobster fishing in the EEZ off Florida have been met, and continuation of such requirement would constitute an unnecessary expense to fishermen and NMFS. Accordingly, this final rule eliminates that requirement. The Federal commercial vessel permit requirement remains in effect for the EEZ other than off Florida. The requirement for a Federal tail-separation authorization in order to possess a separated spiny lobster tail in or from the EEZ remains in effect both off Florida and elsewhere. Since possession of spiny lobster tails may be authorized in some instances when a commercial vessel permit has not been issued, and, since without a permit there would be nothing to endorse, this final rule changes the ``tail-separation endorsement,'' requirement in the present regulations to a ``tail-separation permit'' requirement. There are no changes in the criteria for obtaining or using a tail-separation endorsement/permit.
