FR940516-1-00102 FR940516-1-00006 In examining data from Power Systems Research (PSR), 4 EPA has identified a relationship between total displacement and rated power which suggests that a one-liter total displacement cutoff would affect nearly an identical group of engines as a 19 kW cutoff. However, using such a cutoff would cause a limited number of engines to be included that would not be included using a 19 kW cutoff (that is, engines above 19 kW but less than one liter displacement). Examples include larger two-stroke engines. A limited number of engines would also go unregulated under this scenario (that is, engines under 19 kW but greater than one liter). Examples include larger industrial four-stroke engines. 4 Power Systems Research (PSR), Engindata North America and Parts Link Aftermarket , 1992, St. Paul-Minneapolis, Minnesota. Because of the differences in applicability between a power- and displacement-based cutoff, EPA has chosen to propose the former despite the potential advantages of the latter. EPA requests comment on the appropriateness of instead limiting this regulation to engines under one-liter total displacement (or a different displacement limit), or limiting the applicability to engines that are below displacement or power cutoffs. Comments should address the relative market and environmental impact of the alternative approaches, as well as the relative enforceability. C. Exclusion of Compression-ignition Engines EPA is not proposing to regulate small CI engines in this action. As part of the Sierra Club v. Browner settlement, EPA will determine by November 1996 whether to undertake a rulemaking which targets emissions from small CI engines. CI engines have different emission characteristics from the engines addressed by this proposal, emitting much lower levels of HC and considerably higher levels of NO x than small SI engines. In contrast to the current proposal, which is focused on achieving reductions in emissions of HC, a regulation addressing CI engines would likely focus on NOx. EPA lacks sufficient data regarding baseline emissions and control technologies for nonroad CI engines in this power range to determine appropriate standards at this time. Therefore EPA has chosen to exclude these engines from the current proposal, which is aimed at achieving significant reductions in small engine HC emissions on an expedited basis. EPA is raising this as an issue because of the potential that unregulated CI engines could be substituted for post-control SI engines. In EPA's view, while this may occur in some cases (for example, small agricultural tractors), the most price-sensitive products such as string trimmers and lawnmowers are unlikely to shift significantly toward CI engines due to technological limitations, consumer preference, or both. The Agency solicits comment on the exclusion of compression- ignition engines, and on the appropriate test procedure and standards that should be applied to CI engines if they were to instead be covered by this regulation. D. Exclusion of Recreational Propulsion Engines EPA is proposing to exclude engines used in recreational vehicles, examples of which include snowmobiles, off-road motorcycles, and all-terrain vehicles. Golf carts do not qualify as recreational vehicles under this proposal, and they would be subject to the emission standards of this rule. Engines used in such recreational vehicles are defined by the following characteristics: Use of a continuously variable throttle (as opposed to a governor), rated engine speeds in excess of 5,000 RPM, and wide variations in both engine load and speed. EPA's primary reason for this exclusion is the extremely transient operation of the products in which these engines are used, which limits the ability of the proposed steady state test procedure to adequately represent exhaust emissions. This exclusion is not based on a determination that these engines do not contribute to air pollution and therefore need not be controlled. EPA has chosen to exclude engines used in recreational vehicles in order that it may proceed quickly with a program for other small SI engines. As part of the Sierra Club v. Browner settlement, EPA will determine by November 1996 whether to undertake a rulemaking which targets emissions from engines used in recreational vehicles. EPA solicits comment on the exclusion of engines used in recreational vehicles, on the criteria used to identify such engines, and on the appropriate test procedure and emission standards if EPA were to include such engines in this proposal. E. Exclusion of Marine Propulsion Engines
