FR940323-2-00094 FR940323-2-00067 _Local initiatives that are community-based, family-centered, comprehensive and culturally relevant and improve access to health services for infants, children, adolescents, or CSHCN. _Evidence of a capability to meet cost participation targets by securing funds required for the second and sequential years in an amount not less than 66.7 percent of the total budget. In the interest of equitable geographic distribution, funding priority, in the form of a 1.0 point favorable adjustment in the priority score in a 4 point range, will be given to projects from States without a currently funded project in this category. These States are listed in the application guidance. • Grants/Amounts: About $500,000 will be available to support up to 10 new Healthy Tomorrows projects, at an average of $50,000 per award for one year. The project period is 5 years. • Contact: For programmatic or technical information, contact Latricia Robertson, M.S.N., M.P.H., telephone: 301 443&hyph;3163. 4.1.4.5. Field-Initiated Projects • Application Deadlines: April 1 and August 15, 1994. • Purpose: To support projects of high priority that are so time sensitive that they cannot be delayed for submission against normal MCHB category deadlines. Applications must be preceded by contact with an appropriate program official to justify why the proposed project is so time sensitive that the application cannot be submitted against normal MCHB category deadlines. Wherever possible, prospective applicants are urged to submit their proposals in other announced categories. Applications submitted in this category may not be under consideration under any other category during FY 1994. Research applications are not supportable under this sub-category. The Director of MCHB will be the final arbiter of the acceptability of special project applications for review. Prospective applicants are urged to make contact with a program official listed below well in advance of submitting a formal application, so that the work of proposal development can be avoided if the proposed project is judged as inappropriate for submission under this category. • Grants/Amounts: About $500,000 will be available to support up to 10 new or competing renewal field-initiated projects. Project periods are up to 5 years. • Contact: Potential applicants for field-initiated grants should contact: Chief, Grants Management Branch, or the MCHB Division Director responsible for the area of project interest: Director, Division of Maternal, Infant, Child and Adolescent Health, telephone: 301 443&hyph;2251; Director, Division of Services for CSHCN, telephone: 301 443&hyph;2350; or Director, Division of Systems, Education, and Science, telephone: 301 443&hyph;2340. The address for each of them is: Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. 4.2. Cooperative Agreements A cooperative agreement will be awarded in one category: Children with Special Health Care Needs Child and Adolescent Service System Program (CASSP). It is anticipated that substantive Federal programmatic involvement will be required in this cooperative agreement. Federal involvement may include planning, guidance, coordination and participation in programmatic activities. Periodic meetings, conferences, and/or communications with the award recipient are held to review mutually agreed upon goals and objectives and to assess progress. Additional details on the degree of Federal programmatic involvement will be included in the application guidance for this cooperative agreement. 4.2.1. Children With Special Health Care Needs Child and Adolescent Service System Program (CASSP) • Application Deadline: May 10, 1994.
