FR940527-1-00033 FR940527-1-00014 A second example occurs when the difference between the average weights for two surgical classes is very small. We have found that small differences generally do not warrant reordering of the hierarchy since, by virtue of the hierarchy change, the relative weights are likely to shift such that the higher-ordered surgical class has a lower average weight than the class ordered below it. Based on the preliminary recalibration of the DRGs, we are proposing to modify the surgical hierarchy as set forth below. As we stated in the September 1, 1989 final rule (54 FR 36457), we are unable to test the effects of the proposed revisions to the surgical hierarchy and to reflect these changes in the proposed relative weights due to the unavailability of revised GROUPER software at the time this proposed rule is prepared. Rather, we simulate most major classification changes to approximate the placement of cases under the proposed reclassification and then determine the average charge for each DRG. These average charges then serve as our best estimate of relative resource use for each surgical class. We test the proposed surgical hierarchy changes after the revised GROUPER is received and reflect the final changes in the DRG relative weights in the final rule. Further, as discussed below in section II.C of this preamble, we anticipate that the final recalibrated weights will be somewhat different from those proposed, since they will be based on more complete data. Consequently, further revision of the hierarchy, using the above principles, may be necessary in the final rule. At this time, we would revise the surgical hierarchy for MDC 2 (Diseases and Disorders of the Eye) and MDC 3 (Diseases and Disorders of the Ear, Nose, Mouth and Throat). •In MDC 2, we would reorder Extraocular Procedures Except Orbit (DRGs 40 and 41) above Intraocular Procedures Except Retina, Iris and Lens (DRG 42). •In MDC 3, we would reorder Rhinoplasty (DRG 56) above Salivary Gland Procedures Except Sialoadenectomy (DRG 51). 5. Refinement of Complications and Comorbidities List There is a standard list of diagnoses that are considered complications or comorbidities (CCs). We developed this list using physician panels to include those diagnoses that, when present as a secondary condition, would be considered a substantial complication or comorbidity. In preparing the original CC list, a substantial CC was defined as a condition that, because of its presence with a specific principal diagnosis, would increase the length of stay by at least 1 day for at least 75 percent of the patients. In previous years, we have made changes to the standard list of CCs, either by adding new CCs or deleting CCs already on the list. For FY 1995, we are not proposing to make any changes to the current CC list. In the September 1, 1987 final notice concerning changes to the DRG classification system (52 FR 33143), we modified the GROUPER logic so that certain diagnoses included on the standard list of CCs would not be considered a valid CC in combination with a particular principal diagnosis. Thus, we created the CC Exclusions List. We made these changes to preclude coding of CCs for closely related conditions, to preclude duplicative coding or inconsistent coding from being treated as CCs, and to ensure that cases are appropriately classified between the complicated and uncomplicated DRGs in a pair. In the May 19, 1987 proposed notice concerning changes to the DRG classification system (52 FR 18877), we explained that the excluded secondary diagnoses were established using the following five principles: •Chronic and acute manifestations of the same condition should not be considered CCs for one another (as subsequently corrected in the September 1, 1987 final notice (52 FR 33154)). •Specific and nonspecific (that is, not otherwise specified (NOS)) diagnosis codes for a condition should not be considered CCs for one another.
