FR940627-0-00208 FR940627-0-00019 (F) The Baseline Propane category comprises a single group. The LPG base fuel specified in ยง79.55(g) shall serve as the representative of this group. (ii) Non-Baseline Groups _ (A) Non-Baseline Gasoline. The Non-Baseline gasoline fuels and associated additives shall sort into groups according to the following criteria: ( 1 ) For gasoline fuel and additive products which contain 1.5 percent oxygen by weight or more, a separate non-baseline gasoline group shall be defined by each oxygenate compound or methanol/co-solvent blend listed as a component in the registration application or basic registration data of any such fuel or additive. ( i ) Examples of oxygenates occurring in non-baseline gasoline formulations include ethanol, methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), ethyl tertiary butyl ether (ETBE), tertiary amyl methyl ether (TAME), diisopropyl ether (DIPE), dimethyl ether (DME), tertiary amyl ethyl ether (TAEE), and any other compound(s) which increase the oxygen content of the gasoline formulation. A separate non-baseline gasoline group is defined for each such oxygenating compound. ( ii ) Each unique methanol and co-solvent combination (whether one, two, or more additional oxygenate compounds) used in a non-baseline fuel shall also define a separate group. An oxygenate compound used as a co-solvent for methanol in a non-baseline gasoline formulation must be identified as such in its registration. If the oxygenate is not identified as a methanol co-solvent, then the compound shall be regarded by EPA as defining a separate non-baseline gasoline group. Examples of methanol/co-solvent combinations occurring in non-baseline gasoline formulations include methanol/isopropyl alcohol, methanol/butanol, and methanol with alcohols up to C8/octanol (Octamix). ( iii ) For each such group, the representative to be used in testing shall be a formulation consisting of the gasoline base fuel blended with the relevant oxygenate compound (or methanol/co-solvent combination) in an amount equivalent to the highest actual or recommended concentration-in-use of the oxygenate (or methanol/co-solvent combination) recorded in the basic registration data of any member fuel or additive product. In the event that two or more products in the same group contain the same and highest amount of the oxygenate or methanol/co-solvent blend, then the representative shall be chosen at random for such candidate products. ( 2 ) An oxygenate compound or methanol/co-solvent combination to be blended with the gasoline base fuel for testing purposes shall be chemical-grade quality, at a minimum, and shall not contain a significant amount of other contaminating oxygenate compounds.
