FR940817-1-00059 FR940817-1-00014 Commenters are requested to address whether it is necessary to limit the proposed purchase exemption to plans that are qualified pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code. Are the conditions of the proposed rule that a plan be broad-based and non-discriminatory sufficient safeguards? Does satisfaction of the minimum participation, minimum funding, non-discrimination and vesting standards specifically imposed by the Internal Revenue Code provide additional assurance that transactions pursuant to a plan will not be subject to abuse? Is the proposed exemption for excess benefit plan transactions consistent with the theory that wide participation and equal treatment of all participating employees limits insiders' opportunities to engage in short-swing speculation? 2. Intra-Plan Transfers The proposed rule would simplify and shorten the timing restriction that conditions the exemption for transfers of funds in an employee plan to or from an employer securities fund (``fund-switching transaction''). As proposed, any fund-switching transaction effected pursuant to an election made during any quarterly ``window period'' would be exempt. 26 Moreover, the exemption no longer would be limited to transfers at least six months apart. The requirement that the election occur in the ``window period'' following the release of quarterly and annual financial data should provide an adequate safeguard. 27 As under the current rules, the exemption would be available whether or not the plan is broad-based, tax-qualified and nondiscriminatory. 28 Finally, because of changes to the basic exemption for plan purchases discussed above, transferring assets out of an employer securities fund would no longer trigger the requirement that the insider cease plan purchases for six months. 29 26 Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(d)(2)(i). See Rule 16b&hyph;3(e)(3) [17 CFR 240.16b&hyph;3(e)(3)], defining the ``window period'' as the period beginning on the third business day following the date of release of quarterly and annual summary statements of sales and earnings, and ending on the twelfth business day following such date. 27 Although the window period requirement reduces the likelihood that an insider possesses material information that is not publicly available, the window period should not be considered a safe harbor from the prohibitions of Exchange Act Section 10(b) and Rule 10b&hyph;5 thereunder [15 U.S.C. 78j(b) and 17 CFR 240.10b&hyph;5]. 28 Plan participants also would continue to be able to effect fund-switching transactions by means of a six month advance election. See Section II.B, below. 29 This would change the result in Cravath, Swaine & Moore (Oct. 22, 1991) Q. 4. See Section II.A.1, above. Comment is requested as to whether the six month timing restriction between transfers should be retained, and, if so, whether it should be limited to opposite way transactions, such as a transfer into an employer securities fund followed by a transfer out of an employer securities fund. In addition, commenters should address whether requiring that transactions be limited to every other window period, even if separated by a few days less than six months_rather than requiring the transactions themselves to be six months apart_would alleviate difficulties in administering the requirement while preventing opportunities for speculative abuse. Comment also is requested whether it would be consistent with the statutory purpose to exempt fund-switching transactions without any timing restrictions. In addressing these issues, commenters are asked to consider the manner in which the rule, as proposed, would function in tandem with concurrently applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA regarding transfers. 30 30 Commenters' attention is directed particularly to the rules that became effective January 1, 1994 under Section 404(c) of ERISA [29 USC 1104(c)] that specify circumstances in which employee plan sponsors will not be subject to fiduciary responsibility because investment decisions are made by plan participants. In order to benefit from the rules, a plan must make a variety of investment vehicles available to plan participants and permit participants to switch their investments among the different vehicles at a rate of frequency related to the volatility of the investment. The latter requirement may dictate that a plan permit fund-switching transactions more frequently than every six months. See 29 CFR 2550.404c&hyph;1. In addition, the proposed rule would exempt any fund-switching transaction that results from a diversification election satisfying the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, without regard to the ``window period'' timing restriction. 31 This would maintain the utility of the 90-day period following the close of the plan year specifically provided for such transactions by the Internal Revenue Code 32 in order to facilitate proper planning for retirement. Distributions to participants pursuant to such diversification elections also are proposed to be exempted, as discussed below. 33 Comment is requested as to whether such fund-switching transactions also should be subject to the ``window period'' requirement or any further timing restriction other than that imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. 31 Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(d)(2)(ii). 32 I.R.C. Section 401(a)(28), which requires an ESOP to permit a participant who has attained age 55 and has participated in the ESOP for 10 years to elect, within 90 days after the close of the plan year, to direct the diversification of at least 25 percent of the participant's account in the plan. 33 See Section II.H, below. B. Participant-Directed Transactions_Six Month Advance Election The rule currently exempts participant-directed transactions made at least six months in advance of the effective date of the transaction. This exemption 34 would be clarified by codifying the staff's interpretation that a subsequent election that does not take effect for six months does not destroy the exemption. 35 34 This provision, now Rule 16b&hyph;3(d)(1)(i), would be moved to proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(h). 35 See Philip Morris Companies, Inc. (June 26, 1992). C. Compensatory Cash-Only Instruments Under the proposed rules, the derivative security definition would be modified to provide a more expansive exclusion for compensatory instruments that can be redeemed or exercised solely for cash (``cash-only instruments''), 36 such as phantom stock. The proposed exclusion would apply to all cash-only instruments issued in the context of an employer-employee compensation arrangement, 37 including compensation arrangements between a company and its non-employee directors. 38 Historically the purpose of such plans has been to provide performance-based cash compensation to employees, using stock price as a measure of company performance, rather than to provide employees with an equity interest in the employer. 36 Proposed Rule 16a&hyph;1(c)(3). Insider or employer discretion to require settlement in stock rather than cash would preclude reliance on the exclusion. See Thacher Proffitt & Wood (Dec. 20, 1991) Q. 1. 37 For example, cash-settled put options written by a financial institution or cash-only securities awarded to shareholders in the context of a tender offer would not satisfy the exclusion. See Sullivan & Cromwell (Apr. 30, 1991); and Marion Merrell Dow, Inc. (Jan. 24, 1992), respectively. 38 See Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. (Jul. 29, 1991). Commentators have cited a number of problems with using these types of performance-based plans arising from the 1991 rule changes. For example, change-in-control provisions and hardship withdrawal provisions could render the current exclusion unavailable because the rights would not be redeemable only on a fixed date or dates at least six months following the award. Given the difficulties that have arisen, and recognizing the historic role of stock return as a measure for long-term cash-based incentive plans, the proposals would restore these plans to a status similar to that which existed pre-1991. 39 39 Proposed Rule 16a&hyph;1(c)(3). Comment is requested on the necessity or appropriateness of the proposed exclusion for compensatory cash-only instruments. Is there any basis for according disparate treatment, for reporting and/or short-swing profit purposes, to equity-based securities depending on whether they are settled exclusively in cash or stock (or in either stock or cash), where both types of derivative securities provide identical opportunities for profit predicated on the underlying stock price movement? Commenters should focus in particular on the need for retention of one or both of the current, alternative conditions to the availability of the exclusion (compliance with specified requirements of Rule 16b&hyph;3; fixed-date redemption or exercise). 40 Alternatively, should the current exclusion for cash-only instruments be retained, with some relief provided for hardship withdrawals or other specified exceptions? What impact, if any, would the proposed exclusion have on executive and director stock-ownership programs that seek to align shareholder and managerial interests through awards of issuer stock or derivative securities payable in stock? 41 40 Rule 16a&hyph;1(c)(3)(i) and (ii) [17 CFR 240.16a&hyph;1(c)(3)(i) and (ii)]. 41 Commenters should consider in this regard the possibility that the Financial Accounting Standards Board may adopt uniform accounting treatment of compensatory fixed-price stock options, stock appreciation rights and other equity-based compensation that may reduce current incentives to use fixed-price stock options.
