FR940524-2-00027 FR940524-2-00023 Analysis of Proposed Consent Order to Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted, subject to final approval, an agreement to a proposed consent order from Hawthorne Communications, Inc. (``respondent'' or ``Hawthorne''). The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement or make final the agreement's proposed order. Description of Complaint This matter concerns advertising practices related to the sale of Tronsoft Inc.'s Freedom Now Home Business Starter Kit (``Starter Kit''). The Commission's complaint, issued on November 16, 1993, alleges that Hawthorne promoted the sale of the Starter Kit by scripting and producing a 30-minute television commercial entitled ``Freedom Now,'' which was broadcast in various areas throughout the United States. The complaint alleges that through the use of statements and depictions contained in the ``Freedom Now'' commercial, respondent Hawthorne falsely represented that consumers who use the Starter Kit will typically and readily succeed in starting and operating a business out of their homes and will typically earn substantial income. In addition, the complaint alleges that Hawthorne falsely represented that testimonials appearing in the commercial reflected both the actual experiences of the people appearing as testimonialists and the typical experiences of members of the public who had used the Starter Kit. Finally, the complaint alleges that Hawthorne, at the time it made various representations in the commercial, lacked a reasonable basis that substantiated those representations. Description of the Proposed Consent Order The proposed consent order contains provisions which are designed to remedy the alleged advertising violations and to prevent the respondent from engaging in similar acts and practices in the future. The proposed order prohibits respondent from disseminating the ``Freedom Now'' commercial and from misrepresenting that consumers who use the Starter Kit (or any substantially similar product) can typically use such product to start a business and earn substantial income. The proposed order would further prohibit Hawthorne from making any representations about the performance, benefits, efficacy or success rate of any product or service concerning business opportunities unless Hawthorne possesses competent and reliable evidence that substantiates such representations. The proposed order also contains prohibitions about using or misusing testimonials and endorsements. In particular, the order prohibits Hawthorne from using testimonials that do not reflect the actual opinions, beliefs, or experiences of the endorser and from falsely representing that any testimonial reflects the typical experiences of members of the public who use the product being advertised. The proposed order would require Hawthorne to distribute the proposed order to its divisions and to officers, agents, and any employees with advertising responsibilities. The order also requires respondent to notify the Commission of any changes in its corporate structure and to retain for five years all materials that it relies upon in making representations covered by the order, as well as all materials that call the representations into question. Finally, the order requires Hawthorne to file compliance reports within sixty days and at other times as the Commission may order. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed order, and it is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify its terms in any way. The proposed consent order has been entered into for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by the respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in the complaint. Benjamin I. Berman, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12623 Filed 5&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
