FR940913-2-00005 FR940913-2-00003 Finding of No Significant Impact for Burgess Community Flood Prevention Measure RC&D Measure Horry County, South Carolina Introduction The Burgess Community Flood Prevention RC&D Measure is a federally assisted action authorized for planning under Public Law 97&hyph;98, Agriculture and Food Act of 1981. An environmental assessment was undertaken in conjunction with the development of the plan. This assessment was conducted in consultation with local, State, and Federal agencies as well as with interested organizations and individuals. Data developed during the assessment are available for public review at the following location: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, 1202 1st Avenue, Conway, South Carolina 29526 Recommended Action Proposed is the construction of the Burgess Community Flood Prevention Measure consisting of four miles of new and/or renovated channels in order to properly remove the stormwater from the residential areas of the watershed. The proposed measure plan will reduce flooding around 113 homes and reduce flooding of roads. Effect of Recommended Action The proposed action will protect the private and public improvements within the watershed by improving the removal of excess stormwater. The channels which will be constructed or modified will be designed to remove the 10 year frequency storm event. Streamflow will be stabilized to the extent that peak flood flow rates will be slightly reduced and flow will be attenuated. The project will impact 0.76 acres of wetlands. The channels depths will be designed from 0.0 feet to a maximum depth of 5.0 feet. This design will permit out of bank flow while minimizing any hydrological change to the surrounding wetlands. All spoil and debris will be removed from the wetlands. There will be a land use change of approximately 15 acres. These changes are a result of land clearing to accommodate easements and channel location. The change is from forested to open vegetated maintenance road adjacent to the channel. A vegetated plan will be developed by the SCS biologist in consultation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources. The proposed project will improve quality of life and improve the health of the community. The removal of ponded stormwater will allow the septic systems to work more effectively, improving the surface and groundwater quality. An initial management survey of cultural resources concluded that no significant adverse impacts will occur to cultural resources in the project area. SCS archaeologist will conduct a complete survey of the project area prior to the commencement of any project component. Threatened and endangered plant species have been identified in the project area in recent history but will not be impacted by the proposed project. SCS in consultation with U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service concluded that the proposed project as planned will not adversely affect federally listed or proposed endangered and threatened species in Phase I. Field investigations have not revealed any endangered species in Phase II or III due to other habitat changes. Fish and wildlife habitats will be temporarily disturbed during the installation of the project. The project will provide long-term benefits by providing diversity in landuse by creating open space, wildlife plantings, and improved water quality.
