FR940617-0-00044 FR940617-0-00005 Article VI Equal Employment Section 1. The Bidder. (a) The Bidder represents that: (1) It has, XXX does not have XXX , 100 or more employees, and if it has, that (2) It has XXX , has not XXX , furnished the Equal Employment Opportunity Employers Information Report EEO&hyph;1, Standard Form 100, required of employers with 100 or more employees pursuant to Executive Order 11246 and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. (b) The Bidder agrees that it will obtain, prior to the award of any subcontract for more than $10,000 hereunder to a subcontractor with 100 or more employees, a statement, signed by the proposed subcontractor, that the proposed subcontractor has filed a current report on Standard Form 100. (c) The Bidder agrees that if it has 100 or more employees and has not submitted a report on Standard Form 100 for the current reporting year and that if this contract will amount to more than $10,000, the Bidder will file such report, as required by law, and notify the Owner in writing of such filing prior to the Owner's acceptance of this Proposal. (d) The Bidder certifies that it does not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Bidder certifies further that it will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Bidder agrees that a breach of this certification is a violation of the Equal Opportunity Clause in this contract. As used in this certification, the term ``segregated facilities'' means any waiting rooms, work areas, restrooms and washrooms, restaurants and other eating areas, timeclocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees which are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin, because of habit, local custom, or otherwise. The Bidder agrees that (except where it has obtained identical certifications from proposed subcontractors for specific time periods) it will obtain identical certifications from proposed subcontractors prior to the award of subcontracts exceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity Clause, and that it will retain such certifications in its files. Section 2. During the performance of this contract, the Contractor agrees as follows: (a) The Contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin. The Contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, color, religion, sex or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following: employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause. (b) The Contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the Contractor, state that all qualified applicants shall receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex or national origin. (c) The Contractor will send to each labor union or representative of workers with which the Bidder has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice to be provided advising the said labor union or workers' representative of the Contractor's commitments under this section, and shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment. (d) The Contractor will comply with all provisions of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and of the rules, regulations and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor. (e) The Contractor will furnish all information and reports required by Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and by rules, regulations and orders of the Secretary of Labor, or pursuant thereto, and will permit access to the Contractor's books, records and accounts by the administering agency and the Secretary of Labor for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with such rules, regulations and orders. (f) In the event of the Contractor's noncompliance with the nondiscrimination clauses of this contract or with any of the said rules, regulations or orders, this contract may be canceled, terminated or suspended in whole or in part and the Contractor may be declared ineligible for further Government contracts or federally assisted construction contracts in accordance with procedures authorized in Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and such other sanctions as may be imposed and remedies invoked as provided in the said Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, or by rule, regulation or order of the Secretary of Labor, or as otherwise provided by law. (g) The Contractor will include the portion of the sentence immediately preceding paragraph (a) and the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (g) in every subcontract or purchase order unless exempted by rules, regulations or orders of the Secretary of Labor issued pursuant to Section 204 of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, so that such provisions will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. The Contractor will take such action with respect to any subcontract or purchase order as the administering agency may direct as a means of enforcing such provisions, including actions for noncompliance: Provided, however, that in the event a contractor becomes involved in, or is threatened with, litigation with a subcontractor or vendor as a result of such direction by the administering agency, the Contractor may request the United States to enter into such litigation to protect the interests of the United States. Section 3. Equal Employment Opportunity Specifications. (a) As used in these specifications:
