FR941202-2-00152 FR941202-2-00098 6. Contributor's Committee. This committee serves as the focal point for the Contributors. It solicits information from and provides feedback to the Contributors and acts as liaison to the Board of Directors on Contributor matters. Section 3_Standing Committees A. General . Standing Committee members serve for five years, one member being appointed annually. B. Duties. 1. Program Structure Committee. This committee shall develop modifications to the scope, structure, and requirements to the tiers and fields of testing. 2. The Accrediting Authority Committee. This committee provides the standards used by EPA to approve state authorities. 3. Quality Systems Committee. This committee establishes and keeps current the key elements of QA/QC, including record keeping and staffing requirements. The committee also defines uniform standards for each of the elements of QA/QC. 4. Performance Evaluation Testing Committee. This committee determines the requirements for the Performance Evaluation Program, generates the standards for the Performance Evaluation samples, provides criteria for selection of the provider of the Performance Evaluation samples and provides and updates the protocol for the use of the Performance Evaluation Program in the accreditation of laboratories. 5. On-Site Assessment Committee. This committee determines the training and experience requirements of the assessors, establishes the frequency of inspection, generates the procedures for on-site visits and publishes these standards in a National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Manual. 6. Accreditation Process Committee. This committee generates and develops modifications for the accreditation process of environmental laboratories, including the requirements for accreditation, procedures for suspension, revocation and denial of accreditation, relative roles and responsibilities of laboratories and appeal processes. This committee considers matters concerning reciprocity of accreditation and establishes the process for the approval of state/federal accrediting authorities. 7. Regulatory Committee. This committee provides the Standing Committees with current information on federal regulations that impact laboratory testing. This committee annually presents a report for conference action. Its scope embraces all matters regarding the development and interpretation of uniform laws and regulations, the study and analysis of bills for legislative enactment, and the establishment and maintenance of published guidelines and other effective means of encouraging uniformity of interpretation and application of laboratory requirements. The Regulatory Committee shall also provide uniform language to assist states in adopting the standards in state statutes. Section 4_Special Committees, Task Forces, and Study Groups Special committees, task forces, and study groups may be established by the Conference Chair as the need arises or as requested by the Conference. Members will be appointed from the Active Members for as long as deemed appropriate. Upon completion of its assigned task, such bodies shall be dissolved by the Chair of the Conference. Section 5_Subcommittees Upon request of a committee, the Conference Chair may appoint a subcommittee(s) to assist the committee in fulfilling its responsibilities.
