FR940314-2-00013 FR940314-2-00005 Forest Service Management of Selected Vegetation Stands in the Nebo Management Area: Spanish Fork Ranger District, Uinta National Forest, Utah County, UT AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of Intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to document the analysis of the effects of alternatives for management of white fir timber stands infested with fir engraver beetles (Scolytus Ventralis) within the Nebo Management Area of the Spanish Fork Ranger District of the Uinta National Forest. The proposed action is to implement management activities that will support the desired future condition for the Nebo Management Areas outlined in the Uinta National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (Forest Plan) in accordance with the requirements of 36 CFR 219.17 and 219.27. The project area is located south of Payson, Utah, and northeast of Nephi, Utah, on lands accessible from the Mt. Nebo Loop Scenic Byway. The largest concentration of infected timber stands are in the Sheepherder Hill area (Sections 15, 22&hyph;24, 28, 29, T10S, R2E, Salt Lake Meridian). The purpose of this proposed management action is to save the remaining healthy trees by removing the competition that may be posed by dead and dying conifer trees and planting seedlings to accelerate the recovery time for reestablishing a healthy forest. Implementation of activities to restore a healthy forest condition may require entry into areas designated as roadless in the 1980 RARE II inventory. The agency invites comments and suggestions on the scope of the analysis. In addition, the agency gives notice of the full environmental analysis and decisionmaking process that will occur on the proposal so that interested and affected people are aware of how they may participate and contribute to the final decision. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis for this Forest Service proposal should be received in writing by May 10, 1994. A scoping meeting will be held at the Spanish Fork Ranger Station, May 4, 1994 from 3 to 7 p.m. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Tom Tidwell, District Ranger, Spanish Fork Ranger District, 44 West 400 North, Spanish Fork, Utah 84660. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Requests for further information or comments should be sent to Mark Sensibaugh, Resource Assistant, phone (801) 798&hyph;3571. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Because much of this project area is within view of a designated Scenic Byway and in the vicinity of the Mt. Nebo Wilderness Area, the nature and scope of the decision to be made is affected. Aerial surveys indicate more than 15,000 acres of timber stands were infested in the Nebo Management Area by the summer of 1993. A biological evaluation of current stand conditions was conducted on 350 acres to assess the magnitude of the problem and potential management options. The biological evaluation indicated that management actions should be considered to reduce the volume of dead and dying trees in the more concentrated, infested timber stands in the area, specifically Sheepherder Hill. In the spring of 1993, an emergency timber sale, the Payson Canyon Salvage Sale, was approved for harvesting approximately 141 acres of highly visible dead and dying timber within the proposed project area, but not within an inventoried roadless area. The emergency sale is adjacent to the Sheepherder Hill area. Since the Payson Canyon Salvage Sale was initiated, many additional fir beetle infestations have been identified and concern about forest health has increased throughout the area. Scoping of public issues were initiated as part of the Payson Canyon Salvage Sale, which is applicable to this project. The preliminary list of issues identified to be addressed by this project analysis include: _Forest health _Impacts on the roadless characteristics of the project area _Cumulative impacts of alternatives to this action _Visual impacts to the Scenic Byway _Fuel build-up/fire and insect disease hazards _Economic feasibility of implemented management actions _Implications to wetlands, floodplains and riparian vegetation _Possible impacts to threatened, endangered and/or sensitive species _Land/slope stability _Forest user safety _Water quality _Elk calving vs. the timing of management activities
