FR940817-2-00091 FR940817-2-00043 In the event that Ethyl wishes to undertake the testing required to register MMT for unleaded gasoline, EPA will work with Ethyl to resolve the details of all necessary test data. Further, once the data requirements for registration have been duly established, EPA will not require submission of any additional health effects and exposure data as part of a new waiver application. VIII. Other Issues Ethyl has stated that certain other considerations and data associated with MMT use should be taken into account by the Administrator in utilizing the discretion authorized under section 211(f)(4). These issues include (1) decreased emissions of toxic air pollutants due to decreases in aromatic use when MMT is substituted as an octane enhancer; (2) decreased refinery emissions due to decreased reformer severity; (3) decreased carbon monoxide (CO) and oxides of nitrogen (NO X ) vehicle emissions, (4) increased crude oil yield and associated energy savings, and (5) decreased levels of tropospheric ozone associated with lower levels of reactive hydrocarbon emissions and NO X emission decreases. Regarding CO emission decreases, EPA's analysis indicates that examination of all of the available test data on the CO effects of MMT shows a small (0.07 gpm or 2% of applicable standards 81 ) decrease attributable to the additive. 82 With the exceptions of two vehicle models, the CO effects in both directions were relatively small. The most significant exception to this general pattern is the test data from the 1988 Ford Crown Victoria 5L, which showed a decrease of 0.72 gpm (or 21% of the standard). The other unusual vehicle was also a Ford Crown Victoria_a 1992 model with a 0.36 gpm decrease (11% of standard). The small average size and somewhat erratic nature of the CO decreases seen in the vehicle sample lead to questions about whether this small potential benefit is likely to actually occur in the vehicle fleet. 81 This effect was calculated by integrating emissions, separately for clear and MMT fuels, over the full range of mileage for which data were available, taking the difference between fuel groups within models to get a model-by-model effect, and then averaging these effects over model groups. 82 For a complete description the reader is referred to Air Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, II&hyph;A&hyph;14, ``Evidence of CO and NO X Emission Decreases Attibutable to MMT in Durability Testing Data''. EPA also examined NO X emissions changes demonstrated by the data which had been submitted by both Ethyl and Ford. The test data for NO X show a more substantial and more consistent decrease for this pollutant than was the case for CO. The average across models was 0.08 gpm or 8% of the standard. The largest decreases were seen in the 1992 Ford Mustang 5.0L model and the 1988 Ford Crown Victoria 5L (each showing a 0.30 gpm decrease or 30% of the standard). Other models with substantial decreases were the 1988 Ford Taurus (0.22 gpm or 22% of the standard) and the 1992 Buick Regal 3.8L (0.19 gpm or 19% of the standard). It is difficult to clearly determine the effects which NO X decreases of this magnitude might have on tropospheric ozone concentrations, since such effects are influenced heavily by the mix of ozone precursors and the atmospheric chemistry of particular non-attainment areas. Modeling studies performed by EPA have shown that NO X reductions in NO X limited areas can significantly reduce regional ozone levels. However, although the regional ozone decreased, some urban areas showed slight increases in ozone levels. It is not possible to quantify the degree of reduction in ozone associated with the introduction of MMT in general because many factors affect ambient ozone. In order to achieve such a quantification, individual cities would need to be analyzed to determine their VOC/NO X ratios and the mobile source contribution to those ratios. EPA has therefore concluded that it is likely that in certain NO X -limited areas, ambient levels of ozone would decrease based on the expected NO X reductions resulting from MMT use. It is impossible to quantify the exact degree of these decreases or the magnitude of the area which would be affected. 83 83 For a complete description and response to Ethyl's comments, the reader is referred to Air Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, II&hyph;A&hyph;15, ``ORD's Response to Public Comments on the Reference Concentration for Manganese and on the Draft ORD Risk Assessment of MMT''. Ethyl indicates that ``use of the Additive will result in as many as 25 fewer cancer cases [emphasis in the original] attributable to automotive exhaust over the 1995&hyph;2010 span.'' Although ORD has not independently verified Ethyl's current analysis, it is nevertheless possible to evaluate their analysis by taking it at face value. Significant uncertainties are inherent in any prediction of a net change in cancer risk. For example, there are various models and assumptions underlying estimated changes in carcinogen exposures. Assumptions must be made regarding the composition of gasoline at different times in the future; projected fleet emissions must be estimated based on measurements from a few vehicles; the impact of MMT on such emissions must be estimated. In addition, the relationship of changes in emissions is assumed to be related to population exposure levels. Cancer risk, whether characterized in terms of the number of cases in the entire U.S. population or in terms of individual unit risk estimates, also has inherent uncertainties. According to Ethyl, the predicted reduction in estimated cancer cases is 0.6 to 2.0 cases per year. These represent upper bound estimates, and thus the true impact is very unlikely to be higher and may in fact be less. Ethyl also predicts that the changes in the probability of an individual contracting cancer is lowered with MMT use from about 12 cases per 100,000 to 6 cases per 100,000. Again these estimates represent upper bounds, so the true risk to an individual would not be expected to be higher and could well be lower. In any case, the individual risk level remains in the 10&hyph;5 range. Relative to the uncertainties in the cancer risk estimates as well as in the emission and exposure aspects of Ethyl's analysis, the magnitude of the claimed change in risk is comparatively quite small. The accuracy of these estimates also depends very much on the estimates of decreased aromatics use for individual refiners. Very significant changes are taking place in the refining industry to comply with various aspects of programs being implemented pursuant to the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments. Programs such as the introduction of ``reformulated gasoline'' will dramatically change the overall chemical and physical properties of gasoline. Thus, estimates of aromatics usage associated with refining are even more highly speculative over the next several years as these programs are implemented. In any case, it is not possible to weigh these predicted changes in cancer incidence or in ozone formation against the concerns which have been explained above in relation to increased manganese emissions. Therefore, the Agency disagrees with Ethyl's claim that it can be shown scientifically that a net public health benefit results from the use of MMT in unleaded gasoline. While the Agency agrees that such risk-benefit comparisons can be important, the present data are inadequate for this purpose. With regard to the potential risks associated with inhalation exposure to manganese, the Agency's Risk Assessment as described above indicates that there are insufficient data to conclude quantitatively whether the increased use of MMT will (or will not) increase public health risk. With regard to the potential reductions in cancer incidence and tropospheric ozone levels associated with MMT use claimed by Ethyl, the above analysis indicates that, while reductions are possible, the data are too sparse to provide reasonable quantitative estimates of the magnitude of such reductions. The estimated cancer reduction is not truly discernable as a quantifiable benefit. This is because relative to the uncertainties in the cancer risk estimates as well as in the emission and exposure aspects of Ethyl's analysis, the estimated magnitude of change in risk is quite small, even when based on the ``upper bound'' cancer estimates. For ozone, it is not possible in general to quantify the degree of reduction associated with the introduction of MMT because many factors, including local volatile organic compound (VOC)/NO X ratios affect ambient ozone levels. To achieve a quantification, all appropriate individual cities would have to be analyzed.
