FR940418-1-00029 FR940418-1-00005 On May 15, 1992, the Governor of Utah submitted a revision to Section 9, Part B, Sulfur Dioxide, Utah SIP. The revision was to address the 1990 CAA requirement that a SIP revision be submitted by May 15, 1992, for any area that did not have a fully approved SIP (the 1981 SO 2 SIP was only conditionally approved). The significant change in this SIP revision from that of the 1981 submittal is as follows: a. The MPR emission limitations and assumptions are removed and replaced with the emission limitation which can be achieved using the NSPS technology, double contact acid plant, or the equivalent of NSPS. (NSPS is the presumptive norm for RACT for this facility.) The SO 2 SIP now references the same emission limitations as those stated in PM 10 SIP. b. The SO 2 NAAQS are the 0.14ppm, 24-hour primary standard, and the 0.5ppm, 3-hour secondary standard. The 24-hour impact analysis was a rollback analysis which compared the smelter emissions in 1991 (PM 10 SIP emission limitation) with 1979 emissions. The State had monitoring data showing attainment at Lake Point (an area originally defined as ambient air and owned by the Bureau of Land Management, but now owned by Kennecott) where exceedances were recorded. The Lake Point site could be considered representative of the closest point in the elevated terrain that would be impacted by the tall stack emissions. Demonstrating attainment at Lake Point would technically support the attainment elsewhere in the elevated terrain that is considered ambient air. The area considered ambient air in the elevated terrain is a significant distance downwind from Lake Point. c. The PM 10 SIP addressed, to some degree, the 3-hour impact. The PM 10 SIP emission limitation was based on a 24-hour SO 2 limit; this emission limitation would be achieved through a given lb/hr calculated on a 6-hour average. The 24-hour limit was considered ``controlling'' for PM 10 and SO 2 (i.e., the 24-hour limitation was believed to be the level of control necessary for PM 10 attainment, as well as for the SO 2 attainment demonstration). The SO 2 SIP established a 3-hour limitation and verified that such limitation would protect the 3-hour NAAQS. d. Section 4.2 of the Utah Air Conservation Regulations was revised to include a 24-hour averaging period for the sulfur content of coal, fuel oil, and fuel mixtures, and to specify the ASTM methods to be used to demonstrate compliance with the limitation and reporting requirement. (The previous rule specified a limit for the sulfur content of fuels, but did not specify an averaging time or specific ASTM methods.) Section 4.6 was also revised to include a 3-hour averaging time for Sulfur Burning Production Sulfuric Acid Plants. e. Specific regulations which provided for special consideration (including malfunction provisions) on the smelter fluctuating operation are removed. Malfunction provisions for the Kennecott smelter operation are now the same as for any stationary source in Utah. This issue was addressed during the PM 10 SIP development and is being approved under the PM 10 SIP federal approval process. These regulation impacts were clarified in this SIP revision. II. This Action The December 23, 1991 Section 16, Stack Height revision and the May 15, l992 Section 9, Part B, SO 2 revision are consistent with other provisions in the State-wide SIP. EPA is proposing to approve these revisions because they are consistent with EPA guidance for GEP stack height demonstration and the attainment demonstration for the SO 2 NAAQS. These revisions resolve EPA's concerns regarding ambient air, attainment demonstration in the elevated terrain, and the enforceability issues related to the smelter operations. The previous emission limitations have been the subject of litigation filed by the Environmental Defense Fund. The legal actions have been stayed pending EPA final action on the past SIP revisions. The 1991 and 1992 revisions are believed to have settled the litigants' concerns about applying reasonable control technology and demonstrating attainment per the traditionally accepted federal requirements (i.e., application of RACT (double contact acid plant or the equivalent), monitoring demonstration, etc).
