FR940516-0-00061 FR940516-0-00013 Advisory Note 25: Licenses are likely to be approved, as administrative exceptions, for exports to satisfactory end-users in Country Groups QWY and the People's Republic of China of components, parts and materials, controlled for national security reasons by entries on the Commerce Control List, necessary for the production of telecommunication equipment or systems, provided that: a. The production equipment and technology for the equipment concerned has been previously legally exported; b. The quantity of components, parts and materials exported is normal for the stated end-use; c. Authorization under this Advisory Note will cover a program of supplies up to two calendar years for the production by the same licensee of equipment authorized under Advisory Note 25.a; d. No technology or ``software'' ``required'' for ``development'', ``production'' or ``use'' shall be included; e. The components, parts and materials exported will not be permitted to exceed the performance threshold or features of the equipment previously authorized; f. The contract includes explicit conditions to ensure that: 1. The equipment manufactured with the exported components, parts and materials is not exported or reexported, either directly or indirectly, to another proscribed destination; 2. The supplier or licensor may appoint a representative who is entitled to verify that the ``production'' technology and production equipment or systems serve their intended use; 3. Any modification of the capabilities or functions of the equipment produced must be approved by the supplier or licensor; 4. The supplier's or licensor's personnel have right of access to all the facilities directly involved in the production of the equipment or systems; 5. The equipment or systems produced will be for civil end-use only. Advisory Note 26: [Reserved] Advisory Note 27: Licenses are likely to be approved, as administrative exceptions, for exports to Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Mongolia, the People's Republic of China, Romania, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam of telecommunications equipment or systems controlled by 5A02.a through 5A02.g, 5A03, 5A04 or 5A05, measuring, test or repair equipment controlled by 5B01.c or 5B02, and specially designed components and accessories, ``software'' and technology necessary for the ``use'' thereof, provided that: a. Optical fiber telecommunication transmission equipment or systems: 1. Are designed to operate at a ``digital transfer rate'' of 623 Mbit/s or less at the highest multiplex level; and 2. Are designed to operate on a ``laser'' transmission wavelength not exceeding 1,590 nm. b. Digital radio equipment or systems: 1. Are designed to operate at a ``digital transfer rate'' of 623 Mbit/s or less at the highest multiplex level; 2. Do not employ QAM techniques exceeding level 512 or other digital modulation techniques having a ``spectral efficiency'' exceeding 9 bit/s/Hz; c. ``CCS'': 1. Is limited to the associated mode of operation; 2. Signalling and related speech/data channels are limited to two signalling points and must not be routed via different transmission media or different routes; N.B.: A single route consists of one or more consecutive serial connection links that may use different transmission media. 3. Message Transfer Part (MTP) level 3 signalling routes are limited to two signalling points; N.B.: MTP Level 3 is found in Q.704 and related recommendations of the ITU-T Q series for ``CCS''. 4. For point-to-point inter-city ``CCS'' connectivity between two signalling points, where permitted by Advisory Note 27.c.1, c.2, or c.3, the Originating Point Codes (OPC) and Destination Point Codes (DPC) for all signalling messages over such signalling links cannot be reinstalled or changed following the vendor's initial software installation without prior authorization, being available in object code only; all compilation mechanisms and administrative tools that allow for modification of the Point Codes are removed following installation; d. The equipment or systems are designed and intended to be used for fixed civil applications directly connected to a civilian network;
