FR940406-1-00042 FR940406-1-00011 e. All wheelbases. f. Estimated power absorption unit (PAU) setting, in hp. g. The range of projected EPA composite fuel economies for each body type in the initial model year of production. h. Projected introduction date (model year). i. Projected sales for each model year from the projected year of introduction through MY 2006, expressed both as an absolute number of units sold and as percentage of all light trucks sold by respondent. j. Projections of: (i) Existing models replaced by new models. (ii) Reduced sales of respondent's existing models as a result of the sale of each of the new models. (iii) New sales not captured from any of the respondent's existing models. 4. Does respondent project introducing any variants of existing basic engines or any new basic engines, other than those mentioned in your response to Question 3, in its light truck fleets in MYs 1998&hyph;2006? If so, for each basic engine or variant indicate: a. The projected year of introduction, b. Type (e.g., spark ignition, direct injection diesel, 2-cycle, alternative fuel use), c. Displacement, d. Type of induction system (e.g., fuel injection with turbocharger, naturally aspirated, 2 barrel carburetor), e. Cylinder configuration (e.g., V&hyph;8, V&hyph;6, I&hyph;4), f. Number of valves per cylinder (e.g., 2, 3, 4), g. Horsepower and torque ratings, h. Models in which engines are to be used, giving the introduction model year for each model if different from ``a,'' above. (See Table B for a sample format.) 5. Relative to MY 1994 levels, for MYs 1998&hyph;2006, please provide information, by truckline and as an average effect on a manufacturer's entire light truck fleet, on the weight and/or fuel economy impacts of the following standards or equipment: a. Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS 208) Automatic Restraints, b. FMVSS 214 Side Door Strength, c. FMVSS 216 Roof Crush Resistance, d. Voluntary installation of safety equipment (i.e., antilock brakes), e. Environmental Protection Agency regulations, f. California Air Resources Board requirements, g. Other applicable motor vehicle regulations affecting fuel economy. 6. For each of the model years 1998&hyph;2006, and for each light truck model projected to be manufactured by respondent (if answers differ for the various models), provide the requested information for each of items ``6a'' through ``6o'' listed below: (i) Description of the nature of the technological improvement; (ii) The percent fuel economy improvement averaged over the model; (iii) The basis for your answer to 6(ii), (e.g., data from dynamometer tests conducted by respondent, engineering analysis, computer simulation, reports of test by others); (iv) The percent production implementation rate and the reasons limiting the implementation rate; (v) A description of the 1994 baseline technologies and the 1994 implementation rate; and (vi) The reasons for differing answers you provide to items (ii) and (iv) for different models in each model year. Include as a part of your answer to 6(ii) and 6(iv) a tabular presentation, a sample portion of which is shown in Table C. a. Improved automatic transmissions. Projections of percent fuel economy improvements should include benefits of lock-up or bypassed torque converters, electronic control of shift points and torque converter lock-up, and other measures which should be described.
