FR941110-0-00044 FR941110-0-00016 In determining the amount of the penalty, section 1128A(d) of the Act requires the Secretary to consider specific matters and also provides authority to take into account any other items relevant to the penalty determination. We proposed that the Secretary's nondiscretionary and discretionary requirements be applicable to the State as well to make the Medicare and Medicaid requirements equivalent for SNFs and NFs. We do not believe that the Congress intended to have two separate assessment methodologies in place between both enforcement authorities when a civil money penalty from each could potentially be imposed on a single facility. Our proposal included two additional factors so that the noncompliance itself is considered when determining the penalty amount. In determining the amount of the penalty, we proposed at §488.230(g) that HCFA or the State must take into account the following factors: •The facility's degree of culpability; •The facility's history of prior offenses, including repeat deficiencies; •The facility's financial condition; •The nature, scope, severity and duration of the noncompliance; and •The category of requirement with which the facility is out of compliance. The effective date for a civil money penalty would be the 10th day after the last day of the survey in the case of immediate and serious threat deficiencies; or the 20th day after the last day of survey in the case of non-immediate and non-serious threat deficiencies. These timeframes permit time to notify the facility of the intent to impose a civil money penalty 5 days after the last day of survey. When HCFA's or the State's imposition of a civil money penalty is upheld on appeal or the facility waives its right to a hearing, we proposed that the civil money penalty would be for the number of days between the effective date of the penalty and the date of correction of deficiencies, or, if applicable, the effective date of termination. Penalties would be computed after compliance is verified or the facility has been sent notice of termination and the effective date. In the case of the facility achieving compliance, HCFA or the State would send a separate notice to the facility containing the amount of penalty per day, the number of days involved, the due date of the penalty, and the total amount due. In the case of a facility to be terminated, HCFA or the State would send this penalty information in the termination notice. The daily accrual of civil money penalties would be imposed for no longer than 6 months for non-immediate and non-serious threat deficiencies after which HCFA would terminate a SNF provider agreement, or stop Federal funding to the State for a NF, and the State may terminate the provider agreement of the NF if deficiencies remain. In the case of immediate and serious threat deficiencies, the daily accrual of civil money penalties would continue until HCFA or the State terminates the provider agreement or the deficiencies are corrected. If the facility can supply documentation acceptable to HCFA or the State survey agency that compliance with participation requirements was attained on a date preceding that of the revisit, fines would only accrue until that date.
