FR940405-2-00014 FR940405-2-00007 This section, which governs the use of BIA for all determinations made under Subtitle IV of the Tariff Act, places no limitations on the use of information from the petition for purposes of making a final BIA determination in an administrative review. Moreover, the legislative history of the 1984 amendments to section 776 of the Tariff Act places no limitations on the Department's use of petition information for the purposes of making BIA determinations. The House Report confirms that ``[a]s under present law, the administering authority will use the best information available to it for its action if it is unable to verify the accuracy of the information submitted.'' H.R. Rep. No. 98&hyph;725, 98th Cong., 2d Sess. 43 (1984). The Conference Report is even more clear that the permissive nature of the statutory language does not prohibit the use of petition information for BIA purposes in administrative review: The express reference in the statute to the use of information submitted in support of the petition as the best information available for purposes of final determinations in investigations should not be interpreted as precluding the administering authority from using the best information available for purposes of administrative reviews. Conf. Rep. No. 98&hyph;1156, 98th Cong., 2d. Sess. 177 (1984). As is evident from the legislative history as well, in giving the Department permissive use to employ petition information for BIA purposes in a final determination in an investigation, Congress was careful not to place any prohibitions on the use of BIA information for purposes of administrative reviews, including the use of information submitted in support of a petition. Under Krupp's forced interpretation of the statutory language, the Department could not even use petition information as a basis for a preliminary BIA determination in an investigation. Such interpretation would render the Department powerless to secure the cooperation required to conduct investigations and administrative reviews. However, the Court, in Krupp Stahl A.G. v. United States , 553 F. Supp. 394 (CIT 1982) ( Krupp I ), has already shown such an interpretation to be invalid as it denied Krupp's motion for a preliminary injunction to enjoin the Department from using petition information to make a preliminary BIA determination in the underlying investigation of this case. In addition, the Court, in Rhone Poulenc, Inc. v. United States , 899 F.2d 1185 (Fed. Cir. 1990), stated that the Department's BIA presumption ``implements the basic purpose of the statute'' and ``effectively induces [respondents] to comply with agency questionnaires; an important practical consideration since the ITA has no subpoena power.'' Id . at 1191. As such, the BIA rule can be viewed as ```an investigative tool, which [the] agency may weld as an informal club over recalcitrant parties *␣*␣* whose failure to cooperate may work against their best interest.''' Id ., citing Atlantic Sugar, Ltd. v. United States , 744 F.2d 1556, 1560 (Fed. Cir. 1984).
