FR940407-0-00096 FR940407-0-00014 (b) Program scope. (1) This element shall contain a clear definition of the sources affected by the program. This definition shall address: (i) The extent to which the program is mandatory or voluntary for the affected sources. (ii) Provisions, if any, by which sources that are not required to be in the program may voluntarily enter the program. (iii) Provisions, if any, by which sources covered by the program may voluntarily leave the program. (2) Any opt-in or opt-out provisions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be designed to provide mechanisms by which such program changes are reflected in an area's attainment and RFP demonstrations, thus ensuring that there will not be an increase in the emissions inventory for the area caused by voluntary entry or exit from the program. (3) The program scope shall be defined so as not to interfere with any other Federal requirements which apply to the affected sources. (c) Program baseline. A program baseline shall be defined as a basis for projecting program results and, if applicable, for initializing the incentive mechanism (e.g., for marketable permits programs). The program baseline shall be consistent with, and adequately reflected in, the assumptions and inputs used to develop an area's RFP plans and attainment and maintenance demonstrations, as applicable. The State shall provide sufficient supporting information from the areawide emissions inventory and other sources to justify the baseline used in the EIP. (1) For EIP's submitted in conjunction with, or subsequent to, the submission of any areawide progress plan due at the time of EIP submission (e.g., the 15 percent RFP plan and/or subsequent 3 percent plans) or an attainment demonstration, a State may exercise flexibility in setting a program baseline provided the program baseline is consistent with and reflected in all relevant progress plans or attainment demonstration. A flexible program baseline may be based on the lower of actual, allowable, or some other intermediate or lower level of emissions. For any EIP submitted prior to the submittal of an attainment demonstration, the State shall include the following with its EIP submittal: (i) A commitment that its subsequent attainment demonstration and all future progress plans, if applicable, will be consistent with the EIP baseline. (ii) A discussion of how the baseline will be integrated into the subsequent attainment demonstration, taking into account the potential that credit issued prior to the attainment demonstration may no longer be surplus relative to the attainment demonstration.
