FR941206-0-00128 FR941206-0-00017 §76.964 Written notification of changes in rates and services. * * * * * 5. Section 76.981 is revised to read as follows: §76.981 Negative option billing. (a) A cable operator shall not charge a subscriber for any service or equipment that the subscriber has not affirmatively requested by name. A subscriber's failure to refuse a cable operator's proposal to provide such service or equipment is not an affirmative request for service or equipment. A subscriber's affirmative request for service or equipment may be made orally or in writing. (b) The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall not preclude the adjustment of rates to reflect inflation, cost of living and other external costs, the addition or deletion of a specific program from a service offering, the addition or deletion of specific channels from an existing tier or service, the restructuring or division of existing tiers of service, or the adjustment of rates as a result of the addition, deletion or substitution of channels pursuant to §76.922, provided that such changes do not constitute a fundamental change in the nature of an existing service or tier of service and are otherwise consistent with applicable regulations. (c) State and local governments may not enforce state and local consumer protection laws that conflict with or undermine paragraph (a) or (b) of this section or any other sections of this Subpart that were established pursuant to Section 3 of the 1992 Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. 543. 6. Section 76.986 is revised to read as follows: §76.986 ``A la carte'' offerings. (a) Collective offerings of unregulated per-channel or per-program (``a la carte'') video programming shall be regulated as CPSTs pursuant to §76.922. For purposes of this section, ``multiplexed'' channels shall be treated as one channel. (b) A discounted package price offered by a cable system is not unreasonable with respect to any collective offering of channels if the component channels' collective offering also have been continuously available on the system on a per channel basis since April 1, 1993. (c) A collective offering of per channel offerings may be treated as New Product Tier if: (1) The collective offering meets the conditions set forth in §76.987; or (2) The operator had reasonable grounds to believe the collective offering involving only a small number of migrated channels complied with the Commission's requirements as of the date it was first offered. (d) In reviewing a basic service rate filing, local franchising authorities may make an initial decision addressing whether a collective offering of ``a la carte'' channels will be treated as a cable programming service tier that is an NPT under §76.987 or a CPST that is regulated under §76.922. The franchising authority must make this initial decision within the 30 day period established for review of basic cable rates and equipment costs in §76.933(a), or within the first 60 days of an extended 120 day period (if the franchise authority has requested an additional 90 days) pursuant to §76.933(b). The franchising authority shall provide notice of its decision to the cable system and shall provide public notice of its initial decision within seven days pursuant to local procedural rules for public notice. Operators or consumers may make an interlocutory appeal of the initial decision to the Commission within 14 days of the initial decision. Operators shall provide notice to franchise authorities of their decision whether or not to appeal to the Commission within this period. Consumers shall provide notice to franchise authorities of their decision to appeal to the Commission within this period. (e) A limited initial decision under paragraph (b) of this section shall toll the time periods under §76.933 within which local authorities must decide local rate cases. The time period shall resume running seven days after the Commission decides the interlocutory appeal, or seven days following the expiration of the period in which an interlocutory appeal pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may be filed. (f) A local franchising authority alternatively may decide whether a collective offering of ``a la carte'' channels will be treated as an NPT as a part of its final decision setting rates for the basic service tier. That decision may then be appealed to the Commission as provided for under §76.945. 7. Section 76.987 is added to read as follows: §76.987 New product tiers. (a) Operators may establish a category of CPSTs, referred to as ``new product tiers'' (``NPTs''), and offer these tiers to subscribers at prices they elect. (b) In order to be eligible to offer NPTs, cable operators must meet the following conditions: (1) Operators offering NPTs are prohibited from making fundamental changes to what they offer on their BSTs and CPSTs offerings on September 30, 1994. Operators may drop channels or move channels between BSTs and/or CPSTs or to an a la carte offering so long as the aggregation of such changes do not constitute a fundamental change in their BST or CPSTs.
