FR940325-1-00020 FR940325-1-00007 14. Proposed §120.330 would require a ship security bill that indicates the security duties and watch schedules necessary to implement security procedures. This document not only informs members of the crew of their responsibilities but enables review of the duties and schedules by law enforcement agencies. 15. Proposed §120.340 would require standard operating procedures relative to security (SSOPs) that set forth, in writing, routine activities (and standardized responses to certain non-routine situations). These procedures enable the operators of the vessels to train and inform security personnel. They also enable the Coast Guard to evaluate the adequacy of those activities and responses. In order for security measures to be effective, and because the measures must be tailored to the particular vessel and terminal, the rules do not contain detailed standards for the SSOPs. The Coast Guard will provide guidelines for the SSOPs to vessel and terminal operators and the rules provide for individualized consideration of SSOPs developed by vessel and terminal operators, including a process to resolve disagreements as to their adequacy. 16. Proposed §120.350 would require identification procedures for personnel boarding passenger vessels and entering restricted areas on the vessels. These procedures are necessary to determine the eligibility of members of the crew, passengers, visitors, vendors, and other personnel for boarding or entry. In general the procedures provide for use of identification that bears a photograph of the person to verify the identity of the person seeking access. Although alterations to such identification cards are possible, alterations are generally detectable if the cards are properly laminated. Use of a voyage specific identification card bearing a photograph provides an inexpensive and convenient means of ensuring that persons reboarding the vessel at intermediate port stops are, in fact, passengers on that voyage. 17. Proposed §120.360 would tell how to conduct screening of persons and property boarding vessels or entering restricted areas on vessels. Screening is necessary to ensure that prohibited weapons, incendiaries, and explosives are not introduced onto the vessels or into restricted areas aboard them. Stricter screening is necessary for property accessible to passengers than for articles accessible only to members of the crew. Only a certain percentage of these articles such as ships' stores, would be required to undergo screening, or search. The fact that random screening is taking place will deter the smuggling of prohibited weapons, incendiaries, or explosives while minimizing the burden on vessel and terminal operators. 18. Proposed §120.370 would require communication procedures to be established aboard each covered passenger vessel. Communications are important for summoning assistance from other members of the crew, from the passenger terminal, or from local law enforcement agencies in an actual or potential emergency. Distress signals are necessary in case the primary means of communications is damaged or destroyed. 19. Proposed §120.400 would prohibit most carriage of weapons, incendiaries, and explosives on covered passenger vessels. Certain law enforcement officials may carry firearms. Inaccessible baggage may contain weapons under some circumstances. 20. Proposed §120.410 would require lighting for security on covered passenger vessels during darkness. Lighting has proved effective in deterring unauthorized entry into secured areas. 21. Proposed §120.420 would require local and remote alarms for the intrusion detection systems aboard passenger vessels required by §120.210. Alarms are necessary to alert security personnel when intrusion occurs, because these systems are generally monitored in areas remote from the restricted areas. Early response is critical to security, and without alarms, intrusions could go unnoticed. 22. Proposed §120.430 would specify screening systems to detect prohibited weapons, incendiaries, and explosives before they could be carried aboard vessels. Those systems generally comprise X-ray machines, metal detectors, and manual searches; they may include either dogs trained to detect explosives or explosives detecting machines. The specifications for X-ray systems draw on standards of ASTM, which include, for existing technology, appropriate settings and sensitivity of the systems' components. In order for these security measures to be effective, and because the measures employed will vary for each vessel and terminal, detailed requirements other than the ASTM standard for X-ray systems, if used, are not contained in the rules. Security measures developed by vessel and terminal operators will be reviewed for adequacy and appropriateness for the particular vessel and terminal.
