FR941031-2-00104 FR941031-2-00074 Regulatory Guide; Issuance, Availability The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has issued for public comment a proposed revision to a guide in its Regulatory Guide Series. This series has been developed to describe and make available to the public such information as methods acceptable to the NRC staff for implementing specific parts of the Commission's regulations, techniques used by the staff in evaluating specific problems or postulated accidents, and data needed by the staff in its review of applications for permits and licenses. The draft guide, temporarily identified by its task number, DG&hyph;8014 (which should be mentioned in all correspondence concerning this draft guide), is a proposed revision to Regulatory Guide 8.13, ``Instruction Concerning Prenatal Radiation Exposure.'' This guide is being revised to provide guidance on instructions that must be provided concerning prenatal radiation exposure. In particular, the instructions described in this guide are intended to provide the information needed by women who became pregnant to help them make an informed decision on whether or not to formally declare their pregnancy in accordance with regulations. This draft guide is being issued to involve the public in the early stages of the development of a regulatory position in this area. It has not received complete staff review and does not represent an official NRC staff position. Public comments are being solicited on the draft guide. Comments should be accompanied by supporting data. Written comments may be submitted to the Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. Comments will be most helpful if received by March 17 1995. Although a time limit is given for comments on this draft, comments and suggestions in connection with (1) items for inclusion in guides currently being developed or (2) improvements in all published guides are encouraged at any time. Regulatory guides are available for inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC. Requests for single copies of draft guides (which may be reproduced) or for placement on an automatic distribution list for single copies of future draft guides in specific divisions should be made in writing to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Director, Distribution and Mail Services Section. Telephone requests cannot be accommodated. Regulatory guides are not copyrighted, and Commission approval is not required to reproduce them. (5 U.S.C. 552(a)) Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 6th day of October 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Bill M. Morris, Director, Division of Regulatory Applications, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26883 Filed 10&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
