FR940816-2-00106 FR940816-2-00079 The Exchange also is adopting procedures for review of the President's summary action when taken according to the new provisions. 15 Any person affected by the President's summary action will have the right to appeal the President's decision to a panel composed of three members of the Board. 16 All appeals will be expedited to the maximum extent possible and, in any event, will be heard within ten days. After consideration of the appeal, the panel will affirm, reverse, or modify the President's action. The decision of the panel is final. 15 The new provision does not change the procedures for the review of automatic suspensions under Article VII, Rule 1 of the Exchange's Rules. See supra note 11. 16 The members of the review panel will be appointed by the Board. No member of the panel may have any direct or indirect interest in the matter presented which might preclude the member from rendering an objective and impartial determination. Standard of Review Currently, the Exchange's Rules do not contain a formal standard of review for the hearing of appeals. The Exchange is adopting a formal standard of review that prohibits an appeal panel from overturning the facts finder's decision if the factual conclusions are supported by substantial evidence and if the decision itself is not arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion. Liability Provisions The Exchange also is adopting several new provisions related to the liability of the Exchange and its officers, directors, or employees. First, new Rule 17 under Article I of the Exchange's Rules prohibits members from instituting a lawsuit or any other type of legal proceeding against any officer, director, employee or agent of the Exchange if that person was acting on Exchange business. The provision does not prohibit members from suing the Exchange itself, nor does it apply where there has been a violation of the federal securities laws. Second, the Exchange is adopting a new rule that limits the liability of the Exchange to members for non-performance or misperformance of its duties and responsibilities, except where damages are suffered as a result of the willful misconduct, gross negligence, bad faith, or fraudulent or criminal acts of the Exchange or its officers, employees or agents, and except where there has been a violation of the federal securities laws. The Rule is in addition to the limitation of Exchange liability as a result of a member's use or enjoyment of Exchange facilities currently contained in the Exchange's Constitution. 17 17 See Article X, Section 5 of the CHX's Constitution. Finally, the Exchange is adopting a Rule that requires members who fail to prevail in a lawsuit or administrative adjudicative proceeding they institute against the Exchange or its officers, directors, and employees, to pay all of the Exchange's reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by the Exchange in the defense of such proceeding. This provision is applied only in the event that the Exchange's expenses exceed $50,000. In addition, the new Rule does not apply to internal disciplinary actions by the Exchange or administrative appeals. III. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b) of the Act. 18 Specifically, the Commission believes that, in general, the proposal is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act 19 which requires that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. 18 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). 19 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). The Commission believes that the proposed rule change to adopt a short sale rule is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act because it will help to ensure that members effecting short sales are in a position to complete the transaction. In addition, the Commission believes that the rule change will help facilitate the settlement of transactions by promoting the timely delivery of securities that are sold short. 20 The requirement that specialists, market makers and off-lot dealers report to the Exchange short and long positions in excess of 5% of the outstanding float will aid the exchange in monitoring compliance with its rule. 20 See, e.g., New York Stock Exchange Rule 440C.10, Interpretation .01. The Commission believes that the proposed rule change to the Exchange's summarily suspension provisions is consistent with Section 6(d)(3) of the Act. 21 Section 6(d)(3) permits a national securities exchange to summarily suspend members and non-members under certain circumstances. Specifically, an exchange may summarily suspend members from the exchange or limit or prohibit members with respect to access to services offered by the exchange if they (1) have been and are expelled or suspended from any self-regulatory organization or barred or suspended from being associated with a member of any self-regulatory organization, or (2) are in such financial or operating difficulty that the exchange determines that the member cannot be permitted to continue to do business as a member with safety to investors, creditors, other members, or the exchange. An exchange may limit or prohibit persons who are not members from access to exchange services if the exchange determines that such person does not meet the qualification requirements or other prerequisites for such access and that the person cannot be permitted to continue to have access with safety to investors, creditors, members, or the exchange. The rule change to the CHX's summary suspension provision incorporates the language of Section 6(d)(3) described above. 21 15 U.S.C. 78f(d)(3) (1988).
