FR940119-0-00065 FR940119-0-00014 (v) The VTS shall provide accurate hourly position transmissions every day of the year. In addition, the VTS shall allow polling of individual vessels or any set of vessels at any time and receive position reports in real time. For the purposes of this specification, ``real time'' shall constitute data that reflect a delay of 15 minutes or less between the displayed information and the vessel's actual position; (vi) The VTS shall be capable of providing network message communications between the vessel and shore. The VTS shall allow NMFS to initiate communications or data transfer at any time; (vii) The VTS vendor shall be capable of transmitting position data to a NMFS-designated computer system via a modem at a minimum speed of 9600 baud. Transmission shall be in ASCII text in a file format acceptable to NMFS; (viii) The VTS shall be capable of providing vessel locations relative to international boundaries and fishery management areas; (ix) The VTS vendor shall be capable of archiving vessel position histories for a minimum of one year and providing transmission to NMFS of specified portions of archived data in response to NMFS requests and in a variety of media (tape, floppy, etc.). (3) Operating requirements. All required VTS units must transmit a signal indicating the vessel's accurate position at least every hour, 24 hours a day, throughout the year. (4) Presumption. Failure of a VTS unit to transmit an hourly signal of a vessel's position shall be presumed to be a DAS, or fraction thereof, for as long as the unit fails to transmit a signal. A preponderance of evidence that the failure to transmit was due to an unavoidable malfunction or disruption of the transmission that occurred while the vessel was declared out of the scallop fishery or was not at sea will be sufficient to rebut the presumption. (5) Replacement. Should a VTS unit require replacement, a vessel owner must submit documentation to the Regional Director, within 3 days of installation and prior to the vessel's next trip, verifying that the new VTS unit is an operational approved system as described under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (6) Access. As a condition to obtaining a limited access scallop permit, all vessel owners must allow the NOAA/NMFS, the U.S. Coast Guard, and their authorized officers or designees access to the vessels' DAS and location data obtained from its VTS at the time of or after its transmission to the vendor or receiver, as the case may be. (7) Tampering. Tampering with a VTS, a VTS unit, or a VTS signal, is prohibited. Tampering includes any activity that is likely to affect the unit's: (i) Ability to operate properly; (ii) Signal; or (iii) Accuracy of computing the vessel's position fix. (b) Occasional limited access vessels. Vessels qualifying for a DAS allocation under the Occasional category as described under §650.24(a)(3), may participate in either the DAS notification program using the VTS procedures described in §650.26(a) or the call-in procedures described in §650.26(b). §650.26 DAS notification program. (a) VTS notification. Owners of scallop vessels with Full-time or Part-time limited access scallop permits, owners of vessels with Occasional limited access scallop permits that have elected to fish under the VTS monitoring system specified in §650.25(a), and owners of vessels fishing under the small dredge program specified in §650.21(e), shall be subject to the following presumption and requirements: (1) Full-time scallop vessels at sea are presumed to be fishing under the DAS allocation program unless they declare out of the sea scallop fishery for a specific time period by notifying the Regional Director through the VTS. (2) Owners of Part-time scallop vessels may not fish in the DAS allocation program unless they declare into the scallop fishery for a specific time period by notifying the Regional Director through the VTS. (3) If the VTS is not available or not functional, and if authorized by the Regional Director, a vessel owner must notify as required in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section and report using the call-in notification system described under paragraph (b) of this section. (b) Call-in notification. Owners of vessels qualifying for a DAS allocation under the Occasional category as described under §650.24(a)(3) or fishing in the Part-time category under the Appeal Program described in §650.24(f), who have not elected to fish under the VTS monitoring system described in §650.25, and vessels fishing pending an appeal as specified in §650.4(a)(9)(vi)(D), shall be subject to the following requirements: (1) The vessel owner or authorized representative shall notify the Regional Director prior to leaving port that the vessel will be participating in the DAS program by calling (508&hyph;281&hyph;9335) and providing the following information: Owner and caller name and phone number; the vessel's name and permit number; the type of trip to be taken, and that the vessel is beginning a trip. (2) A scallop DAS begins once the call has been received and confirmation given by the Regional Director. (3) Upon returning to port, the vessel owner or owner's representative shall notify the Regional Director that the trip has ended by calling 508&hyph;281&hyph;9335 and providing the following information: owner and caller name and phone number; the vessel's name and permit number; and that the trip has ended. (4) A DAS ends when the call has been received and confirmation given by the Regional Director. (5) Any vessel that possesses or lands per trip more than 400 pounds of scallops shall be deemed in the DAS program for purposes of counting DAS whether or not the vessel's owner or authorized representative provided adequate notification as required by this part.
