FR940511-0-00058 FR940511-0-00015 Response: Treaty secured rights do not require certification by the Sanctuary program pursuant to §925.5(g). NOAA agrees that pursuant to its trust responsibility to the tribes, it should consider and protect tribal interests when issuing permits. Therefore, §§925.9 and 925.11 have been modified accordingly. While NOAA as a trustee urges all other Federal agencies to consider and protect tribal interests, it does not have the legal authority to require other Federal agencies to consider and protect tribal interests when issuing permits pursuant to other regulatory authorities. Comment: The regulations, exemptions and authority to place conditions on existing permitted activities are unclear. Response: Section 304(c)(2) of the MPRSA provides NOAA with the right to regulate the exercise of a lease, permit, license, or right of subsistence use or of access existing on the effective date of Sanctuary designation. Comment: Sanctuary management should be formally coordinated with tribal regulatory and law enforcement authorities through cooperative agreements. Response: Cooperative agreements will be developed as necessary between NOAA and the tribes regarding regulatory and law enforcement activities. Comment: The Sanctuary should offer increased enforcement which should be conducted by Sanctuary personnel rather than the U.S. Coast Guard. Clarify the enforcement procedures. Response: There will be enforcement of Sanctuary regulations through cooperative agreements with the U.S. Coast Guard, NMFS, WDF, the coastal tribes, USFWS, and the National Park Service (NPS). Considering fiscal constraints, level of use, and availability of enforcement personnel working in the field already, NOAA has determined that it is not a high immediate priority to hire Sanctuary enforcement personnel. The Sanctuary must first become fully staffed and operational, and a determination must be made whether additional enforcement personnel are needed. The enforcement procedures will be determined pursuant to the cooperative agreements that are established. Comment: The broad scope of the discharge prohibition will require a well-coordinated enforcement operation to monitor all discharge and disposal activities from sources on land as well as in offshore, coastal and inland waters over large areas outside of the Sanctuary boundary. It may be impossible to determine the origin of discharges or deposits found in the Sanctuary after the dumping activity has occurred. Response: The prohibition on discharges from outside the boundary relates to discharges that enter and injure Sanctuary resources. NOAA must establish that discharges not only enter, but injure the resources before enforcement actions will be taken. It will, therefore be desirable for NOAA to undertake a comprehensive monitoring program by which it can determine ecosystem health and use impacts. Comment: NOAA should impose unlimited liability for spills extended to shipping companies and firms providing original source materials involved in polluting activities. Response: NOAA is permitted to seek penalties of up to $100,000 per day for a violation pursuant to section 307(c)(1) of the MPRSA (16 U.S.C. 1437(c)(1)), and for natural resource damages pursuant to section 312 of the MPRSA (16 U.S.C. 1443). Transboundary Coordination Comment: NOAA should coordinate with other Federal and Canadian authorities to regulate vessel traffic, reduce the risk of oil spills, and eliminate oil and gas drilling in Canadian waters adjacent to the proposed sanctuary. NOAA should encourage an adjacent sanctuary along the west coast of Vancouver Island. Response: NOAA agrees and is working with the Canadian Coast Guard, the U.S. Coast Guard and the Washington OMS to reduce the risk of oil spills. The regulation of vessel traffic will currently remain with the U.S. and Canadian Coast Guards and the OMS. NOAA will support any Canadian initiative to designate a marine protected area in Canadian waters on the Pacific Coast. Beach Management Policies Comment: NOAA should grandfather in the existing beach management policies including allowable beach driving activities.
