FR940118-2-00131 FR940118-2-00078 Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 11␣/␣Tuesday, January 18, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Office of the Secretary RIN 0503&hyph;AA09 Notice Inviting Applications for Designation of Rural Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, USDA. ACTION: Notice inviting applications. SUMMARY: This Notice invites applications from States and local governments nominating rural areas for designation as Empowerment Zones (``EZ'') and Enterprise Communities (``EC''), as those terms are defined in this Notice and in an interim rule published elsewhere in today's Federal Register . The interim rule provides the guidance necessary for completion and submission of the applications. DATES: Application due date: The deadline for receipt of an application will be 4 p.m. Eastern Daylight Savings Time, Thursday, June 30, 1994. Applications received after this date will not be considered. Applications may not be submitted prior to 30 days from the date of publication of the interim rule. ADDRESSES: Applications may be obtained from EZ/EC State Contacts located at the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) State or District Offices listed in the appendix to this Notice or by sending an Internet Mail message to: info@ezec.usda.gov. to obtain the application. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly C. Gillot, Strategy Development Staff, Rural Development Administration, room 5405, Department of Agriculture, 14th and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250&hyph;3200, telephone 202&hyph;690&hyph;1045 (this is not a toll free number), or by sending an Internet Mail message to: info@ezec.usda.gov to obtain information. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements contained in this notice have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;3520). No person may be subjected to a penalty for failure to comply with these information collection requirements until they have been approved and assigned an OMB control number. The OMB control number, when assigned, will be announced by separate notice in the Federal Register . The burden for collecting the required information is estimated to include the time for reviewing the instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Information on the estimated public reporting burden is provided under the heading, Other Matters. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to: Jack Holston, FmHA Clearance Officer, Farmers Home Administration, AG Box 0743, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;3200; and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for USDA, Washington, DC 20503. I. Background One of the core items of President Clinton's economic proposals is the need to empower America's distressed rural and urban communities. His Empowerment Zone proposal represents a new approach to the problems of distressed communities. It emphasizes a bottom-up community based strategy rather than the traditional top-down bureaucratic approach. It is a strategy to address economic, human, community, and physical development problems and opportunities in a comprehensive fashion. Title XIII of the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1993, enacted to implement the President's vision, authorizes the Secretary of Department of Agriculture to designate up to three Empowerment Zones and up to 30 Enterprise Communities in rural areas. (Unless otherwise noted, all references in this Notice to Empowerment Zones also include Enterprise Communities.) This Notice invites applications from State and local governments, regional planning agencies, non-profit organizations, community-based organizations, or other locally-based organizations for the Secretarial designations as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities. The program is intended to combine the resources of the Federal Government with those of State and local governments, educational institutions and the private and non-profit sectors to implement community-developed strategic plans for economic development. The Federal Government has taken steps to coordinate Federal assistance in support of the Zones, including expedited processing, priority funding, and waiver of regulations. To that end, President Clinton has issued an Executive Order that creates a Community Enterprise Board chaired by Vice President Al Gore to ensure the success of the Empowerment Zone initiative. II. Eligibility The statute specifies certain criteria that must apply in order for an area to be eligible for Empowerment Zone designation, including geographic size, population, poverty rate by census tract (or by block numbering areas when the community is not delineated by census tracts), pervasive poverty, unemployment, and general distress of the area. The details of these requirements are described in the interim rule governing the program published elsewhere in today's Federal Register . This information must be provided in the application. USDA will accept certifications of the data by the State and local governments, subject to further verification of the data prior to designation as a Zone. III. Designation Factors The statute specifies three factors to be considered by the Secretary in designating Empowerment Zones: (1) The effectiveness of the Strategic Plan; (2) the effectiveness of the assurances provided in support of the Strategic Plan; and (3) other criteria to be specified by the Secretary. Each of these factors is discussed in greater detail in the interim rule (The Strategic Plan is described in the interim rule at 7 CFR 25.200(c)). IV. Timing and Location of Application Submissions Applications may be obtained from any FmHA State Office and from Rural EZ/EC State Contacts (see Appendix A) or by sending an Internet Mail message to: info@ezec.usda.gov. An application may be submitted 30 days from the date of publication of the interim rule, which governs the Empowerment Zone program. The deadline for receipt of the application will be 4 p.m. Eastern Daylight Savings Time, Thursday, June 30, 1994. Applications received after that date and time will not be accepted, and will be returned to the sender. As the applications require certifications from the State and local governments, we cannot accept applications sent by FAX or through the Internet system. The original application and one (1) copy should be sent to: US Department of Agriculture, Rural Development Administration, EZ/EC Team, room 5405, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250&hyph;3200. Applicants will be notified of an incomplete application. Provided that the application is received at the above address with sufficient time before the deadline, applicant will be given an opportunity to provide the missing information to USDA. V. Notice of Intent to Apply Applicants should fill out and mail a Notice of Intent to Apply. The form of notice is located at the end of the Empowerment Zone Application (see Appendix B), or may be obtained by sending an Internet Mail message to: info@ezec.usda.gov to obtain the notice. Applicants may wish to submit the form in order to be placed on the Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community mailing list. While the notice is not mandatory for participation in the program, USDA encourages the submission of the notice as it will permit the Department to provide applicants with updated information on program requirements as well as information on technical assistance.
