FR940913-2-00024 FR940913-2-00018 Department of the Army Corps of Engineers Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for Howard Hanson Dam Operating, King County, WA AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Seattle District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: Seattle District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is proposing an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Continuing Operation and Maintenance of the Howard Hanson Dam on the Green River, King County, Washington. Even though this project was completed before the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, it is the intent of the Corps to prepare an EIS on current operations which have an impact on notable environmental amenities, particularly, resident and anadromous fish resources. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Seattle District, Planning Branch, Environmental Resources Section, P.O. Box 3755, Seattle, Washington 98124&hyph;2255. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mike McNeely, (206) 764&hyph;3624. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Howard A. Hanson Dam was originally authorized as the Eagle Gorge Dam and Reservoir by the Flood Control Act of 1950. Construction was completed in 1962. Project authorized purposes were flood control, augmentation of low flows, irrigation and water supply. Irrigation in the Green River Valley is no longer a priority and the project has never been operated for water supply. Howard Hanson Dam has arrange of operational choices within the parameters of the authorized uses of the project. Throughout the years that HHD has been in operation, many downstream changes have occurred in land use, recreation, k fishery resources and resource allocation as well as in general environmental awareness. These, in turn, have resulted in operational changes and adjustments primarily related to refilling the conservation pool and controlling sediment accumulation in the reservoir. Seattle District proposes to operate the project for flood control and low flow augmentation in accordance with a refill strategy instituted in 1992, a drought year. In coordination with resource agencies, refill will begin early (April) and discharge flows are designed to minimize impacts to wild steelhead spawning downstream. This strategy is dynamic and adjustments will be made on a year-to-year basis as new knowledge is gained. Alternatives The Corps of Engineers has three alternative courses of action available: 1. Operate the project as described above (the ``no action'' alternative because it is the existing condition. 2. Operate with the original parameters generally used from 1962 to 1983. 3. Operate with 98% reliability with delay of refill for out-migration of upper watershed fish_a strategy generally used from 1984 to 1992. Scoping and Public Involvement Public involvement will be sought during scoping and conduct of the study in accordance with NEPA procedures. A public scoping process has been begun to clarify issues of major concern, identify any information sources that might be available to analyze and evaluate impacts, and obtain public input on the range and acceptability of alternatives. The Notice of Intent formally commences the scoping process under NEPA. As part of the scoping process, all affected Federal, State and local agencies, Indian Tribes, and other interested private organizations, including environmental groups, are invited to comment on the scope of the EIS. Comments are requested concerning project alternatives, mitigation measures, probable significant environmental impacts and permits or other approvals that may be required. The following key areas have been identified to be analyzed in depth in the draft EIS: 1. Geology and Engineering Design. 2. Water Management. 3. Water Quality. 4. Fisheries. 5. Wildlife. 6. Wetlands. 7. Cultural Resources. 8. Socioeconomic Resources. Other Environmental Review and Coordination Requirements All review and coordination requirements will be fulfilled via this NEPA process. On-going operations of the dam are continually coordinated with agencies and interested publics. Scoping Meeting A scoping meeting is not scheduled for this EIS. Availability of Draft EIS The draft EIS is scheduled for release in the spring of 1995. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22539 Filed 9&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;34&hyph;M
