FR940106-0-00092 FR940106-0-00021 Text of the Joint Final Rule The text of the joint final rule as adopted by ETA and the Wage and Hour Division, ESA, in this document appears below. Subpart D_Attestations by Facilities Using Nonimmigrant Aliens as Registered Nurses Sec. ␣ XXX .300␣Purpose and scope of subparts D and E. XXX .301␣Overview of process. XXX .302␣Definitions. XXX .310␣Attestations. XXX .315␣State plans. XXX .320␣Appeals of acceptance and rejection of attestations submitted for filing and of State plans. XXX .350␣Public access. Subpart E_Enforcement of H&hyph;1A Attestations XXX .400␣Enforcement authority of Administrator, Wage and Hour Division. XXX .405␣Complaints and investigative procedures. XXX .410␣Civil money penalties and other remedies. XXX .415␣Written notice and service of Administrator's determination. XXX .420␣Request for hearing. XXX .425␣Rules of practice for administrative law judge proceedings. XXX .430␣Service and computation of time. XXX .435␣Administrative law judge proceedings. XXX .440␣Decision and order of administrative law judge. XXX .445␣Secretary's review of administrative law judge's decision. XXX .450␣Administrative record. XXX .455␣Notice to the Attorney General and the Employment and Training Administration. XXX .460␣Non-applicability of the Equal Access to Justice Act. Subpart D_Attestations by Facilities Using Nonimmigrant Aliens as Registered Nurses § XXX .300 Purpose and scope of subparts D and E. (a) Purpose. The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) establishes the H&hyph;1A program to provide relief for the nursing shortage crisis. Subpart D of this part sets forth the procedure by which health care facilities seeking to use nonimmigrant registered nurses may submit attestations to the Department of Labor relating to the effects of the nursing shortage on their operations, their efforts to recruit and retain United States workers as registered nurses and certain information on wages and working conditions for nurses at the facility. Subpart E of this part sets forth complaint, investigation, and penalty provisions with respect to such attestations. (b) Procedure. The INA establishes a procedure for health care facilities to follow in seeking admission to the United States for, or use of, nonimmigrant nurses under H&hyph;1A visas. The procedure is designed to reduce reliance on nonimmigrant nurses in the future, and calls of the health care facility to attest, and be able to demonstrate, that, e.g., there would be substantial disruption to health services without the nonimmigrant nurses and that it is taking timely and significant steps to develop, recruit, and retain U.S. nurses. Subparts D and E of this part set forth the specific requirements for those procedures. (c) Applicability. (1) Subparts D and E of this part apply to all facilities that seek the temporary admission or use of nonimmigrants as registered nurses. (2) During the period that the provisions of Appendix 1603.D.4 of Annex 1603 of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) apply, subparts D and E of this part shall apply to the entry of a nonimmigrant who is a citizen of Mexico under and pursuant to the provisions of section D of Annex 1603 of NAFTA. XXX .301␣Overview of process.
