FR940111-0-00055 FR940111-0-00015 B. EPA Discretion to Determine the ``Reasonable and Appropriate'' Area for Imposition of Sanctions 1. Comment. The City of Chicago believes the discretion in ยง52.30(d)_that if the criteria are met EPA may impose sanctions on a less than statewide basis to the area it determines is reasonable and appropriate_was not Congress' intent in enacting section 110(m). The City of Chicago believes EPA's only discretion is whether to apply sanctions to political subdivisions that meet the criteria. Thus, the City of Chicago believes EPA has no basis to apply sanctions when the criteria are not met (i.e., to apply sanctions to political subdivisions that were thought to be principally responsible, but did not meet the criteria, and to any other surrounding political subdivisions EPA determines is reasonable and appropriate) and that to apply sanctions to these areas is arbitrary and capricious. Response. Section 110(m) states that sanctions may be applied to any portion of the State the Administrator determines reasonable and appropriate, with one exception. If one or more political subdivisions are principally responsible for the deficiency, sanctions may not be applied statewide. Therefore, if the criteria are met, i.e., a political subdivision is principally responsible, then EPA may not impose sanctions on a statewide basis. However, if no political subdivision is principally responsible, the text of section 110(m) expressly authorizes EPA to move forward and impose sanctions on a statewide basis. The EPA would make a determination, however, concerning what area of the State for which sanctions would be reasonable and appropriate. Furthermore, EPA is not required to establish criteria to determine the area of the State for which it is reasonable and appropriate to apply sanctions under section 110(m). 2. Comment. Four commenters, New York DOT, the Orange County Transportation Authority (OCTA), the City of Chicago, and the U.S. DOT, requested clarification of how EPA will determine the ``reasonable and appropriate'' area to apply sanctions. The City of Chicago and the U.S. DOT assert that the statute requires such clarification. The New York DOT believes that the lack of adequate guidance on what area is ``reasonable and appropriate'' will create confusion and continual uncertainty on the part of States as well as Federal agencies. The New York DOT suggests that the prime consideration should be whether a good faith effort has been made to bring the nonattainment area into compliance. The New York DOT believes that if this issue is not addressed in this rulemaking, it should be the subject of another rulemaking. The OCTA cites the example of California, which consists of several regional authorities, which, in turn, each consist of several local jurisdictions. The OCTA is concerned about how EPA would impose sanctions in the case where a regional authority contains several local jurisdictions and where a local authority failed to do everything mandated by a regional plan. The commenter believes it would be more reasonable and appropriate to apply sanctions to the single local jurisdiction, not the regional authority. In addition to assuring that the State does not suffer sanctions if one political subdivision is principally responsible for the deficiency, the commenter suggests that EPA assure that regions within a State would not be subject to sanctions if one or more local jurisdictions is/are principally responsible for the deficiency. The U.S. DOT comments that in situations where a nonattainment area contains multiple political subdivisions, none of which are principally responsible according to the five criteria, the rule must clarify how EPA will determine whether to apply sanctions to the specific responsible political subdivision(s) rather than the entire nonattainment area. The City of Chicago and U.S. DOT assert that the statutory mandate to promulgate criteria is not limited to the determination of principal responsibility. These commenters argue that EPA must also develop criteria to determine when the imposition of sanctions would be reasonable and appropriate, and the criteria should be sufficient to put potentially affected political subdivisions on notice of the activities or agreements which may put them at risk of sanctions.
