FR940325-2-00229 FR940325-2-00106 b. Are state issues being taken into consideration? Close coordination with the states is critical when reviewing the exercise schedule and the types of industries being exercised. c. Regional Response Teams (RRTs) should be consulted to ensure that RRT issues such as the coordination of other exercises (for example, FEMA hazmat exercises) are taken into consideration when scheduling the Area exercises and exercise participants. d. Regional coordinating committees (such as the Area Industry Exercise Coordinating Committee in the Pacific Northwest) should be consulted for input. 5. The suggested process for commenting on the schedule is as follows: a. Coast Guard OSCs are requested to comment, on behalf of their Area Committees, to the NSCC through their respective district offices. b. EPA OSCs are requested to comment, on behalf of their Area Committees, to the NSCC through their respective regional offices. c. Industry plan holders are requested to comment directly to the NSCC as described in `` ADDRESSES .'' (If a regional coordinating committee is established in the region, industries are encouraged to use this committee to coordinate industry responses for forwarding to the NSCC.) d. Coast Guard Districts and EPA Regions are requested to comment directly to the NSCC, on behalf of their OSCs, RRTs, and other regional organizations, as described in `` ADDRESSES .'' e. The states are requested to comment on the scheduling process directly to the NSCC as described in `` ADDRESSES .'' Selection of Industry Participants for Area Exercises The selection process for industry participants for the Area exercises will be as follows: 1. Industry response plan holders interested in leading the Area exercises or supporting the government-led Area exercises should submit their requests directly to the NSCC as described in `` DATES .'' These requests should be submitted by May 1. The NSCC will notify the districts/regions and OSCs of the industry plan holder requests received; the districts/regions and OSCs shall notify the NSCC of requests submitted locally for exercise participation. The NSCC will coordinate with the districts/regions and OSCs prior to the scheduling workshop to finalize the list of potential exercise plan holders slated for exercise participation, for presentation at the workshop. 2. In Areas where no plan holders have come forth and expressed an interest in leading or participating in the Area exercises, OSCs will recommend industry plan holders for exercise participation to the NSCC. Some issues that will be considered when selecting industry participants include the number of times a specific industry has conducted exercises in the past, the operating history of industries in the Area and the perceived need for a particular industry plan holder to be exercised. The OSCs will consult with the selected industry plan holders prior to submitting their names for exercise participation. 3. In Areas scheduled for exercises involving pipelines or offshore facilities, the OSCs will coordinate with the respective regulatory agency (RSPA or MMS) to select plan holders to lead or participate in these exercises. Scheduling Workshop A PREP scheduling workshop will be conducted by the NSCC annually in May. The workshop will focus primarily on the upcoming year's Area exercise schedule, but will also address issues relating to the following two years of the triennial schedule. National level industry representation is strongly encouraged at these workshops, as this will be an opportunity for industry plan holders to comment on the schedule and address issues which may affect them and their operations. This will also be an opportunity for the plan holders to comment on priorities for each exercise, particularly in instances when more than one plan holder expresses an interest in leading or participating in the same exercise, or when plan holders have been selected by the OSC for exercise participation. The workshops will be the forum for discussion and final selection of the industry plan holders to lead the Area exercises or participate in the government-led Area exercises. Input from the workshop will be used for finalizing the upcoming year's schedule and proposing the schedule for the following two years. Workshop Format and Schedule The workshop format will consist of a presentation of the PREP Area exercise schedule listed here, followed by a question and answer period and open discussion of the schedule and the scheduling process. The workshop will be held on May 19, 1994, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., at the Best Western Old Colony Inn, 625 1st Street, Alexandria, Virginia. Final Schedule After the workshop is completed, the NSCC will forward information received from the workshop to the Coast Guard Districts/EPA Regions for distribution to the OSCs. The proposed final schedule will specify the exercise Area, the exercise dates, whether the exercise is government or industry-led, the type of industry participating, and the government and industry plan holders that will lead or participate in the exercises. The Coast Guard Districts/EPA Regions will coordinate with the OSCs to validate the schedule and comment back to the NSCC. Comments should be provided to the NSCC as soon as possible, but no later than August 1, to allow for timely publication of the final schedule. The Coast Guard will publish a final schedule in the Federal Register annually in September.
