FR940825-1-00110 FR940825-1-00009 1. Federally Recognized Tribe A Tribe is defined in section 302(r) of the Act as follows: [A]ny Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village, which is Federally recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. The requirement of Federal recognition is common to all statutes authorizing EPA to treat Tribes in a manner similar to that in which it treats States. Any Tribe that has been approved for ``TAS'' under any of the existing Water Act regulations or any other EPA program is Federally recognized. Moreover, once a Tribe has been found to be Federally recognized in the course of approval under any EPA-administered statute, or any provision of the CAA, it need only so state in the future. To facilitate review of Tribal applications, EPA therefore requests that Tribal applications inform EPA whether the Tribe has been approved for ``TAS'' under the old process or deemed eligible to receive funding or authorization for any EPA-administered environmental program under the revised process governing treatment of Tribes in the same manner as States. Any other Tribe need only state that it appears on the list of Federally recognized Tribes that the Secretary of the Interior periodically publishes in the Federal Register . See 58 FR 54364 (Oct. 21, 1993). If the Tribe notifies EPA that it has been recognized but is not included on this list because the list has not been updated, EPA will verify the fact of recognition with the Department of the Interior (``DOI''). 2. Substantial Governmental Duties and Powers A Tribe also must show that it ``has a governing body carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers.'' This requirement is also found in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (``Clean Water Act'') and the Public Health Service Act (``Safe Drinking Water Act''). See 33 U.S.C. 1377(e) & 42 U.S.C. section 300j&hyph;11(b). Accordingly, as discussed above, a Tribe that has had a submittal approved by EPA under either of these provisions has already established that it meets the governmental requirement and need not make this showing again. Similarly, a Tribe that has made this showing in the course of obtaining approval for a Clean Air Act program need not do so again. In either case, a Tribe may simply state that it has already been approved. A Tribe that has not yet made its initial showing of ``substantial governmental duties and powers'' can do so by demonstrating that it has a governing body that is presently carrying out substantial governmental functions. A Tribe will be able to make the required demonstration if it is currently performing governmental functions to promote the public health, safety, and welfare of its population within a defined area. Many Indian Tribal governments perform these functions. Examples of such functions include, but are not limited to, levying taxes, acquiring land by exercising the power of eminent domain, and police power. Such examples should be included in a narrative statement supporting the certification, which describes: (1) The form of the Tribal government, (2) the types of essential governmental functions currently performed, such as those listed above; and (3) the legal authorities for performing these functions (e.g. Tribal constitutions or codes). It should be relatively easy for Tribes to meet this requirement without submitting copies of specific documents unless requested to do so by EPA.
