FR941103-0-00087 FR941103-0-00013 A selection letter from NMFS, identifying the vessel as a participant in the program, is required to be maintained aboard the vessel and made available for inspection. Non-participating vessels remain subject to the current limits on the retention of undersized swordfish. Participants will be required to accommodate on board observers. Undersized swordfish that are dead when brought on board the vessel and that will be donated are required to be properly prepared and stored. All live undersized swordfish to the extent possible must be tagged, released, and reported to NMFS on logbook and tagging records. Participants are required to handle properly, record, and transfer to selected dealers all undersized swordfish in excess of the trip allowance, i.e., such swordfish or parts thereof may not be retained for the crew, purchased, sold, bartered, traded, or given to anyone other than a selected dealer for transfer to an authorized recipient (Second Harvest). The vessel owner or operator is required to notify the NMFS Office of Enforcement, at the phone number listed in the selection letter, and the dealer, 24 hours in advance, or as otherwise specified by NMFS, of landing information, including date, approximate time, location, and estimated number of fish to be donated. Specific instructions will be provided by NMFS to address logistics and to facilitate shorter notification in areas where the fishing grounds, such as the Florida Straits, are close to the landing locations. The advance notification and landing requirements were modified from the proposed rule to allow better enforcement and tracking of the donated swordfish. The vessel owner or operator, prior to offloading, must tag donated swordfish with individually numbered tags provided by NMFS. Dealers may specify more than one facility where they expect to off-load vessels in the program. All fish must be in whole or dressed form through off-loading, and all swordfish from a vessel's trip must be off-loaded at the same facility. A list of selected dealers will be provided by NMFS to participating vessels. The individual carcass weights of all donated fish must be clearly indicated, using a NMFS-specified code, on the tally (weigh-out) sheets that must be submitted to NMFS, as specified in the current regulations. Transfer of swordfish between vessels is prohibited, as currently specified in the regulations. Responsibilities of Participating Dealers A selection letter from NMFS, identifying the dealer as a participant in the program, must be maintained at the dealer's place of business and be made available for inspection. Donated swordfish may be received only from vessels selected by NMFS. A list of selected vessels will be provided by NMFS to participating dealers. Dealers are responsible for weighing all undersized swordfish to be donated and recording the individual carcass weights, using a NMFS-specified code, on the dealer reports currently required. Information regarding vessel and dealer identification and the date that fish were received must be included on those reports. Reports must be submitted twice monthly to NMFS, as currently required by the regulations. Swordfish for donation must be separated from swordfish eligible for sale and maintained without removal of the donation tag. The dealer is required to obtain a bill of lading from Second Harvest, its affiliate, or agent for all swordfish donated. A copy of the bill of lading and weigh-out sheet must be submitted to the vessel that landed the swordfish (along with normal dealer weigh-out/trip settlement sheets). The types of forms to be used are more specific than indicated in the proposed rule, but no additional forms have been required. Responsibilities of Second Harvest Donated swordfish or any part thereof cannot be purchased, sold, bartered, or traded. Donated swordfish must be made available for use as soon as possible to ensure the greatest freshness and palatability. Second Harvest, its affiliates or agents, assume responsibility for donated swordfish upon receipt from the dealer, including transportation, quality control of product, processing, and distribution to the needy.
