FR940613-0-00035 FR940613-0-00009 (iii) Other local needs such as schools, mail delivery, commercial supply, and access to private property within the NFS. §660.107 Allocations. On October 1 of each fiscal year, the FHWA will allocate 66 percent of Public Lands Highway funds, by FS Region, for FHs using values based on relative transportation needs of the NFS, after deducting such sums as deemed necessary for the administrative requirements of the FHWA and the FS; the necessary costs of FH planning studies; and the FH share of costs for approved Federal Lands Coordinated Technology Implementation Program studies. §660.109 Program development. (a) The FHWA will arrange and conduct a conference with the FS and the SHA to jointly select the projects which will be included in the programs for the current fiscal year and at least the next 4 years. Projects included in each year's program will be selected considering the following criteria: (1) The development, utilization, protection, and administration of the NFS and its resources; (2) The enhancement of economic development at the local, regional, and national level, including tourism and recreational travel; (3) The continuity of the transportation network serving the NFS and its dependent communities; (4) The mobility of the users of the transportation network and the goods and services provided; (5) The improvement of the transportation network for economy of operation and maintenance and the safety of its users; (6) The protection and enhancement of the rural environment associated with the NFS and its resources; and (7) The results for FHs from the pavement, bridge, and safety management systems. (b) The recommended program will be prepared and approved by the FHWA with concurrence by the FS and the SHA. Following approval, the SHA shall advise any other cooperators in the State of the projects included in the final program and shall include the approved program in the State's process for development of the Statewide Transportation Improvement Program. For projects located in metropolitan areas, the FHWA and the SHA will work with the MPO to incorporate the approved program into the MPO's Transportation Improvement Program. §660.111 Agreements. (a) A statewide FH agreement shall be executed among the FHWA, the FS, and each SHA. This agreement shall set forth the responsibilities of each party, including that of adherence to the applicable provisions of Federal and State statutes and regulations. (b) The design and construction of FH projects will be administered by the FHWA unless otherwise provided for in an agreement approved under this subpart. (c) A project agreement shall be entered into between the FHWA and the cooperator involved under one or more of the following conditions: (1) A cooperator's funds are to be made available for the project or any portion of the project; (2) Federal funds are to be made available to a cooperator for any work; (3) Special circumstances exist which make a project agreement necessary for payment purposes or to clarify any aspect of the project; or (4) It is necessary to document jurisdiction and maintenance responsibility. §660.112 Project development. (a) Projects to be administered by the FHWA or the FS will be developed in accordance with FHWA procedures for the Federal Lands Highway Program. Projects to be administered by a cooperator shall be developed in accordance with Federal-aid procedures and procedures documented in the statewide agreement. (b) The FH projects shall be designed in accordance with part 625 of this chapter or those criteria specifically approved by the FHWA for a particular project. §660.113 Construction. (a) No construction shall be undertaken on any FH project until plans, specifications, and estimates have been concurred in by the cooperator(s) and the FS, and approved in accordance with procedures contained in the statewide FH agreement. (b) The construction of FHs will be performed by the contract method, unless construction by the FHWA, the FS, or a cooperator on its own account is warranted under 23 U.S.C. 204(e).
