FR940927-0-00110 FR940927-0-00016 (5) Each applicant shall comply with ยง12.02&hyph;09(b)(1) of this part. (b) Fitness. No merchant mariner's document will be renewed if it has been suspended without probation or revoked as a result of action under part 5 of this chapter, or facts which would render a renewal improper have come to the attention of the Coast Guard. (c) Professional requirements. (1) In order to renew a merchant mariner's document endorsed with a qualified rating, the applicant shall comply with one of the following: (i) Present evidence of at least 1 year of sea service during the past 5 years; (ii) Pass a comprehensive, open-book exercise covering the general subject matter required by this part for the applicable endorsement or pass an open-book license exercise that covers the same subject matter required for the MMD endorsement; (iii) Complete an approved refresher training course; or, (iv) Present evidence of employment in a position closely related to the operation, construction, or repair of vessels (either deck or engineer as appropriate for the endorsement) for at least 3 years during the past 5 years. (2) There are no professional requirements for renewal of a merchant mariner's document that is not endorsed with any qualified ratings. (d) Physical requirements. (1) An applicant for renewal of a merchant mariner's document endorsed with a qualified rating other than lifeboatman, shall submit a certification by a licensed physician or physician assistant that he or she is in good health and has no physical impairment or medical condition which would render him or her incompetent to perform the ordinary duties of that qualified rating(s). This certification must address visual acuity and hearing in addition to general physical condition, and must have been completed within the previous 12 months. (2) If the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection has reason to believe that an applicant suffers from some physical impairment or medical condition which would render the applicant incompetent to perform the duties of the qualified rating(s) (other than lifeboatman), the applicant may be required to submit the results of an examination by a licensed physician or physician assistant that meets the requirements for originally obtaining the rating(s). (3) An applicant who has lost sight in one eye may renew a merchant mariner's document with qualified ratings, provided the applicant is qualified in all other respects and that the visual acuity in the remaining eye passes the test required in ยง10.205(d) of this chapter. (e) Special circumstances_ (1) Reissuance after expiration, Period of grace. Except as provided in this paragraph, a merchant mariner's document may not be renewed more than 12 months after it has expired. To obtain a reissuance of a merchant mariner's document expired more than 12 months, an applicant shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. When an applicant's merchant mariner's document expires during a time of service with the Armed Forces and there is no reasonable opportunity for renewal, including by mail, this 12-month period of grace may be extended. The period of military service following the date of merchant mariner's document expiration which precluded renewal may be added to the 12 month period of grace. The 12 month period of grace, and any extension, do not affect the expiration date of the document. A merchant mariner's document, and any endorsements that it contains, are not valid for use after the expiration date. (2) Renewal in advance. A merchant mariner's document may not be renewed more that 12 months before expiration unless it is being renewed in conjunction with a license or certificate of registry which is either due for renewal or being upgraded, or unless the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection is satisfied that special circumstances exist to justify renewal. (3) Renewal by mail. (i) Applications for renewal of merchant mariner's documents by mail may be sent to any Coast Guard Regional Examination Center. The following documents must be submitted: (A) A properly completed application on a Coast Guard furnished form, and the evaluation fee required by ยง12.02&hyph;18. (B) The document to be renewed, or, if it has not expired, a photocopy of the document, including the back.
