FR940727-1-00058 FR940727-1-00015 (g) Fiscal Year means the Federal fiscal year commencing on the first day of October through the thirtieth day of September. (h) Federal Radiological Preparedness Coordinating Committee (FRPCC) means a committee chaired by FEMA with representatives from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of the Interior, Department of Energy, Department of Transportation, Department of Agriculture, Department of Commerce, Department of State, Department of Veterans Affairs, General Services Administration, National Communications System, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and other Federal departments and agencies as appropriate. (i) Site means the location at which one or more commercial nuclear power plants (reactor units) have been, or are planned to be, constructed. (j) Site-specific services mean offsite radiological emergency planning, preparedness and response services provided by FEMA personnel and by FEMA contractors that pertain to a specific commercial nuclear power plant site. (k) Generic services mean offsite radiological emergency planning, preparedness, and response services provided by FEMA personnel and by FEMA contractor personnel that do not pertain to a specific commercial nuclear power plant site. (l) Obligate or obligation means a legal reservation of appropriated funds for expenditure. ยง354.4 Assessment of fees. Assessment of fees for licensees will be based on the following methodology that includes, but does not distinguish between, charges for both site-specific and generic services provided by FEMA personnel and FEMA contractors. Fees will be assessed for REP Program services provided by FEMA personnel and by FEMA contractors and not for those services provided by other Federal agencies involved in the FRPCC or the RACs. (a) Determination of charges for services. Charges for services will be determined by dividing the total amount of fiscal year funds budgeted for the REP Program, i.e., salaries and expenses, including travel, and Emergency Management Planning and Assistance (EMPA) funding, by the total number of commercial nuclear power plant sites, as defined under ยง354.2, Scope. The total amount of funds budgeted for the REP Program will be recovered by dividing the funds equally among the NRC licensees on a per commercial nuclear power plant site basis; thus, all sites would be charged the same amount. Under this methodology, site specific and generic services will not be distinguished. (b) Discontinuation of Charges. Upon receipt of official written notification from the NRC that offsite radiological emergency planning and preparedness is no longer required at a particular commercial nuclear power plant site, FEMA will discontinue REP Program services and will close out the official docket. Commencing with the next fiscal year after closing out the official docket, user fees will no longer be assessed for that site. ยง354.5 Description of services. REP Program services provided by FEMA and FEMA contractors for which licensees would be assessed fees include, but are not limited to, the following: (a) Evaluation of State and local offsite radiological emergency plans and preparedness. (b) Scheduling of exercises. (c) Development of exercise objectives and scenarios. (d) Pre-exercise logistics. (e) Conduct of exercises and evaluations. (f) Preparing, reviewing and finalizing exercise reports, notice and conduct of public meetings. (g) Scheduling, conducting and evaluating remedial exercises, medical services drills, or other exercises and drills including participation in meetings and the preparation and review of associated reports. (h) Preparation of findings and determinations on the adequacy or approval of plans and preparedness. (i) Conduct of the formal 44 CFR part 350 review process.
