FR940719-2-00115 FR940719-2-00062 This increase in the sample reduces the minimum detectable effects by about 25 percent. As can be seen in the exhibit, with this sample size, differences in impact in the range of 15 to 23 percent would be detectable if the MTO lease-up rate is 20 percent. Even smaller differences, in the 11 to 18 percent range, would be detectable if the MTO lease-up rate is 40 percent. B2.4␣Problems Requiring Specialized Sampling Procedures The data collection for the Moving to Opportunity demonstration does not require any specialized sampling procedures. B2.5␣Use of Less Frequent Data Collection Cycles The instruments covered in this request for OMB clearance have different collection cycles, as follows: •The data collection forms with participant respondents_ the Enrollment Form and Participant Baseline Survey_are designed for one-time administration only. •The data collection forms with agency respondents_ the Participant Tracking Forms, the Participant Counseling log (optional), the Program Cost Forms, and the Landlord Outreach Log_are designed for periodic collection, described below. Of the latter group of forms, the Participant Tracking Forms, the Program Cost Forms, and the Landlord Outreach Logs will be collected on a monthly basis during the period of MTO intake. Monthly collection of tracking forms is essential because of the likelihood that many of the participants will be moving as a result of receiving Section 8 assistance; close tracking in the search and lease-up period will form the foundation of the long-term tracking effort designed to support measurement of program impacts over a ten-year period. Monthly collection of cost forms matches the typical accounting cycle of site agencies and is essential for meeting the Congressional mandate to compare MTO's costs with those of the regular Section 8 program. Thus, Congress's intent in creating MTO necessitates the use of monthly data collection cycles for these items. Finally, aggressive landlord outreach is expected to be important to the program's success. For this reason, it is essential to monitor NPO efforts in this area monthly. The Participant Counseling log (or local equivalent) will be collected only twice during the demonstration, at the mid-point and end of the Contractor's monitoring period. This form is primarily for NPO management of the demonstration, although its contents will be used in describing the efforts of the site agencies to counsel and support participants. B3␣Response Rate B3.1␣Procedures to Maximize Response Rate and Handle Nonresponse Concerns about maintaining a high response rate have been addressed by the Department by means of the following strategies. For the data collection forms to be completed by the site agencies, the Department has sought to ensure a high level of response by: •Notifying the demonstration site applicants, as part of the Notice of Funding Availability, that participation in the record-keeping and data collection of the demonstration is a mandatory component; •Agreeing to provide an on-site assistant to help with the collection of data; and •Involving the demonstration sites in the development of the data collection forms; and •Contracting with Abt Associates to monitor and provide technical assistance to demonstration sites. For the forms to be completed by participants, The Department has sought to achieve a high response rate by (1) collecting the data during the Section 8 application process, and (2) using a ``guided self-administered'' mode to collect the data. The Enrollment Form and Baseline Survey are designed as self-administered forms. However, the site assistants hired by the Contractor to assist the demonstration, one in each city, will help the participants by reading the questions aloud while the participants are completing the forms and fielding any questions from participants who may have difficulty understanding the questions due to limited literacy or language skills. The site assistants will be hired and trained by Abt Associates, the Contractor. In addition, Abt will assign a field manager to provide ongoing training and supervision of the site assistants. The field manager and site assistants hired for this data collection will need the following qualifications, at a minimum: •A proven track record conducting interviews with AFDC recipients and other low-income populations;
