FR940719-1-00090 FR940719-1-00015 15. Section 75.333 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b)(1), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (e)(1) and adding a new paragraph (h) to read as follows: §75.333 Ventilation controls. (a) For purposes of this section, ``doors'' includes any doorframes. (b)␣*␣*␣* (1) Between intake and return air courses, except temporary controls may be used in rooms that are 600 feet or less from the centerline of the entry from which the room was developed including where continuous face haulage systems are used in such rooms. Unless otherwise approved in the ventilation plan, these stoppings or controls shall be maintained to and including the third connecting crosscut outby the working face; * * * * * (3) To separate belt conveyor haulageways from intake air courses when the air in the intake air course is used to provide air to active working places. When continuous face haulage systems are used, permanent stoppings or other permanent ventilation control devices shall be built and maintained to the outby travel point of the dolly to separate the haulage entry in which the low profile belt structure is located from intake entries. Temporary ventilation controls may be used in rooms that are 600 feet or less from the centerline of the entry from which the rooms were developed; (4) To separate the primary escapeway from belt and trolley haulage entries, as required by §75.380(g). For purposes of §75.380(g), the loading point for a continuous haulage system shall be the inby most point of travel of the dolly; and * * * * * (e)(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2), (e)(3) and (e)(4) all overcasts, undercasts, shaft partitions, permanent stoppings, and regulators, installed after [Insert the effective date of this rule], shall be constructed in a manner and of materials that results in a construction that has been tested and shown to have a minimum strength of 39 pounds per square foot as tested under ASTM E72&hyph;80 Section 12_Transverse Load-Specimen Vertical, load only. (ii) All overcasts, undercasts, shaft partitions, permanent stoppings, and regulators, installed after November 15, 1992, shall be constructed of noncombustible material. Materials that are suitable for the construction of overcasts, undercasts, shaft partitions, permanent stoppings, and regulators include concrete, concrete block, brick, cinder block, tile, or steel. No ventilation controls installed after November 15, 1992, shall be constructed of aluminum. * * * * * (h) All permanent ventilation controls, including seals, shall be maintained to serve the purpose for which they were built.
