FR940919-2-00194 FR940919-2-00081 C. Transition Measures 51. Establishing a new funding scheme will likely necessitate transitional measures. For example, if any rate rebalancing occurs, it will be necessary to address potential ``rate shock'' to local ratepayers. One commenter contends that any transition should be aimed at achieving two goals: (1) developing a level playing field for competitors and (2) continuing to protect consumers. Ameritech proposes to use what it calls the ``Customers First Plan,'' based on what Ameritech labels ``bulk billing.'' In effect, Ameritech would collect the necessary subsidy amount by billing long distance carriers according to their share of the total toll revenues reported to the FCC for all of Ameritech's interstate access customers. Ameritech urges this approach as a transition to long-term reform of universal service funding mechanisms. 72 We request comment on this approach, as well as on other transitional proposals. How should these mechanisms be structured so as not to distort competitive markets? 72 See Petition for a Declaratory Ruling and Related Waivers to Establish a New Regulatory Model for the Ameritech Region, DA 93&hyph;481, Attachments to Ameritech's Reply Comments: Customers First: Ameritech's Advanced Universal Access Plan, Attachment G (filed July 12, 1993). V. Role of the Federal and State Governments in Developing Universal Service Policies 52. Traditionally, FCC and state regulators have worked in tandem to promote universal service goals, but responsibility for defining the precise components of universal service has resided primarily with the States. The telecommunications reform legislation pending in Congress would specify differing degrees of Federal-State cooperation. The Senate bill, S. 1822, would charge the FCC with defining universal service, ``based on recommendations from the public, Congress, and the Federal-State Joint Board,'' although it would authorize the States to prescribe requirements over and above the federally-established minimum as long as such regulations are not inconsistent with those prescribed by the FCC. 73 The House bill, H.R. 3626, would delegate the task to the FCC and the States, based on recommendations from the Joint Board. 74 73 S. 1822, 103d Cong., 2d Sess. Section 102(a) (1994). 74 H.R. 3626, 103d Cong., 2d Sess. Section 302 (1994). 53. Similarly, most funding proposals recognize the joint role of the FCC and the states, given the bifurcated regulatory jurisdiction over telecommunications. For example, both bills now pending in Congress, H.R. 3626 and S. 1822, require the involvement of the FCC and the States in determining new universal service funding mechanisms, although the final distribution authority between the two levels of government will turn on the specific legislative language enacted. Many parties stress the need for administration of a funding mechanism by a neutral third party from the private sector. 75 75 See Petition of MFS, supra note 55, at 17; See also Comments of Michael Morris, TCG, supra note 56, at 222. 54. There are numerous arguments for allowing more or less federal or state authority over universal service policies. Defining universal service on a nationwide basis, for example, could facilitate network planning and service deployment, thereby reducing the total costs to society of implementing universal service. On the other hand, giving individual states flexibility to adopt differing definitions and funding mechanisms, as is the case today, would allow them to craft policies more in line with local conditions. Allowing for state experimentation might also reduce the risks of mandating provision of services either unnecessarily or prematurely, and or leave room for creative funding mechanisms that might reduce the total subsidy requirement. We request comment on the appropriate role of the Federal and State government in defining and funding universal service. What role should be played by the private sector? VI. Open access for Telecommunications and Information Systems 55. The development and convergence of new telecommunications and information technologies are also leading to changes in the way people think about access to the ``network.'' The concept of ``open access'' has come to represent technical, regulatory, and empowerment components. This section examines these evolving concepts of open access and the policies that can help make them a reality. 56. Historically, access has focused on issues such as physical access to a seamless and transparent web of monopoly local exchanges, equal access to long distance carriers, 76 and availability to and ease of use by consumers, among others. As a result, any telephone customer can initiate as well as receive phone calls, regardless of the local exchange and long-distance carrier serving the caller and the call recipient. This ``open system'' that we all take for granted has been achieved through a framework of policies designed to promote interconnection and interoperability, such as expanded interconnection and a uniform system of ``addresses'' ( i.e., telephone numbers). 77 76 Equal access for long-distance carriers has not yet been fully achieved for all local exchange carriers or for non-BOC cellular operators. 77 In contrast, cable television franchises are not interconnected with other networks. Each customer is served by a local provider who provides access solely to the services that cable operator wishes to provide and the set-top box is principally a receive-only device. In the cable context, access generally refers to customer access to cable service (measured in homes passed) and to carriage requirements imposed on cable providers such as Public, Education and Government channels, leased access, and must carry channels. 57. The Administrations's open access goals are broader and more multi-faceted than the traditional approach. In the evolving competitive marketplace, open access will require that multiple telecommunications and information providers as well as users can interconnect transparently and be interoperable. This will in turn promote even more competition among information providers and service options for consumers. Thus, as the NII evolves, the Administration seeks to ensure that consumers and service providers will be able to transfer information across disparate networks easily and accurately, with seamless, interactive, user-driven operations. Also, to be truly useful, an advanced information infrastructure must allow service providers to offer a full range of educational material, health information, and home and business services, and it must make those services truly accessible without unreasonable technical or regulatory barriers, particularly to disabled individuals. 78 78 See generally Agenda for Action, supra note 8.
