FR940325-1-00029 FR940325-1-00007 (c) Each SSOP must differentiate as far as it can between actions appropriate for routine situations, increased security levels, and emergency situations. (d) Unless otherwise directed by the Commandant, the operator shall develop an SSOP for_ (1) Watches and patrols conducted while the vessel is under way, anchored, or moored; (2) Tracking the arrival and departure of vendors, repair personnel, dock workers, and visitors boarding the vessel; (3) Inspection, control, and monitoring of persons, personal articles, and baggage coming onto the vessel; (4) Inspection, control, and monitoring of cargo, stores, and stowed baggage accessible only to members of the crew designated by the operator; (5) Communications for emergency and routine situations; (6) Response to suspicious packages, baggage, or cargo identified while the vessel is under way, anchored, or moored; (7) Response to prohibited weapons found or suspected; (8) Security during response to fire or explosion aboard the vessel or on a terminal to which the vessel is moored; (9) Response to an incendiary or explosive found or suspected aboard the vessel; (10) Response to unauthorized armed persons detected aboard the vessel; (11) Response to a breach of security or to suspicious activity aboard, or near, the vessel; (12) Procedure for reporting a breach of security or a suspicious activity; (13) Response to alarms; (14) Security while rendering assistance at sea; (15) Use of security equipment, including any intrusion detection or surveillance system installed aboard the vessel; (16) Issuance of, use of, and accountability for identification cards; and (17) Issuance of, use of, and accountability for keys. (e) An SSOP must address watches when the vessel is_ (1) Underway, for: (i) Each deck. (ii) The uppermost deck, fore and aft. (iii) The communications center. (iv) The navigational bridge. (v) The engine room; (2) At anchor or moored, for: (i) Each point of access. (ii) Each deck topside. (iii) The communications center. (iv) The navigational bridge; and (3) Receiving or discharging passengers or stores, for: (i) Each point of access. (ii) Each stowage area. (iii) The main deck (roving patrol). (iv) The communications center. (v) The navigational bridge. (f) The SSOP respecting issuance of, use of, and accountability for keys must include_ (1) A record of each person issued a key to a restricted area; (2) An inventory of keys to restricted areas that are not issued to members of the crew; (3) Designation of a secure container for storing keys to restricted areas that are not issued to members of the crew; and (4) Steps to take if a key to a restricted area is lost or missing. ยง120.350 Identification. (a) Each operator of a vessel to which this part applies shall establish a system of identification and control of personnel for the vessel that_ (1) Designates, in writing, each category of persons authorized to be aboard the vessel and each person authorized to be in a restricted area; (2) Allows access only to persons designated in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and (3) Establishes procedures meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section for identifying each person authorized access to the vessel or to a restricted area aboard the vessel. (b) Each operator of a vessel to which this part applies shall issue an identification card to each member of the crew and other employee. The ship security officer shall maintain a record of each identification card issued and of each blank one aboard, by number. Unissued identification cards must be kept in a locked safe or other secure container accessible only to the master, the ship security officer, and other designated employees. The identification card must_ (1) Be made of durable material that can be imprinted with appropriate identifying information; (2) Include a color photograph, approximately 3 centimeters (11/4 in) by 3.6 centimeters (11/2 in); (3) Be laminated on both sides, with a clear plastic material that resists aging, discoloration, and separation; and (4) Contain the following: (i) Cardholder's name. (ii) Cardholder's date of birth. (iii) Cardholder's height. (iv) Cardholder's weight. (v) Color of cardholder's hair. (vi) Color of cardholder's eyes. (vii) A unique number. (viii) Name of the vessel, cruise line, or company that employs cardholder. (ix) An expiration date, not later than two years after the date of issue. (c) The operator shall provide for each contractor, vendor, and other visitor a temporary identification card that_ (1) Contains a unique number; (2) Is issued upon cardholder's boarding the vessel and retrieved upon cardholder's leaving the vessel;
