FR940927-0-00079 FR940927-0-00011 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 165 [COTP Huntington 94&hyph;006] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone; Ohio River, Mile 313.0 to 315.0 AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a safety zone on the Ohio River. This regulation is needed to control vessel traffic in the regulated area to prevent potential safety hazards for transiting vessels resulting from pipelaying operations, including underwater blasting, as part of a gas pipeline construction project in the vicinity of mile 314.0, Ohio River, Ceredo-Kenova, West Virginia. Vessel movements within this safety zone are permitted under the criteria set forth in this regulation. EFFECTIVE DATES: This regulation is effective at 7 a.m. EDT on September 12, 1994. It terminates on October 31, 1994 at 8 p.m. EST, unless terminated sooner by the Captain of the Port Huntington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LTJG Sean Moon, Chief of the Port Operations Department, Captain of the Port, Huntington, West Virginia at (304) 529&hyph;5524. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are ENS Steve Frye, Project Officer, Marine Safety Office, Huntington, West Virginia and LT S. Moody, Project Attorney, Second Coast Guard District Legal Office. Regulatory History In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking was not published for this regulation and good cause exists for making it effective in less than 30 days from the date of publication. Following normal rulemaking procedures would have been impracticable. Specifically, anticipated pipelaying operations, including underwater blasting, as part of a gas pipeline construction project in the vicinity of mile 314.0, Ohio River, Ceredo-Kenova, West Virginia, have created a situation which presents an immediate hazard to navigation, life, and property. As a result, the Coast Guard deems it to be in the public's best interest to issue a regulation immediately. Background and Purpose The activity requiring this regulation is a gas pipeline construction project. The Captain of the Port Huntington did not receive notice of the project until September 2, 1994. Pentzien, Inc. of Omaha, Nebraska, working under contract for Columbia Gas of Charleston, West Virginia, will begin construction September 12, 1994 on an open-cut, dredged crossing in which a new gas line will replace the old gas line between Wayne County, West Virginia and Lawrence County, Ohio at mile 314.0 on the Ohio River. Pentzien, Inc. engineers anticipate completion of the construction on or before October 31, 1994. The presence of a drill barge and dredging equipment, conducting dredging and underwater blasting operations, will pose an obstructive and, at times, explosive hazard to waterborne traffic transiting in the vicinity of the construction project work site. In order to provide for the safety of vessel traffic, the Captain of the Port Huntington intends to regulate vessel traffic in that portion of the Ohio River where dredging and blasting operations will be taking place until the hazard is mitigated. All transiting vessels must contact the M/V JOE KIZZIAH, which will be tending the dredging and drill barges, on either channel 13 or 16 in order to transit the area during dredging operations. No vessels will be allowed to transit during the blasting portion of these operations. Notice of this safety zone will be published in the Local Notice to Mariners and in regularly scheduled Broadcast Notice to Mariners.
