FR940512-2-00171 FR940512-2-00078 Current Basic Center Program grantees with project periods ending by September 30, 1994, and all other eligible applicants not currently receiving Basic Center funds may apply for the new competitive grants under this announcement. The number of new awards made within each State will depend upon the funds available (i.e., the State's total allotment less the amount required for non-competing continuations), as well as on the number of acceptable applications. Therefore, where the amount required for non-competing continuations in any State equals the State's total allotment, no new awards will be made. All applicants under this announcement will compete with other applicants in the State in which their services would be provided. In the event that an insufficient number of acceptable applications is approved for funding from any State or jurisdiction, the Commissioner, ACYF, will reallocate the unused funds. 2. Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth In FY 1994, the Administration on Children, Youth and Families expects to award $2,000,000 in new competitive Drug Abuse Prevention Program grants and $9,780,702 in non-competing continuation DAPP awards. 3. Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth The Administration on Children, Youth and Families awarded $6,117,067 for 33 new Transitional Living Program grants in the first quarter of FY 1994 (October-December 1993). An additional $5,095,648 will be awarded in FY 1994 for TLP continuation grants. No additional new TLP awards will be made in FY 1994. However, applications for new awards will be solicited in FY 1994 for funds to be provided in FY 1995 (beginning on October 1, 1994), subject to appropriation of funds by the Congress. It is anticipated that approximately $5,000,000 will be available for these new grants. 4. Training and Technical Assistance Grants In FY 1994, the Administration on Children, Youth and Families estimates the award of $1,500,000 in new cooperative agreements for the provision of training and technical assistance to RHY grantees. H. Duration of Projects This announcement solicits applications for projects of up to three years duration (36-month project periods), with the exception of the T&TA cooperative agreements which will be awarded for five-year project periods. Initial grant awards, made on a competitive basis, will be for one-year (12-month) budget periods. Applications for continuation grants beyond the one-year budget periods, but within the 36-month project periods, will be entertained in subsequent years on a non-competitive basis, subject to the availability of funds, satisfactory progress of the grantees, and determination that continued funding would be in the best interest of the government. I. Maximum Federal Share and Grantee Share of the Project The maximum amount of Federal funds for which an applicant can apply is specified in each program description found in Part III of this announcement. The legislation authorizing runaway and homeless youth programs requires that grantees provide a non-Federal match for Federal funds. In some cases, this non-Federal share is a percent of the total cost of the project and, in some cases, it is a percent of the Federal share. Specific non-Federal share requirements for each Priority Area are found in Part III of this announcement. The non-Federal share may be met by cash or in-kind contributions. Federal funds provided to States and services or other resources purchased with Federal funds may not be used to match project grants. Applicants which do not provide the required percentage of non-Federal share will not be funded. For-profit applicants for Basic Center Program grants are reminded that no grant funds may be paid as profit to any recipient of a grant or sub-grant (45 CFR 74.705). Part II. Evaluation Criteria The five criteria that follow will be used to review and evaluate each application under each of the three RHY programs and the training and technical assistance grants, and should be used in developing the program narrative. The point values following each criterion heading indicate the numerical weight each criterion will be accorded in the review process. Note that the highest possible value an application can receive is 105 points. See Criterion 4 for specific information. Criterion 1. bjectives and Need for Assistance (15 Points)
