FR940506-1-00003 FR940506-1-00001 Supporting Information The petitioner states that the regulations that require licensees to implement safeguards contingency plans and security programs are essential to ensure operation of the facilities in an environment free from external threats. The petitioner notes that independent audits of these programs are required to overview their effectiveness. Furthermore, the petitioner believes that the frequency or extent of overview of these plans and programs by mandatory audits is not providing a commensurate performance in security programs. According to the petitioner, safeguards contingency plans and security programs have been in place in the industry for an extended period and that despite recent reconsideration of the design basis threat, nuclear security is otherwise being adequately addressed and implemented by the plans and programs as they are presently configured. The petitioner believes that a biennial audit frequency would more than adequately provide the requisite feedback and assurance regarding the effectiveness of each licensee's safeguards contingency plan and security program. The petitioner further states that technological advancements and applications have resulted in and will continue to generate improvements to security equipment and facilities. The petitioner asserts that industry-wide programmatic enhancements continue to be made available to improve the effective utilization of security staff as well as equipment and that the results of the improvements to equipment and facilities and programmatic enhancements within nuclear safeguards and security programs over the past decade have elevated plan effectiveness throughout the industry. The petitioner notes that the improvement is evidenced, in part, through the SALP program which is used to assess security indicators. Proposed Amendments to 10 CFR Part 50 The petitioner proposed that in §50.54, paragraph (p)(3) be revised to read as follows: §50.54 Conditions of licenses. * * * * * (p) *␣*␣* (3) The licensee shall provide for the development, revision, implementation, and maintenance of its safeguards contingency plan. To this end, the licensee shall provide for a review nominally every 24 months of the safeguards contingency plan by individuals independent of both security program management and personnel who have direct responsibility for implementation of the security program. The review must include a review and audit of safeguards contingency procedures and practices, an audit of the security system testing and maintenance program, and a test of the safeguards systems, along with commitments established for response by local law enforcement authorities. The results of the review and audit, along with recommendations for improvements, must be documented, reported to the licensee's corporate and plant management, and kept available at the plant for inspection for a period of three years. * * * * * Proposed Amendments to 10 CFR Part 73 The petitioner proposes that in §73.55, paragraph (g)(4) be revised to read as follows: §73.55 Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities in nuclear power reactors against radiological sabotage. * * * * * (g) * * * (4) The security program must be reviewed nominally every 24 months by individuals independent of both security program management and personnel who have direct responsibility for implementation of the security program. The security program review must include an audit of security procedures and practices, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the physical protection system, an audit of the physical protection system testing and maintenance program, and an audit of commitments established for response by local law enforcement authorities. The results and recommendations of the security program review, management's findings on whether the security program is currently effective, and any actions taken as a result of recommendations from prior program reviews must be documented in a report to the licensee's plant manager and to corporate management at least one level higher than that having responsibility for the day-to-day plant operation. These reports must be maintained in an auditable form, available for inspection, for a period of three years. * * * * * The petitioner proposes that the text of appendix C to part 73 following the Audit and Review heading be revised to read as follows: Appendix C_Licensee Safeguards Contingency Plans * * * * * Audit and Review Nominally every 24 months, the licensee shall provide for a review of the safeguards contingency plan by individuals independent of both security program management and personnel who have direct responsibility for implementation of the security program. The review must include an audit of safeguards contingency procedures and practices, and an audit of commitments established for response by local law enforcement authorities. The licensee shall document the results and the recommendations of the safeguards contingency plan review, management findings on whether the safeguards contingency plan is currently effective, and any actions taken as a result of recommendations from prior reviews in a report to the licensee's plant manager and to corporate management at least one level higher than that having responsibility for the day-to-day plant operation. The report must be maintained in an auditable form, available for inspection for a period of three years. Conclusion The petitioner states that this petition for rulemaking merely allows successful, existing functions to continue without formal review at a frequency of nominally every two years rather than once per 12 months. The petitioner states that the annual audit frequency is not necessary to ensure an adequate safeguards contingency plan and security program, nor is it commensurate with present industry performance in this area. Further, the petitioner states that it is not required to support NRC evaluation of program adequacy. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 2nd day of May 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle, Assistant Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10917 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;P
