FR940711-1-00013 FR940711-1-00003 B. Current Stranded Cost Policy 1. Wholesale Customers Leaving The System The Commission has always permitted public utilities to include reasonable cancellation provisions in power sales contracts in order to protect themselves from stranded costs and to plan for the future needs of their systems. 22 Reasonable cancellation provisions may include specified ``exit fees'' or ``termination charges'' that must be paid by a purchaser if it terminates service prior to a contract's termination date. They may also include requirements that customers provide sufficient prior notice of cancellation to allow utilities to avoid stranded costs. 22 See Kentucky Utilities Company, Opinion No. 169, 23 FERC ¶ 61,317 at 61,668, order on reh'g, Opinion No. 169&hyph;A, 25 FERC ¶ 61,205 (1983), vacated and remanded on other grounds, Kentucky Utilities Co. v. FERC, 766 F.2d 239 (6th Cir. 1985) (remanded for lack of evidence supporting the length of the notice provision), order on remand , 37 FERC ¶ 61,299 (1986). Contracts negotiated prior to the recent movement toward increased transmission access and competitive bulk power markets may not contain provisions requiring notice of termination and/or allocating responsibility for stranded costs. Accordingly, the Commission has permitted public utilities to include wholesale stranded investment cost recovery provisions in wholesale transmission rates when a public utility has filed a transmission tariff of general applicability. In Entergy, public utilities sought to include provisions for the recovery of wholesale stranded investment costs as part of their proposed transmission tariff of general applicability. In that case, the Commission stated: If Entergy has made investment decisions based on a contractual commitment or reasonable expectation at that time that it would continue to serve these customers, it should be able to recover from them the legitimate and verifiable costs invested on their behalf. 23 23 Entergy, 60 FERC at 61,631. The Commission reasoned that the existence of a transmission tariff of general applicability could increase a public utility's risk of stranded investment far beyond what was contemplated when the public utility originally negotiated its power supply contracts. 24 The Commission further observed that public utilities may not voluntarily offer expanded transmission access if doing so means becoming subject to an increased risk of stranded investment. 25 Therefore, the Commission stated that it would be appropriate for Entergy to seek to recover legitimate and verifiable stranded investment costs through transmission rates, if such costs were associated with contracts entered into before the date of the Commission's order. However, the Commission stated that it would not allow the Entergy utilities to seek recovery of stranded costs associated with contracts entered into or extended after that date. The Commission further indicated in Entergy that while a public utility may seek to recover stranded costs, recovery is by no means guaranteed. The public utility bears the heavy burden of showing, among other things, that it made relevant investment decisions based on a ``contractual commitment or reasonable expectation'' that it would continue to serve its existing wholesale power customers. 26 24 Entergy, 58 FERC at 61,770. 25 Id. 26 Entergy, 60 FERC at 61,631. 2. Retail-Turned-Wholesale Customers Leaving The System The Commission has been presented with the question of whether it should permit public utilities to seek recovery in wholesale transmission rates of stranded investment costs incurred to serve former retail franchise customers. 27 In United Illuminating Company, the Commission held that retail franchise matters are state matters that should be handled, in the first instance, by the appropriate state regulatory bodies or courts. 28 In Massachusetts Electric Company, the Commission accepted for filing and set for hearing the reasonableness of a proposed stranded cost charge involving a utility seeking to recover stranded costs in transmission rates from a former retail franchise customer that became a wholesale requirements customer and then became a transmission-only wholesale customer. 29 27 For example, stranded costs may occur if a newly-formed municipal utility reduces or terminates service from its current supplier. 28 See United Illuminating Company, 63 FERC ¶ 61,212 at 62,583, reh'g denied, 64 FERC ¶ 61,087 (1993) ( UI ). 29 Massachusetts Electric Company, 66 FERC ¶ 61,036 (1994) ( Mass Electric ). The Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities (Massachusetts Commission) recently requested that the Commission suspend the hearing it ordered in this proceeding for six months to allow time for its investigation of the utility's stranded cost claims. On June 6, 1994, the presiding administrative law judge denied the Massachusetts Commission's motion. On June 29, 1994, the Massachusetts Commission filed an interlocutory appeal to the Commission of the presiding judge's June 22, 1994 denial of the motion. 3. Retail Customers Leaving The System The Commission has not been presented with the question of whether it can or should permit public utilities to seek recovery, in rates for unbundled interstate transmission services provided to retail customers, of stranded costs incurred to serve retail franchise customers. However, this issue could arise as a result of voluntary retail wheeling or State or local actions resulting in retail wheeling arrangements such as those being considered in California, Michigan and elsewhere. C. The Proposed Regulations Consistent with the policy objectives of Congress in enacting the electric provisions of the Energy Policy Act, the Commission is committed to developing a competitive, open transmission access, wholesale bulk power market. Our goal is to facilitate the development of competitively priced generation supply options, and to ensure that wholesale purchasers of electric energy can reach alternative power suppliers and vice versa. We therefore believe it is important at this stage of the evolution of the electric industry to address stranded costs.
