FR940304-1-00088 FR940304-1-00014 As stated above, consideration of the national costs and benefits of the impacts of candidate standard levels was one of the factors considered in this rulemaking. (See Technical Support Document, Chapter 8.) External Costs and Benefits A number of comments on the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking urged the Department to consider the external costs and benefits in its economic analyses of the efficiency standards proposed in this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. For example, the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy suggested that DOE account explicitly for environmental costs in its economic analysis. (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 6.) In addition, Public Citizen stated that the Department should include in its analyses all external costs and benefits, e.g., environmental quality, national security, and reduced energy imports. (Public Citizen, No. 7 at 4.) The Sierra Club stated that the difference between ``Consumer Analysis'' and ``Life-Cycle Cost Analysis'' is difficult to ascertain. They urged DOE to evaluate, as part of the Consumer Analysis; (a) environmental external costs; and, (b) national security and balance-of-payments costs of increased/decreased oil consumption. (Sierra Club, No. 43 at 2.) The Ohio Office of the Consumers' Council said that the consumer and utility analyses should include monetization of externalities (environmental and security) such as sulfur oxides, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate, and other air, water, and land use impacts of energy production and use. Such considerations should be consistent with current trends in state utility regulations. (Ohio Office of the Consumers' Council, No. 60 at 2.) The Department recognizes that appliance standards may generate external societal benefits arising from reductions in oil imports, and emissions of SO 2 , NO x , and CO 2 and perhaps other pollutants. In this proposed rulemaking, as in previous rulemakings, the Department derives the quantities of oil savings and emissions reductions associated with the estimated energy demand reductions expected to result from the proposed standards, but does not attach any externality values to these benefits. In a separate Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for three products (58 FR 47326, September 8, 1993), the Department has indicated that it would be desirable to establish monetary values for these external benefits, if sound analytical bases can be found for doing so. The Department will attempt to develop and use such monetary values in the analysis of the likely impacts of updated standards for these three product categories. However, because there is no consensus on how to undertake the analysis underlying estimates of such environmental and energy security externalities, the Department is not yet able to set monetary values for such externalities accurately enough to be useful in the current rulemaking. Standards 1. Regional standards. On another standards determination issue, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated opposition to the setting of regional standards for room air conditioners. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 22.) The Department is not setting regional standards, but did conduct a sensitivity analysis on life-cycle cost for room air conditioners because their energy use is affected by climate. The sensitivity analysis considered regional energy prices and usage. 2. Corporate average fuel economy. The Rocky Mountain Institute stated that the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards for appliances, like the Corporate Average Fuel Economy for automobiles, could allow for the gradual phase-in of technologies that are substantially different from the present, less-efficient technologies, e.g., horizontal-axis clothes washers and heat pump water heaters. (Rocky Mountain Institute, No. 15 at 3.) The Department acknowledges that some stringent standard levels could involve radical industry manufacturing changes and recognizes that a Corporate Average Fuel Economy-type approach to such standards could help to ease industry's transition to producing these more efficient appliances. The Department believes, however, that the Act precludes that option since the statute requires any covered product to meet the energy conservation standard.
