FR941219-1-00019 FR941219-1-00009 40 CFR Part 721 [OPPTS&hyph;50612D; FRL&hyph;4774&hyph;9] RIN 2070&hyph;AB27 Alkenyl Ether of Alkanetriol Polymer; Proposed Significant New Use Rule AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: EPA is proposing a significant new use rule (SNUR) under section 5(a)(2) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) for the chemical substance described generically as an alkenyl ether of alkanetriol polymer, which is the subject of premanufacture notice (PMN) P&hyph;93&hyph;458. This proposal would require certain persons who intend to manufacture, import, or process this substance for a significant new use to notify EPA at least 90 days before commencing any manufacturing, importing, or processing activities for a use designated by this SNUR as a significant new use. The required notice would provide EPA with the opportunity to evaluate the intended use and, if necessary, to prohibit or limit that activity before it can occur. DATES: Written comments must be received by EPA by January 18, 1995. ADDRESSES: Each comment must bear the docket control number OPPTS&hyph;50612D. All comments should be sent in triplicate to: OPPT Document Control Officer (7407), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E&hyph;G99, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. All comments which are claimed confidential must be clearly marked as such. Three additional sanitized copies of any comments containing confidential business information (CBI) must also be submitted. Nonconfidential versions of comments on this proposed rule will be placed in the rulemaking record and will be available for public inspection. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan B. Hazen, Director, Environmental Assistance Division (7408), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E&hyph;543B, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460, Telephone: (202) 554&hyph;1404, TDD: (202) 554&hyph;0551. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposed SNUR would require persons to notify EPA at least 90 days before commencing the manufacture, import, or processing of P&hyph;93&hyph;458 for the significant new uses designated herein. The required notice would provide EPA with information with which to evaluate an intended use and associated activities. I. Authority Section 5(a)(2) of TSCA (15 U.S.C. 2604(a)(2)) authorizes EPA to determine that a use of a chemical substance is a ``significant new use.'' EPA must make this determination by rule after considering all relevant factors, including those listed in section 5(a)(2). Once EPA determines that a use of a chemical substance is a significant new use, section 5(a)(1)(B) of TSCA requires persons to submit a notice to EPA at least 90 days before they manufacture, import, or process the chemical substance for that use. Section 26(c) of TSCA authorizes EPA to take action under section 5(a)(2) with respect to a category of chemical substances. Persons subject to this SNUR would comply with the same notice requirements and EPA regulatory procedures as submitters of premanufacture notices under section 5(a)(1) of TSCA. In particular, these requirements include the information submission requirements of section 5(b) and (d)(1), the exemptions authorized by section 5(h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(3), and (h)(5), and the regulations at 40 CFR part 720. Once EPA receives a Significant New Use Notice (SNUN), EPA may take regulatory action under section 5(e), 5(f), 6, or 7 to control the activities for which it has received a SNUN. If EPA does not take action, section 5(g) of TSCA requires EPA to explain in the Federal Register its reasons for not taking action. Persons who intend to export a substance identified in a proposed or final SNUR are subject to the export notification provisions of TSCA section 12(b). The regulations that interpret section 12(b) appear at 40 CFR part 707. II. Applicability of General Provisions General regulatory provisions applicable to SNURs are codified at 40 CFR part 721, subpart A. On July 27, 1988 (53 FR 28354), and July 27, 1989 (54 FR 31298), EPA promulgated amendments to the general provisions which apply to this SNUR. In the Federal Register of August 17, 1988 (53 FR 31252), EPA promulgated a ``User Fee Rule'' (40 CFR part 700) under the authority of TSCA section 26(b). Provisions requiring persons submitting SNUNs to submit certain fees to EPA are discussed in detail in that Federal Register document. Interested persons should refer to these documents for further information. III. Background EPA published a direct final SNUR for the chemical substance, which was the subject of PMN P&hyph;93&hyph;458 in the Federal Register of October 4, 1993 (58 FR 51672). EPA received adverse comments following publication for this chemical substance. Therefore, as required by §721.160, the final SNUR for P&hyph;93&hyph;458 is being withdrawn elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register and this proposed rule on the substance is being issued. EPA is not soliciting and will not respond to comments on any of the other SNURs that were published in the October 4, 1993, Federal Register because those rules became effective on December 3, 1993, or are being withdrawn and proposed in a separate action. The supporting rationale and background to this proposal are more fully set out in the preamble to the direct final SNUR for this substance and in the preamble to EPA's first direct final SNURs published in the Federal Register of April 24, 1990 (55 FR 17376). Consult that preamble for further information on the objectives, rationale, and procedures for the proposal and on the basis for significant new use designations including provisions for developing test data. The SNUR for P&hyph;93&hyph;458 stated that EPA was concerned for potential environmental effects of the substance at concentrations as low as 1 ppb (part per billion) (the concern level) based on the submitted test data and by analogy to nonionic surfactants. The SNUR also stated that use of the substance as a thickening agent for textile printing does not present an unreasonable risk due to the fact that the material would not be released to surface waters at concentrations greater than 1 ppb. As a result, EPA proposed that the significant new use for this material is any use which may result in release of the substance to surface waters at concentrations greater than 1 ppb. The commenter was the submitter of P&hyph;93&hyph;458. The commenter stated that the substance is not comparable to nonionic surfactants because the class of nonionic detergents have different proportions of hydrophobic and hydrophilic groups and that the determination to regulate this substance should be based on the data provided within the PMN. EPA used the toxicity data supplied in the PMN to evaluate the acute effects of the substance. However, EPA also used data from chronic toxicity tests on similar chemicals to evaluate potential chronic toxicity of the substance. The substance is classified as a nonionic surfactant by EPA because it has the chemical structural characteristics of nonionic surfactants. The class of nonionic surfactants which EPA has the most data for are the alcohol ethoxylates. EPA realized that this approach may overestimate the toxicity of the substance, but when evaluating potential chronic toxicity in the absence of chronic toxicity data on the specific substance, EPA will use the best relevant data set, even if this may predict higher toxicity, and err on the side of safety rather than underestimate toxicity. Classifying the substance as a nonionic surfactant does not assume that the PMN substance will be a strong detergent. The commenter stated that on the basis of the acute toxicity studies provided in the PMN, where no mortality or immobilization were found in the fish and daphnids, a high assessment factor should not be used and the maximum environmental concentration of 1 ppb is too conservative. EPA agrees that no effects were observed during fish and daphnid acute toxicity tests. However, the hardness of the dilution water in the acute tests was 250.0 and 246.0 mg/L as CaCO 3 , for fish and daphnids, respectively. Hard water is known to decrease the effectiveness of detergents and surfactants. EPA recommends a hardness of less than 180 mg/L for freshwater fish, and daphnid acute and chronic toxicity tests. It is possible that if the hardness of the dilution water had been less than 180 mg/L, toxic effects would have been observed. In addition, effects were observed for green algae. EPA has evaluated toxicity data for chemicals which produce no effects at saturation during short-term exposures, but do have toxic effects at longer exposures during the fish early life stage toxicity test and the daphnid reproduction test. EPA has reviewed the submitted acute toxicity and its analogue data. Based on predicted chronic toxicity values of 1 ppm for fish and daphnids, a measured chronic toxicity value of 1 ppm for algae and an assessment factor of 10, the revised concern concentration is 100 ppb. The commenter stated that EPA had not established that release to surface waters above 1 ppb was indeed a new use. The commenter noted that a Notice of Commencement (NOC) had been filed for the substance on June 16, 1993. The commenter and its customers have been using the substance since that time without the determination required under 40 CFR 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4). The commenter also stated that release of the substance to surface waters at a concentration greater than 1 ppb did not constitute a change in the type and extent of exposures, production volume, or the manufacturing process specified in the PMN as required under section 5(a)(2) of TSCA. The commenter asserted that the data submitted in the PMN does not indicate that the uses other than that submitted in the PMN may be a significant risk to the environment. EPA disagrees with these assertions. Based on information in the PMN supplied by the commenter, EPA estimated reasonable worst case water releases during processing and use. None of these estimated water releases were expected to exceed 1 ppb under even reasonable worst case assumptions. The basis for the assumptions made by EPA, including the information in the PMN and EPA's exposure estimates can be found in the public docket for this substance (OPPTS&hyph;50612). If any interested parties have data demonstrating releases to surface waters above 1 ppb (or the new concern level of 100 ppb), they should furnish that data with their comments. The mere fact that an NOC has been received or that the determination required under 40 CFR 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) has not been made by the submitter or its customers is not evidence that releases exceeding the concern level have occurred. EPA identified several other uses for the substance including use as a paper binder, a flocculation aid for paper manufacturing, and a surfactant intermediate. In addition, the commenter noted on the PMN that they intended to import the substance. The commenter or any other manufacturer could elect to manufacture the substance in the United States. Any manufacturer, importer, or processor could use or distribute the substance in commerce for the other uses cited in this paragraph. If domestic manufacture or the other uses of the substance occur, it is possible that a change in the projected volume of manufacturing and processing, the type, form, magnitude, and duration of exposure, or the reasonably anticipated manner and methods of manufacturing, processing, distribution in commerce, and disposal could also occur, resulting in surface water concentrations above the concern level of 100 ppb. IV. Substance Subject to This Rule EPA is proposing significant new use and recordkeeping requirements for the following chemical substance under 40 CFR part 721. PMN Number P&hyph;93&hyph;458 Chemical name: (generic) Alkenyl ether of alkanetriol polymer. CAS number: Not available. Basis for action: The PMN substance will be used as a thickening agent for textile printing. Based on analogy to nonionic surfactants and on the submitted acute aquatic toxicity data, EPA is concerned that toxicity to aquatic organisms may occur at a concentration as low as 100 ppb of the PMN substance in surface waters. EPA determined that use of the substance as described in the PMN did not present an unreasonable risk because the substance would not be released to surface waters at concentrations above 100 ppb. EPA has determined that other uses of the substance may result in releases to surface water at concentrations above 100 ppb. Based on this information, the PMN substance meets the concern criteria under §721.170(b)(4)(iii). Recommended testing: EPA has determined a chronic 60&hyph;day fish early life stage toxicity test in rainbow trout (40 CFR 797.1600) and a 21&hyph;day chronic daphnid toxicity test (40 CFR 797.1330), where the dilution water hardness is less than 180 mg/L, would help characterize the environmental effects of the PMN substance. CFR citation: 40 CFR 721.3367. V. Applicability of SNUR to Uses Occurring Before Effective Date of the Final SNUR EPA has decided that the intent of section 5(a)(1)(B) is best served by designating a use as a significant new use as of the date of proposal rather than as of the effective date of the rule. Because this SNUR was first published on October 4, 1993, as a direct final rule, that date will serve as the date after which uses will be considered to be new uses. If uses which had commenced between that date and the effective date of this rulemaking were considered ongoing, rather than new, any person could defeat the SNUR by initiating a significant new use before the effective date. This would make it difficult for EPA to establish SNUR notice requirements. Thus, persons who begin commercial manufacture, import, or processing of the substance for uses regulated through this SNUR after October 4, 1993, will have to cease any such activity before the effective date of the rule. To resume their activities, such persons would have to comply with all applicable SNUR notice requirements and wait until the notice review period, including all extensions, expires. EPA, not wishing to unnecessarily disrupt the activities of persons who begin commercial manufacture, import, or processing for a proposed significant new use before the effective date of the SNUR, has promulgated provisions to allow such persons to comply with this proposed SNUR before it is promulgated. If a person were to meet the conditions of advance compliance as codified at §721.45(h), the person would be considered to have met the requirements of the final SNUR for those activities. If persons who begin commercial manufacture, import, or processing of the substance between proposal and the effective date of the SNUR do not meet the conditions of advance compliance, they must cease that activity before the effective date of the rule. To resume their activities, these persons would have to comply with all applicable SNUR notice requirements and wait until the notice review period, including all extensions, expires. VI. Economic Analysis EPA has evaluated the potential costs of establishing SNUN requirements for potential manufacturers, importers, and processors of the chemical substance at the time of the direct final rule. The analysis is unchanged for the substance in this proposed rule. The Agency's complete economic analysis is available in the public record for this proposed rule (OPPTS&hyph;50612D). VII. Comments Containing Confidential Business Information Any person who submits comments claimed as CBI must mark the comments as ``confidential,'' ``trade secret,'' or other appropriate designation. Comments not claimed as confidential at the time of submission will be placed in the public file. Any comments marked as confidential will be treated in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR part 2. Any party submitting comments claimed to be confidential must prepare and submit a nonconfidential public version in triplicate of the comments that EPA can place in the public file. VIII. Rulemaking Record EPA has established a record for this rulemaking (docket control number OPPTS&hyph;50612D). The record includes basic information considered by the Agency in developing this proposed rule. EPA will supplement the record with additional information as it is received. EPA will accept additional materials for inclusion in the record at any time between this proposal and designation of the complete record. EPA will identify the complete rulemaking record by the date of promulgation. A public version of the record without any CBI is available in the TSCA Nonconfidential Information Center (NCIC) from 12 noon to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays. The TSCA NCIC is located in Rm. NE&hyph;B607, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. IX. Regulatory Assessment Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the requirements of the Executive Order. Under section 3(f), the order defines a ``significant regulatory action'' as an action that is likely to result in a rule: (1) Having an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely and materially affecting a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities (also referred to as ``economically significant''); (2) creating serious inconsistency or otherwise interfering with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially altering the budgetary impacts of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raising novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of this Executive Order, it has been determined that this proposed rule is not ``significant'' and is therefore not subject to OMB review. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), EPA has determined that this proposed rule would not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses. EPA has not determined whether parties affected by this proposed rule would likely be small businesses. However, EPA expects to receive few SNUNs for the substance. Therefore, EPA believes that the number of small businesses affected by the rule would not be substantial, even if all of the SNUN submitters were small firms. C. Paperwork Reduction Act OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this proposed rule under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), and has assigned OMB control number 2070&hyph;0012. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 30 to 170 hours per response, with an average of 100 hours per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Chief, Information Policy Branch (2131), Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460; and to Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.'' The final rule will respond to any OMB or public comments on the information requirements contained in this proposed rule. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 721 Environmental protection, Chemicals, Hazardous materials, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Significant new uses. Dated: December 1, 1994. Joseph A. Carra, Acting Director, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics. Therefore, it is proposed that 40 CFR part 721 be amended as follows: PART 721_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 721 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2604, 2607, and 2625(c). 2. By adding new §721.3367 to subpart E to read as follows: §721.3367 Alkenyl ether of alkanetriol polymer. (a) Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting. (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkenyl ether of alkanetriol polymer (PMN P&hyph;93&hyph;458) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (2) The significant new uses are: (i) Release to water. Requirements as specified in §721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 100 ppb (parts per billion)). (ii) [Reserved] (b) Specific requirements. The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. (1) Recordkeeping requirements. Recordkeeping requirements as specified in §721.125(a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance. (2) Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements. The provisions of §721.185 apply to this section. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30733 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
