FR940516-1-00072 FR940516-1-00005 B. Air Impacts The proposed standards would reduce HAP emissions from existing BLR sources by 95 megagrams per year (Mg/yr) (105 tons per year [tons/yr]) from the baseline level, a reduction of 78 percent from baseline. Emissions of HAP from existing wet strength resin sources would decrease by 2 Mg/yr (2 tons/yr) if facilities elect to comply with the MACT floor, a reduction of 7 percent from baseline. If facilities elect to implement the alternative standard for the process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater source, HAP emissions would decrease by 14 Mg/yr (15 tons/yr), a reduction of 52 percent from baseline. C. Water and Solid Waste Impacts The proposed standards will result in the generation of 3,200,000 gallons of wastewater per year from the BLR source category, assuming gas absorbers (water scrubbers) are installed to control process vents and storage tank emissions. This amount of wastewater represents approximately 10 percent of the wastewater currently generated at the BLR production facility and a small portion of the total wastewater from the plant. EPA believes the additional wastewater can be treated on-site in the plant's existing wastewater treatment system. Wastewater impacts may be less if an alternative control measure is used to comply with the standard. There is no wastewater generated from the WSR production process, because emissions are controlled with condensers. There is also no solid waste generated from the BLR or WSR production processes. D. Energy Impacts The proposed standards for the BLR source category would require an additional energy usage of 1.5 x 10 6 Btu per year (Btu/yr). Additional energy usage for the WSR source category is 4 x 10 6 Btu/yr if the MACT floor is implemented; however, if facilities elect to comply with the alternative standard, the additional energy usage is negligible. E. Cost Impacts The emission reductions that would be required by this regulation could be met using one or more of several different techniques. To determine costs, certain control scenarios were assumed. The scenarios used in costing were judged to be the most feasible scenarios possible for meeting the requirements of the proposed standards from a technical and cost standpoint. The total control cost includes the capital cost to install the control device, the costs involved in operating the control device, and costs associated with monitoring the device to ensure compliance. Monitoring costs include the cost to purchase and operate monitoring devices, as well as reporting and recordkeeping costs required to demonstrate compliance. The cost impacts of the proposed standards are summarized in Table 3 and Table 4. Nationwide, the total annual cost of this standard to the BLR industry is $140,000. The total cost of this regulation to the wet strength resin industry is $520,000, assuming all facilities do not decide to achieve compliance with the alternative standard (controlling equipment leaks). If all facilities do decide to comply with the alternative standard, the total annual cost is $52,000. F. Economic Impacts The economic impact analysis of this standard shows that the estimated price increase from compliance with the recommended alternative for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater is 0.05 percent for BLR. Estimated reduction in market output for BLR is 0.08 percent. For WSR, control of equipment leaks is not required, but is allowed as an alternative standard because it achieves an emission reduction which is equivalent to or better than the MACT floor level of control for vents, tanks, and wastewater. Assuming compliance with the alternative standard for WSR, the estimated price increase is 0.22 percent and the estimated reduction in market output is 0.20 percent.
