FR941206-1-00092 FR941206-1-00008 IV. Summary of Estimated Environmental, Energy, and Economic Impacts of the Proposed Standards A. Number and Type of Affected Facilities B. Air Emission Reductions C. Secondary Environmental Impacts D. Energy Impacts E. Cost Impacts F. Economic Impacts V. National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) Decision Process A. Source of Authority for NESHAP Development B. Criteria for Development of NESHAP C. Categorization/Subcategorization: Determining MACT ``Floors'' D. Regulatory Approach and Regulatory Alternatives VI. Process Description and Control Technologies A. Painting Process B. Control Technologies for Painting Operations C. Handling, Transfer, and Storage of Volatile Organic HAP Containing Materials VII. Selection Rationale A. Selection of Emission Points to be Covered B. Selection of the Basis for the Proposed Standards C. Selection of the Format of the Proposed Standards D. Selection of Compliance Dates E. Selection of Compliance Procedures F. Selection of Test Methods and Procedures G. Selection of Notification, Recordkeeping, and Reporting Requirements H. Operating Permit Program I. Solicitation of Comments VIII. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing B. Docket C. Executive Order 12866 D. Paperwork Reduction Act E. Regulatory Flexibility Act F. Clean Air Act Section 117 G. Regulatory Review IX. Statutory Authority The proposed regulatory text is not included in this Federal Register notice, but is available in Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;11 or by request from the EPA contact persons designated earlier in this notice, free of charge. The proposed regulatory language is also available on the Technology Transfer Network (TTN), one of the EPA's electronic bulletin boards. The TTN provides information and technology exchange in various areas of air pollution control. The service is free, except for the cost of a phone call. Dial (919) 541&hyph;5742 for up to a 14,400-bps modem. If more information on TTN is needed, call the HELP line at (919) 541&hyph;5384.
