FR941205-2-00025 FR941205-2-00024 Health Resources and Services Administration Special Project Grants; Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Services; Community Integrated Service Systems (CISS) Set-Aside Program AGENCY: Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). ACTION: Notice of availability of funds. SUMMARY: The Health Resource and Services Administration is announcing the availability of fiscal year 1995 funds for a limited competition for Community Integrated Service Systems (CISS) Home Visiting for At-Risk Families (HVAF) grants. The purpose of the CISS/HVAF is to assist State Maternal and Child Health (MCH) programs to support development and expansion of successful community integrated service strategies. Projects funded under this initiative are expected to emphasize the home visiting model as an important component of care. The CISS/HVAF grants will be used to support the development of enhanced health components in States' Administration for Children and Families' (ACF) Five-Year State Plans for Family Preservation and Family Support (FP/FS) Services. These Five-Year Plans, being developed under Title IV&hyph;B of the Social Security Act, are part of the Family Preservation and Family Support (FP/FS) Services programs authorized under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (P.L. 103&hyph;66). The CISS/HVAF grants will complement planning activities supported by the HRSA and the ACF to promote State efforts to develop comprehensive systems of services which meet both the health and welfare needs of families. Awards will be made under the program authority of section 502(b)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act, the Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant CISS Set-Aside Program. Competition is limited to the eleven States and jurisdictions currently without CISS/HVAF grants. In FY 1994, 50 of the 56 eligible States and Jurisdictions applied for CISS/HVAF grants and 45 were funded. With this notice, HRSA is offering the remainder the opportunity to participate in this initiative. They constitute the universe of remaining eligible applicants that were either disapproved last year or did not apply. The eleven States and jurisdictions are: New Jersey; Virgin Islands; West Virginia; Tennessee; Mississippi; North Carolina; Texas; California; American Samoa; Guam; and the Northern Mariana Islands. Grants/Amounts: Up to $550,000 will be available to support up to eleven new projects in an amount up to $50,000 per award for the project period. Project periods are for nine months, beginning January 1, 1995. Eligibility: Eligibility for funding is limited to a single application from each of eleven specified States and Jurisdictions which has been approved to receive FY 1994 funding under Title IV&hyph;B, Subpart 2 of the Social Security Act: Family Preservation and Support Services, and which has not been approved to receive funds under the CISS/HVAF grant program. State Title V/Title IV&hyph;B agency partnerships are especially encouraged, with State Child Welfare and Maternal and Child Health agencies acting either as co-applicants or collaborating in the identification of the applicant. The application must be jointly developed and the project must be jointly implemented by both programs. ADDRESSES: Grant applications must be submitted to: Chief, Grants Management Branch, Office of Program Support, Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services Administration, Room 18&hyph;12, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, (301) 443&hyph;1440. Applicants for these projects will use application Form PHS 5161&hyph;1, with revised facesheet DHHS Form 424, approved by OMB under control number 0937&hyph;0189.
