FR941128-2-00072 FR941128-2-00045 Respondent shall comply with reasonable requests by the Commission staff for additional information concerning any transaction subject to this Paragraph IV of this order, within fifteen (15) days of service of such requests. Provided, however, that no transaction shall be subject to this Paragraph IV of this order if: 1. The fair market value of the assets to be contributed to the joint venture or other arrangement by the psychiatric facility not operated by respondent does not exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000); 2. The transaction does not involve psychiatric services; or 3. Notification is required to be made, and has been made, pursuant to Section 7A of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 18a, or prior approval by the Commission is required, and has been requested, pursuant to Paragraph III of this order. V It is further ordered that, for a period of ten (10) years from the date this order becomes final, respondent shall not permit all or any substantial part of any psychiatric facility it operates in the relevant areas to be acquired by any other person unless the acquiring person files with the Commission, prior to the closing of such acquisition, a written agreement to be bound by the provisions of this order, which agreement respondent shall require as a condition precedent to the acquisition. VI It is further ordered that, within sixty (60) days after the date this order becomes final, and annually thereafter for a period of ten (10) years on the anniversary of the date this order becomes final, and at other times as the Commission may require, respondent shall file a verified written report with the Commission setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it has complied and it is complying with the requirements of this order. VII It is further ordered that, for the purpose of determining or securing compliance with this order, respondent shall permit any duly authorized representative of the Commission: A. Access, during office hours and in the presence of counsel, to inspect and copy all books, ledgers, accounts, correspondence, memoranda and other records and documents in the possession or under the control of respondent relating to any matters contained in this order; and B. Upon five days' notice to respondent and without restraint or interference from it, to interview officers, directors, or employees of respondent. VIII It is further ordered that respondent shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any proposed change in the corporate respondent such as dissolution, assignment, sale resulting in the emergency of a successor corporation, or the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries or any other change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising out of the order.
