FR940630-0-00057 FR940630-0-00018 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD02 93&hyph;036] RIN 2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulation; Illinois River, IL AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Interim final rule with request for comments. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing operation conditions for the remote operation of the Chicago and Northwestern Transportation Company railway bridge at Pekin, Illinois. This action is being taken at the request of the Chicago and Northwestern Transportation Company of Chicago, Illinois. The change to remote operation will permit more efficient operation of the railway bridge, and still provide for the reasonable needs of navigation. EFFECTIVE DATES: This interim rule is effective on August 1, 1994. Comments must be received on or before October 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Commander (ob), Second Coast Guard District, 1222 Spruce Street, St. Louis, MO 63103&hyph;2832, Attention: Docket CGD02 93&hyph;036. Comments may also be delivered to room 2.107B at the above address between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. For information concerning comments, the telephone number is (314) 539&hyph;3724. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Roger K. Wiebusch, Bridge Administrator, Second Coast Guard District, (314) 539&hyph;3724. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. The Coast Guard is soliciting comments until October 1, 1994, on the operation of the new system during the initial implementation of this rule. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Wanda G. Renshaw, Project Officer, Bridge Branch, and Lieutenant Commander Arne O. Denny, Project Attorney, Second Coast Guard District Legal Office. Publication History On January 7, 1994, the Coast Guard published a proposed rule (59 FR 986) concerning this amendment. The Commander, Second Coast Guard District, also published the proposal as a Public Notice dated January 14, 1994. Interested parties were given until February 22, 1994, to submit comments. The Coast Guard received seven comments on the proposal. A public meeting was requested and hosted by the Chairman of the Tazewell County Board in Pekin, Illinois, on March 14, 1994. Background and Purpose The Chicago and Northwestern (C&NW) bridge at Pekin Illinois Bridge is presently maintained in the open position and is closed by an on-site bridge tender upon the approach of a train. C&NW will install remote operating equipment and a control system, including radar, infrared boat detector, high intensity lights and communications equipment that will permit operation of the draw from the Chicago and Northwestern office in Chicago, Illinois. Equipment will indicate any malfunction in the bridge operation and enable the remote operator to ascertain the position of the lift span at any time. The marine radio system will receive and transmit on the VHF marine frequencies authorized by the Federal Communications Commission. Additionally, portable radiotelephone equipment will be provided to permit direct communications with vessels when the bridge is operated at the bridge site. A radar antenna will be installed on the fixed portion of the bridge structure, and the received signal will be transmitted by fixed lines and a microwave link to the Chicago and Northwestern office in Chicago. The radar system is designed to scan upstream and downstream of the bridge. Infrared scanners will be located on the upstream and downstream ends of the channel span piers to detect vessels in the channel span. If an obstruction is detected beneath the lift span during the closing cycle before the span is seated and locked, the lift span will be automatically stopped and immediately raised to the fully open position until the channel is clear. During the bridge closing cycle, an automatic, synthesized voice announcement will be broadcast. At the appropriate times in the closing cycle, the broadcast will announce that the bridge will close to navigation, that the bridge is closed to navigation, or that the bridge has reopened to navigation.
