FR941103-2-00074 FR941103-2-00032 Hopkinton Municipal Utilities unit 2 in Iowa, owned and operated by the City of Hopkinton. The Designated Representative for Hopkinton is Norman W. Parsons. Graettinger Municipal Light Plant unit 2 in Iowa, owned and operated by the City of Graettinger. The Designated Representative for Graettinger Municipal Light Plant is Gary A. Swanson. Grand Junction Municipal Light & Power unit 2 in Iowa, owned and operated by the City of Grand Junction. The Designated Representative for Grand Junction Municipal Light & Power is Gary A. Swanson. Lamoni Municipal Utilities unit 6 in Iowa, owned and operated by Lamoni Municipal Utilities. The Designated Representative for Lamoni Municipal Utilities is Robert A. Moore. Primghar Municipal Light Plant unit 5 in Iowa, owned and operated by the City of Primghar. The Designated Representative for Primghar is Robert L. Mulder. Story City Municipal Electric Utility unit 5 in Iowa, owned and operated by the City of Story City. The Designated Representative for Story City is Bruce Twedt. Vinton Municipal Power Plant unit 1 in Iowa, owned and operated by the City of Vinton. The Designated Representative for Vinton Municipal is Maynard P. Stief. Waverly Light & Power North Plant unit 10 in Iowa, owned and operated by Waverly Light & Power. The Designated Representative for the North Plant is Glenn S. Cannon. Wilton Municipal Light & Power System, units 2, 3, and 4 in Iowa, owned and operated by Wilton Municipal Light & Power System. The Designated Representative for Wilton Municipal Light & Power System is Collin K. Proctor. Chanute 3 units 12 and 13 in Kansas, owned and operated by the City of Chanute. The Designated Representative for Chanute 3 is Robert Walker. The City of Girard Power Station units 2101&hyph;1119, 2012&hyph;1147, VO3572, and VO3393 in Kansas, owned and operated by the City of Girard. The Designated Representative for Girard is William W. Crawford. Holton Municipal Power Plant unit 11 in Kansas, owned and operated by the City of Holton. The Designated Representative for Holton is Bradley J. Mears. Horton Power Plant units 1 and 2 in Kansas, owned and operated by the City of Horton. The Designated Representative for Horton is Theodore M. Hauser. Kingman Power Station unit 9 in Kansas, owned and operated by the City of Kingman. The Designated Representative for Kingman is Ira M. Hart, III. The City of Mulvane units 7 and 8 in Kansas, owned and operated by the City of Mulvane. The Designated Representative for Mulvane is Gary Rambo. Osborne Municipal Light Plant units 4&hyph;CAT and 5&hyph;CAT in Kansas, owned and operated by the city of Osborne. The Designated Representative for Osborne is Norman B. Christie. Russell Municipal Power and Light units 11 and 12 in Kansas, owned and operated by the City of Russell. The Designated Representative for Russell is Earl Homewood. Sabetha Municipal Power Plant unit 11 in Kansas, owned and operated by the City of Sabetha. The Designated Representative for Sabetha is Ted L. Hayden. Campbell Municipal Utilities unit 7 in Missouri, owned and operated by the City of Campbell. The Designated Representative for Campbell is Wendell Thompson. Marshall Municipal Utilities unit 11 in Missouri, owned and operated by the Marshall Municipal Utilities. The Designated Representative for Marshall is Kyle Gibbs. Palmyra Municipal 2 units 9 and 10 in Missouri, owned and operated by the Palmyra Board of Public Works. The Designated Representative for Palmyra Municipal 2 is James Church. The City of Shelbina units G3, G4, and G5 in Missouri, owned and operated by the City of Shelbina. The Designated Representative for Shelbina is Dennie Fowler. The Unionville Power & Light unit 9 in Missouri, owned and operated by the City of Unionville. The Designated Representative for Unionville Power & Light is Dennie Sheehan. Vandalia Power Plant units 2 and 3 in Missouri, owned and operated by the City of Vandalia. The Alternate Designated Representative for Vandalia is Aaron Rentfro. Auburn Municipal Power Plant unit 4 in Nebraska, owned and operated by the Auburn Board of Public Works. The Designated Representative for Auburn is James P. Dietz. Laurel Power Plant unit 7 in Nebraska, owned and operated by the City of Laurel. The Designated Representative for the Laurel Power Plant is Jim Recob. Additionally under the Acid Rain Program regulations (40 CFR 72.8), utilities may petition EPA for an exemption from permitting requirements for units that are retired prior to the issuance of a Phase II Acid Rain permit. Units that are retired prior to the deadline for continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) certification may also petition for an exemption from monitoring requirements. While the exempt retired units have been allocated allowances under 40 CFR part 73, units exempted under 40 CFR 72.8 must not emit any sulfur dioxide or nitrogen oxides on or after the date the units are exempted, and the units must not resume operation unless the designated representative submits an application for an Acid Rain permit and installs and certifies its monitors by the applicable deadlines. EPA proposes to issue written exemptions, effective from January 1, 1995 through December 31, 1999, unless otherwise noted below, to the following retired units: B C Cobb units 1, 2, and 3 in Michigan, owned and operated by Consumers Power Company. The Designated Representative for B C Cobb is Robert J. Nicholson. Bluffs unit 4 in Nebraska at the Scottsbluff Generating Station owned and operated by the Nebraska Public Power District. The Designated Representative for Bluffs is Clinton Johannes. Kramer units 1, 2, 3, and 4 in Nebraska at the Harold Kramer Generating Station, owned and operated by the Nebraska Public Power District. The Designated Representative for Kramer is Clinton Johannes. North Oak Creek units 1, 2, 3, and 4 in Wisconsin, owned and operated by Wisconsin Electric Power Company. The exemption from Phase I permitting requirements is effective from January 1, 1995 through December 31, 1999. The exemption from monitoring requirements is effective from November 15, 1993 through December 31, 1999. The Designated Representative for North Oak Creek is Paul D. Schumacher. Dated: October 31, 1994. Brian J. McLean, Director, Acid Rain Division, Office of Atmospheric Programs, Office of Air and Radiation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27297 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
