FR940713-2-00087 FR940713-2-00054 Southwestern Pennsylvania Industrial Heritage Preservation Commission Southwestern Pennsylvania Industrial Heritage Route; Designation of Vehicular Tour Route AGENCY: Southwestern Pennsylvania Heritage Preservation Commission, Interior. ACTION: Notice of designation of the Southwestern Pennsylvania Industrial Heritage Route. SUMMARY: This notice, issued in accordance with the provisions of Public Law 100&hyph;698, which established the Southwestern Pennsylvania Heritage Preservation Commission (``Commission''), announces the designation of the Southwestern Pennsylvania Industrial Heritage Route. ADDRESSES: Southwestern Pennsylvania Heritage Preservation Commission, P.O. Box 565, Hollidaysburg, PA 16648. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Karl King, Projects Manager, Southwestern Pennsylvania Heritage Preservation Commission, telephone 814&hyph;696&hyph;9380. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pub L. 100&hyph;698 established the Commission to provide, ``the means by which the cultural heritage of the 9-county region in southwestern Pennsylvania associated with the three basic industries of iron and steel, coal and transportation may be recognized, preserved, promoted, interpreted, and made available for the benefit of the public.'' Title II, Sec. 201 of Pub. L. 100&hyph;698 provides that the Secretary of the Interior, with the concurrence of the agency having jurisdiction over such roads, shall designate, by publication in the Federal Register , a vehicular tour route along existing public roads linking historic, cultural, natural, scenic and recreational sites in southwestern Pennsylvania. Following a period of planning by the Denver Service Center of the National Park Service with substantial input from the public and the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (herein referred to as ``PennDOT''), the Secretary has designated, with the concurrence of PennDOT, the Southwestern Pennsylvania Industrial Heritage Route (herein referred to as the ``Heritage Route''). The Heritage Route encompasses a distance of approximately 500 miles using existing roads through Bedford, Blair, Cambria, Fayette, Fulton, Huntingdon, Indiana, Somerset and Westmoreland Counties. The Secretary, in accordance with Pub. L. 100&hyph;698, Sec. 201.(a), and with concurrence of PennDOT and local entities having jurisdiction over the designated roads, shall erect signs and informational devices displaying the Heritage Route marker, also known as the ``Path of Progress'', along the designated roads. A list of the designated roads is published in its entirety below. A complete description and map of the Heritage Route system as well as a description of the ``Path of Progress'' markers is available through the Commission.
