FR941104-1-00032 FR941104-1-00006 According to the petitioner, the western boundary of the St. Helena viticultural area is not strictly delineated by historical custom. The petitioner states that this western boundary should be dictated by the eastern boundary of the adjacent Spring Mountain District viticultural area which utilizes the 400-foot contour line. The petitioner states that although some people might draw the western boundary of the St. Helena viticultural area at the 500 or 600-foot contour line, the 400-foot contour line defies no historical precedent and prevents the overlapping of the St. Helena viticultural area with the Spring Mountain District viticultural area. In regard to the eastern boundary, the petitioner states that the historical records indicate that Conn Valley is a separate area and should not be included in the St. Helena viticultural area. The records indicate, however, that Pratt Valley is clearly part of the St. Helena area from the location of the Pratt and Chabot winegrowing properties, according to the petitioner. In addition, the Crystal Springs Road area and Dago Valley should be included, according to the petitioner, due more to recent developments there rather than earlier history. However, the petitioner states that the old Rossini property, where the historic Burgess-Souverain Winery is located today, and the Leunenberger property, where the original Sutter Home-Ballantine Winery was located (today Deer Park Winery), should not be included because they are located on the lower slopes of Howell Mountain rather than in the St. Helena area. The petitioner uses mostly the 400-foot contour line and a short portion of Howell Mountain Road and a longer portion of Conn Valley Road to delineate the eastern boundary of the proposed St. Helena viticultural area. Geographical Features Data prepared by Dr. Elliott-Fisk in support of the petition provides the following geographical information. Climate. The proposed St. Helena viticultural area lies within a relatively narrow and constricted portion of the upper Napa Valley proper. There exists a subtle interaction of climatic factors which affect grapes grown in this valley floor area. These subtle climatic influences are part of a continuum across the entire floor of the Napa Valley. The Napa Valley proper is classified as a coastal valley. Along the valley floor from Napa to Calistoga, there are pronounced mesoclimatic variations which relate to the penetration of marine influences from San Pablo Bay and, to a lesser extent, to the rise in elevation as one proceeds up Napa Valley. This marine air incursion is caused by warming of the valley floor and surrounding hillsides during the daylight hours of the growing season. This warming land mass causes the air in the area to rise, creating pressure gradients which draw in marine air off of San Pablo Bay to the south. During the growing season, this phenomenon generally begins in the early afternoon and continues into the evening. Due to proximity to the bay, the areas in the southern portion of the valley receive the most direct impact of these pressure gradient winds. These winds have a cooling effect throughout the Napa Valley. During the grape growing season, this cooling plays an important role in the development of the grapes by allowing them to better retain their natural acidity which is critical in the production of high quality wines, according to the petitioner. In the proposed St. Helena viticultural area, this cooling effect is moderated compared to the areas further south. However, while the St. Helena area has relatively warm conditions, it is the daily maximum extremes, for which the area to the north (Calistoga) is better known, that distinguish the St. Helena and Calistoga areas. Traditionally, the dividing line between the area of Calistoga's higher daily extremes and St. Helena's warm coastal climate has been the section of land around Bale Lane. It is at this point that the Napa Valley and Napa River take a pronounced directional change of course from north/northwesterly to more westerly. To the north of Bale Lane, the exposure of the valley floor to the sun also is more directly aligned than to the south where there is more shading. The area to the north of the proposed St. Helena viticultural area, particularly around the city of Calistoga, is also affected by a secondary marine air incursion, far less dramatic than that off of San Pablo Bay, which penetrates the upper Napa Valley through the Knights Valley area. This marine influence, according to the petitioner, does not typically penetrate as far south as the St. Helena viticultural area. When present, these moist, cooling winds serve to moderate the generally hotter temperatures in Calistoga, making this area ideal for growing premium wine grapes. Dr. Elliott-Fisk also finds that there are significant climatic differences between the St. Helena viticultural area and the surrounding mountains. To the east of St. Helena lies Howell Mountain and to the west is Spring Mountain. These mountain areas range in elevation from 400 to 2,600 feet for Spring Mountain and from 1,400 to 2,400 feet for Howell Mountain. On average, temperatures fall along the valley floor approximately 2.8 degrees Fahrenheit for each 1,000 foot fall in elevation.
