FR940406-2-00087 FR940406-2-00048 Grantees are subject to the audit requirements in 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92. Section 319 of Public Law 101&hyph;121, signed into law on October 23, 1989, imposes [new] prohibitions and requirements for disclosure and certification related to lobbying when applicant has engaged in lobbying activities or is expected to lobby in trying to obtain the grant. It provides limited exemptions for Indian tribes and tribal organizations. Current and prospective recipients (and their subtier contractors and/or grantees) are prohibited from using appropriated funds for lobbying Congress or any Federal agency in connection with the award of a contract, grant, cooperative agreement or loan. In addition, for each award action in excess of $100,000 (or $150,000 for loans) the law requires recipients and their subtier contractors and/or subgrantees (1) to certify that they have neither used nor will use any appropriated funds for payment to lobbyists, (2) to submit a declaration setting forth whether payments to lobbyists have been or will be made out of non-appropriated funds and, if so, the name, address, payment details, and purpose of any agreements with such lobbyists whom recipients or their subtier contractors or subgrantees will pay with the nonappropriated funds and (3) to file quarterly up-dates about the use of lobbyists if any event occurs that materially affects the accuracy of the information submitted by way of declaration and certification. The law establishes civil penalties for noncompliance and is effective with respect to contracts, grants, cooperative agreements and loans entered into or made on or after December 23, 1989. See Attachment F for certification and disclosure forms to be submitted with the applications for this program. Attachment G indicates the regulations which apply to all applicants/grantees under the Discretionary Grants Program. Dated March 22, 1994. Donald Sykes, Director, Office of Community Services. BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN06AP94.076 E:GRAPHICSEN06AP94.077 BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;C Instructions for the SF 424 This is a standard form used by applicants as a required facesheet for preapplications and applications submitted for Federal assistance. It will be used by Federal agencies to obtain applicant certification that States which have established a review and comment procedure in response to Executive Order 12372 and have selected the program to be included in their process, have been given an opportunity to review the applicant's submission. Item and Entry 1. Self-explanatory. 2. Date application submitted to Federal agency (or State if applicable) & applicant's control number (if applicable). 3. State use only (if applicable). 4. If this application is to continue or revise an existing award, enter present Federal identifier number. If for a new project, leave blank. 5. Legal name of applicant, name of primary organizational unit which will undertake the assistance activity, complete address of the applicant, and name and telephone number of the person to contact on matters related to this application. 6. Enter Employer Identification Number (EIN) as assigned by the Internal Revenue Service. 7. Enter the appropriate letter in the space provided. 8. Check appropriate box and enter appropriate letter(s) in the space(s) provided: _``New'' means a new assistance award. _``Continuation'' means an extension for an additional funding/budget period for a project with a projected completion date. _``Revision'' means any change in the Federal Government's financial obligation or contingent liability from an existing obligation. 9. Name of Federal agency from which assistance is being requested with this application. 10. Use the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number and title of the program under which assistance is requested. 11. Enter a brief descriptive title of the project. If more than one program is involved, you should append an explanation on a separate sheet. If appropriate (e.g., construction or real property projects), attach a map showing project location. For preapplications, use a separate sheet to provide a summary description of this project. 12. List only the largest political entities affected (e.g., State, counties). 13. Self-explanatory. 14. List the applicant's Congressional District and any District(s) affected by the program or project. 15. Amount requested or to be contributed during the first funding/budget period by each contributor. Value of in-kind contributions should be included on appropriate lines as applicable. If the action will result in a dollar change to an existing award, indicate only the amount of the change. For decreases, enclose the amounts in parentheses. If both basic and supplemental amounts are included, show breakdown on an attached sheet. For multiple program funding, use totals and show breakdown using same categories as item 15. 16. Applicants should contact the State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) for Federal Executive Order 12372 to determine whether the application is subject to the State intergovernmental review process. 17. This question applies to the applicant organization, not the person who signs as the authorized representative. Categories of debt include delinquent audit disallowances, loans and taxes. 18. To be signed by the authorized representative of the applicant. A copy of the governing body's authorization for you to sign this application as official representative must be on file in the applicant's office. (Certain Federal agencies may require that this authorization be submitted as part of the application.) BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN06AP94.078 E:GRAPHICSEN06AP94.079 BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;C Instructions for the SF&hyph;424A General Instructions This form is designed so that application can be made for funds from one or more grant programs. In preparing the budget, adhere to any existing Federal grantor agency guidelines which prescribe how and whether budgeted amounts should be separately shown for different functions or activities within the program. For some programs, grantor agencies may require budgets to be separately shown by function or activity. For other programs, grantor agencies may require a breakdown by function or activity. Sections A, B, C, and D should include budget estimates for the whole project except when applying for assistance which requires Federal authorization in annual or other funding period increments. In the latter case, Sections A, B, C, and D should provide the budget for the first budget period (usually a year) and Section E should present the need for Federal assistance in the subsequent budget periods. All applications should contain a breakdown by the object class categories shown in Lines a&hyph;k of Section B. Section A. Budget Summary Lines 1&hyph;4, Columns (a) and (b) For applications pertaining to a single Federal grant program (Federal Domestic Assistance Catalog number and not requiring a functional or activity breakdown, enter on Line 1 under Column (a) the catalog program title and the catalog number in Column (b). For applications pertaining to a single program requiring budget amounts by multiple functions or activities, enter the name of each activity or function on each line in Column (a), and enter the catalog number in Column (b). For applications pertaining to multiple programs where none of the programs require a breakdown by function or activity, enter the catalog program title on each line in Column (a) and the respective catalog number on each line in Column (b). For applications pertaining to multiple programs where one or more programs require a breakdown by function or activity, prepare a separate sheet for each program requiring the breakdown. Additional sheets should be used when one form does not provide adequate space for all breakdown of data required. However, when more than one sheet is used, the first page should provide the summary totals by programs. Lines 1&hyph;4, Columns (c) through (g) For new applications, leave Columns (c) and (d) blank. For each line entry in Columns (a) and (b), enter in Columns (e), (f), and (g) the appropriate amounts of funds needed to support the project for the first funding period (usually a year). For continuing grant program applications, submit these forms before the end of each funding period as required by the grantor agency. Enter in Columns (c) and (d) the estimated amounts of funds which will remain unboligated at the end of the grant funding period only if the Federal grantor agency instructions provide for this. Otherwise, leave these columns blank. Enter in Columns (e) and (f) the amounts of funds needed for the upcoming period. The amount(s) in Column (g) should be the sum of amounts in Columns (e) and (f). For supplemental grants and changes to existing grants, do not use Columns (c) and (d). Enter in Column (e) the amount of the increase or decrease of Federal funds and enter in Column (f) the amount of the increase or decrease of non-Federal funds. In Column (g) enter the new total budgeted amount (Federal and non-Federal) which includes the total previous authorized budgeted amounts plus or minus, as appropriate, the amounts shown in Columns (e) and (f). The amount(s) in Column (g) should not equal the sum of amounts in Columns (e) and (f). Line 5_ Show the totals for all columns used. Section B Budget Categories In the column headings (1) through (4), enter the titles of the same programs, functions, and activities shown on Lines 1&hyph;4, Column (a), Section A. When additional sheets are prepared for Section A, provide similar column headings on each sheet. For each program, function or activity, fill in the total requirements for funds (both Federal and non-Federal) by object class categories. Lines 6a&hyph;i_ Show the totals of Lines 6a to 6h in each column. Line 6j_ Show the amount of indirect cost. Line 6k_ Enter the total of amounts on Lines 6i and 6j. For all applications for new grants and continuation grants the total amount in Column (5), Line 6k, should be the same as the total amount shown in Section A, Column (g), Line 5. For supplemental grants and changes to grants, the total amount of the increase or decrease as shown in Columns (1)&hyph;(4), Line 6k should be the same as the sum of the amounts in Section A, Columns (e) and (f) on Line 5.
