FR940628-1-00103 FR940628-1-00016 (iii) Region 3 (North Central): Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, and Wisconsin. (iv) Region 4 (Northeast): Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, and Vermont. (v) Region 5 (Mid-Atlantic): Delaware, District of Columbia, Kentucky, Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia. (vi) Region 6 (Southeast): Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, and the United States Virgin Islands. (2) Three at-large members and their alternates representing importers that are qualified handlers of cut flowers and greens. (3) Three members and their alternates representing producers of cut flowers and greens that are qualified handlers of cut flowers and greens. There shall be one such member and alternate from each of the following production areas: (i) Production Area 1: California. (ii) Production Area 2: Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. (iii) Production Area 3: Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, and West Virginia. (4) Two members and their respective alternates representing persons who produce cut flowers and greens in locations east and west of the Mississippi River, respectively. There shall be one such member and alternate from the east, and one such member and alternate from the west. (d) Names of candidates for nominees may be submitted by state, regional (either regions within a state or regions that include more than one state as appropriate), or national industry organizations, provided that the organization has members engaged in the appropriate segment of the industry and from the region or production area if applicable, or by petition. The names of candidates submitted by an industry organization shall be accompanied by statements showing the role of the organization in the industry and general information about the membership it represents. No industry organization may submit more than two names of candidates for each seat on the Council. The names of candidates submitted by petition shall be accompanied by petitions in support of such candidate, signed by not less than ten (10) persons engaged in the appropriate segment of the industry and from the region or production area, if applicable, that the candidate will represent if ultimately selected by the Secretary. Submission of names of all candidates, whether by organizations or by petition, must include a certification by the candidate that the candidate is within the segment of the industry and the region or production area for which the candidate is nominated and, if elected as a nominee and if subsequently appointed by the Secretary, the candidate is willing to serve as a member or alternate member on the Council. (e) The names of candidates so submitted shall be reviewed and organized by the election committee for the preparation of slates of candidates. Separate slates for each segment and region of the industry shall be prepared as appropriate. There must be at least four candidates for each position on the Council for which nominees must be selected by election. No candidate may seek nomination for more than one seat on the Council. In a case where a candidate is nominated more than once, the election committee will decide which place on the ballot the candidate's name will appear. If insufficient candidates have been proposed for any seat, the election committee shall select additional candidates as required. The slates shall be prepared not later than 5 days after the date for receiving names of candidates by the election committee. (f) After all candidates have been listed on the slates of candidates, the slates shall be supplied to an independent certified public accounting (CPA) firm contracted by the election committee. The ballots shall be printed and distributed by the CPA firm by U.S. mail, or other means selected by the election committee, not later than 15 days after the slates of candidates are received from the election committee. To the maximum extent practicable, ballots will be distributed to all persons that will be assessed under this subpart in the segment of the industry, the region, or in the United States as a whole, as applicable, to which the ballot pertains. Ballots that are not returned to the CPA firm within 20 days shall be declared invalid. The votes for each candidate on the ballots shall be tallied by the CPA firm at the end of the voting period and the results furnished to the election committee. The election committee shall issue a news release setting forth the names of the candidates and the number of votes received by each candidate within 5 days after the voting period has ended. Those candidates on each of the ballots who rank first, second, third, and fourth in the number of votes received for each seat on the Council shall be declared the nominees for each such seat. (g) The names of those declared the nominees for each of the seats on the Council representing the various segments of the industry and the designated regions or production areas, where applicable, shall be submitted to the Secretary in order of rank with the number of votes received by each such nominee shown after the nominee's name and with the recommendation that the nominee with the most votes for each of such seats be declared the member of the Council and the nominee with the next greatest number of votes for each of such seats be declared the alternate member. The Secretary shall then appoint from the nominees so provided the members and their alternates for each of such seats on the Council.
