FR940825-0-00108 FR940825-0-00016 (f) Recipients shall immediately notify the HHS awarding agency of developments that have a significant impact on the award-supported activities. Also, notification shall be given in the case of problems, delays, or adverse conditions which materially impair the ability to meet the objectives of the award. This notification shall include a statement of the action taken or contemplated, and any assistance needed to resolve the situation. (g) HHS may make site visits, as needed. (h) The HHS awarding agency complies with the applicable report clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320, ``Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public,'' when requesting performance data from recipients. ยง74.52 Financial reporting. (a) The following forms are used for obtaining financial information from recipients: (1) SF&hyph;269 or SF&hyph;269A, Financial Status Report. (i) The HHS awarding agency will require recipients to use either the SF&hyph;269 (long form) or SF&hyph;269A to report the status of funds for all nonconstruction projects or programs. The SF&hyph;269 shall always be used if income has been earned. The awarding agency may, however, waive the SF&hyph;269 or SF&hyph;269A requirement when the PMS&hyph;270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement, or PMS&hyph;272, Report of Federal Cash Transactions, will provide adequate information to meet its needs, except that a final SF&hyph;269 or SF&hyph;269A shall be required at the completion of the project when the PMS&hyph;270 is used only for advances. (ii) If the HHS awarding agency requires accrual information and the recipient's accounting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis, the recipient shall not be required to convert its accounting system, but shall develop such accrual information through best estimates based on an analysis of the documentation on hand. (iii) The HHS awarding agency will determine the frequency of the Financial Status Report for each project or program, considering the size and complexity of the particular project or program. However, the report will not be required more frequently than quarterly or less frequently than annually except under ยง74.14. A final report shall be required at the completion of the agreement. (iv) Recipients shall submit the SF&hyph;269 and SF&hyph;269A (an original and two copies) no later than 30 days after the end of each specified reporting period for quarterly and semi-annual reports, and 90 calendar days for annual and final reports. Extensions of reporting due dates may be approved by the HHS awarding agency upon request of the recipient. (2) PMS&hyph;272, Report of Federal Cash Transactions. (i) When funds are advanced to recipients, the HHS awarding agency requires each recipient to submit the PMS&hyph;272 and, when necessary, its continuation sheet, PMS&hyph;272A through G. The HHS awarding agency uses this report to monitor cash advanced to recipients and to obtain disbursement information for each agreement with the recipients.
