FR940617-1-00068 FR940617-1-00012 In this current tentative final monograph, the agency recognizes that the professional uses of povidone-iodine that are proposed as safe and effective are limited to a patient preoperative skin preparation, health-care personnel handwash, and surgical hand scrub. Further examination of the reference cited in the previous tentative final monograph (Ref. 3) reveals that the reported adverse effects were due to intravenous or parenteral use of povidone. Based on the more recent data and comments, the agency now believes that neither medium nor larger molecular weight povidone-iodine molecules present risks when limited to the topical uses included in this tentative final monograph. Larger molecules of povidone-iodine would not be absorbed if the drug is used for these professional uses in accordance with the monograph. Thus, there is no need for the professional labeling to limit the molecular weight of povidone-iodine products or to require special warnings related to the molecular weight of povidone-iodine. Accordingly, such labeling is not being included in this tentative final monograph. References (1) Sindelar, W.F., and Mason, G.R., ``Irrigation of Subcutaneous Tissue With Povidone-Iodine Solution for Prevention of Surgical Wound Infections,'' Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics, 148:227&hyph;231, 1979. (2) Unpublished review of published and unpublished studies regarding lymph node changes and effect on the reticuloendothelial system resulting from use of PVP-iodine on intact skin, mucous membranes, and open wounds, Comment No. C111 (vol. III A), Docket No. 75N&hyph;0183, Dockets Management Branch. (3) Unpublished review of published studies regarding intravenous or parenteral use of polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), Comment No. C40, Docket No. 75N&hyph;0183, Dockets Management Branch. 19. Several comments contended that there are numerous professional uses for povidone-iodine, particularly uses that involve medical devices, that were not discussed by the Panel or by the agency in the tentative final monograph. These professional uses include catheter care, ostomy hygiene, patient skin scrubbing prior to preoperative prepping, surgical site cleansing after stitching, mouth and throat swabbing, treatment of the skin before covering a fracture with a cast, antiseptic treatment of various scalp problems, and intravenous site preparation. One comment added that a pharmacist or other health professional may recommend the use of povidone-iodine as a douche, perianal wash, or whirlpool concentrate. The comments requested that special labeling be added to the monograph to cover all of these uses, but did not submit data regarding these uses. One comment also provided professional labeling for povidone-iodine used for urinary or intravenous catheter care procedures. The suggested labeling included the following terms: ``antiseptic,'' ``germicide,'' ``microbicidal,'' and ``for hospital and professional use.'' Several of the professional uses mentioned by the comments are not covered by this rulemaking, but they will be addressed under other OTC drug rulemakings. For example, the use of povidone-iodine for mouth and throat swabbing is included in the advance notice of proposed rulemaking for OTC oral health care drug products, published in the Federal Register of May 25, 1982 (47 FR 22760). The use of povidone-iodine for the treatment of scalp problems is addressed in the final rule for OTC dandruff, seborrheic dermatitis, and psoriasis drug products, published in the Federal Register of December 4, 1991 (56 FR 63554). The use of povidone-iodine as a douche is addressed in the advance notice of proposed rulemaking for OTC vaginal drug products, published in the Federal Register of October 13, 1983 (48 FR 46694). The Advisory Review Panel on OTC Hemorrhoidal Drug Products stated that the inclusion of antiseptics in OTC anorectal drug products ``is useful in concept,'' but ``that proof of any significant clinical benefit of claimed antiseptic ingredients must be demonstrated in clinical trials'' (45 FR 35576 at 35659). That Panel believed that, because of the large numbers of micro-organisms present in feces, there is little likelihood that effective antisepsis could be obtained in the anorectal area with antiseptics any more than with soap and water. Because no data were submitted on povidone-iodine as a perianal wash, the agency did not address this ingredient in the discussion of antiseptics in the tentative final monograph for OTC anorectal drug products when the agency evaluated the Panel's conclusions. Similarly, the ingredient was not included in the final rule for OTC anorectal drug products, published in the Federal Register of August 3, 1990 (55 FR 31766). Parties interested in this use of povidone-iodine can submit data and information as part of a citizen petition to amend the final rule for OTC anorectal drug products. (See 21 CFR 10.30.)
