FR940223-2-00215 FR940223-2-00102 Competitive priority: Under 20 U.S.C. 4084(c) and 34 CFR 75.105(c)(2)(ii), the Secretary gives preference to applications that meet the following competitive priority. For those applications that include a mathematics or science component, the Secretary gives preference to applications that meet paragraphs (a)&hyph;(i) of the competitive priority. For those applications that include a foreign language component, the Secretary gives preference to applications that meet paragraphs (a)&hyph;(h) of the competitive priority. For those applications that do not include a mathematics, science or foreign language component, the Secretary gives preference to applications ␣that ␣meet ␣paragraphs (b)&hyph;(g) of the competitive priority. An application that meets the applicable paragraph of the following competitive priority is selected by the Secretary over applications of comparable merit that do not meet this priority: (a) The applicant will provide a concentration and quality of mathematics, science, and foreign languages resources which, by their distribution through the eligible telecommunications partnership, will offer significant new educational opportunities to network participants and particularly to traditionally underserved populations and areas with scarce resources and limited access to courses in mathematics, science, and foreign languages. Note: Although an application that focuses on a subject area other than mathematics, science or foreign languages is not required to meet paragraph (a) of the competitive priority, the Secretary encourages the applicant to address the needs of traditionally underserved populations and areas with scarce resources and limited access to courses in the subject area addressed in the application. (b) The applicant has secured the direct cooperation and involvement of public and private educational institutions, State and local government, and industry in planning the network. (c) The applicant will serve the broadest range of institutions, including, in the case of elementary and secondary schools, those elementary and secondary schools having significant numbers of children counted for the purpose of Chapter 1 of Title 1 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, programs providing instruction outside of the school setting, institutions of higher education, teacher training centers, research institutions, and private industry. (d) The applicant will demonstrate that a significant number of educational institutions have agreed to participate in the use of the telecommunications system for which assistance is sought. (e) The applicant will have substantial academic and teaching capabilities including the capability of training, retraining, and inservice upgrading of teaching skills. (f) The applicant will provide a comprehensive range of courses for educators with different skill levels to teach them instructional strategies for students with different levels of skills, provide training to participating educators in ways to integrate telecommunications courses into existing school curricula, and include instruction for students, teachers, and parents.
