FR940916-1-00007 FR940916-1-00002 Regulatory Analysis The regulatory analysis for this proposed rulemaking is as follows: 1. Alternatives No Action The annual medical examination requirement has been in place for a number of years, and is considered by the NRC staff to provide adequate health and safety to workers. However, the annual requirement consumes considerable resources with little demonstrated improvement in worker health or safety when compared to longer examination intervals. The ANSI committee and an extensive public review of the proposed standard Z88.6 (1984) found no reasons for not reducing the frequency of medical examination. Thus, it would appear that the frequency of medical examination can be significantly reduced at considerable savings and with no adverse impact on worker health and safety. The ``no-action'' alternative is not preferable in view of the cost of compliance relative to the minimal risk reduction observed. Regulatory Guidance The alternative of modifying the guidance in Regulatory Guide 8.15 is not considered a viable alternative for providing regulatory relief because the existing rule is very specific, and requirements in the regulations cannot be revised by modifying a regulatory guide. Changes to Regulation Because the problem is a specific requirement in a rule, the most effective solution providing regulatory relief is to modify the rule. Other alternatives such as issuance of an order, modifying license conditions or discretionary enforcement were considered. These alternatives are usually interim and are used when immediate action is deemed necessary. Because a permanent correction is desired and since there is no reason for immediate action, these other alternatives were not selected. 2. Impact of Proposed Action Licensees Licensees that have respiratory protection programs will continue to be required to provide medical examinations to workers. The only proposed change is to permit reducing the frequency at which the examinations are required based on determination by a physician. This action would constitute a reduction in burden and costs. Although minor changes in procedures or license conditions may be needed, the related costs are a one time cost that would be offset by the savings in medical reexamination costs. Workers Workers would be subject to medical examinations for respirator use less frequently. As found by the ANSI review, experience with the annual respiratory medical examination requirement has shown that less frequent examinations for younger workers, with special examinations if conditions change, would be adequate to identify any medical reasons for not using respirators. The proposed action would not impact medical examination requirements adopted by licensees for other reasons. Licensees would continue to be required to conduct medical examinations. Thus, the health and safety of workers would not be impacted. NRC Resources It is estimated that 0.2 staff years of effort by NRC staff would be expended during the next year to complete this rulemaking. The NRC requests public comment on this regulatory analysis. Comments on the analysis may be submitted to the NRC as indicated under the ADDRESSES heading. Regulatory Flexibility Certification Based upon the information available at this stage of the rulemaking proceeding and in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the NRC certifies that, if promulgated, this rule will not have a significant economic impact upon a substantial number of small entities. The proposed amendments would apply to all NRC and Agreement State licensees. Because these amendments would reduce burden, they are considered to have no adverse economic impact on any large or small entities. However, the NRC is seeking comments and suggested modifications because of the widely differing conditions under which small licensees operate. Any small entity subject to this proposed regulation which determines that, because of its size, it is likely to bear a disproportionate adverse economic impact should notify the NRC of this in a comment that specifically discusses the following items_ (a) The licensee's size in terms of annual income or revenue, number of employees; (b) How the proposed regulation would result in a significant economic burden upon the licensee as compared to that on a larger licensee; (c) How the proposed regulation could be modified to take into account the licensee's differing needs or capabilities; (d) The benefits that would be gained or the detriments that would be avoided by the licensee if the proposed regulation was modified as suggested by the commenter; and (e) How the regulation, as modified, would still adequately protect the public health and safety. Backfit Analysis Because 10 CFR Part 20 applies to all NRC licensees, any proposed changes to this part must be evaluated to determine if these changes constitute backfitting for reactor licensees such that the provisions of 10 CFR 50.109 apply. The following discussion addresses that evaluation. The 10 CFR 50.109 definition of ``Backfit'' includes any modification of the procedures required to operate a facility resulting from an amended provision in the Commission's rules. Because this proposed rule would permit but not require nuclear power reactor licensees to modify their procedures regarding the frequency of respiratory medical examinations, the NRC staff believes that the proposed change does not constitute a backfit. In addition, the effect of these proposed changes is to increase flexibility and reduce the frequency at which medical examinations for respiratory use are required. It is estimated that this rule change would save the nuclear power industry and other NRC and state licensees several million dollars per year with no adverse impact on worker health and safety. Some minor changes in procedures or license conditions could be necessary if a more flexible frequency of examination is adopted. However, the costs would be offset by the savings in reduced frequency of examination. Thus, the NRC believes that the modifications proposed are not backfits. List of Subjects in 10 CFR Part 20 Byproduct material, Criminal penalties, Licensed material, Nuclear materials, Nuclear power plants and reactors, Occupational safety and health, Packaging and containers, Radiation protection, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Source material, Special nuclear material, Waste treatment and disposal. For the reasons set out in the preamble and under the authority of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and 5 U.S.C. 553; the NRC is proposing to adopt the following amendments to 10 CFR Part 20. PART 20_STANDARDS FOR PROTECTION AGAINST RADIATION 1. The authority citation for Part 20 continues to read as follows:
