FR940602-1-00067 FR940602-1-00013 Reverse of Form No. 2 Instructions 1. Every lifting appliance shall be tested with a test load which shall exceed the Safe Working Load (SWL) as follows: ␣ 1SWL 1Test load Up to 20 tons 25 percent in excess. 20 to 50 tons 5 tons in excess. Over 50 tons 10 percent in excess. 2. In the case of derrick systems, the test load shall be lifted with the ship's normal tackle with the derrick at the minimum angle to the horizontal for which the derrick system was designed (generally 15 degrees), or at such greater angle as may be agreed. The angle at which the test was made should be stated in the certificate 2.1. The SWL shown is applicable to swinging derrick systems only. When derricks are used in union purchase, the SWL (U) is to be shown on Form 2 (U). 2.2. In the case of heavy derricks, care should be taken to ensure that the appropriate stays are correctly rigged. 3. In the case of cranes, the test load is to be hoisted, slewed and luffed at slow speed. Gantry and traveling cranes together with their trolleys, where appropriate, are to be traversed and travelled over the full length of their track. 3.1. In the case of variable load-radius cranes, the tests are generally to be carried out with the appropriate test load at maximum, minimum and intermediate radii. 3.2. In the case of hydraulic cranes where limitations of pressure make it impossible to lift a test load 25 percent in excess of the safe working load, it will be sufficient to lift the greatest possible load, but in general this should not be less than 10 percent in excess of the safe working load. 4. As a general rule, tests should carried out using test loads, and no exception should be allowed in the case of initial tests. In the case of repairs/replacement or when the periodic examination calls for re-test, consideration may be given to the use of spring or hydraulic balances provided the SWL of the lifting appliance does not exceed 15 tones. Where a spring or hydraulic balance is used, it shall be calibrated and accurate to within # 2 percent and the indicator should remain constant for 5 minutes. 4.1. If the test weights are not used, this is to be indicated in Col. (3). 5. The expression ``tone'' shall mean a tone of 1000 kg. (2000 lbs) 6. The terms ``competent person'', ``thorough examination'', and ``lifting appliance'' are defined in Form No. 1. Note: For recommendations on test procedures reference may be made to the ILO document ``Safety and Health in Dock Work''.
