FR940921-0-00137 FR940921-0-00016 99. Section 86.1310&hyph;90 of subpart N is amended by revising the section heading and paragraphs (a) introductory text and (a)(2) to read as follows: §86.1310&hyph;90 Exhaust gas sampling and analytical system; and methanol-fueled diesel engines. (a) General. The exhaust gas sampling system described in this paragraph is designed to measure the true mass of both gaseous and particulate emissions in the exhaust of petroleum-fueled, natural gas-fueled, liquefied petroleum gas-fueled and methanol-fueled heavy-duty diesel engines. This system utilizes the CVS concept (described in §86.1309) of measuring mass emissions of HC, CH 3 OH and HCHO (methanol-fueled engines), CO, CO 2 , and particulate from all fuel types. A continuously integrated system is required for HC (petroleum-fueled, natural gas-fueled and liquefied petroleum gas-fueled engines) and NO X (petroleum-fueled, natural gas-fueled, liquefied petroleum gas-fueled and methanol-fueled engines) measurement, and is allowed for all CO and CO 2 measurements plus CH 3 OH, HCHO and HC from methanol-fueled engines. The mass of gaseous emissions is determined from the sample concentration and total flow over the test period. The mass of particulate emissions is determined from a proportional mass sample collected on a filter and from the sample flow and total flow over the test period. As an option, the measurement of total fuel mass consumed over a cycle may be substituted for the exhaust measurement of CO 2 . General requirements are as follows: * * * * * * (2) The HC analytical system for petroleum-fueled diesel engines requires a heated flame ionization detector (HFID) and heated sample system (375 # 20 ○F (191 # 11 ○C)). For natural gas-fueled and liquefied petroleum gas-fueled diesel engines either a heated flame ionization detector and heated sample system as required for petroleum fuel or a non-heated flame ionization detector may be used. * * * * * * 100. A new section 86.1311&hyph;94 is added to subpart N to read as follows: §86.1311&hyph;94 Exhaust gas analytical system; CVS bag sample. (a) Schematic drawings. Figure N94&hyph;1 is a schematic drawing of the exhaust gas analytical system used for analyzing CVS bag samples from either Otto-cycle or diesel engines. Since various configurations can produce accurate results, exact conformance with the drawing is not required. Additional components such as instruments, valves, solenoids, pumps and switches may be used to provide additional information and coordinate the functions of the component systems. Other components such as snubbers, which are not needed to maintain accuracy in some systems, may be excluded if their exclusion is based upon good engineering judgment. (b) Major component description. The analytical system, Figure N94&hyph;1, consists of a flame ionization detector (FID) (heated for methanol-fueled (235 # 15 ○F (113 # 8 ○C)) and for petroleum-fueled diesel (375 # 10 ○F (191 # 6 ○C) engines) for the measurement of hydrocarbons, a methane analyzer (consisting of a gas chromatograph combined with a FID) for the determination of CH 4 (for engines subject to NMHC standards, where applicable), nondispersive infrared analyzers (NDIR) for the measurement of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, and a chemiluminescence analyzer (CL) for the measurement of oxides of nitrogen. The analytical system for methanol consists of a gas chromatograph (GC), equipped with a flame ionization detector. The analysis for formaldehyde is performed using high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) derivatives using ultraviolet (UV) detection. The exhaust gas analytical system shall conform to the following requirements: (1) The CL requires that the nitrogen dioxide present in the sample be converted to nitric oxide before analysis. Other types of analyzers may be used if shown to yield equivalent results and if approved in advance by the Administrator. (2) The carbon monoxide (NDIR) analyzer may require a sample conditioning column containing CaSO 4 , or desiccating silica gel to remove water vapor, and containing ascarite to remove carbon dioxide from the CO analysis stream. (i) If CO instruments are used which are essentially free of CO 2 and water vapor interference, the use of the conditioning column may be deleted (see §§86.1322 and 86.1342). (ii) A CO instrument will be considered to be essentially free of CO 2 and water vapor interference if its response to a mixture of three percent CO 2 in N 2 , which has been bubbled through water at room temperature, produces an equivalent CO response, as measured on the most sensitive CO range, which is less than one percent of full scale CO concentration on ranges above 300 ppm full scale or less than 3 ppm on ranges below 300 ppm full scale (see §86.1322). BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSER21SE94.000 BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;C
