FR940722-2-00002 FR940722-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Office of the Secretary Privacy Act; System of Records AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, USDA. ACTION: Notice of a New Privacy Act System of Records; Request for Comments. SUMMARY: The Forest Service (FS) is proposing to establish a new system of records in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a). This system of records, entitled Electronic Corpsmember Information System (ELCID), USDA/FS&hyph;51, is necessary to monitor individual Job Corps Enrollees' educational progress as well as to provide cumulative results of training programs at each individual Forest Service Job Corps Center. The data could be used to counsel enrollees as well as to adjust a Center's training program to more effectively meet enrollee needs. EFFECTIVE DATE: This notice will be adopted without further notice, on September 20, 1994, unless modified by a subsequent notice to incorporate comments received from the public. Although the Privacy Act only requires ``routine uses'' of the system to be published for comment, USDA invites comment on all portions of this notice. Comments must be received on or before August 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to the Director, Human Resource Programs, FS, USDA, PO Box 96090, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6090. The public may inspect comments received on this notice in the office of the Director of Human Resource Programs, 10th floor, Room 1010, 1621 North Kent Street, Rosslyn Plaza East, Arlington, Virginia 22209, between the hours of 8 am and 4 pm. Individuals wishing to inspect comments are encouraged to call (703) 235&hyph;8844 to make arrangements. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Melvyn J. Loftus, FS Education Specialist, Human Resource Staff, (703) 235&hyph;8844 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, USDA is proposing to create a new system of records to be maintained by FS. The purpose of the system of records, entitled ELCID, would be to track administrative information on Job Corps students so that training for the students may be presented in a most efficient and effective manner. The information compiled on Job Corps students would include: Name, social security number, address, phone number, date of birth, date of entry, race, legal guardian, recruiter, test scores from the Test of Adult Basic Education, educational progress, vocational progress, Job Corps Center progress, behavioral reports, leave record, dormitory assignment, and pay status. The Forest Service Job Corps Center frequently require such data to be updated and reviewed to train Job Corps students more effectively. Some of this information (name, address, social security number, date of birth, date of entry, test scores, educational progress, vocational progress, overall program progress, and pay status) also would be shared with the Department of Labor's Student Pay Allowance and Management Information System (SPAMIS) date base, which is located in San Marcos, Texas, at Gary Job Corps Center. SPAMIS is the system that provides the students with their monthly living allowance. The information that ELCID will compile is currently recorded in the administrative record of each enrollee. Currently, these records must be reviewed manually for the purpose of discerning trends in educational progress of enrollees or in the effectiveness of a particular training course. Data would originate and be maintained at each individual Center. Dated: July 12, 1994. Mike Espy, Secretary.
