FR940603-1-00148 FR940603-1-00009 ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials A B Section C_Three Phase Pole Top Assembly Units A pole top assembly unit consists of the hardware, crossarms, and their appurtenances, insulators, etc., except tie wire, required to support the primary conductors. It does not include the pole. Crossarm pins include 2x2x1/8 inch washer, nut, and locknut. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials C Section D_Conductor Assembly Units A conductor assembly unit consists of 1,000 feet of conductor or cable for primaries, secondaries or services, and includes tie wires, sleeves for splicing, connectors, and armor rods with clips or armor wire where necessary. Tree trimming necessary for installing services and secondaries on poles not carrying primary line is included with the conductor assembly unit and shall be performed in accordance with the directions of the Owner. The service shall be connected to the secondary or transformer and 2 feet of conductor or cable shall be left for connecting to the consumer's service entrance. In computing the compensation to the Contractor for conductor assembly units only the horizontal distance between conductor supports or pole stakes shall be used. The conductor or cable sizes and types listed are the manufacturer's designation. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials D Section E_Guy Assembly Units A guy assembly unit consists of the hardware and wire, and guy insulator where necessary. An overhead guy assembly consists of an overhead guy, a pole, and a down guy, each of which is listed separately. Guy guards are designated separately. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials E Section F_Anchor Assembly Units An anchor assembly unit consists of the anchor with rod complete, ready for attaching the guy wire. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials F Section G_Transformer Assembly Units A transformer assembly unit consists of the transformer, its protective equipment, and its hardware and leads with their connectors and supporting insulators and pins. This unit does not include the pole top, secondary, service, or grounding assemblies. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials G Section J_Secondary Assembly Units A secondary assembly unit consists of the hardware, insulators, etc., to support the secondary conductors or cable. It does not include the secondary conductor or cable, or any hardware, insulators, etc., required to support service conductors or cable. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials J Section K_Service Assembly Units A service assembly unit consists of the hardware, insulators, etc., required to support the service conductors or cable. It does not include the service conductor or cable, or any hardware, insulators, etc., required to support secondary conductors or cable. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials K Section M_Miscellaneous Assembly Units
