FR941220-0-00107 FR941220-0-00014 (4) For hourly-wage employees, the required wages will be due for all hours worked and/or for any nonproductive time (as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section) at the end of the employer's ordinary pay period ( e.g., weekly) but in no event less frequently than monthly. (5)(i) For the purpose of DOL administration and enforcement of the H&hyph;1B program, an H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant is considered to be under the control or employ of the LCA-filing employer, and therefore shall receive the full wage which the LCA-filing employer is required to pay, beginning no later than the first day the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant is in the United States and continuing throughout the nonimmigrant's period of employment. Therefore if the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant is in a nonproductive status for reasons such as training, lack of license, lack of assigned work or any other reason, the employer will be required to pay the salaried employee the full pro-rata amount due, or to pay the hourly-wage employee for a full-time week (40 hours or such other number of hours as the employer can demonstrate to be full-time employment for the occupation and area involved) at the required wage for the occupation listed on the LCA. If the employer's LCA carries a designation of ``part-time employment,'' the employer will be required to pay the nonproductive employee for at least the number of hours indicated on the I&hyph;129 petition filed by the employer with the INS. If during a subsequent enforcement action by the Administrator it is determined that an employee designated in the LCA as part-time was in fact working full-time or regularly working more hours than reflected on the I&hyph;129 petition, the employer will be held to the factual standard disclosed by the enforcement action. (ii) If, however, during the period of employment, an H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant experiences a period of nonproductive status due to conditions unrelated to employment which render the nonimmigrant unable to work_ e.g., maternity leave, automobile accident which temporarily incapacitates the nonimmigrant, caring for an ill relative_then the employer shall not be obligated to pay the required wage rate during that period provided that the INS permits the employee to remain in the U.S. without being paid and provided further that such period is not subject to payment under other statutes such as the Family and Medical Leave Act (29 U.S.C. 2601 et seq. ) or the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq. ). (6) If the employee works in an occupation other than that identified on the employer's LCA, the employer's required wage obligation is based on the occupation identified on the LCA, and not on whatever wage standards may be applicable in the occupation in which the employee may be working. (7) `` Authorized deduction ,'' for purposes of the H&hyph;1B required wage obligation, means a deduction from wages in complete compliance with one of the following sets of criteria_ (i) Deduction which is required by law ( e.g., income tax; FICA); or
