FR941207-1-00014 FR941207-1-00006 The vegetative communities and structural attributes used by the Mexican spotted owl vary across its range. The vegetative communities consist primarily of warm-temperate and cold-temperate forests, and, to a lesser extent, woodlands and riparian deciduous forests. The mixed-conifer community appears to be most frequently used in portions of its range (Skaggs and Raitt 1988; Ganey and Balda 1989). Mixed-conifer forests contain several species of overstory trees. The most common are white fir ( Abies concolor ), Douglas fir ( Pseudotsuga menziesii ), and ponderosa pine ( Pinus ponderosa ). Less common species are southwestern white pine ( P. strobiformis ), limber pine ( P. flexilis ), aspen ( Populus tremuloides ), and corkbark fir ( Abies lasiocarpa var. arizonica ). The understory within mixed-conifer communities provides important roosting sites for Mexican spotted owls. The understory usually contains the same conifer species found in the overstory, with Gambel oak ( Quercus gambelii ), maples ( Acer grandidentatum and A. glabrum ), and New Mexico locust ( Robinia neomexicana ) also present. Montane riparian canyon bottoms used by owls in the mixed-conifer zone may contain box elder ( Acer negundo ), narrowleaf cottonwood ( Populus angustifolia ), maples ( Acer spp.), and alders ( Alnus spp.). In southeastern Arizona, owl habitat types include mixed-conifer and Madrean Evergreen Forest and Woodland (Ganey and Balda 1989; Duncan and Taiz 1992). Below the mixed-conifer vegetative zone are found two series of Madrean Evergreen Woodland: the upper oak-pine occurs at 1,675 to 2,200 meters (5,500 to 7,200 feet), and the lower evergreen oak (encinal) occurs at 1,525 to 1,980 meters (5,000 to 6,500 feet). Within these vegetative zones, and particularly at lower elevations, Mexican spotted owls are usually found in steep, forested canyons with rocky cliffs. At the northern edge of their range in northeastern Arizona, southwestern Colorado, and southern Utah, Mexican spotted owls occur during the breeding season between 1,340 and 2,160 meters (4,400 to 7,100 feet) in canyon habitats within pinyon-juniper woodland ( Pinus edulis and Juniperus osteosperma ) or mixed-conifer forests. Canyon habitat is characterized by the cool, humid conditions found in the deep, steep-walled, fractured structures of sandstone slickrock. Canyons frequently contain riparian and conifer pockets, and adjacent slopes and mesa tops are vegetated by a variety of plant associations. Although no studies have been completed, preliminary studies show most Mexican spotted owl activity during the breeding season occuring within and adjacent to canyons. Owls roost in the riparian and coniferous pockets of canyon bottoms, on ledges, or in cavities in the slickrock canyon walls (Gutiérrez and Rinkevich 1991; van Riper and Willey 1992). Characteristics associated with forested Mexican spotted owl habitat usually develop with increasing forest age, but their occurrence may vary by location, past forest management practices, forest type, and productivity. Although Mexican spotted owl habitat is variable over its range, some general attributes are common to the subspecies' life-history requirements throughout its range. The attributes of nesting and roosting habitat typically include a moderate to high canopy closure (60 to 80 percent); a multi-layered canopy with large overstory trees of various species; a high incidence of large trees with various deformities (e.g., large cavities, broken tops, mistletoe infections, and other evidence of decadence); large snags; accumulations of fallen trees and other woody debris on the ground; and sufficient open space below the canopy for owls to fly. Forest habitat characteristics are best expressed in older mixed-conifer forests. These characteristics may also develop in younger stands, especially when the stands contain remnant large trees or patches of large trees from earlier stands. Certain forest management practices may also enhance tree growth and mature stand characteristics where the older, larger trees are allowed to persist. Ganey and Balda (1988) found an average of 402 ha (995 acres) of old-growth forest within the 847 ha (2,092 acre) average home range for 3 pairs of radio-monitored owls in northern Arizona. Fletcher (1990) reported an average of 62 ha (154 acres) of old-growth forest and an average of 465 ha (1,149 acres) of suitable habitat within the management territories established by the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) for 359 Mexican spotted owl sites in Arizona and New Mexico. Mexican spotted owl use of old growth may vary greatly among regional habitat types, forest types, and elevational ranges.
