FR940202-1-00054 FR940202-1-00016 On the other hand, the restrictions (e.g., limitations on permit transfers and on vessel upgrading) under the moratorium, in combination with area closures around the Northwestern and main Hawaiian Islands, that were imposed after the moratorium went into effect, have been adversely affecting a number of people who had qualified for longline permits under the moratorium. More than a quarter of the eligible fleet was inactive in 1992. In the Council's view, this has been an unintended negative effect of the management program. Further, restrictions on the longline fishery outside of the FEZ could have mixed effects on the nation. The United States would benefit if the fishery can expand without adverse effects on fish stocks, other fisheries, or protected resources and if similar controls are imposed on foreign fleets. In the absence of similar controls on foreign fleets, restricting the U.S. fleet may disadvantage the United States in any future negotiations leading to international regulation of longline fisheries and allocations of fish from the high seas. In addition, this Amendment is intended to improve the administration of the longline fishery. New framework procedures are proposed to simplify and expedite the implementation of new regulations without a FMP amendment. This is intended to allow quicker response to new information. There is great uncertainty in the longline fishery, as it is unclear to what degree the fishery is affecting fish stocks, other fisheries, or protected resources. Of particular concern is the effect on sea turtles, serveral indigenous species of which are listed as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act. There are limited framework procedures not in place to address problems concerning main Hawaiian Island and northwestern Hawaiian Island longline fishing area closures, but other measures have had to be implemented through plan amendments. Under Amendment 7, the following persons would be eligible for Hawaii longline limited entry permits: (1) The last holder of record for any longline vessel limited entry permit under the moratorium_provided the vessel used to land longline-caught management unit species at least once during the moratorium period; (2) the last holder of record of a limited entry permit under the moratorium for a vessel less than 40 feet in length; or (3) the last holder of record of a limited entry permit obtained during the moratorium because that person also held a limited entry permit for the NWHI crustaceans (lobster) fishery. Hawaii longline limited entry permits would be freely transferable between vessel owners. Vessel owners could also transfer their permits to other vessels owned by them, provided the new vessel is not longer than the longest vessel which had a longline permit, and made landings, during the moratorium period. The vessel's registered length as recorded on Certificates of Documentation of the U.S. Coast Guard would be the measure of length used in making determinations of compliance with this restriction. Hawaii longline limited entry permits would be required for longline vessels used to: (i) Fish for pelagic species in the EEZ around Hawaii; or (ii) land or transship pelagic species shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around Hawaii. The permits already required by existing regulations at 50 CFR 685.9 would be re-named ``longline general permits'' and would be required for longline vessels around American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands or other United States possessions in the Pacific Ocean, that are used to fish for, land, or transship pelagic species. Holders or Hawaii longline limited entry permits would not need a separate general permit to longline, land, or transship anywhere in the fishery management area (the waters off Hawaii and all the western pacific territories and possessions), or adjacent state waters. Receiving vessel permits would be required for vessels shoreward of the outer boundary of the fishery management area that do not have longline gear on board and that land pelagic species or receive pelagic species from other vessels. For purposes of 50 CFR part 685, ``land'' means to begin to offload, to arrive in port with the intention of offloading, or to cause to be offloaded. The amendment contains framework procedures to allow rapid responses to changing conditions, including biological concerns for the stocks, economic problems in the fisheries, and potential harm to protected species such as sea turtles. Proposed regulations to implement this amendment are scheduled to be published within 15 days of this notice. Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq . Dated: January 28, 1994. David S. Crestin, Acting Director, Office of Fisheries Conservation and Management, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2346 Filed 1&hyph;28&hyph;94; 3:26 pm] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;M
