FR941130-1-00049 FR941130-1-00011 Accordingly, subchapter B, chapter I, title 30 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows: 1. A new part 6 is added to read as follows: PART 6_TESTING AND EVALUATION BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED TESTING LABORATORIES AND USE OF EQUIVALENT APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS Sec. 6.1␣Purpose and effective date. 6.2␣Definitions. 6.10␣Use of independent laboratories. 6.20␣Use of equivalent test and evaluation requirements. Authority: 30 U.S.C. 957. §6.1 Purpose and effective date. This part sets forth the procedures and requirements for independent laboratories to perform testing and evaluation for MSHA product approval. It also authorizes MSHA, when requested by an applicant for product approval, to approve a product based on testing and evaluation requirements other than those in MSHA product approval regulations, if they are equivalent to MSHA's requirements or can be enhanced to provide at least the same degree of protection as MSHA's requirements. The provisions of this part shall apply to all applications for approval and extensions of approval received after [effective date of the final rule]. §6.2 Definitions. The following definitions apply in this part. Approval. A document issued by MSHA which states that a product has met the requirements of parts 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 29, 33, or 35 of this chapter and which authorizes an approval mark identifying the product as approved. The term includes ``certification'' and ``acceptance.'' Evaluation. The systematic examination of the extent to which a product fulfills the specified requirements for MSHA product approval. §6.10 Use of independent laboratories. (a) After [effective date of the final rule], to fulfill the approval requirements of parts 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 29, 33, and 35 of this chapter, the testing and evaluation of products submitted for MSHA approval shall be performed by an independent laboratory. The independent laboratory must be a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL) under the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.7 recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to perform the specific tests and evaluations required by the pertinent approval part or such equivalent requirements accepted by MSHA under the provisions of §6.20. The applicant for product approval shall submit the NRTL testing and evaluation results and statement of product compliance with its application. (b) Product testing and evaluation performed by NRTLs shall be conducted on-site (in-house) by NRTL personnel in accordance with the specific MSHA testing and evaluation requirements for the product or such equivalent requirements accepted by MSHA under the provisions of §6.20. The provisions of II. Supplementary Procedures, A. Test Standard Changes of Appendix A to 29 CFR 1910.7 do not apply to NRTL testing and evaluation for MSHA product approval. (c) MSHA reserves the right to observe and verify testing and evaluation conducted by NRTLs for products approved by MSHA. (d) Products approved by MSHA based on NRTL testing and evaluation shall bear a durable NRTL identification mark indicating the test standards used and the MSHA marking required by the appropriate product approval part. (e) As a part of the quality control program required by 29 CFR 1910.7(b), NRTLs shall make available to MSHA any internal audits conducted as a part of their internal audit program to ensure that the required procedures, controls, and practices are in place. (f) As a part of the follow-up program required by 29 CFR 1910.7(b)(2), NRTLs shall make available to MSHA any reports of follow-up inspections of manufacturing sites and any reports of product or laboratory audits of products carrying the MSHA and NRTL labels. NRTLS shall notify MSHA immediately of any product defects discovered. (g) Upon request by MSHA, but not more than once a year, except for cause, the approval holder shall make products whose approval is based on testing and evaluation by NRTLs available for audit at a mutually agreeable site at no cost to MSHA.
