FR941017-2-00011 FR941017-2-00005 National Defense Stockpile Market Impact Committee Request for Public Comments AGENCY: Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security, Bureau of Export Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice of request for public comment on the market impact of: (1) proposed disposals of excess commodities currently held in the National Defense Stockpile under the Fiscal Year 1996 Annual Materials Plan, and (2) revisions to commodities proposed for disposal under the fiscal Year 1995 Annual Materials Plan. SUMMARY: This notice is to advise the public that the National Defense Stockpile Market Impact Committee (co-chaired by the Departments of Commerce and State) is seeking public comment on the market impact of proposed disposals of excess materials currently held in the National Defense Stockpile. DATE: Comments must be received not later than November 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments (10 copies) should be addressed to Richard V. Meyers, Co-Chair, Stockpile Market Impact Committee, Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security, Room 3878, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20230. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard V. Meyers, Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, (202) 482&hyph;3634 or Stephen G. Brundage, Office of International Commodities, U.S. Department of State, (202) 647&hyph;2871 (co-chairs of the National Defense Stockpile Market Impact Committee). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act of 1979, as amended, (50 U.S.C. 98 et seq. ) authorizes the maintenance of strategic and critical materials in the National Defense Stockpile ``to decrease and to preclude, when possible, a dangerous and costly dependence by the United States upon foreign sources of supplies of such materials in times of national emergency.'' The Department of Defense, as National Defense Stockpile Manager, may dispose of materials in the stockpile that have previously been authorized for disposal by law and have been determined to be excess to national security requirements. In managing the stockpile, Defense must protect the United States against avoidable loss while at the same time ``efforts shall be made *␣*␣* to avoid undue disruption of the usual markets of producers, processors, and consumers of such materials.''
