FR940208-2-00151 FR940208-2-00092 (a) permit access to proprietary information or privileged information in the file of a panel review; and (b) on payment of an appropriate fee, provide a copy of the information referred to in subrule (a). (3) No document filed in a panel review shall be removed from the offices of the Secretariat except in the ordinary course of the business of the Secretariat or pursuant to the direction of a panel. Internal Functioning of Panels 17. (1) A panel may adopt its own internal procedures, not inconsistent with these rules, for routine administrative matters. (2) A panel may delegate to its chairperson (a) the authority to accept or reject filings in accordance with subrule 10(4); and (b) the authority to grant motions consented to by all participants, other than a motion filed pursuant to rule 20 or 55, a motion for remand of a final determination or a motion that is inconsistent with an order or decision previously made by the panel. (3) A decision of the chairperson referred to in subrule (2) shall be issued as an order of the panel. (4) Subject to subrule 26(b), meetings of a panel may be conducted by means of a telephone conference call. 18. Only panelists may take part in the deliberations of a panel, which shall take place in private and remain secret. Staff of the Secretariat and assistants to panelists may be present by permission of the panel. Computation of Time 19. (1) In computing any time period fixed in these rules or by an order or decision of a panel, the day from which the time period begins to run shall be excluded and, subject to subrule (2), the last day of the time period shall be included. (2) Where the last day of a time period computed in accordance with subrule (1) falls on a legal holiday of the responsible Secretariat, that day and any other legal holidays of the responsible Secretariat immediately following that day shall be excluded from the computation. 20. (1) A panel may extend any time period fixed in these rules if (a) adherence to the time period would result in unfairness or prejudice to a participant or the breach of a general legal principle of the country in which the final determination was made; (b) the time period is extended only to the extent necessary to avoid the unfairness, prejudice or breach; (c) the decision to extend the time period is concurred in by four of the five panelists; and (d) in fixing the extension, the panel takes into account the intent of the rules to secure just, speedy and inexpensive reviews of final determinations. (2) A participant may request an extension of time by filing a Notice of Motion not later than the tenth day prior to the last day of the time period. Any response to the Notice of Motion shall be filed not later than seven days after the Notice of Motion is filed. (3) A participant who fails to request an extension of time pursuant to subrule (2) may file a notice of motion for leave to file out of time, which shall include reasons why additional time is required and why the participant has failed to comply with the provisions of subrule (2). (4) The panel will normally rule on such a motion before the last day of the time period which is the subject of the motion. Counsel of Record 21. (1) A counsel who signs a document filed pursuant to these rules on behalf of a participant shall be the counsel of record for the participant from the date of filing until a change is effected in accordance with subrule (2). (2) A participant may change its counsel of record by filing with the responsible Secretariat a Notice of Change of Counsel of Record signed by the new counsel, together with proof of service on the former counsel and other participants.
