FR940805-2-00107 FR940805-2-00056 5. A press release regarding the emergency suspension will be prepared and issued by the Office of Public Affairs (Appendix C). 6. State Programs will coordinate with the Office of Congressional Affairs in order to notify the appropriate State representatives and congressional committees (Appendix D). 7. Notification to the affected licensee or groups of licensees in the State will be made by the Regions after obtaining information regarding the affected licensee or groups of licensees from the Agreement State Radiation Control Program (Appendix E). V. Minimum Criteria 1. The NRC will consider suspension of an agreement pursuant to Section 274j(2) in the case of an emergency involving byproduct, source or special nuclear material when the situation presents an immediate, significant, or unacceptable threat to the public health and safety and immediate action by the Commission is needed because the Agreement State program is not able to effectively carry out mitigative actions to ensure continued protection of the public health and safety. 2. In evaluating such emergency situations, the NRC staff will consider whether the Agreement State has failed to take, or is prevented from taking, necessary steps to protect the public health and safety. Factors the staff would consider include: A. The timeliness and adequacy of actions being taken by the State in response to the emergency; B. Whether the State can satisfactorily resolve the emergency situation; and C. Whether the State is implementing or is committed to implement program improvements to address systemic deficiencies. 3. The following type of conditions, if not appropriately addressed by the State to prevent the threat or prevent the threat from recurring, are example candidates that could result in a consideration of emergency suspension: A. Conditions that caused or threaten to cause individuals to receive a dose exceeding those basic dose limits set forth in Subpart C of 10 CFR Part 20, B. Conditions that caused or threaten to cause individual members of the public to receive a dose exceeding those basic dose limits set forth in Subpart D of 10 CFR Part 20, or C. Conditions that caused or threaten to cause individuals to receive a dose exceeding those dose limits applicable to a certain class of licenses set forth in other parts of 10 CFR, such as Part 35 limits for patient release. D. Conditions specified by the Commission where an emergency has been or appears to need immediate action by the Commission to protect public health and safety. VI. Withdrawal of Emergency Suspension When the emergency situation is contained or eliminated, the EDO will consider all factors and recommend to the Commission whether to lift the suspension. The Executive Director for Operations will notify the Governor of the State the emergency suspension is no longer in effect (Appendix F). Such a decision will be made only after NRC has determined that the conditions which initiated the emergency suspension no longer exist and are unlikely to be repeated. The NRC will inform the State of continuing actions which the State must carry out in order to prevent another emergency. VII. Impact of the Emergency Suspension The State's inability to address the emergency situation will be considered by the Management Review Board in the evaluation of the Agreement State's continued ability to protect public health and safety. Depending on the nature of the emergency, it may be necessary to place the State on probation, with NRC heightening its oversight of the program.
