FR940912-0-00023 FR940912-0-00005 §614.4265 Real property evaluations. (a) Real estate shall be valued on the basis of market value. (b) Market value shall be determined by a reasonable valuation method that: (1) Considers the income capitalization approach, the sales comparison approach, and/or the cost approach, as appropriate, to determine market value; (2) Explains and documents the elimination of any approach not used. (3) Reconciles the market values of the applicable approaches; and (c) Where real estate appraisals or real estate collateral valuations for business loans in excess of $250,000 that would not otherwise be exempted under §614.4260(c) are required, such evaluations shall be completed in accordance with the USPAP and shall include a legal description of the subject property. (d) At a minimum, the institution shall develop and document the evaluation of the income and debt servicing capacity for the property and operation where the transaction value exceeds $250,000 and the real estate taken as collateral: (1) Is an integral part of and supports the principal source of loan repayment; or (2) Is not an integral part of and does not support the principal source of loan repayment, but has demonstrable rental market appeal, is statutorily required, and fully or partially constitutes an integral part of an agricultural or aquatic operation. (e) The income-earning and debt-servicing capacity established under paragraph (d) of this section on such properties shall be documented as part of the credit analysis for any related loan action, whether or not the income capitalization approach value is used as the basis for the market value conclusion stated in the evaluation report. (f) Collateral closely aligned with, an integral part of, and normally sold with real estate (fixtures) may be included in the value of the real estate. All other collateral associated with the real estate, but designated as personal property, shall be evaluated as personal property in accordance with §§614.4250 and 614.4266. (g) The evaluation shall properly identify all nonagricultural influences, including, but not limited to, urban development, mineral deposits, and commercial building development value, and the reasoning supporting the evaluator's highest and best-use conclusion. (h) Where an evaluation of real property is completed by a fee appraiser, as defined in §614.4240(g), the institution's standards shall include provisions for periodic collateral inspections performed by the institution's account officer or appropriate designee. §614.4266 Personal and intangible property evaluations. (a) Personal property and intangibles shall be valued on the basis of market value in accordance with the institution's evaluation standards and policies. (b) Personal property evaluations shall include a source of comparisons of value (i.e., equipment dealer listings, Blue Book, market sales reports, etc.) and a description of the property being evaluated, including location of the property and, where applicable, quantity, species/variety, measure/weight, value per unit and in total, type of identification (such as brand, bill of lading, or warehouse receipt), quality, condition, and date. (c) Evaluations of intangibles shall include a review and description of the documents supporting the property interests and the marketability of the intangible property, including applicable terms, conditions, and restrictions contained in the document that would affect the value of the property. (d) Where an evaluation of personal or intangible property is completed by a fee appraiser, as defined in §614.4240(g), the institution's standards shall include provisions for periodic collateral inspections and verification by the institution's account officer or appropriate designee. When a Farm Credit System institution deems an appraisal necessary, personal or intangible property shall be appraised in accordance with procedures and standards established by the institution by individuals deemed qualified by the institution to complete the work under the USPAP Competency and Ethics Provisions. §614.4267 Professional association membership; competency. (a) Membership in appraisal organizations. A State certified appraiser or a State licensed appraiser may not be excluded from consideration for an assignment for a real estate-related transaction solely by virtue of membership or lack of membership in any particular appraisal organization. (b) Competency. All staff and fee evaluators, including appraisers, performing evaluations in connection with real, personal, or intangible property taken as collateral in connection with extensions of credit must meet the qualification requirements of this subpart. However, an evaluator (as defined in §614.4240(n)) may not be considered competent solely by virtue of being certified, licensed, or accredited. Any determination of competency shall be based on the individual's experience and educational background as they relate to the particular evaluation assignment for which such individual is being considered. Subpart L_Actions on Applications; Review of Credit Decisions 3. Section 614.4443 is amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows:
