FR940404-2-00175 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the WP on Telecommunication and Information Services Policies (TISP), 11th Session, Committee for Information, Computer and Communications Policy (ICCP), Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris, June 7&hyph;8, 1993 Representative Gary D. De Vight, Director for Bilateral Relations, Bureau of International Telecommunications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Wray Candilis, International Trade Specialist, Office of Service Industries, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce Carol Balassa, International Telecommunication Policy Officer, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Diane Cornell, Common Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Anne D. Jillson, Economist, Office of Trade, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Steve W. Lett, Director for Satellite and Cable Policy, Bureau of International Telecommunications and Information Policy, Department of State Susan Settle, Office of International Affairs, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Beverly Andrews, COMSAT, Washington, DC Rhonda J. Crane, AT&T, Washington, DC Randolph J. May, Sutherland, Asbill and Brennan, Washington, DC Leland W. Schmidt, GTE Telephone Operations, Irving, Texas Richard W. Stone, Cable and Wireless, Vienna, Virginia United States Delegation to the Tenth Annual Meeting of the North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization (NASCO), Edinburgh, Scotland, June 7&hyph;11, 1993 Representative Allen E. Peterson, Jr., Head of the United States Delegation to NASCO, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Commissioners David F. Egan, United States Commissioner to NASCO, Guilford, Connecticut Clinton B. Townsend, United States Commissioner to NASCO, Skowhegan, Maine Advisers Vaughn C. Anthony, Chief, Conservation and Utilization Division, Northeast Fisheries Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Edward T. Baum, Fishery Scientist, State of Maine, Atlantic Sea Run Salmon Commission, Bangor, Maine Jane M. Cleaves, New England Regional Coordinator, Atlantic Salmon Federation, Bowdoinham, Maine Kevin D. Friedland, Fishery Biologist, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Jamie Geiger, Assistant Regional Director, Fishery Resources and Federal Aid, Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior Arthur William Neill, Fishery Biologist, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce John C. Phillips, Commissioner, Massachusetts Department of Fisheries, Wildlife Environmental and Law Enforcement, Boston, Massachusetts Richard B. Roe, Regional Director, Northeast Region, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Dean Swanson, Office of International Affairs, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce H. Stetson Tinkham, Atlantic Fisheries Officer, Office of Fisheries Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Private Sector Adviser C. M. Cunningham, Publisher, Salt Water Sportsman, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts
