FR940803-1-00064 FR940803-1-00014 The fat three-ridge ( Amblema neislerii ) is a medium-sized to large, subquadrate, inflated, solid, and heavy shelled mussel that reaches a length of 102 millimeters (4.0 inches). Older individuals are often so inflated that their width approximates their length. The dark brown to black shell is strongly sculptured with seven to eight prominent horizontal parallel ridges. Internally, there are two subequal pseudocardinal teeth in the left valve and one large and one small tooth in the right valve. The nacre is bluish white to light purplish and very iridescent. The Service considers Unio neislerii to be a synonym of Amblema neislerii. This taxon was originally assigned to the genera Quadrula and Crenodonta by Simpson (1914) and Clench and Turner (1956), respectively. Subsequent investigators have placed the fat three- ridge in the genus Amblema. The fat three-ridge was described from the Flint River, Macon County, Georgia, and it historically occurred in the mainstems of the lower two-thirds of the Flint, the lower one-third of the Chipola, and in the Apalachicola rivers (Clench and Turner 1956, Butler 1993). Since 1981, no live specimens have been found in the Flint River. Its present range is restricted to six localities in Florida, three each in the Apalachicola River mainstem and the lowermost Chipola River mainstem (Butler 1993). Only two of these localities have sizable populations, which number in the dozens of specimens. However, the viability of these populations of the fat three-ridge is not known. The fat three-ridge has a very low tolerance for impoundments. The shiny-rayed pocketbook ( Lampsilis subangulata ) is a medium- sized mussel that reaches approximately 85 mm (3.3 in) in length. The shell is subelliptical, with broad, somewhat inflated umbos and a rounded posterior ridge. The fairly thin but solid shell is smooth and shiny, and light yellowish brown with fairly wide bright emerald green rays over its entire length. Older individuals appear much darker brown with obscure raying. Internally, the pseudocardinal teeth are double and fairly large and erect in the left valve with one large tooth and one spatulate tooth in the right valve. The nacre is white, with some individuals exhibiting a salmon tint in the vicinity of the umbonal cavity. The Service recognizes Unio subangulatus and Unio kirklandianus as synonyms of Lampsilis subangulata. The shiny-rayed pocketbook was described from the Chattahoochee River, Columbus, Georgia. Historically, this mussel occurred at 18 different Flint River system localities including numerous tributaries and several mainstem sites, 1 Chattahoochee River mainstem site and 6 sites in some of its tributaries, 2 sites in an Apalachicola River tributary (Mosquito Creek), a couple of Chipola River tributary sites and several localities in the mainstem above Dead Lake, and several sites in the Ochlockonee River mainstem from Talquin Reservoir upstream to Georgia and in a couple of its tributaries (Clench and Turner 1956, Butler 1993). The 19 populations presently known are restricted to: a single Uchee Creek system site in the Chattahoochee River system of Alabama, 11 scattered sites in Flint River tributaries, 2 sites in the Chipola River system including a mainstem and tributary (Dry Creek) site, and 5 Ochlockonee River mainstem and tributary sites in the upper half of the system (Butler 1993). The shiny-rayed pocketbook presently occupies about two-thirds of its original range. Population sizes numbered in the dozens of individuals at a few historical sites in both systems. However, recent collections are generally represented by only a few individuals, and evidence of any production is scarce. This riverine species does not tolerate impoundments. The Gulf moccasinshell (Medionidus penicillatus ), a small mussel, reaches a length of about 55 mm (2.2 in), is elongate-elliptical or rhomboidal in shape and fairly inflated, and has relatively thin valves. The ventral margin is nearly straight or slightly rounded. The posterior ridge is rounded to slightly angled and intersects the end of the shell at the base line. Females tend to have the posterior point above the ventral margin and are somewhat more inflated than males. Sculpturing consists of a series of thin, radially-oriented plications along the length of the posterior slope. The remainder of the shell surface is smooth and yellowish to greenish brown with fine, typically interrupted green rays. The left valve has two stubby pseudocardinal and two arcuate lateral teeth and the right valve has one pseudocardinal and one lateral tooth. Nacre color is smokey purple or greenish and slightly iridescent at the posterior end. The Service recognizes Unio penicillatus and Unio kingi as synonyms of Medionidus penicillatus.
