FR940428-0-00014 FR940428-0-00004 The acquisition by a registered holding company of its own securities as part of a ``going-private'' transaction is exempt from the requirements otherwise applicable to such transactions under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 28 To ensure that these transactions do not escape review, the amended rule will not exempt transactions within the meaning of rule 13e&hyph;3(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act. 29 28 See 17 CFR 240.13e&hyph;3(g)(3) (the rules that govern going-private transactions do not apply to transactions by a registered holding company in compliance with the requirements of the Act). 29 See, e.g., 17 CFR 240.13e&hyph;3(a)(3). As here relevant, rules adopted pursuant to section 13(e)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act impose reporting requirements on an issuer's acquisition of its own common stock, whether in response to a tender offer [rule 13e&hyph;1], as part of a going-private transaction [rule 13e&hyph;3], or as a self-tender offer [rule 13e&hyph;4]. See 17 CFR 240.13e&hyph;1, 240.13e&hyph;3, 240.13e&hyph;4. Accordingly, the Commission adopts the amendment substantially as proposed. F. Rule 43(b): Sales to Affiliates Rule 43, adopted under sections 12(d) and 12(g) of the Act, generally requires prior Commission approval for sales to an affiliate of securities, utility assets, or any other interest in any business. 30 Under the present rule, a sale of securities is excepted from this requirement if the acquisition is within the terms of section 9(b)(2), 31 the consideration is less than $100,000 and the acquisition does not require Commission approval, 32 or the transaction involves the sale of securities of a subsidiary service company. 33 The proposed amendment would create a single class of exemptions for sales to affiliates of securities, utility assets, or any other interests in any business up to a total annual aggregate consideration of $5 million when the acquisition does not require Commission approval. 34 30 17 CFR 250.43. 31 Section 9(b)(2) provides an exemption from section 9(a) for the acquisition by a public-utility company of the securities of its subsidiary public-utility company in a wholly intrastate holding company system. 32 Rule 41(c) provides an exemption for limited acquisitions of utility assets. Any sales corresponding to these exempt acquisitions would also be exempt under rule 43(b), as amended. Further, rules 40 and 42 provide exemptions for limited acquisitions of nonutility interests and for an issuer's acquisition of its own securities, respectively, while rule 52 exempts certain security issuances and acquisitions. 33 A service company is a subsidiary company of a registered holding company that performs services or construction for, or sells goods to, an associate company. 34 Acquisitions not subject to Commission approval would include, for example, an acquisition of utility assets within the exemption provided by section 9(b) or 9(c), or rule 41. The Commission believes that existing reporting requirements under the Act should guard against potential abuses. 35 The commenters generally favor the proposed amendment. 36 CNG asks whether the dollar limitation applies to each transaction or the annual aggregate amount of such transactions. The $5 million limit is intended as an annual aggregate maximum amount for all transactions under the rule. CNG also seeks an additional exemption for intrasystem transactions when the acquisition is otherwise subject to approval of the Commission. The Commission does not perceive the need for such an exemption. The rule, therefore, is adopted substantially as proposed. 35 Form U5S requires annual reporting of sales in excess of $1 million of ``utility plant in service or under construction of any electric utility company or retail gas utility company for the production, transmission or distribution of electric energy or distribution of natural or manufactured gas.'' A registered holding company also must report ``issuances, sales or pledges of securities of system companies or guaranty or assumption by system companies of securities of other persons, including system companies or exempted subsidiaries, stating the name of the issuer, the name of the system company if different, describing the securities, the date and form of the transaction, the consideration and the exemption claimed.'' Id. 36 The commenters cited the protections afforded by existing state and federal law, together with the reporting requirement of Form U5S under the Act, as safeguards for the interests of investors and consumers. A registered holding company also must report ``issuances, sales or pledges of securities of system companies or guaranty or assumption by system companies of securities of other persons, including system companies or exempted subsidiaries, stating the name of the issuer, the name of the system company if different, describing the securities, the date and form of the transaction, the consideration and the exemption claimed.'' Id. G. Rule 44(b): Sales of Securities and Assets Rule 44, adopted under section 12(d) of the Act, governs sales of utility securities or utility assets by a registered holding company to any person. 37 The rule, at present, exempts four classes of such sales from the general requirement of Commission approval by order upon application. The proposed amendment would replace the existing exemptions with a single one that would exempt all sales up to an annual aggregate amount of $5 million where the acquisition of the securities or assets does not require Commission approval. The Commission believes that existing reporting requirements under the Act offer a safeguard against potential abuses. The commenters generally support this amendment. Accordingly, the rule is amended. 37 17 CFR 250.44. H. Rule 50: Requirement of Public Invitation of Proposals for the Purchase or Underwriting of Securities The Commission is rescinding rule 50. 38 The rule, which established a requirement of competitive bidding with respect to the issuance or sale of securities by a registered holding company or its subsidiary, was intended to prevent abuses in the issue and sale of securities. In practice, many system companies relied upon various exceptions to this requirement. The Commission believes that the rule is no longer necessary in view of the extensive reporting requirements imposed by the Act and the other federal securities laws. In addition, unless otherwise exempted, the underlying financing will remain subject to Commission review. 39 Rescission of the rule will permit companies in a registered holding company system to choose the marketing method that offers the most advantageous terms. The commenters strongly support this proposal. 40 The rule is hereby rescinded. 38 17 CFR 250.50. 39 In particular, the Commission must consider, under section 7(d)(4) of the Act, whether the fees or other remuneration paid in connection with the issue, sale or distribution of a security are reasonable. Rule 52 (17 CFR 250.52) provides a limited exemption for the issuance and sale of certain securities by public-utility companies in a registered system. A company seeking to rely upon rule 52 must report, on Form U&hyph;6B&hyph;2, the terms and conditions of such transaction. 40 CNG expressed concern that rescission of the rule would eliminate the option to bid securities competitively and thus endanger a company's ability to rely upon rule 415 under the Securities Act of 1933, the ``shelf-registration'' rule. The elimination of the requirement of competitive bidding does not affect a registered holding company's ability to offer securities subject to a competitive process. In addition, the Commission notes that the availability of rule 415 under the Securities Act depends on the type of securities that are to be offered, not the competitive bidding requirements of rule 50. Indeed, rule 50 had been amended to allow for shelf registration by registered holding companies. See Holding Co. Act Release No. 22623, 47 FR 39810 (Sept. 2, 1982).
