FR940616-0-00097 FR940616-0-00011 ยง9.101 Purpose. The purpose of this part is to effectuate section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service. ยง9.102 Applicability. This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with disabilities in the United States. ยง9.103 Definitions. For purposes of this part: Accessible: (1) When used with respect to the design, construction, or alteration of a facility or a portion of a facility other than an individual dwelling unit, means that the facility or portion of the facility when designed, constructed or altered, complies with applicable accessibility standards and can be approached, entered, and used by individuals with physical disabilities. The phrase ``accessible to and usable by'' is synonymous with accessible. (2) When used with respect to the design, construction, or alteration of an individual dwelling unit, means that the unit is located on an accessible route and, when designed, constructed, altered or adapted, complies with applicable accessibility standards, and can be approached, entered, and used by individuals with physical disabilities. A unit that is on an accessible route and is adaptable and otherwise in compliance with the standards set forth in ยง9.151 is ``accessible'' within the meaning of this definition. When a unit in an existing facility which is being made accessible as a result of alterations is intended for use by a specific qualified individual with disabilities (e.g., a current occupant of such unit or of another unit under the control of the same agency, or an applicant on a waiting list), the unit will be deemed accessible if it meets the requirements of applicable standards that address the particular disability or impairment of such person. Accessible route means a continuous unobstructed path connecting accessible elements and spaces of a building or facility. Interior accessible routes may include corridors, floors, ramps, elevators, lifts, and clear floor space at fixtures. Exterior accessible routes may include parking access aisles, curb ramps, crosswalks at vehicular ways, walks, ramps and lifts. ADA means the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 through 12213) ADA Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG) means the Accessibility Guidelines issued under the ADA, and which are codified in the Appendix to 39 CFR part 1191. Adaptability means the ability of certain building, spaces and elements, such as kitchen counters, sinks, and grab bars, to be added or altered, to accommodate the needs of persons with or without disabilities, or to accommodate the needs of persons with different types or degrees of disability. For example, in a unit adaptable for a person with impaired hearing, the wiring for visible emergency alarms may be installed but the alarms need not be installed until such time as the unit is made ready for occupancy by a person with impaired hearing. Agency means the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Alteration means a change to a building or facility or its permanent fixtures or equipment that affects or could affect the usability of the building or facility or part thereof. Alterations include, but are not limited to, remodeling, renovation, rehabilitation, reconstruction, historic restoration, changes or rearrangements of the structural parts and changes or rearrangements in the plan configuration of walls and full-height partitions. Normal maintenance, re-roofing, painting, or wallpapering or changes to mechanical and electrical systems are not alterations unless they affect the usability of the building or facility. Assistant Attorney General means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice. Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. Auxiliary aids means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or communication skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, note takers, written materials, and other similar services and devices. Complete complaint means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination. Current illegal use of drugs means illegal use of drugs that occurred recently enough to justify a reasonable belief that a person's drug use is current or that continuing use is a real and ongoing problem. Drug means a controlled substance, as defined in schedules I through V of section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812). Facility means all or any portion of buildings, structures, site improvements, complexes, equipment, roads, walks, passageways, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property located on a site. Historic properties means those properties that are listed or are eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, or such properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body. Illegal use of drugs means the use of one or more drugs, the possession or distribution of which is unlawful under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812). The term ``illegal use of drugs'' does not include the use of a drug taken under supervision by a licensed health care professional, or other uses authorized by the Controlled Substances Act or other provisions of Federal law. Individual with disabilities means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase: (1) ``Physical or mental impairment'' includes: (i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genito-urinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or (ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term ``physical or mental impairment'' includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, Human Immunodeficiency Virus disease (symptomatic or asymptomatic), mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction and alcoholism. (2) The term ``individual with disabilities'' does not include:
