FR940719-1-00018 FR940719-1-00007 33 CFR Part 165 [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;023] RIN 2115&hyph;AE84 Regulated Navigation Area: Heli-Carriers International, Upper New York Bay, New York and New Jersey AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes to establish a Regulated Navigation Area (RNA) in a portion of Upper New York Bay. Heli-Carriers International intends to anchor a self-propelled, floating heliport in the waters of Upper New York Bay located in an area south southwest of Liberty Island and west of Federal Anchorage 20D for the purpose of operating a helicopter sightseeing service. This regulation is necessary to protect commercial mariners and the recreational boating public from the hazards associated with establishing a floating helicopter platform and passenger terminal near an anchorage area. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Captain of the Port, New York, Bldg. 108, Governors Island, New York 10004&hyph;5096, or may be delivered to the Waterways Management Branch, Bldg. 108, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. Any person wishing to visit the office must contact the Waterways Management Branch at (212) 668&hyph;7933 to obtain advance clearance due to the fact that Governors Island is a military installation with limited access. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lt. R. Trabocchi, Project Manager, Captain of the Port, New York (212) 668&hyph;7933. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this notice (CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;023) and the specific section of the proposal to which their comments apply, and give reasons for each comment. Persons wanting acknowledgement of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period and may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing; however, a public hearing may be requested by any interested person by writing to the Project Manager at the address under ADDRESSES . If it is determined that the opportunity for oral presentations at a public meeting will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold such a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register. Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are Lt R. Trabocchi, Project Manager, Captain of the Port, New York, and CDR J. Astley, Project Attorney, First Coast Guard District, Legal Office. Background and Purpose On February 24, 1994, Heli-Carriers International (herein ``Heli-Carriers'') received official notification that they were awarded a concession agreement (herein ``the Agreement'') from the State of New Jersey, Department of Environmental Protection and Energy (herein ``the Department'') to operate a water taxi service that would transport persons from Liberty State Park, Hudson County, New Jersey, to a helicopter sightseeing service located on the waters of Upper New York Bay. The execution of the Agreement is dependent upon Heli-Carriers' submittal to the Department of proof of all license(s), permit(s), and approvals from the State of New Jersey, Federal Government (including the Federal Aviation Administration), and U.S. Coast Guard. The Agreement is expected to be immediately executed upon receipt of those submittals and will be effective from the effective date of the Agreement until December 31, 1994, with four (4), one (1) year opportunities for renewal. Upon execution of the Agreement, Heli-Carrier will operate (1) a water taxi from the boat launch located at the southside boat dock at Liberty State Park and, (2) a helicopter sightseeing service from a self-propelled, floating heliport (herein ``heliport'') anchored within a 50 yard radius centered at approximately 40 ○40 ’52 ’ ’ N latitude and 074 ○03 ’29 ’ ’ W longitude in Upper New York Bay. This 50 yard radius is the heliport's anchoring zone. The heliport will be a Coast Guard inspected, steel-hulled vessel constructed with a helicopter platform. This heliport will serve as the landing and takeoff platform for helicopters providing aerial tours around New York harbor and the Statute of Liberty to tourists who visit Liberty State Park. Visitors who are interested in aerial tours would be transported by Heli-Carriers' water taxi from Liberty State Park to the heliport. Heli-Carriers will operate this water taxi and helicopter sightseeing service daily from 10 a.m. to sunset, weather permitting.
