FR941004-1-00044 FR941004-1-00015 Allium tuolumnense is an erect, herbaceous perennial of the lily family (Liliaceae) that grows from underground bulbs. This species has fleshy, green entire leaves that reach a height of 25 to 50 centimeters (cm) (10 to 20 in), and has a loose, 20 to 60 flowered, white- or pink-flushed inflorescence appearing in late March to early May. Allium tuolumnense differs from A. sanbornii and A. jepsonii in its entire, spreading perianth segments, fringed ovarian bumps (processes), and early blooming period that does not overlap with any other Allium species. Although this plant can reproduce from seed, A. tuolumnense tends to reproduce asexually from its underground bulb, forming small colonies of usually fewer than 100 plants per colony (BioSystems Analysis 1984). A. tuolumnense is a highly restricted endemic that only grows on serpentine soils in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada in southwestern Tuolumne County from 400 to 600 m (1,310 to 1,970 ft) in elevation. A. tuolumnense is known from two localities: Table Mountain and the Red Hills. The entire range of the species includes a 342 square kilometer (sq km) (132 square mile (sq mi)) area. Approximately 25 percent of A. tuolumnense is found on private lands and 75 percent on lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). A. tuolumnense is threatened by placer mining, urbanization, and potentially by overgrazing. Robert Hoover (1938) first described Brodiaea pallida from specimens collected near Chinese Camp in Tuolumne County. B. pallida is an erect, herbaceous perennial in the lily family (Liliaceae). The plant grows from an underground bulb and has long, narrow, thick, succulent leaves that reach a height of 1 to 3 decimeters (dm) (4 to 12 in). Several to many rose-pink flowers appear in an umbrella-like cluster at the top of a leafless stem in late May to early June. B. pallida grows in association with two sympatric congeners and can hybridize with one of them (Keator 1993). Despite these incidences of hybridization, the species is considered stable (Blaine Rogers, Columbia Coll., pers. comm., 1993). B. pallida can be separated from its congeners and hybrids by flower color and the length, width, shape, and position of nonpollen bearing stamens. Brodiaea pallida grows in seeps and springs in serpentine and volcanic soils within a stream channel on private land in the Red Hills, Tuolumne County. This species is restricted to a 3 to 6 m (10 to 20 ft) wide and 0.8 km (0.5 mi) long stretch of private land in an old, intermittent stream channel at an elevation of 385 m (1,260 ft). The species has always had an extremely limited distribution; searches of potential habitat in other areas have failed to locate any additional plants. The single population is threatened by urbanization, inadequate State regulatory mechanisms, and stochastic events. Several of the parcels of privately-owned land where the plant is located are for sale. Although The Nature Conservancy (TNC) has secured a 1-year lease on one of the parcels, permanent protection for this plant is lacking. Joseph Congdon collected the type specimen of Calyptridium pulchellum on ``Pea Ridge'' in Mariposa County in 1901. Alice Eastwood (1902) first described this plant as Spraguea pulchella. Robert Hoover (1940) revised the genera Spraguea and Calyptridium and renamed this plant Calyptridium pulchellum based on the combination of flower and vegetative characteristics and habitat. C. pulchellum is a small, compact, rosette-forming, annual herb in the purslane family (Portulacaceae). The smooth, slender, prostrate stems are 1 to 2 dm (4 to 8 in) long, with smooth, spatula-shaped leaves. Rose-colored, four-petaled flowers appear in loose panicles between May and August.
