FR940906-2-00089 FR940906-2-00070 Furthermore, the changes to MCC's and MSTC's By-laws will make the president and chief executive officer (``CEO'') of CHX the chairman of the MCC and MSTC boards ex-officio and an ex-officio member of the boards with the right to vote. Also, the presidents of MSTC and MCC will be the CEOs of MSTC and MCC, respectively but will not be board members ex-officio. The vice-chairmen of MCC and MSTC will be ex-officio members of the boards of MCC and MSTC, respectively, with the right to vote. II. Discussion The Commission believes the proposals are consistent with the purposes and requirements of Section 17A of the Act. 5 Sections 17A(b)(3)(C) require that the rules of a clearing agency be designed to assure a fair representation of its members and participants in the selection of its directors and administration of its affairs. 6 5 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1 (1988). 6 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(C) (1988). The Commission states in the order granting MCC and MSTC registration as clearing agencies that at a minimum, fair representation requires that the entity responsible for nominating individuals for membership on a clearing agency's board of directors should be obligated by By-law or Rule to make nominations with a view toward assuring fair representation of the interests of shareholders and of a cross section of the community of participants. 7 Under MCC's and MSTC's corporate governance structures, CHX, as the sole shareholder of MCC and MSTC, retained the sole vote for MCC's and MSTC's boards of directors. In order to satisfy the minimum fair representation requirement, MCC and MSTC established separate nominating committees comprised of their participants to nominate individuals for membership on their board of directors. 7 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 20221 (October 3, 1983), 48 FR 4518, [File No. 600&hyph;1] (order granting full registration as clearing agencies to MCC and MSTC). Under the revised By-laws, CHX will continue to have the sole vote for members of the complex's board. To provide the necessary framework of fair representation for their participants, the combined CHX/MCC/MSTC nominating committees are required to select candidates with a view towards providing fair representation for CHX, the sole shareholder of MCC and MSTC, and fair representation of a cross section of participants. To further ensure the fair representation of MCC and MSTC participants, CHX's rule change establishes four participant governor slots which must be filled by MCC and MSTC members and requires that individuals nominated to serve as participant governors have expertise on issues affecting MCC and MSTC. To assist the Commission in its assessment of any long term effects the corporate governance restructing might have on the fair representation of MCC and MSTC participants in the selection of the complex's board, MCC and MSTC will provide to the Commission after the first election under the new corporate governance structure a list of the governors of the complex's board. The list will set forth the board slot each governor is filling ( e.g. , participant governor, floor governor, upstairs governor) and a list of the complex entities ( e.g. , CHX, MCC, and MSTC) to which each governor is a member. MCC and MSTC will submit such a report after each annual shareholders meeting and after any change in the composition of the complex's board for the next five years. The rule changes also should facilitate the three entities ability to operate as a single business entity and thereby should promote efficiency in the management of the complex. As a result of the above restructuring, the clearance and settlement and depository processes should benefit from greater coordination among CHX, MCC, and MSTC. In addition to having a unified board and nominating committee, cooperation and coordination will be advanced by having, among other things, the president and CEO of CHX serve on the MCC and MSTC boards as the chairman ex-officio and as an ex-officio with the right to vote. III. Conclusion For the reasons discussed above, the Commission believes that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the Act, particularly with Section 17A of the Act, and the rules and regulations thereunder. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 8 that the above-mentioned proposed rule changes (File Nos. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;94&hyph;07 and SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;09) be, and hereby are, approved. 8 15 U.S.C. 78s(b) (1988). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(30) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21811 Filed 9&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
