FR940831-2-00075 FR940831-2-00055 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Land Management [NV&hyph;010&hyph;94&hyph;4191&hyph;01] Notice of Intent To Prepare a Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement and To Conduct Scoping for the Barrick Goldstrike Mines Inc. Betze Project in Elko and Eureka Counties, NV AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of Intent to prepare a Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement and to conduct scoping for the Barrick Goldstrike Mines Inc. Betze Project in Elko and Eureka Counties, Nevada. SUMMARY: Pursuant to Section 102(2)(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, the Bureau of Land Management, Elko District Office, prepared an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) with respect to Barrick Goldstrike Mines Inc.'s (Barrick's) Betze Project. The Final EIS and Record of Decision for the Betze Project were issued on June 10, 1991. The Final EIS included a description of the environmental impacts projected to result from groundwater pumping conducted by Barrick to lower the local groundwater elevations below the proposed Betze mining operations. Since the Betze EIS was issued, Barrick's implementation of the pumping operations and its monitoring of groundwater elevations have provided new information regarding the pumping requirements and potential environmental impacts of pumping operations. The Bureau has determined that a Supplemental EIS should be prepared to assess the potential environmental impacts of the pumping and water management operations associated with Barrick's mining operations. DATES: Written comments on the scoping process will be accepted through October 3, 1994. Public scoping meetings will be held beginning at 7:00 p.m. on September 14, 1994, at the Bureau of Land Management, Elko District Office, 3900 E. Idaho St., Elko, Nevada, and beginning at 7:00 p.m. on September 15, 1994, at the Holiday Inn, 1000 E. 6th St., Reno, Nevada. ADDRESSES: Written comments concerning the scope of the supplemental analysis should be sent to Nick Rieger, Betze Project Leader, Bureau of Land Management, P.O. Box 831, Elko, Nevada 89803. Written comments may be sent to the above address on or before the close of business on October 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 For additional information, write to the above address or call Nick Rieger (702) 753&hyph;0200. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In response to a Plan of Operations submitted in April 1989, the Bureau of Land Management, Elko District Office, prepared an EIS with respect to Barrick's Betze Project. The Draft EIS for the Betze Project was issued on January 11, 1991, and a sixty-day public comment period, including two public meetings, followed. The Final EIS and Record of Decision for the Betze Project were issued on June 10, 1991. The Betze Project includes the development of Barrick's existing Post Pit laterally and deeper, to completely mine the Betze Deposit. Because the Betze Deposit is located below the elevation of the local groundwater system, Barrick must pump groundwater from the mine area to lower the groundwater table below mining operation levels. The Betze EIS described the projected pumping and water management operations and assessed the environmental impacts of those operations. Since the Betze EIS was issued, Barrick through operational experience and monitoring, has acquired additional information regarding the pumping rates required to lower groundwater elevations in the mining area. This includes the nature and extent of the rock type from which groundwater is being pumped and the hydrologic connection between the groundwater being pumped and surface waters in the vicinity of Barrick's mining operations. This new information indicates that the highly transmissive area from which the groundwater is being pumped is more extensive than projected at the time the Betze EIS was prepared. Consequently, the volume of water pumped and the rate of pumping is greater than originally predicted and analyzed. Barrick's monitoring program also indicates that groundwater levels are being drawn down over a larger area than projected at the time of the Betze EIS. The monitoring program has also provided additional data regarding the potential hydrologic connection between the groundwater being pumped and surface waters in the vicinity of Barrick's operations. Barrick is presently pumping approximately 68,500 gallons per minute (gpm) to lower the groundwater table. Barrick uses approximately 2,000 to 4,000 gpm for mining and milling operations. Water not used in mining and milling flows into the TS Reservoir which is located about four miles southwest of the Betze Pit. During half the year about 15,000 gpm is used for irrigation of alfalfa fields located down gradient from the reservoir in Boulder Valley. Another 20,000 gpm is injected or infiltrated into the groundwater in a portion of Boulder Valley. The bulk of the remaining water in the reservoir infiltrates into the water table through a high-angle fault located within the impoundment area. As a result, the water table beneath the reservoir has risen and mounded in Boulder Valley. This mounding has also created several springs and associated wetlands in the valley where the groundwater has intercepted the surface.
