FR941007-2-00015 FR941007-2-00006 Conclusion In the case of ZMEC and Lansheng, the record demonstrates an absence of de jure and de facto government control. With respect to ZLIP, we have determined that ZLIP is not controlled by the central government and that, although ZLIP may be controlled by ZCOFTEC, ZCOFTEC does not control any other PRC exporter of paper clips. Accordingly, we determine that each should receive a separate rate. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether sales by the three responding exporters of paper clips from the PRC to the United States were made at less-than-fair-value prices, we compared the United States price (USP) to the foreign market value (FMV), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. United States Price USP and ZMEC, ZLIP and Lansheng was calculated on the same basis as in the preliminary determination. The following adjustments were made to the reported U.S. sales of these exporters pursuant to our findings at verification ( see Calculation Memorandum, on file in room B&hyph;099 of the Main Commerce Department Building, for details on these adjustments): *␣We adjusted foreign inland freight for ZMEC based on verified distances between factory and port of exportation. *␣Minor adjustments were also made to ZMEC's reported ocean freight and marine insurance charges. *␣We adjusted ZLIP's and ZMEC's respective USP for unreported bank transactions fees based on findings at verification. *␣In the case of ZMEC, three unreported sales were discovered at verification which were verified and included in the final determination. Commission fees related to these unreported sales were verified and also included in the final determination. *␣Several CIF sales reported by ZMEC were clarified and verified as C&F sales and considered as such for the final determination. *␣The reported quantity for one of Lansheng's transactions was adjusted. Foreign Market Value We calculated FMV based on factors of production cited in the preliminary determination, making adjustments based on verification findings ( see Calculation Memorandum). To calculate FMV, the verified factor amounts were multiplied by the appropriate surrogate values for the different inputs. We have used the same surrogate values used in the preliminary determination with the exception of nickel and sodium hydroxide. Instead of using the value for non-alloy nickel bar, we used for this final determination the value for unwrought nickel, which was found to be the form of nickel used for plating purposes. We also used a surrogate value for sodium hydroxide in liquid (rather than solid flake) form based on verification findings. We correctly valued two other proprietary factors whose names had been incorrectly reported. Based on verification, we adjusted certain factors' values to reflect the actual purity used in the production of subject merchandise. We have adjusted the surrogate inland freight charge for transporting factor inputs from supplier to factory to reflect the surrogate value for the actual quantity being transported. We recalculated inland freight distances between factory and input supplier based on verified distances for Jiaxing and Fengbin. For Wuyi and Jiaxing, we used verified packing factor amounts to calculate packing cost for the final calculations.
