FR940114-1-00010 FR940114-1-00002 (A) Prior lien instruments do not contain provisions for future advances (except for taxes, insurance, and other costs needed to protect the security, or reasonable foreclosure costs), cancellation, summary forfeiture, or other clauses that may jeopardize the Government's interest or the applicant's ability to pay the loan unless any such undesirable provision is waived, modified, or subordinated insofar as the Government is concerned. (B) Agreements are obtained from prior lienholders to give notice of foreclosure to FmHA whenever State law or other arrangements do not require such a notice. Any agreements needed will be obtained as provided in subpart B of part 1927 of this chapter, except as modified by the ``Memorandum of Understanding-FCA-FmHA,'' FmHA Instruction 2000&hyph;R (available in any FmHA office). (2) Chattel security. Loans will be secured by chattels as follows: (i) A first lien will be taken on equipment or fixtures purchased or refinanced with loan funds whenever such property cannot be included in the real estate lien and the additional security is needed to secure the loan. (ii) Chattel security will be obtained when there is not enough real estate security for the loan. (iii) The same collateral may be used to secure two or more loans made, direct or guaranteed, to the same borrower. Therefore, junior liens on chattels may be taken when there is enough equity in the property. However, when possible, a first lien on selected chattel items should be obtained. (iv) Chattel security liens will be obtained and kept effective, as provided in subpart A of part 1962 of this chapter. (3) Other security. (i) A pledge of real estate by a third party may be taken as security when the real estate owned and to be acquired by the applicant is not adequate to secure the loan. (ii) Other property may be taken as additional security when the real estate owned and to be acquired by the applicant is not adequate to secure the loan. Examples of such security include but are not limited to cash surrender value of life insurance, securities, patents and copyrights, and membership or stock in cooperatives and associations. (c) Nonessential assets. Nonessential assets are assets which the applicant has an ownership interest in that do not contribute a net income to pay family living expenses or to maintain a sound farming operation (see ยง1962.17 of subpart A of part 1962 of this chapter for further guidance). A lien will be taken on all nonessential assets if an applicant cannot or will not dispose of the assets and use the proceeds to reduce the FmHA credit needs prior to loan closing. The 150 percent security requirement does not apply to nonessential assets. * * * * * PART 1951_SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS 8. The authority citation for part 1951 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70. Subpart S_Farmer Programs Account Servicing Policies 9. Section 1951.910 is amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: ยง1951.910 Consideration of borrower's other assets for NEW APPLICATIONS. * * * * * (b) Lien on certain assets. Delinquent borrowers must pledge certain assets, essential and nonessential, unencumbered to FmHA as security at the time FmHA loans are restructured, as follows: (1) The best lien obtainable will be taken on all assets owned by the borrower. When the borrower is an entity, the best lien obtainable will be taken on all assets owned by the entity, and all assets owned by all members of the entity. Different lien positions on real estate are considered separate and identifiable collateral. (2) Security will include, but is not limited to, the following: land, buildings, structures, fixtures, machinery, equipment, livestock, livestock products, growing crops, stored crops, inventory, supplies, accounts receivable, certain cash or special cash collateral accounts, marketable securities, certificates of ownership of precious metals, and cash surrender value of life insurance. (3) Security will also include assignments of leases or leasehold interests having mortgageable value, revenues, royalties from mineral rights, patents and copyrights, and pledges of security by third parties. (4) The exceptions set forth in ยง1941.19(c) of subpart A of part 1941 apply. (5) These assets will be considered as additional security for the loans as well as any shared appreciation agreement. The value of the essential assets will not be included in the NRV calculation to determine restructure. The FmHA lien will be taken only at the time of closing the restructured FmHA loans. Dated: January 8, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary for Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;944 Filed 01&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;07&hyph;U
