FR940112-2-00021 FR940112-2-00015 [Docket No. CP94&hyph;166&hyph;000, et al.] Viosca Knoll Gathering System, et al.; Natural Gas Certificate Filings January 4, 1994. Take notice that the following filings have been made with the Commission: 1. Viosca Knoll Gathering System [Docket No. CP94&hyph;166&hyph;000] Take notice that on December 29, 1993, Viosca Knoll Gathering System (Viosca Knoll), 600 Travis, 7200 Texas Commerce Tower, Houston, Texas 77002, filed a petition for declaratory order in Docket No. CP94&hyph;116&hyph;000, requesting that the Commission declare that certain facilities Viosca Knoll proposes to construct along the edge of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) would have the primary function of gathering natural gas and would thereby be exempt from the Commission's jurisdiction pursuant to Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act (NGA), all as more fully set forth in the petition which is on file with the Commission and open to public inspection. Viosca Knoll states that it proposes to construct approximately 95 miles of 20-inch O.D. pipeline extending from a platform owned and operated by Shell Offshore, Inc. in Main Pass Block 252 in a generally southwesterly direction to a terminating interconnection with the facilities of Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company (Tennessee) in South Pass Block 55 Offshore Louisiana. It is stated that Viosca Knoll's facilities would also include, in their initial configuration, a junction platform and six miles of 16-inch O.D. lateral interconnect with facilities owned by Southern Natural Gas Company (Southern) in Main Pass Block 289. It is also stated that Viosca Knoll's facilities would interconnect with production platforms and flow lines from production platforms at numerous locations along its entire length. Viosca Knoll indicates that its facilities would not include compression, would be operated at pressures ranging from 900 to 1,350 psig, and would be configured to gather natural gas from both the shallow and deepwater OCS and redeliver it to the nearest pipeline interconnections having adequate take-away capacity consistent with Viosca Knoll's objective of providing gas gathering infrastructure along the edge of the OCS. Viosca Knoll states that it is a partnership composed of Leviathan Gas Pipeline Partners, L.P. (Leviathan), and Tenneco Gas Gathering Co. (Tenneco Gathering) with each partner holding equal ownership shares. Viosca Knoll further states that Leviathan would be the administrative operator and that the system would not interconnect with any interstate pipeline affiliated with Leviathan. It is stated that Tenneco Gathering would physically operate and maintain the facilities. Viosca Knoll seeks a declaratory order holding that its proposed facilities would have the primary function of gathering natural gas and would thereby be exempt from the Commission's jurisdiction pursuant to Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act. Viosca Knoll requests that an expedited decision be issued permitting the facilities to be placed into service by November 1994. Comment date: January 25, 1994, in accordance with the first paragraph of Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice. 2. Florida Gas Transmission Co. [Docket No. CP94&hyph;155&hyph;000] Take notice that on December 22, 1993, Florida Gas Transmission Company (FGT), 1400 Smith Street, Houston, Texas 77002, filed in Docket No. CP94&hyph;155&hyph;000 an application pursuant to Section 7(b) of the Natural Gas Act for permission and approval to abandon and transfer by sale to Onyx Pipeline Company, L.C. (Onyx), three compressor units, 15.7 miles of the Encinal Channel Lateral, the Phillips East White Point Lateral, the Shell East White Point Lateral, the Nueces Bay Lateral and related metering and appurtenant facilities, including permission to transfer by sale to Onxy the Phillips Spradley Lateral, all as more fully set forth in the application on file with the Commission and open to public inspection. FGT states that the facilities it has agreed to sell to Onyx are located primarily in San Patricio County, Texas. FGT further states that the abandonment and sale proposed herein would not impair any current services nor would it disadvantage any FGT customer. FGT says that the proposed abandonment and sale of the subject facilities would save FGT approximately $10,500 per year in operating and maintenance costs. Comment date: January 25, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice. Standard Paragraphs F. Any person desiring to be heard or to make any protest with reference to said application should on or before the comment date, file with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20426, a motion to intervene or a protest in accordance with the requirements of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.214 or 385.211) and the Regulations under the Natural Gas Act (18 CFR 157.10). All protests filed with the Commission will be considered by it in determining the appropriate action to be taken but will not serve to make the protestants parties to the proceeding. Any person wishing to become a party to a proceeding or to participate as a party in any hearing therein must file a motion to intervene in accordance with the Commission's Rules. Take further notice that, pursuant to the authority contained in and subject to the jurisdiction conferred upon the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission by Sections 7 and 15 of the Natural Gas Act and the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, a hearing will be held without further notice before the Commission or its designee on this application if no motion to intervene is filed within the time required herein, if the Commission on its own review of the matter finds that a grant of the certificate and/or permission and approval for the proposed abandonment are required by the public convenience and necessity. If a motion for leave to intervene is timely filed, or if the Commission on its own motion believes that a formal hearing is required, further notice of such hearing will be duly given. Under the procedure herein provided for, unless otherwise advised, it will be unnecessary for applicant to appear or be represented at the hearing. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;686 Filed 1&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
