FR940223-1-00074 FR940223-1-00016 The annual fishing measures schedule found at ยง625.20(c) would be modified by this proposed rule. The date on which a certain measure is published in the Federal Register would be changed to a later time to allow for more current data to be included in the assessment and monitoring process. The total allowable removals from the stock, translated into a coastwide commercial quota and a recreational harvest limit, as well as additional measures for the commercial fishery must be published on or before October 15 of each year. This is the latest date that these measures can be set and allow states an opportunity to implement them on January 1 of each year. Unlike the commercial fishery, which operates year round, the recreational fishery ceases from October until May. Marine recreational survey data, which allow the recreational harvest limit to be converted into a possession limit and a recreational fishing season, are not available until well after the October 15 date. Sometimes, these data are not available until the beginning of the following year. Thus, the date on which additional measures for the recreational fishery must be published would be changed to February 15 of each year. Classification Section 304(a)(1)(D)(ii) of the Magnuson Act requires the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) to publish regulations proposed by a Council within 15 days of the receipt of the amendment and proposed regulations. At this time, the Secretary has not determined that the amendment these rules would implement is consistent with the national standards, other provisions of the Magnuson Act, and other applicable law. The Secretary, in making that determination, will take into account the information, views, and comments received during the comment period. The General Counsel of the Department of Commerce certified to the Small Business Administration that this proposed rule, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities for the reasons set forth in the regulatory impact review prepared by the Council, a copy of which may be obtained from the Council at the address listed above. As a result, a regulatory flexibility analysis was not prepared. The replacement of the one-mesh-on-board restriction with the mesh stowage provision alleviates a regulatory burden on the industry, enabling the industry to operate with greater economic efficiency. The amendment's conformance to the Northeast Multispecies regulations will also standardize certain regulatory requirements imposed on the industry and can be reviewed as relieving a restriction. Revising the schedule for publication of management measures will enable the Council and ASMFC to use the best available data as the basis of their deliberations. This should aid in rebuilding the stock for the benefit of industry. The experimental fishing provision should also aid in assessing the validity of certain measures which, in turn, should assist in rebuilding the stock. This rule is not subject to review under E.O. 12866. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 625 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: February 16, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Deputy Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 50 CFR part 625 is proposed to be amended to read as follows: PART 625_SUMMER FLOUNDER FISHERY 1. The authority citation for part 625 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.
