FR941110-0-00050 FR941110-0-00016 If the criteria are met, HCFA or the State may continue payments to a facility with deficiencies that do not constitute an immediate and serious threat for up to 6 months from the last day of the survey. If the facility does not correct deficiencies by the end of the period specified, HCFA would_ •Terminate the provider agreement for Medicare SNFs; and •Discontinue FFP to the State for Medicaid NFs. The State may terminate the provider agreement for NFs. We proposed that the required termination notice would be sent 15 days before the end of the 6-month period, and that the notice period would run concurrently with the last 15 days of the 6-month period. Medicare SNFs and dually participating facilities adversely affected by the requirement to repay to the government all payments received if corrective action is not taken could appeal the decision. 16. Resolution of Differences in Findings and Recommended Remedies Between State and HCFA for non-State operated Medicaid Facilities and Dually Participating Facilities. Sections 1919(h) (6) and (7) of the Act set forth special rules for when the State and Secretary do not agree on findings of noncompliance, timing of termination or where remedies overlap. To implement these provisions, we provided in §488.234 that, if HCFA finds that a non State-operated NF or a dually participating facility has met all requirements, but the State survey agency finds that the facility has not met all requirements and the failure does not immediately jeopardize the health and safety of its residents, the State survey agency's finding will control (proposed §488.234(a)(1)). In this instance the State's certification of noncompliance would control. The dually participating facility would have its hearing rights met through the procedures set forth at 42 CFR part 498. The non-State operated NF would have its hearing rights met through the procedures set forth at 42 CFR part 431. If HCFA finds that a NF or a dually participating facility has not met all requirements and the failure does not immediately jeopardize the health or safety of its residents, but the State survey agency has not made such a finding, HFCA's finding could control. In this case, HCFA would impose the remedies and would permit the State to continue payments to the facility during the correction period (proposed §488.234(a) (2) and (3)). These provisions specify the means to determine compliance or noncompliance for the Medicaid NF which will then, by virtue of section 1919(h)(8) of the Act, become the compliance/noncompliance decision for the Medicare SNF.
