FR940603-1-00187 FR940603-1-00009 1. Creosote XX ; 2. Pentachlorophenol XX ; 3. Copper Naphthenate XX ; 4. Waterborne preservative&hyph;CCA XX ACZA XX Method of Treatment: (Check one) 1. Pressure XXXX ; 2. Thermal Process XXXX Pole Plan Under Which the Poles are to be Furnished: (Check one) 1. Insured Warranted XX ; 2. Independently Inspected XX ; 3. Quality Assured XX ; 4. Either Insured Warranted, Independently Inspected, or Quality Assured XX (Engineer to complete above) ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials ␣ Total, Section 1_ XXXX Section A_Single Phase Pole Top Assembly Units A pole top assembly unit consists of the hardware, crossarms, and their appurtenances, insulators, etc., except tie wire, required to support the primary conductors. It does not include the pole. Crossarm pins include washer, nut, and locknut. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials ␣ Total, Section A_ XXXX Section B_V Phase Pole Top Assembly Units A pole top assembly units consists of the hardware, crossarms, and their appurtenances, insulators, etc., except tie wire, required to support the primary conductors. It does not include the pole. Crossarm pins include washer, nut, and locknut. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials ␣ Total, Section B_ XXXX Section C_Three Phase Pole Top Assembly Units A pole top assembly unit consists of the hardware, crossarms, and their appurtenances, insulators, etc., except tie wire, required to support the primary conductors. It does not include the pole. Crossarm pins include washer, nut, and locknut. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials ␣ Total, Section C_ XXXX Section D_Conductor Assembly Units A conductor assembly unit consists of 1,000 feet of conductor or cable for primaries, secondaries or services, and includes tie wires, sleeves for splicing, connectors, and armor rods with clips or armor wire where necessary. Tree trimming necessary for installing services and secondaries on poles not carrying primary line is included with the conductor assembly unit and shall be performed in accordance with the directions of the Engineer. The service shall be connected to the secondary or transformer and 2 feet of conductor or cable shall be left for connecting to the consumer's service entrance. In computing the compensation to the Bidder for conductor assembly units only the horizontal distance between conductor supports or pole stakes shall be used. The conductor or cable sizes and types listed are the manufacturer's designation. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials D Total, Section D_ XXXX Section E_Guy Assembly Units A guy assembly unit consists of the hardware and wire, and guy insulator where necessary. An overhead guy assembly consists of an overhead guy, a pole, and a down guy, each of which is listed separately. Guy markers are designated separately. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials E Total, Section E_ XXXX Section F_Anchor Assembly Units An anchor assembly unit consists of the anchor with rod complete, ready for attaching the guy wire.
