FR941110-0-00121 FR941110-0-00016 Response: Under section 1864 of the Act, the State survey agency certifies to HCFA, in a document called a ``Certification and Transmittal,'' the status of a facility's compliance with the statutory and regulatory requirements. In certain situations, HCFA itself makes the decision on whether a facility complies, as is the case for State facilities and in the case of validation surveys. This certification of compliance or noncompliance is a decision made by one of the governmental agencies (HCFA or the State) prior to notification of the provider. If a certification of noncompliance is made, the provider is notified in accordance with §488.330(c). It is usually notified in a separate notice of remedies to be imposed, in accordance with §488.402(f). (There may not be two separate notices in the case of immediate jeopardy.) Except for the imposition of civil money penalties, providers are given notice before the effective date of all remedies. In the case of civil money penalties, providers are given a pre-sanction hearing before civil money penalties can be collected. The notice given to the provider includes a notice of the remaining noncompliance, (even if there was a prior notice of deficiencies constituting noncompliance found on the survey) and notice of an opportunity to request a hearing, in accordance with §431.153(d) and §498.20(a). If a hearing is requested, the hearing must include the components specified in §431.153(e). Note that the requirement in §431.153(e) that the facility receive notice and a copy of the statement of deficiencies is accomplished prior to the hearing, in accordance with §431.153(d). We do not believe that the regulations need to be re-written to achieve the above intended result. Providers will be given notice of any deficiencies if HCFA or the State survey agency determines, that is, certifies noncompliance. They will also be given notice of any remedies that are imposed, and notice of their right to request a hearing. Comment: A few commenters requested that the notice given to the provider include not only the deficiencies found and the remedies selected but also the severity/scope rating for each deficiency. These commenters wanted an opportunity to appeal the severity/scope ratings. Response: We are not accepting this comment. As we discuss later in this preamble, with the exception of certain civil money penalties, providers will not have the opportunity to appeal the scope and severity of deficiencies. Comment: Many States commenting on this section believe that the HCFA finding of noncompliance should not supersede a State survey agency certification of compliance when both are available. States assert that State surveyors are more familiar with the operation of specific facilities in the State and that HCFA's surveyors may impose remedies because of their lack of familiarity with a particular facility. Response: Section 1919(g)(3)(A) of the Act mandates that the Secretary's determination as to the facility's noncompliance is binding and supersedes that of the State survey. Moreover, HCFA surveyors do not impose remedies. Rather, the managerial staff in the HCFA regional offices decide on the most appropriate remedy to be imposed. Therefore, we are not accepting this suggestion. Section 488.332␣Investigation of Complaints of Violations and Monitoring of Compliance Comment: A few commenters said that the certification and validation surveys constitute unreasonable administrative searches which violate the Fourth Amendment. They stated that routine inspections require a warrant unless the survey is initiated in accordance with neutral criteria and the surveyor's discretion is limited by an administrative plan defining the scope and procedure of the inspection, citing Barlow's Inc., 436 U.S. at 323 and Donovan v. Dewey, 452 U.S. 594 (1981). A few commented that warrantless complaint investigations also violate the Fourth Amendment because the proposed rule provides no assurance that investigations are justified and because the proposed rule contains no limits on time, place, scope and manner of any complaint investigation.
