FR940819-0-00023 FR940819-0-00008 II. Action Because the Court has clearly rejected EPA's use of the committal SIPs policy to extend statutory deadlines, EPA is withdrawing its conditional approval of Wisconsin's NO X RACT committal SIP. Furthermore, EPA is using the good cause exception of the Administrative Procedure Act to take such action without providing an opportunity for notice and comment because the Court has clearly articulated that such a conditional approval is contrary to law. 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B). Notice and opportunity for comment are unnecessary because the Court directly addressed the use of conditional approval for NO X RACT committal SIPs in its opinion and explicitly rejected such a use. Therefore, any comments would not be sufficient to rebut this legal interpretation of the Court, and EPA would be obligated to take final action withdrawing the conditional approval. Furthermore, because the Court has so clearly articulated that such action was contrary to law, it is not in the public interest to prolong the process by providing notice and an opportunity for comment. In addition, EPA also believes that it is proper to invoke the good cause exception for making an action effective earlier than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . See 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(3). Prompted by the Court's order, by July 8, 1994, EPA issued notices of failure to submit NO X RACT SIPs to all States that had merely submitted committal NO X RACT SIPs. Because EPA conditionally approved of Wisconsin's NO X RACT committal SIP and such conditional approval was still effective on July 8, 1994, EPA did not issue such a finding to the State of Wisconsin. The State of Wisconsin, however, should not be put in a more favorable position than other States merely because EPA had not yet taken final action on the other States' committal SIPs. Therefore, both to comply with the Court's decision and in the interest of equity, EPA believes it is necessary to make this withdrawal effective upon publication so that EPA may then immediately issue a finding of failure to submit to the State of Wisconsin. III. Summary and Conclusion EPA is taking final action to withdraw the conditional approval of Wisconsin's NO X RACT committal SIP. This action will be effective immediately upon publication of this action in the Federal Register . IV. Miscellaneous A. Applicability to Future SIP Decisions Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting, allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. The EPA shall consider each request for revision to the SIP in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. B. Executive Order 12866 This action has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. The OMB has exempted this regulatory action from E.O. 12866 review.
