FR940826-2-00073 FR940826-2-00055 c. AT&T shall not sell or contract to sell Interexchange Services at a price, term, or discount that depends upon whether the customer obtains Local Cellular Service from McCaw; and d. McCaw or a McCaw Cellular System shall not sell or contract to sell Local Cellular Service at a price, term, or discount that depends on whether the customer obtains Interexchange Service from AT&T. e. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section III.C and of this Section IV.F, AT&T may act as McCaw's agent in marketing Cellular Services before a McCaw Cellular System or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System is converted to equal access under this Section IV, provided that AT&T markets the Cellular Service under a McCaw trademark or trade name, AT&T does not market the Cellular Service in connection with AT&T's Interexchange Services, and does not use any AT&T trademark or trade name in marketing McCaw Cellular Service. The procedures and arrangements for marketing Cellular Service under this Section IV.E.1 e shall be described in compliance plans filed pursuant to Section VII.A of this Final Judgment before being implemented, except that arrangements for marketing Cellular Service at AT&T Phone Centers that were in existence before the commencement of this action may be maintained pending the effective date of compliance plans. 2. Nothing in this Final Judgment shall prohibit AT&T from, without separately stating charges for Interexchange Services and terminating Local Cellular Service, providing services in which the calling party pays for calls to a cellular telephone, provided that a. AT&T obtains any underlying Cellular Services from McCaw Cellular Systems or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems at a generally available rate, no higher than the rate offered to resellers of the cellular service provided by that McCaw cellular system; and b. The McCaw Cellular Systems or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems (or AT&T) contemporaneously discloses this rate to the other Interexchange Carriers serving that system and describes it in the Equal Access Plan filed for approval by the United States pursuant to section VII.A of this Final Judgment. G. Where there is insufficient demand by Interexchange Carriers for access to McCaw Cellular Systems within the Local Cellular Calling Areas specified in Section II(Q), McCaw Cellular Systems shall be permitted, upon a showing to and certification by the United States, to offer new services in which access to Interexchange Carriers is provided at one or more centralized points. The showing required and the certification provided pursuant to this Section IV.G shall state specifically the services to be provided, the access arrangements therefor, and the centralized points at which access to Interexchange Carriers is to be provided. H. Nothing in this Final Judgment shall prohibit McCaw from offering Cellular Digital Packet Data Service. I. Notwithstanding the requirements of this Section IV, AT&T may provide Interexchange Service to customers of Unaffiliated Cellular Carriers or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems who (1) roam into McCaw Cellular Systems, and (2) have not designated a presubscribed Interexchange Carrier or who have designated a presubscribed Interexchange Carrier that does not provide service to that McCaw Cellular System. V Manufacturing For so long as McCaw is affiliated with the AT&T Network Wireless Infrastructure Unit, AT&T shall have the duties set forth in Section V.A through V.D of this Final Judgment. A. 1. a. AT&T shall not allow Nonpublic Information of its Unaffiliated Wireless Infrastructure Equipment Customers to be disclosed for any reason to (i) McCaw or any of its directors, officers, or employees; (ii) any McCaw Minority Owned Wireless System (except in the case in which the Nonpublic Information relates specifically to such System); (iii) any person engaged in marketing any McCaw service or AT&T Telecommunications service; (iv) any person employed by a Marketing Account Team responsible for marketing to AT&T, McCaw or any McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System; or (v) any person performing Proprietary Development of Telecommunications Equipment for AT&T, McCaw or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems. b. AT&T shall not disclose any Nonpublic Information relating to the provision of any Wireless Service by McCaw or AT&T, obtained by AT&T by reason of its provision of Wireless Infrastructure Equipment to McCaw, to any Unaffiliated Wireless Infrastructure Equipment Customer. c. To the extent that the President or senior officers of AT&T Network Systems or members of AT&T's management executive committee are persons identified in items (ii) through (v) of Section V.A.1(a) of this Final Judgment, they shall be permitted to receive such Nonpublic Information in connection with their capacities as President or senior officers of AT&T Network Systems or members of AT&T's management executive committee, but such persons shall not disclose any such Nonpublic Information to other persons identified in (i) through (v) above. 2. McCaw shall not allow Nonpublic Information of its Unaffiliated Wireless Infrastructure Equipment suppliers to be disclosed for any reason to any person involved in the design, development, fabrication, or marketing of AT&T's Telecommunications Equipment. McCaw shall not allow Nonpublic Information of any unaffiliated Interexchange Carrier to be disclosed for nay reason to any person involved in the design, development, fabrication, or marketing of any AT&T Telecommunications service or product. Access to Nonpublic Information of any unaffiliated Interexchange Carrier shall be limited to authorized persons within McCaw and within AT&T's Network Wireless Infrastructure Unit having a legitimate need to know such Nonpublic Information in order to conduct their respective businesses.
