FR940202-2-00156 FR940202-2-00072 VISTA Summer Associate activities will address the issues of crime, violence, and fear in low-income communities by working on efforts such as community policing, crime prevention, and victim assistance. Both new and existing VISTA-sponsoring organizations are eligible to apply for VISTA Summer Associates through ACTION State Offices which will provide technical assistance in developing project applications. Youth Corps_the Corporation will award grants to operate 10&hyph;12 week summer youth corps programs for 1000 youth, ages 16 to 25. Participants will receive a living allowance, and those who successfully complete the program become eligible to receive a $1,000 educational award from the National Service Trust. Service activities during the summer will focus on the areas of public safety and the environment. At least one-half of the available funds will support public safety-related service activities. In selecting programs, the Corporation will give preference to programs that are creatively designed to address both public safety and environmental needs. The Corporation expects to award between 10 and 20 grants ranging in size from $50,000 to $250,000. Learn and Serve America Summer of Safety grants of up to $50,000 will be made through the Corporation's Learn & Serve America Program to engage 1500 youth between the ages of five and seventeen in innovative public safety-related community service. Eligible applicants are public or private nonprofit organizations that have experience working with school-age youths, and that have been in existence for at least one year. K&hyph;12 Summer of Safety programs must be innovative, and may encompass multiple program sites. National Senior Volunteer Corps The National Senior Volunteer Corps will fund 20 grants to existing NSVC sponsors involving the full range of public safety activities. An estimated 2,800 Senior Corp members will be recruited. The Corps will include professionally trained and other seniors interested in serving public safety needs. There will be a targeted recruitment campaign to attract highly skilled senior or retired police officers, sheriff's deputies, correctional officers, military police, social workers, teachers, public defenders and community leaders. Activities may include: Providing administrative support to police departments, conducting neighborhood crime surveys, providing crime prevention education to seniors, assisting domestic violence victims navigate the court system, coordinating neighborhood watch programs, and serving as mentors, tutors and counselors to juveniles under court supervision. Guidance to existing sponsors will be issued in late January with projects becoming operational in June. National Civilian Community Corps Approximately 200 Corps members, aged 14&hyph;17, will do public safety-related service projects with schools, local law enforcement agencies, and community-based organizations. Corps members will receive leadership training and a mix of the best military and civilian youth service programming during their eight weeks at the camp on an underutilized military installation. The site for the NCCC Summer of Safety camp will be selected by March, 1994. Appendix 3 The Act requires that, for funding under Subtitle B&hyph;2, priority will be given to applications that: (1) Demonstrate the commitment of the institution of higher education, other than by demonstrating the commitment of its students, to supporting the community service projects carried out under the program. (2) Specify how the institution will promote faculty, administration, and staff participation in the community service projects. (3) Specify the manner in which the institution will provide service to the community through organized programs, including, where appropriate, clinical programs for students in professional schools. (4) Describe any partnership that will participate in the community service projects, such as a partnership comprised of the institution, a student organization, a community-based agency, a local government agency, or a nonprofit entity that serves or involves school-age youth or older adults. (5) Demonstrate community involvement in the development of the proposal.
