FR940922-2-00124 FR940922-2-00083 Thursday September 22, 1994 Part VII Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administration International Conference on Harmonisation, Draft Guideline on Specific Aspects of Regulatory Genetoxicity Tests; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 183␣/␣Thursday, September 22, 1994␣/␣ Notices DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Food and Drug Administration [Docket No. 94D&hyph;0324] International Conference on Harmonisation; Draft Guideline on Specific Aspects of Regulatory Genotoxicity Tests; Availability AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is publishing a draft guideline entitled ``Notes for Guidance on Specific Aspects of Regulatory Genotoxicity Tests.'' This guideline was prepared by the Safety Expert Working Group of the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH). This draft guideline is intended to provide guidance on genotoxicity testing. DATES: Written comments by December 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments on the draft guideline to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857. Copies of the draft guideline are available from the CDER Executive Secretariat Staff (HFD&hyph;8), Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, 7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Regarding the draft guideline: Alan Taylor, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (HFD&hyph;502), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;2544. Regarding the ICH: Janet Showalter, Office of Health Affairs (HFY&hyph;20), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;1382. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In recent years, many important initiatives have been undertaken by regulatory authorities and industry associations to promote international Harmonisation of regulatory requirements. FDA has participated in many meetings designed to enhance Harmonisation and is committed to seeking scientifically based harmonized technical procedures for pharmaceutical development. One of the goals of Harmonisation is to identify and then reduce differences in technical requirements for drug development. ICH was organized to provide an opportunity for tripartite Harmonisation initiatives to be developed with technical input from both regulatory and industry representatives. FDA also seeks input from consumer representatives and others. ICH is concerned with Harmonisation of technical requirements for the registration of pharmaceutical products among three regions: The European Union, Japan, and the United States. The six ICH sponsors are the European Commission, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Associations, the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Japanese Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, FDA, and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. The ICH Secretariat, which coordinates the preparation of documentation, is provided by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations (IFPMA). The ICH Steering Committee includes representatives from each of the ICH sponsors and the IFPMA, as well as observers from the World Health Organization, the Canadian Health Protection Branch, and the European Free Trade Area. At a meeting held on March 10, 1994, the ICH Steering Committee agreed that a guideline entitled ``Notes for Guidance on Specific Aspects of Regulatory Genotoxicity Tests'' should be made available for public comment. The draft guideline is the product of the Safety Expert Working Group of the ICH. Comments about this draft will be considered by FDA and the Expert Working Group. Ultimately, FDA intends to adopt the ICH Steering Committee's final guideline. The draft guideline is to be applied in conjunction with existing guidelines in the United States, Japan, and Europe. No required battery of genetic toxicology tests has been adopted by FDA for pharmaceutical development in the United States, pending completion of ICH negotiations on this topic. The test battery recommended by FDA's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (58 FR 16536, March 29, 1993) for food additives, however, is currently preferred for the evaluation of pharmaceuticals and is recommended to those seeking initial guidance in this area. This battery is similar to that endorsed previously by the Environmental Protection Agency's Office of Pesticides Program ( Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis , 21:38&hyph;45, 1993). The draft guideline recommends methods of testing pharmaceuticals for genetic toxicity. These recommendations are based on historical information from the international pharmaceutical industry, regulatory agencies in the European Community, Japan, and the United States, and scientific literature. In general, while there may be cause for concern for mutagenic potential of certain biological products, the currently recommended tests should not be routinely applied to such products. When there is cause for concern, specific endpoints should be identified and relevant tests should be performed. In the past, guidelines have generally been issued under §10.90(b) (21 CFR 10.90(b)), which provides for the use of guidelines to state procedures or standards of general applicability that are not legal requirements but are acceptable to FDA. The agency is now in the process of revising §10.90(b). Therefore, if the agency issues this guideline in final form, the guideline would not be issued under the authority in current §10.90(b), and would not create or confer any rights, privileges, or benefits for or on any person, nor would it operate to bind FDA in any way. Interested persons may, on or before December 6, 1994, submit written comments on the draft guideline to the Dockets Management Branch (address above). Two copies of any comments are to be submitted, except that individuals may submit one copy. Comments are to be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. The draft guideline and received comments may be seen in the office above between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The text of the draft guideline follows: Notes for Guidance on Specific Aspects of Regulatory Genotoxicity Tests Introduction Guidelines for the testing of pharmaceuticals for genetic toxicity exist in the European Community (EC, 1987) and Japan (Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare, 1989). FDA's Centers for Drug and Biologics Evaluation and Research (CDER and CBER) currently consider the guidance on genetic toxicity testing provided by FDA's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition ( Federal Register notice, March 29, 1993) to be applicable to pharmaceuticals. The following notes for guidance should be applied in conjunction with existing guidelines in the three ICH regions. The recommendations below are derived from considerations of historical information from the international pharmaceutical industry, the three regulatory bodies, and the scientific literature. Where relevant, the recommendations from the latest review of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development guidelines and the International Workshop on Standardization of Genotoxicity Test Procedures held in Melbourne, Australia (February 1993) have been considered. Information from the survey carried out by the Centre for Medicines Research on current practices and strategies used by the pharmaceutical industry for genotoxicity testing (Purves, et al., 1994) has also been considered. A. The Base Set of Strains Used in Bacterial Mutation Assays Current guidelines for the detection of bacterial mutagens call for the inclusion of several strains to detect base substitution and frameshift point mutations. The Salmonella typhimurium strains cited in guidelines (normally TA1535, TA1537, TA98, and TA100) will detect such changes at G&hyph;C sites within target histidine genes. It is clear from the literature that some mutagenic carcinogens attack A&hyph;T base pairs preferentially (e.g., Levin, 1982; Wilcox, et al., 1990; also see note 1). Therefore, the standard set of strains used in bacterial mutation assays should include strains that will detect point mutations at A&hyph;T sites, such as S. typhimurium TA102, which possesses a mutation at an A&hyph;T site within multiple copies of hisG genes or E . coli WP2 uvrA , which possesses an A&hyph;T mutational site in the trpE gene or the same strain carrying the plasmid (pKM101), which carries mucAB genes that enhance error prone repair. In conclusion, the following base set of bacterial strains should be used for routine testing: the strains cited below are all S. typhimurium isolates, unless specified otherwise. 1. TA98; 2. TA100; 3. TA1535; 4. TA1537 or TA97 or TA97a (see note 2); 5. TA102 or E. coli WP2 uvrA or E. coli WP2 uvrA (pKM101). B. Acceptable Bone Marrow Tests for the Detection of Clastogens In Vivo Tests measuring chromosomal aberrations in nucleated bone marrow cells in rodents can detect a wide spectrum of changes in chromosomal integrity. These changes almost all result from breakage of one or more chromatids as the initial event. Breakage of chromatids can result in micronucleus formation if an acentric fragment is produced; therefore, assays detecting either chromosomal aberrations or micronuclei are acceptable for detecting clastogens (see note 3). Micronuclei can also result from dislocation of chromosomes from the mitotic spindle, and, thus, micronucleus tests have the potential to detect aneugenic compounds. In conclusion, the analysis of either chromosomal aberrations or micronuclei in bone marrow cells in vivo is acceptable for the detection of clastogens. The acceptability of the peripheral blood micronucleus assay as a substitute for the bone marrow micronucleus assay is being actively considered (see note 4). C. Guidance on the Further Evaluation of Compounds Giving In Vitro Positive Results Comparative trials have shown conclusively that each in vitro test system generates both false negative and false positive results in relation to predicting rodent carcinogenicity. The test battery approach is designed to reduce the risk of false negative results. However, the genotoxicity test batteries as described will only detect carcinogens that act primarily via a mechanism involving direct genetic damage, such as the majority of known human carcinogens. According to the results of the National Toxicology Program (Haseman, et al., 1990) and an analysis of results from tests of pharmaceuticals and industrial chemicals in Japan (Shimada, 1993), approximately 15 percent of carcinogens are not detected by the commonly used batteries of genotoxicity tests. Therefore, a positive result in any assay for genotoxicity does not necessarily mean that the test compound poses a genotoxic hazard to man. The following points should be considered when assessing in vitro positive results. In vitro Positive results that are without apparent biological relevance should be excluded. These include the following considerations (this list is not exhaustive, but is given as an aid to decisionmaking): (i) Is the response clearly reproducible? (ii) Is the magnitude of the response regarded as biologically significant? (iii) For positive responses in the presence of a competent metabolic system, is in vitro metabolism similar to in vivo metabolism? Are in vitro specific metabolites induced? (iv) Can the effect be attributed to extreme culture conditions that do not occur in in vivo situations (i.e., extremes of pH; osmolality, etc.)? (v) Is the effect only seen at extremely low survival levels? (vi) Are compounds in this chemical class normally associated with positive effects in vitro ? Are compounds in this chemical class normally associated with negative effects in vivo ? In vivo A positive result in an in vitro test that is regarded as biologically relevant (see previous paragraph) indicates that the test compound has genotoxic potential. An in vitro test measuring the same genetic endpoint should be carried out for confirmation. Such in vitro tests usually carry more significance than the comparable in vitro assays (Ashby, 1983). Thus, for a compound showing clastogenic activity in vitro the bone marrow micronucleus or chromosomal aberration assay can fulfil this role. It is recognized that, at present, there is no validated, widely used in vivo system which measures gene mutation. However, in vivo gene mutation assays using endogenous genes or transgenes in the rat and mouse are at various stages of development and validation. Until these tests for mutation become accepted, results from other widely used in vivo tests for genotoxicity in tissues other than the bone marrow can provide valuable additional data. Flexibility is desirable in the choice of a second in vivo assay (see note 5). In conclusion, where positive results have been obtained in one or more of the established in vitro tests, analysis should take place on a case-by-case basis as described above and in note 5. D. Validation of Negative In Vivo Test Results Because in vivo tests have a pivotal role in genotoxicity test batteries, it is necessary to prove adequate exposure of the target tissue. This can be achieved by a clear biological response in the tissue in question or by toxicokinetic data. If adequate exposure cannot be achieved (e.g., with compounds showing very poor bioavailability, extensive protein binding, etc.), conventional in vivo genotoxicity tests may have little value. The following recommendations apply to bone marrow cytogenetic assays. If other target tissues are used, similar principles should be applied. For compounds showing positive results in any of the in vitro tests employed, validation of in vivo exposure should be made by any of the following measurements: (i) By measuring a significant change in the proportion of immature erythrocytes among total erythrocytes in the bone marrow, at the doses and sampling times used in the micronucleus test or by measuring a significant reduction in mitotic index for the chromosomal aberration assay. (ii) Evidence of bioavailability of drug-related material either by measuring blood or plasma levels (see note 6). (iii) By direct measurement of drug-related material in bone marrow. (iv) By autoradiographic assessment of tissue exposure. For methods (ii) to (iv), assessments should be made preferentially at the top dose using the same species/strain and dosing route used in the bone marrow assay. If in vitro tests do not show genotoxic potential, validation of in vivo (systemic) exposure is also needed and can be achieved by any of the methods above, but can also be inferred from the results of standard absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) studies in rodents. E. Definition of the Top Concentration for In Vitro Tests (i) High dose for nontoxic compounds For freely soluble, nontoxic compounds, the upper treatment levels are 5 mg/plate for bacteria and 5 mg/mL or 10 mM for mammalian cells. (ii) Desired level of cytotoxicity Most genotoxic carcinogens are not detectable in in vitro mammalian cell genotoxicity assays unless the concentrations tested induce some degree of cytotoxicity. It is also apparent that at very low survival levels, mechanisms other than direct genotoxicity per se can lead to `positive' results that are related to cytotoxicity and not genotoxicity (e.g., events associated with apoptosis, endonuclease release from lysosomes, etc. (Kirkland, 1992)). Such events are likely to occur once a certain concentration threshold is reached for a toxic compound. To balance these conflicting considerations, the following levels of cytotoxicity are currently acceptable for in vitro mammalian cell tests: The desired level of toxicity for in vitro cytogenetic tests using cell lines is defined as greater than 50 percent inhibition of cell proliferation or culture confluency. For lymphocyte cultures, an inhibition of mitotic index by greater than 50 percent is considered sufficient. The desired upper limit of toxicity for mammalian cell mutation tests should be at least 80 percent of the corresponding control value. Toxicity can be measured either by assessment of cloning efficiency immediately after treatment, suspension growth immediately after treatment, or by calculation of relative total growth. (iii) Tests of poorly soluble compounds There is some evidence that dose-related genotoxic activity can be detected when testing particular compounds in the insoluble range. This is always associated with dose-related toxicity (see note 7). It is possible that solubilization of a precipitate is enhanced by serum in the culture medium or in the presence of S9-mix constituents. It is also probable that cell membrane lipid can facilitate absorption of lipophilic compounds into cells. In addition, some types of mammalian cells are phagocytic (e.g., Chinese hamster V79, CHO and CHL cells) and can ingest solid particles which may subsequently disperse into the cytoplasm. An insoluble compound may also contain soluble genotoxic impurities. It should also be noted that some insoluble compounds are administered in vivo as suspensions or as particulate materials. Heavy precipitates can interfere with scoring the desired parameter and render control of exposure very difficult (e.g., where a centrifugation step(s) is included in a protocol to remove cells from exposure media) (see note 8), or render the test compound unavailable to enter cells and interact with DNA. The following strategy is recommended for testing relatively insoluble compounds. The recommendation refers to the test article in the culture medium. If no toxicity is observed, the lowest precipitating concentration should be used as the top concentration. If dose-related toxicity or mutagenicity is noted, irrespective of solubility, then the top concentration should be based on toxicity as described above. It is recognized that the desired levels of cytotoxicity may not be achievable if the extent of precipitation interferes with the scoring of the test. In all cases, precipitation should be evaluated using the naked eye. F. Use of Male/Female Rodents in Bone Marrow Micronucleus Tests Extensive studies of the activity of known clastogens in the mouse bone marrow micronucleus test have shown that, in general, male mice are more sensitive than female mice for micronucleus induction (see note 9). Quantitative differences in sensitivity to micronucleus induction have been identified between the sexes, but no qualitative differences have been described. Where marked quantitative differences exist, there is invariably a difference in toxicity between the sexes. If there is a clear qualitative difference in metabolites between male and female rodents, then both sexes should be used in the micronucleus test. Similar principles can be applied for other established in vivo tests (see note 10). Both rats and mice are deemed acceptable for use in the bone marrow mironucleus test (see note 11). In summary, unless there are obvious differences in toxicity or metabolism between male and female rodents, males alone are sufficient for use in bone marrow micronucleus tests. If gender- specific drugs are to be tested, the appropriate sex should be used. Notes (1) Analysis of the database held by the Japanese Ministry of Labour on 5,526 compounds (and supported by smaller databases held by various pharmaceutical companies) has shown that approximately 7.5 percent of the bacterial mutagens identified are detected by E . coli WP2 uvrA but not by the standard set of four Salmonella strains. Although animal carcinogenicity data are not available on these compounds, it is likely that such compounds would carry the same carcinogenic potential as mutagens-inducing changes in the standard set of Salmonella strains. (2) TA1537, TA97, and TA97a contain cytosine runs at the mutation-sensitive site within the relevant target histidine loci and show similar sensitivity to frameshift mutagens that induce deletion of bases in these frameshift hotspots. There was consensus agreement at the International Workshop on Standardization of Genotoxicity Procedures, Melbourne, 1993 (Gatehouse, et al., 1994) that all three strains could be used interchangeably, and that decision is endorsed here. (3) As the mechanisms of micronucleus formation are related to those inducing chromosomal aberrations (e.g., Hayashi, et al., 1984), both micronuclei and chromosomal aberrations can be accepted as assay systems to screen for clastogenicity induced by test compounds. Comparisons of data where both the mouse micronucleus test and rat bone marrow metaphase analysis have been carried out on the same compounds has shown impressive correlation both qualitatively, i.e., detecting clastogenicity, and quantitatively, e.g., determination of the lowest clastogenic dose. Even closer correlations can be expected where the data are generated in the same species. (4) The peripheral blood micronucleus test in the mouse using acridine orange supravital staining was introduced by Hayashi, et al. (1990). The test has recently been the subject of a major collaborative study by the Japanese Collaborative Study Group for the Micronucleus Test (see Mutation Research (1992) 278 , Nos. 2/3). The tests were carried out in CD-1 mice using 23 test substances of various modes of action. Peripheral blood sampled from the same animal was examined 0, 24, 48, and 72 hours (or longer) after treatment. As a rule one chemical was studied by 2 different laboratories (46 laboratories took part). All chemicals were detected as inducers of micronuclei. There were quantitative differences between laboratories, but no qualitative differences. Most chemicals gave the greatest response 48 hours after treatment. Thus, the results suggest that the peripheral blood assay using acridine orange supravital staining can generate reproducible and reliable data to evaluate the clastogenicity of chemicals. Based on these data, the Melbourne workshop concluded that this assay is equivalent in accuracy to the bone marrow micronucleus assay. (5) Apart from the cytogenetic assays in bone marrow cells, the largest database for in vivo assays exists for the liver unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) assay. A review of the literature shows that a combination of the liver UDS test and the bone marrow micronucleus test will detect most genotoxic carcinogens with few false positive results (Tweats, 1994). Unstable genotoxins and certain aromatic amines are problematical for all existing in vivo screens. The choice of a second test, however, should not be restricted to UDS tests because other assays may be more appropriate (e.g., 32 P post-labelling, DNA strand-breakage assays, etc.), depending on the compound in question. (6) The bone marrow is a well-perfused tissue and it can be deduced therefore that levels of drug-related materials in blood or plasma will be similar to those observed in bone marrow. This is supported by direct comparisons of drug levels in the two compartments for a large series of different pharmaceuticals. Although drug levels are not always the same, there is sufficient correlation for measurements in blood or plasma to be adequate for validating bone marrow exposure. (7) Laboratories in Japan carrying out genotoxicity tests have much experience in testing precipitates, and have identified examples of substances that are clearly genotoxic only in the precipitating range of concentrations. These compounds include polymers and mixtures of compounds, some polycyclic hydrocarbons, some phenylene diamines, heptachlor, etc. Collaborative studies with some of these compounds have shown that they may be detectable in the soluble range; however, it does seem clear that genotoxic activity increases well into the insoluble range. A discussion of these factors is found in the report of the `` in vitro '' subgroup of the Melbourne conference (Kirkland, 1994). (8) Testing compounds in the precipitating range is problematical with respect to defining the exposure periods for assays where the cells grow in suspension. After the defined exposure period, the cells are normally pelleted by centrifugation and are then resuspended in fresh medium without the test compound. If a precipitate is present, the compound will be carried through to the later stages of the assay, making control of exposure impossible. If such cells are used (e.g., human peripheral lymphocytes or mouse lymphoma cells), it is reasonable to use the lowest precipitating concentration as the highest concentration tested. (9) As the induction of micronuclei and chromosomal aberrations are related, it is reasonable to assume that the same conditions can be applied for using male animals in bone marrow chromosomal aberration assays. The peripheral blood micronucleus test has been validated only in male rodents (The Collaborative Study Group for the Micronucleus Test, 1992), as has the ex vivo UDS test (Madle, et al., 1994). (10) A detailed collaborative study was carried out under the auspices of the Japanese Environmental Mutagen Society (The Collaborative Study Group for the Micronucleus Test, 1986). This study indicated that, in general, male mice were more sensitive than female mice for micronucleus induction; where differences were seen, they were only quantitative, not qualitative. This analysis has been extended by the group considering the micronucleus test at the Melbourne Harmonisation workshop and, having analyzed data on 53 in vivo clastogens (and 48 nonclastogens), the same conclusions were drawn (Hayashi, et al., 1994). (11) Both the rat and mouse are suitable species for use in the micronucleus test. However, data are accumulating to show that some species-specific carcinogens are species-specific genotoxins (e.g., Albanese, et al., 1988). When more data have accumulated, there may be a case for carrying out micronucleus tests in both the rat and the mouse. References Albanese, R., Mirkova, E., Gatehouse, D., and Ashby, J. (1988). Species-specific response to the rodent carcinogens 1,2-dimethylhydrazine and 1,2-dibromochloropropane in rodent bone marrow micronucleus assays. Mutagenesis, 3 , 35&hyph;38. Ashby, J. (1983). The unique role of rodents in the detection of possible human carcinogens and mutagens. Mutat. Res., 115 , 177&hyph;213. EEC (1987). Notes for Guidance for the Testing of Medicinal Products for their Mutagenic Potential, Official Journal Eur. Comm. L73 Gatehouse, D., Haworth, S., Cebula, T., Goch, E., Kier, L., Matsushima, T., Melcion, C., Nohmi, T., Ohta, Venitt, S., and Zeiger, E. (1994). Report from the working group on bacterial mutation assays: International workshop on standardisation of genotoxicity test procedures. Mutat. Res. (in press). Haseman, J. K., and Clark, A. M. (1990). Carcinogenicity results for 114 laboratory animal studies used to assess the predictivity of four in vitro genetic toxicity assays for rodent carcinogenicity. Environ. Mol. Mutagen, 16, Suppl. 18, 15&hyph;31. Hayashi, M., Morita, T., Kodarna, Y., Sofuni, T., and Ishidate, M., Jr. (1990). The micronucleus assay with mouse peripheral blood reticulocytes using acridine orange-coated slides, Mutat. Res., 245 , 245&hyph;249. Hayashi, M., Tice, R. R., MacGregor, J. T., Anderson, D., Blakey, D. H., Kirsch-Volders, M., Oleson, F. B., Jr., Pacchierotti, F., Romagna, F., Shimada, H., Sutou, S., and Vannier, B. (1994). in vivo rodent erythrocyte micronucleus assay. Mutat. Res. (in press). Hayashi, M., Sofuni, T., and Ishidate, M., Jr. (1984). Kinetics of micronucleus formation in relation to chromosomal aberration in mouse bone marrow. Mutat. Res., 127 , 129&hyph;137. Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare (1989). Guidelines for toxicity studies of drugs. Kirkland, D. (1992). Chromosomal aberrations test in vitro : Problems with protocol design and interpretation of results. Mutagenesis, 7 , 95&hyph;106. Kirkland, D. (1994). Report of the in-vitro sub-group. International workshop on standardization of Genotoxicity Test Procedures. Mutat. Res. (in press). Levin, D. E., Hollstein, M., Christman, M. F., Schwiers, E. A., and Ames, B. N. (1982). A new Salmonella tester strain (TA102) with A-T base pairs at the site of mutation detects oxidative mutagens. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA, 79 , 7445&hyph;7449. Madle, S., Dean, S. W., Andrae, U., Brambilla, G., Burlinson, B., Doolittle, D. J., Furihata, C., Hertner, T., McQueen, C.A., and Mori, H. (1994). Recommendations for the performance of UDS tests in vitro and in vivo . Mutat. Res. (in press). Purves, D., Harvey, C., Tweats, D. J., and Lumley, C. (1994). Genotoxicity Testing: Current practices and strategies used by the pharmaceutical industry (submitted for publication). Shimada, H. (1993). Mutagenicity studies of Japanese regulatory guideline: the status quo and the point at issue. Environ. Mut. Res. Com., 15 , 109&hyph;121. The Collaborative Study Group for the Micronucleus Test (1992). Micronucleus test with mouse peripheral blood erythrocytes by acridine orange supravital staining: The summary report of the 5th collaborative study by CSGMT/JEMS: MMS. Mutat. Res., 278 , 83&hyph;98. Tweats, D. J. (1994). Follow-up of in vitro positive results. Proceedings of ICH 2 (in press). Wilcox, P., Naidoo, A., Wedd, D. J., and Gatehouse, D. G. (1990). Comparison of Salmonella typhimurium TA102 with Escherichia coli WP2 tester strains. Mutagenesis, 5 , 285&hyph;291. Dated: September 15, 1994. William K. Hubbard, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23377 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
