FR940407-1-00031 FR940407-1-00011 §2400.41 Degree programs. (a) Fellows may pursue a master's degree in history or political science (including government or politics), the degree of Master of Arts in Teaching in history or political science (including government or politics), or a related master's degree in education that permits a concentration in American history, American government, or social studies. Graduate degrees under which study is excluded from fellowship support are indicated in §2400.64. (b) A master's degree pursued under a James Madison Fellowship may entail either one or two years or their equivalent of study, according to the requirements of the university at which a Fellow is enrolled. §2400.42 Approval of programs. The Foundation must approve each Fellow's program of graduate study. To be approved, the program must (a) On a part-time or full-time basis lead to a master's degree in history or political science, the degree of Master of Arts in Teaching in history or political science, or a related master's degree in education that permits a concentration in American history, American government, or social studies; (b) Include courses, graduate seminars, or opportunities for independent study in topics directly related to the framing and history of the constitution of the United States; (c) Be pursued at a university that assures a willingness to accept up to 6 semester hours of accredited transfer credits from another graduate institution for a Fellow's satisfactory completion of the Foundation's Summer Institute on the Constitution. For the Foundation's purposes, these 6 semester hours may be included in the required minimum of 12 semester hours or their equivalent of study of the United States Constitution; and (d) Be pursued at a university that encourages the Fellow to enhance his or her capacities as a teacher of American history, American government, or social studies and to continue his or her career as a secondary school teacher. The Foundation reserves the right to refuse to approve a Fellow's degree program at a university that will not accept on transfer the 6 credits for the Institute. §2400.43 Required courses of graduate study. (a) To be acceptable to the Foundation, those courses related to the Constitution referred to in §2400.43(b) must amount to at least 12 semester hours or their equivalent of study of topics directly related to the United States Constitution. More than 12 hours or their equivalent of such study is strongly encouraged. (b) The courses that fulfill the required minimum of 12 semester hours or their equivalent of study of the United States Constitution must cover one or more of the following subject areas: (1) The history of colonial America leading up to the framing of the Constitution; (2) The Constitution itself, its framing, the history and principles upon which it is based, its ratification, the Federalist Papers, Anti-Federalist writings, and the Bill of Rights; (3) The historical development of political theory, constitutional law, and civil liberties as related to the Constitution; (4) Interpretations of the Constitution by the Supreme Court and other branches of the federal government; (5) Debates about the Constitution in other forums and about the effects of constitutional norms and decisions upon American society and culture; and (6) Any other subject clearly related to the framing, history, and principles of the Constitution. (c) If a master's degree program in which a Fellow is enrolled offers the option of a master's thesis in place of a course or courses, the Fellow will be strongly urged to write a thesis. If the preparation of a master's thesis adds additional required credits to the minimum number of credits required for the master's degree, the Foundation will pay for these additional credits. In all programs in which a master's degree thesis is required or elected as an option, a Fellow must write the thesis in a subject concerning the framing, principles, or history of the United States Constitution.
