FR940819-0-00079 FR940819-0-00018 In Prince William Sound, the Assessment estimates that the incremental escort cost is $94,500 per tanker transit from Hinchinbrook Entrance to Whittier (via Bligh Reef pilot station) and return, using two escort vessels dispatched from Port Valdez. This cost-per-transit is relatively high because the tanker must pay for the total round-trip dispatch time of the escort vessels. Because these tankers are operated or chartered by the Navy, the escort costs will ultimately be borne by the U.S. Government (Department of Defense). In Puget Sound, the Assessment assumes that there is sufficient inbound or outbound tanker traffic such that a tanker will only be paying for one-way dispatch time of the escort vessels. However, unlike Prince William Sound, there are several possible destination terminals in Puget Sound; accordingly, escorted transit times range from 1 to 7 hours. Therefore, the average cost-per-transit is estimated to be $6,750 (5 hrs at approximately $1,350 per hour) for all tankers, in 1994 dollars. The Assessment estimates that the first-year cost of the regulations (1995) will be $11.4 million, and the total discounted program cost (1995 to 2015) will be $57.7 million, in 1990 dollars. The tanker industry can reduce these costs by switching to double-hulled tankers earlier than assumed in the Assessment, or it can increase these costs by continuing to use double-sided or double-bottomed tankers after 2010. The original preliminary Regulatory Evaluation attempted to statistically estimate the benefits of the regulations. The Coast Guard has subsequently determined that there is no statistical basis for such estimations without making extreme assumptions of debatable validity. This is because the occurrence of a steering or propulsion failure is not related to the size of the tanker or its cargo capacity. Further, such failures do not necessarily result in a collision or grounding, nor do collisions or groundings necessarily result in rupture of cargo tank(s). And even if a tank were ruptured, there is no predicting the actual amount of outflow that would occur. Therefore, the final Assessment makes a presumption of effectiveness by assuming that the regulations would avert at least one collision or grounding that would otherwise spill 300,000 barrels of oil (This is derived from the approximate capacity of two cargo tanks on a midsize oil tanker of 80,000 DWT.). This averted oil spill could occur at any time during the 15-year period from 1995 (the first full year that the regulations will be in effect) to 2010 (when the last single hull oil tanker is phased out of service). The monetary benefits of these regulations include avoided cleanup costs, third-party compensation (lost earnings to fishermen, etc.) and natural resource damages. Historically, these costs have varied enormously from spill to spill because of the great range of factors affecting the impact of oil spills, such as type of product, environment, time of year, location, and weather conditions. Accordingly, it is not possible to establish a definitive monetized (dollar) benefit value for unspilled oil. Therefore, the Assessment does not perform benefit calculations using dollar amounts. Instead, it uses the unspilled oil quantity, discounted at 7 percent back to 1990 barrels. If the averted 300,000 barrel spill were assumed to occur in 1995, the discounted quantity would be 213,896 barrels. If it were assumed to occur in 2010, the discounted quantity would be 77,526 barrels. Accordingly, the final Assessment has determined that the cost of these regulations ranges from $270 to $744 per discounted barrel of unspilled oil. Small Entities The Coast Guard has evaluated the impact of this rulemaking on small entities in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). The small entity impact analysis is incorporated into the final Assessment for this rulemaking. In response to the NPRM and public hearings, only six comments have been received to date concerning the impact of escort regulations on small businesses. The comments stated that the regulations would have detrimental economic impact on small businesses in the Puget Sound region if tallow and vegetable oil cargoes were included. However, the regulations do not include non-petroleum oil cargoes. The Coast Guard has determined that most of the tankers that are affected by the regulation in Prince William Sound and Puget Sound are owned either by oil companies or large shipping corporations. Since few small entities will be affected, the Coast Guard certifies under section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This rule contains no collection-of-information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). The original NPRM contained collection of information requirements in the form of written information that had to be prepared by escort vessel operators and submitted to the local Coast Guard Captain of the Port (COTP). As discussed elsewhere, the requirement has been deleted. Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this rule under the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. This rule establishes standards and requirements for the escort of single hull tankers over 5,000 GT in Prince William Sound, Alaska and Puget Sound (and certain associated waters around Puget Sound), Washington. The authority to regulate such traffic is delegated to the Coast Guard by the Secretary of Transportation whose authority is committed by statute. While these regulations establish minimal requirements for escort of certain tanker traffic through these designated areas, the Coast Guard does not intend to preempt the states from issuing more stringent requirements provided they are not in direct conflict with Federal law or this rulemaking. Environment The Coast Guard considered the environmental impact of this rulemaking and concluded that the preparation of an Environmental Impact statement is not necessary. An Environmental Assessment and a Finding of No Significant Impact are available in the docket for inspection or copying where indicated under ADDRESSES. The primary effect of the regulation will be a reduction in the probability of petroleum oil spills in Puget and Prince William Sounds. The only other impact will be a minor increase in vessel traffic (escort vessels) moving through Puget and Prince William Sounds: the estimated 1,276 additional escort vessel transits per year represent an average of 3 to 4 additional vessels per day; this will decrease as single hull tankers are phased out of service.
