FR941103-2-00070 FR941103-2-00031 Customers originally had 97 days to submit comments and request information; 56 of those days were after the public information forum. The largest and most detailed request for data was received by Western on July 1, 1994, which was 19 days before the original close of the comment period. The final response to this request was faxed to the consulting firm, on July 19, 1994, 1 day before the original end of the comment period. Western then extended the date it would accept comments to July 27, 1994, to provide commentors extra time to prepare a reply. Western believes that ample time has been allowed for public comment and that information was furnished to requestors in a timely manner. However, Western also recognizes that there could be confusion and misunderstanding regarding the information needed by the commentators and that some of the information received may not be what was needed. Western will continue to work with customers and interested parties to find a more efficient and acceptable process to respond to data requests and meet the commentors' needs. b. Comment: A customer organization said: Given the backdrop of structural changes in the industry and increasing environmental concerns over hydro power generation, it would seem that Western should develop a pricing policy based upon a firm understanding of price sensitivity. The lack of any such analysis is a major omission. Response: One of Western's primary concerns is the impact the prices for its products have on possible sales. Based on knowledge of the electrical power market, Western's proposed combined rates for firm power are below other sources of firm electrical power available to Integrated Projects customers. For this reason, Western has not undertaken a specific study to analyze price effects on the electrical power purchased by Western's Integrated Projects customers. There may be reductions of Integrated Projects energy usage in the short-term by Western's customers as a result of the proposed increase in the energy rate. Some of Western's Integrated Projects customers with their own electrical power generating resources may be faced with variable costs that allow them to produce energy more cheaply than purchasing from Western at the proposed new rate. Information on the cost of generation is considered sensitive and is not available to Western. However, published sources of information which relate to coal prices and other components of the variable costs of power generation indicate that the proposed energy rate is less than Western's estimate of their cost of generating thermal energy. Western has received no comments to indicate otherwise. c. Comment: To help customers respond more completely to Western's proposals, a customer organization suggests that, in the future, when Western entertains the thought of extending the time for commenting as done here, tie the extension to a period of time following completion of responses to requests for information. Response: Western believes that the existing customer review process and the public rate process sufficiently provide for both flexibility for input and measurability of the progress toward the completion of a rate. d. Comment: Several customers concur with changing the expression of the firm power rate from a `combined rate' to a `composite rate'. Response: Western agrees with the customer comment and believes that the composite rate will make the price of Integrated Projects power more easily comparable with that from other sources. e. Issue: A customer states that they believe it is very unfair to continue to increase the burden on the ratepayers to fund (environmental) studies which will result in further increases in costs and/or reductions in the amount of power available. Response: As noted earlier, Western is working with Reclamation to more closely monitor these costs. 11. Issue Papers Resolution: Several issues which Western believes would have caused considerable protracted comment were discussed in detail during the pre-rate-adjustment process of informal meetings between various stakeholders and the exchange of issue papers. The stakeholders liked the process. The issues which were resolved in this process are summarized below:
