FR940617-0-00170 FR940617-0-00026 (b) For determining credit usage for all engine families requiring credits to offset emissions in excess of the standard: Emission credits= (Std^FEL)×(Volume) ×(MaxPR)× (10 ^6 ) Where: Std=the current and applicable nonroad engine emission standard in grams per brake horsepower hour. FEL=the family emission limit for the engine family in grams per brake horsepower hour. Volume=the number of nonroad engines eligible to participate in the averaging, banking, and trading program within the given engine family during the model year. Quarterly production projections are used for initial certification. Actual applicable production/sales volumes is used for end-of-year compliance determination. MinPR=the power rating of the configuration within an engine family with the lowest power rating. MaxPR=the power rating of the configuration within an engine family with the highest power rating. §89.208&hyph;96 Labeling. For all nonroad engines included in the averaging, banking, and trading program, the family emission limit to which the engine is certified must be included on the label required in §89.110&hyph;96. §89.209&hyph;96 Certification. (a) In the application for certification a manufacturer must: (1) Declare its intent to include specific engine families in the averaging, banking, and trading program. (2) Submit a statement that the engines for which certification is requested will not, to the best of the manufacturer's belief, cause the manufacturer to have a negative credit balance when all credits are calculated for all the manufacturer's engine families participating in the averaging, banking, and trading program. (3) Declare an FEL for each engine family participating in averaging, banking, and trading. (i) The FEL must be to the same number of significant digits as the emission standard. (ii) In no case may the FEL exceed the upper limit prescribed in §89.203&hyph;96(d). (4) Indicate the projected number of credits generated/needed for this family; the projected applicable production/sales volume, by quarter; and the values required to calculate credits as given in §89.207&hyph;96. (5) Submit calculations in accordance with §89.207&hyph;96 of projected emission credits (positive or negative) based on quarterly production projections for each participating family. (6) (i) If the engine family is projected to have negative emission credits, state specifically the source (manufacturer/engine family or reserved) of the credits necessary to offset the credit deficit according to quarterly projected production. (ii) If the engine family is projected to generate credits, state specifically (manufacturer/engine family or reserved) where the quarterly projected credits will be applied. (b) All certificates issued are conditional upon manufacturer compliance with the provisions of this subpart both during and after the model year of production. (c) Failure to comply with all provisions of this subpart will be considered to be a failure to satisfy the conditions upon which the certificate was issued, and the certificate may be deemed void ab initio. (d) The manufacturer bears the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the conditions upon which the certificate was issued were satisfied or waived. (e) Projected credits based on information supplied in the certification application may be used to obtain a certificate of conformity. However, any such credits may be revoked based on review of end-of-year reports, follow-up audits, and any other verification steps deemed appropriate by the Administrator. §89.210&hyph;96 Maintenance of records.
