FR940617-0-00239 FR940617-0-00026 (1) The manufacturer must establish, maintain, and retain the following adequately organized and indexed information on each exempted engine: (i) Engine identification number, (ii) Use of the engine on exempt status and (iii) Final disposition of any engine removed from exempt status; and (2) The manufacturer must provide right of entry and access to these records to EPA authorized representatives as outlined in §89.506&hyph;96. (3) Unless the requirement is waived or an alternate procedure is approved by the Director, Manufacturers Operations Division, the manufacturer must permanently affix a label to each nonroad engine on exempt status. This label should (i) Be affixed in a readily visible portion of the engine, (ii) Be attached in such a manner that cannot be removed without destruction or defacement, (iii) State in the English language and in block letters and numerals of a color that contrasts with the background of the label, the following information: (A) The label heading ``Emission Control Information;'' (B) Full corporate name and trademark of manufacturer; (C) Engine displacement, engine family identification, and model year of engine; or person of office to be contacted for further information about the engine; (D) The statement ``This nonroad engine is exempt from the prohibitions of 40 CFR section 90.1003.'' (4) No provision of paragraph (a)(3) of this section prevents a manufacturer from including any other information it desires on the label. (b) Any independent commercial importer that desires a precertification exemption pursuant to §89.611(b)(3) and is in the business of importing, modifying, or testing uncertified nonroad engines for resale under the provisions of §89.611 et seq., must apply to the Director, Manufacturers Operations Division. The Director may require such independent commercial importer to submit information regarding the general nature of the fleet activities, the number of nonroad engines involved, and a demonstration that adequate record-keeping procedures for control purposes will be employed. §89.907 Display exemption. Where an uncertified nonroad engine is a display engine to be used solely for display purposes, will only be operated incident and necessary to the display purpose, and will not be sold unless an applicable certificate of conformity has been received or the engine has been finally admitted pursuant to subpart G of this part, no request for exemption of the engine is necessary. §89.908 National security exemption. A manufacturer requesting a national security exemption must state the purpose for which the exemption is required and the request must be endorsed by an agency of the federal government charged with responsibility for national defense. §89.909 Export exemptions. (a) A new nonroad engine intended solely for export, and so labeled or tagged on the outside of the container and on the engine itself, is subject to the provisions of §89.1003, unless the importing country has new nonroad engine emission standards which differ from EPA standards. (b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this section, a country having no standards, whatsoever, is deemed to be a country having emission standards which differ from EPA standards. (c) EPA will maintain a list of foreign countries that have in force nonroad emission standards identical to EPA standards and have so notified EPA. This list may be obtained by writing to the following address: Chief, Selective Enforcement Auditing Section, Manufacturers Operations Division (6405&hyph;J), Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20460. New nonroad engines exported to such countries must comply with EPA certification regulations.
