FR941230-2-00024 FR941230-2-00018 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Authority Part B of Title III of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, Public Law 94&hyph;163, created the Energy Conservation Program for Consumer Products other than Automobiles (Program). The most recent amendment, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPACT), Pub. L. 102&hyph;486, identified several new categories of products and equipment beyond the existing residential appliances for inclusion in various required and voluntary testing and information programs to promote energy efficiency. Voluntary programs were specified for commercial office equipment, window rating and labeling, and luminaires. As described in section 126 of EPACT, the Secretary of Energy, after consulting with industry associations and other interested organizations, is to provide technical and financial assistance to support a voluntary national testing and information program for those types of luminaires that are widely used, and for which there is a potential for significant energy savings as a result of such programs. Such program will provide information that, when conveyed to consumers, will enable purchasers of the equipment to make more informed decisions about the energy efficiency and costs of alternative products. The voluntary program should determine the luminaires to be covered, include specifications for testing procedures, and include information, which may be disseminated through catalogs, trade publications, labels, or other mechanisms, that will allow consumers to assess the energy consumption and potential cost savings of alternative products. Such program shall be developed by an appropriate organization (composed of interested parties) according to commonly accepted procedures for the development of national testing procedures and labeling programs. Not later than three years after the date of enactment of EPACT (October 24, 1995), the Secretary shall make a determination as to whether the voluntary program is positioned to achieve the objectives established for the testing and rating of luminaires. If the Secretary determines that the voluntary program is not consistent with the objectives of the legislation, the Secretary shall, after consultation with the National Institute of Standards and Technology, develop test procedures for luminaires. One year later, the Federal Trade Commission would prescribe labeling rules. 2. Background Since the passage of EPACT, the Department of Energy has monitored the efforts of the luminaire industry to develop a testing and information program through the National Lighting Collaborative (NLC or Collaborative), a working group composed of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA), the American Lighting Association, lighting manufacturers, environmental organizations, designers, national laboratories, and other lighting professionals. On May 24, 1994, DOE held a public meeting to invite interested parties to offer suggestions concerning methods of evaluation and to obtain updates on the progress of the Collaborative's voluntary program. Subsequent comments were invited through June 15, 1994. Additional suggestions and information were supplied by the Collaborative on July 28, 1994. 3. Discussion The purpose of the meeting is twofold: (1) to discuss comments on the proposed evaluation criteria; and (2) to provide an opportunity to inform DOE on the progress of the voluntary program and establish a timetable for the evaluation of the program. After the meeting and comment period, the Department will consider all comments and publish the evaluation criteria in the Federal Register . 4. Public Meeting Procedure The meeting will be informal. Participants are requested to review a copy of the draft evaluation criteria before the meeting. Issued in Washington, DC, December 20, 1994. Christine A. Ervin, Assistant Secretary, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;32114 Filed 12&hyph;27&hyph;94; 4:26 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
