FR940616-2-00130 FR940616-2-00091 3. Interpreters: If needed, interpreters for the U.S. program are provided by the U.S. State Department Language Services Division. Typically, a pair of simultaneous interpreters is provided for every four visitors who need interpretation. USIA grants do not pay for foreign interpreters to accompany delegations from their home country. Grant proposal budgets should contain a flat $140/day per diem for each Department of State interpreter, as well as home-program-home air transportation of $400 per interpreter plus any U.S. travel expenses during the program. Salary expenses are covered centrally and should not be part of an applicant's proposed budget. 4. Book and cultural allowance: Participants are entitled to and escorts are reimbursed a one-time cultural allowance of $150 per person, plus a participant book allowance of $50. U.S. staff do not get these benefits. 5. Consultants. May be used to provide specialized expertise or to make presentations. Daily honoraria generally do not exceed $250 per day. Subcontracting organizations may also be used, in which case the written agreement between the prospective grantee and subcontractor should be included in the proposal. 6. Room rental, which generally should not exceed $250 per day. 7. Materials development. Proposals may contain costs to purchase, develop, and translate materials for participants. 8. One working meal per project. Per capita costs may not exceed $5&hyph;$8 for a lunch and $14&hyph;$20 for a dinner; excluding room rental. The number of invited guests may not exceed participants by more than a factor of two to one. 9. A return travel allowance of $70 for each participant which is to be used for incidental expenditures incurred during international travel. 10. All USIA-funded delegates will be covered under the terms of a USIA-sponsored health insurance policy. The premium is paid by USIA directly to the insurance company. 11. Other costs necessary for the effective administration of the program, including salaries for grant organization employees, benefits, and other direct and indirect costs per detailed instructions in the application package. Note: the 20 percent limitation of ``administrative costs'' included in previous announcements does not apply to this RFP. Please refer to the Application Package for complete budget guidelines. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the Application Packet. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the budget and contract offices, as well as the USIA geographic regional office and the USIS post overseas, where appropriate. Proposals may also be reviewed by the USIA's Office of General Counsel or by other Agency elements. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the USIA Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's contracting officer. Review Criteria USIA will consider proposals based on their conformance with the objectives and considerations already stated in this RFP, as well as the following criteria: 1. Quality of Program Idea: Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, precision, and relevance to the Agency mission. 2. Program Planning: Detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substance undertakings and logistical capacity. Agenda and plan should adhere to the program overview and guidelines described above. 3. Ability to Achieve Program Objectives: Objectives should be reasonable, feasible, and flexible. Proposal should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program objectives and plan. 4. Multiplier Effect: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, including maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual linkages. 5. Value to U.S._Partner Country Relations: Proposed projects should receive positive assessments by USIA's geographic area desk and overseas officers of program need, potential impact, and significance in the partner. 6. Institutional Capacity: Proposed personnel and institutional resources should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the program or project's goal.
