FR940620-2-00134 FR940620-2-00066 II. Agenda/Focus Topics for Public Meeting The Agency is providing this forum for the regulated community and other interested parties to present argument and evidence as to whether additional incentives are needed to encourage the self-disclosure and prompt correction of environmental violations uncovered during facility audits. The Agency is particularly interested in receiving information relating to the implementation of EPA's 1986 Environmental Auditing Policy Statement. To date, the Agency has received only anecdotal reports relating to the use of the policy by Federal inspectors and prosecutors and their State and local counterparts. EPA is interested in specific information, supported with documentation, about both the successes and failures associated with the implementation of the 1986 policy. Matters that involved, or should have involved, penalty mitigation are especially relevant. At the public meeting, EPA will encourage discussion of specific suggestions for auditing policy options. The presentation of evidence supporting the viability of these options will be given priority. This forum presents an opportunity for the Agency to establish a dialogue with the regulated community on ways to provide increased recognition and greater certainty of enforcement response (through penalty mitigation or other mechanisms) for self-disclosure and correction of violations discovered through auditing. EPA is particularly interested in options which adapt existing mechanisms or policies, and which expand the approaches used in current EPA self-disclosure/penalty reduction programs (e.g., the Compliance Audit Program under section 8(e) of the Toxic Substances Control Act). Four States (Colorado, Indiana, Kentucky, and Oregon) have recently enacted legislation which, with some variations, creates a ``self-evaluative'' privilege for audit reports. EPA has consistently opposed this approach, principally because of the risk of weakening State enforcement programs, the imposition of unnecessary transaction costs and delays in enforcement actions, and the potential increase in the number of situations requiring the expenditure of scarce Agency resources, including the ``overfiling'' of State enforcement actions. EPA urges States that are considering a privilege-oriented approach to actively participate in the comprehensive process described in this notice before pursuing any legislative action. The Agency also encourages States that have passed such legislation to present documentary justification for this approach at the public meeting. The Agency recognizes that significant interest exists with regard to the potential use of auditing results in criminal enforcement. Discussion of the relationship of auditing to criminal sanctions is therefore appropriate at the public meeting. Relevant background information includes the Department of Justice document entitled, ``Factors in Decisions on Criminal Prosecutions for Environmental Violations in the Context of Significant Voluntary Compliance or Disclosure Efforts by the Violator,'' dated July 1, 1991, and the EPA memorandum on ``The Exercise of Investigative Discretion,'' from Earl E. Devaney, Director, Office of Criminal Enforcement, dated January 12, 1994. Lastly, EPA is interested in discussion of advances in the field of auditing since 1986; any revision of auditing policy should reflect more recent trends and developments in the auditing field. At the public meeting, discussion may include the potential applicability of concepts relating to auditing and environmental management systems incorporated into the Draft Corporate Sentencing Guidelines for Environmental Violations, dated November 16, 1993, as well as evolving international auditing and management standards. Finally, comment is expected on the potential role of the Environmental Leadership Program pilot projects in promoting auditing practices or implementing auditing policy. III. Information for Participants Persons interested in speaking, presenting information, or otherwise expressing comments at this meeting should fax their name, affiliation, phone number, topic, and a brief statement on what their presentation can add to the dialogue, to one of the contacts listed above by July 13, 1994. Persons wishing to submit pre-filed testimony may send or fax such material to one the contacts listed above. Speakers will be notified of their time slot or panel assignment once the final format is determined. This meeting will be open to the public as space permits, and a transcript of the proceedings will be prepared. Dated: June 14, 1994. Steven A. Herman, Assistant Administrator, Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14948 Filed 6&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P Z ␣
