FR941110-0-00211 FR941110-0-00016 Federal-State Disagreement Comment: One commenter noted that under ยง488.452, if a State and HCFA have a difference of opinion on the deficiencies cited, the one that finds noncompliance prevails. The commenter wondered how an administrator of the facility could understand how to comply, if the State and HCFA could not agree on compliance/noncompliance. Response: The Act mandates that the finding of noncompliance prevails over the finding of compliance. All facility administrators can read the Act, the regulations and the detailed guidelines that have been issued to implement the regulations. We believe that facilities have a duty to operate in compliance at all times, regardless of whether the State and Secretary agree that a noncompliance exists. Disagreements between the State and Secretary could be a result of different findings between Federal and State surveys from different observations at different times, and not necessarily a disagreement about the same set of facts. The surveys could occur 2 months apart, for example, during which time conditions at the facility could change. Comment: One commenter stated that ยง488.452(d)(1) appears to pose double jeopardy for nursing facilities in that compounded remedies may be applied by both HCFA and the State agency. The commenter did not think that providers should have to face corrective action from both agencies. Another commenter noted that in case of a Federal survey following a State survey, two different remedies could apply; for example a State could terminate an agreement and the Secretary could impose additional civil monetary penalties. The commenter stated that the one-time Federal survey could not consistently or fairly evaluate the facility, and double sanctions from both agencies would not improve quality of care. The commenter suggested that only one type of sanction be applied ``after'' the Federal and State surveyors concur on the findings. Response: Section 1919(h)(7) of the Act, specifically envisions cases where a facility may face remedies at the hands of both a State and HCFA. Section 1919(h)(7)(B) of the Act expressly sets forth the rules as to whose remedies will apply when either or both parties are seeking to impose alternative sanctions in addition to a provider agreement termination. We do not accept the implication that one-time Federal surveys cannot fairly evaluate a facility. Federal surveyors are trained, just as State surveyors are, in the requirements of the Act and the regulations. Federal surveyors have always conducted Federal monitoring surveys to monitor State survey agency performance; therefore these, statutory requirements formalize long-standing agency practice. Comment: One commenter stated that the net effect of the regulations is that facilities will be assumed to be out of compliance. This commenter stated that historically, facilities were deemed to be in compliance unless there were allegations to the contrary, and that if Federal and State surveyors disagreed, another survey should be required. Response: We do not agree that another survey should be conducted whenever there is disagreement between Federal and State surveyors. Whatever the commenter may think of the wisdom of the Act's ``tie-breaker'' rule, the Congress has been quite clear in directing which survey decision applies when HCFA and the State disagree about compliance and remedies. We also do not agree that facilities will be assumed to be out of compliance. Facilities are required to meet all the requirements at all times. When a facility signs a provider agreement, the facility is agreeing to maintain compliance. The surveyors' job is to verify that compliance. If either a Federal or State survey finds the facility to be out of compliance with program requirements, deference must be given to that certification of noncompliance in the interest of the protection of resident health and safety.
