FR941004-1-00053 FR941004-1-00015 The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by these species in determining to propose this rule. Endangered or threatened status is proposed for these species because large-scale human population increases and attendant urban growth and changes in agricultural land uses have destroyed significant quantities of foothill habitats and continue to eliminate plant populations. These plants and their habitats face current and future threats from urbanization, agricultural land conversion, highway construction, overgrazing, maintenance of roads and rights-of-way activities, mining, logging, off-highway vehicle use, stochastic extinction from random natural events, inadequate regulatory mechanisms, and insect predation. Because the majority of threats facing four of these species are imminent, Brodiaea pallida, Calyptridium pulchellum, Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus, and Mimulus shevockii are in immediate danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of their respective ranges and, thus, fit the definition of an endangered species as defined in the Act. The only population of Brodiaea pallida is threatened by urbanization, inadequate regulatory mechanisms, and stochastic extinction. Four of the seven populations of Calyptridium pulchellum are imminently threatened by urbanization; one of those four sites is threatened potentially by overgrazing and an additional population threatened by grazing. Although TNC has voluntary verbal protection agreements with current landowners of one of the populations, no permanent preservation is assured at any of the populations sites. All four populations of Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus are threatened by urbanization and one population is potentially threatened by overgrazing. Although landowners of three of the four populations have registered each site with TNC for voluntary protection, no long-term protection is assured for any of the four known populations. Six of the seven known populations of Mimulus shevockii are threatened variously by mobile home development, agricultural land conversion, and off-highway vehicle use. None of the populations have any protection. The plants proposed for listing as threatened are restricted to habitats somewhat less vulnerable to development and are faced with less imminent threats. However, these species are likely to become endangered in the foreseeable future unless current trends of urban development, agricultural land conversion, highway construction, road maintenance activities, improper fire management, off-highway vehicle use, and overgrazing are reversed. Allium tuolumnense is threatened by urbanization, overgrazing, mining, and off-highway vehicle use on 25 percent of its range on private lands. The remaining 75 percent of the population occurs on public lands and is potentially threatened by grazing on public lands. Carpenteria californica is imminently threatened by urbanization, highway construction, maintenance of roads and rights-of-way in connection with hydroelectrical operations, competition from native brush species, logging, illegal dumping, incompatible fire management activities, overgrazing, inadequate regulatory mechanisms, and off-highway vehicle use over the one-third of its range on private lands. Carpenteria californica is potentially threatened by alteration of natural fire cycles, off-highway vehicle use, and maintenance of roads and rights-of-way on the remaining two-thirds of its range on public lands. Four of the seven populations of Clarkia springvillensis are threatened by urbanization, road maintenance activities, insect predation, overgrazing, inadequate regulatory mechanisms, and timber operations. The largest population is protected partially by a fenced preserve owned by the California Department of Fish and Game. A possible fence realignment potentially threatens a significant portion of this population. Although three of the four populations of C. springvillensis occurring on the Sequoia National Forest are fenced and signed for protection, those populations may be threatened by future emergency powerline maintenance. Of the 17 populations of Fritillaria striata, 9 populations are threatened variously by agricultural land conversion, urbanization, off-highway vehicle use, road widening, emergency road maintenance activities, overgrazing, and trampling. Additionally, all populations of F. striata are potentially threatened by inadequate State regulatory mechanisms and competition from nonnative grasses. Three of the six populations of Navarretia setiloba are threatened by urbanization and off-highway vehicle use. Seven of the nine populations of Verbena californica, containing 65 percent of the plants, are threatened by urbanization over a relatively small part of its range on private lands. Recreational placer gold mining threatens this plant and overgrazing potentially threatens this plant on its remaining range on public lands. These six plants are not yet in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of their ranges, but appear likely to become in danger of extinction in the foreseeable future. As a result, the preferred action is to list Allium tuolumnense, Carpenteria californica, Clarkia springvillensis, Fritillaria striata, Navarretia setiloba, and Verbena californica as threatened species.
