FR940928-1-00032 FR940928-1-00011 The Councils propose to redefine allowable octocorals to close a potential loophole that could allow harvest of live rock as part of the 50,000 colony annual quota for allowable octocorals. The revised definition would include as allowable octocoral only a limited amount of the attached substrate_one inch (2.54 cm) in the South Atlantic EEZ and 3 inches (7.62 cm) in the Gulf EEZ. Currently, a Federal permit for prohibited coral is issued only when the prohibited coral is for a scientific or educational purpose. The Councils propose to add restoration to the purposes for which these permits are available. This addition recognizes the benefits of habitat restoration following ship groundings and other environmental perturbations. The Councils also propose to allow the harvest of live rock under a Federal permit issued for a scientific, educational, or restoration purpose. The Councils propose to require permits for and reporting of wild live rock harvest during the phase-out periods in the Gulf EEZ off Florida north of Monroe County and in the South Atlantic EEZ south of the Dade/Broward County line. Permits would be limited to persons who legally participated in the fishery on or prior to February 3, 1994, and to the number of vessels that operated in the commercial fishery for live rock on or prior to February 3, 1994, as documented on trip tickets received by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection prior to March 15, 1994. The date of February 3, 1994, was published in the Federal Register (59 FR 5179, February 3, 1994) as the control date for entry into the commercial fishery for live rock. All commercial landings of live rock have been permitted and reported under Florida's permitting and reporting requirements. Those requirements include a Saltwater Products License with a Restricted Species Endorsement and a Marine Life Endorsement, and the submission of trip tickets. These limitations on permits are intended to stabilize harvest during the phase-out period to near the 1992 level and to limit participants to those already in the fishery. To accomplish these intended effects, NMFS finds it necessary to identify owners with the requisite permit history and the number of vessels, by owner, that operated in the commercial fishery on or prior to the control date. Vessel permits would be issued to such owners in corresponding numbers. The Councils intend to allow and facilitate live rock aquaculture to replace the wild harvest. Amendment 2 proposes to require an aquacultured live rock permit for the harvest and possession of live rock from aquaculture operations in the Gulf EEZ, under specific criteria designed to protect natural hard bottom areas as specified in this rule. The aquaculture permit would also authorize an exception to the prohibition on taking and possession of otherwise prohibited corals. Otherwise, an aquaculturist could be prevented from harvesting the aquaculture product if small polyps of such species are detected on the rocks. Amendment 2 would establish a permit requirement for the harvest and possession of live rock from aquaculture operations in the South Atlantic EEZ, but aquaculture permits for this area will be issued only after appropriate criteria are developed and implemented through a subsequent rulemaking. Both Councils have agreed that management of coral, coral reefs, live rock, and any other part of the management unit in the FMP will be the responsibility of the Council in whose jurisdiction it occurs. Under this arrangement, Amendment 2 proposes to eliminate the current requirement that both Councils approve all measures in any FMP amendment submitted for agency review. This requirement exists because the FMP was designated by NMFS as a joint management plan prepared by the two Councils. Additionally, the South Atlantic Council has requested designation of a separate FMP for the South Atlantic because it believes (1) the habitats in the Gulf and South Atlantic are different, (2) the resource does not move between the South Atlantic and the Gulf, (3) it should have authority to coordinate all habitat concerns and policies in the South Atlantic, (4) there are additional management needs in the South Atlantic, (5) the Councils have different management philosophies, and (6) a separate FMP will improve timeliness of management adjustments and reduce constituent costs. The Gulf Council concurs in the South Atlantic's request. NMFS requests comments on the proposal to separate the FMP into an FMP for the South Atlantic and an FMP for the Gulf of Mexico.
