FR940328-2-00120 FR940328-2-00068 Monday March 28, 1994 Part IX Corporation for National and Community Service Availability of Funds for Training and Technical Service; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 59␣/␣Monday, March 28, 1994␣/␣Notices CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE Availability of Funds for Training and Technical Assistance AGENCY: Corporation for National and Community Service. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds. SUMMARY: The Corporation for National and Community Service announces the availability of approximately $5.1 million to provide training and technical assistance to State Commissions or alternative entities, AmeriCorps grantees (except where otherwise stated for Learn and Serve grantees) and those interested in becoming AmeriCorps grantees. The Corporation seeks proposals and concept papers describing activities to meet the technical assistance and training needs outlined in this Notice. The Corporation also invites concept papers proposing additional or alternative technical assistance and training activities. DATES: Deadlines for submission of technical assistance and training (T/TA) proposals are 6 pm Eastern Standard Time on the following dates: T/TA for the National Leadership Corps May 3, 1994 Maintaining a Strong ␣␣Organization May 18, 1994 National Priority Skills Development Centers June 1, 1994 The deadlines for submission of concept papers are 6 pm Eastern Standard Time May 27, 1994, and September 13, 1994. Following the May deadline, the Corporation expects to invite potential applicants to submit a detailed proposal by July 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: All proposals and concept papers should be submitted to the Corporation for National and Community Service, 1100 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20525. Attn.: T/TA Proposal or Concept Paper Review. Applicants are requested to include four copies of proposals or concept papers to facilitate the review processes. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kathryn Frucher or Tracy Gray at the Corporation for National and Community Service, (202)606&hyph;5000 ext. 106. Questions about this Notice will be answered during technical assistance and training conference calls which are scheduled to take place on March 31, April 7, April 14, and April 21, 1994 from 2:00 pm&hyph;3:00 pm. To reserve a place on a conference call, please call the Corporation at (202)606&hyph;5000 ext. 432 or fax a request to (202)606&hyph;4816. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Outline Summary_Training and Technical Assistance Activities (I) Application by Proposal (A) Training and Technical Assistance for the National Leadership Corps (B) Maintaining a Strong Organization_Fundraising, Program Management, Evaluation, Fiscal Management, and Grievance Procedures (C) National Priority Skills Development Centers (II) Application by Concept Paper (A) National Service Resource Center (B) Strengthening the Basics of National Service Programs (C) Service and Citizenship (D) Strengthening Program Diversity (E) Peer Exchange Visitation Program (F) Learn and Serve America K&hyph;12_ Resource Publications Training Initiatives on Service-Learning (G) Learn and Serve America Higher Education_ Higher Education Service Resource Center Institutionalizing Service-Learning Infrastructure and Capacity-Building (H) Training and Technical Assistance for State Commissions (III) Invitation for Original Concept Papers Proposing Additional or Alternative Training and Technical Assistance Activities Summary Background On September 21, 1993, the President signed into law the National and Community Service Trust Act, which created the Corporation for National and Community Service (the Corporation). The Corporation's mission is to engage Americans of all ages and backgrounds in service that addresses the nation's education, public safety, health, and environmental needs to achieve direct and demonstrable results. In doing so, the Corporation will foster civic responsibility, strengthen the ties that bind us together as a people, and provide educational opportunity for those who make a substantial commitment to service. The Corporation is a new government corporation that encompasses the work and staff of two existing independent agencies, the Commission on National and Community Service and ACTION. The Corporation will fund a new national service initiative called AmeriCorps. AmeriCorps includes a wide variety of programs operated by grantees (including local non-profits), the National Civilian Community Corps, and the Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) program. The Corporation will also support service-learning initiatives for elementary and secondary schools and institutions of higher education called Learn and Serve America, and operate the senior volunteer programs previously operated by ACTION. The Act authorizes the Corporation to support and improve Summer of Service programs, AmeriCorps grants programs, and Learn and Serve programs through a variety of training and technical assistance (T/TA) activities. These activities should build on the AmeriCorps regulations and the ``Principles for High Quality National Service Programs'' document which lay out the Corporation's vision and expectations for AmeriCorps programs. The regulations and ``Principles'' document should be read by all potential T/TA providers. Copies may be obtained by calling the Corporation at 202&hyph;606&hyph;4949 or writing the Corporation at 1100 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC, 20525. To receive information on getting the ``Principles'' or regulations on Internet, please send a blank electronic mail message to: cncs@ace.esusda.gov. There should be no text in the body of the message. An automatic response will be sent back to you with information on how to retrieve the regulations. Overview The Corporation announces the availability of approximately $5.1 million in fiscal year 1994 for training and technical assistance initiatives. Under each fundable activity, estimated levels of funding are listed. Most grants or cooperative agreements will be made for a term of one year, unless specified otherwise. The Corporation requests proposals, and, in some cases, concept papers for the specific activities described herein. This Notice lists applications requiring full proposals and areas in which concept papers are requested. In most cases, applicants are not required to cover all of the needs in a given area; for example, an organization can apply to train grantees in fundraising skills only in the ``Maintaining a Strong Organization'' section.
