FR940512-1-00078 FR940512-1-00010 (2) A copy of the corrective action plan, if any, submitted to the Director; and (3) One copy each of any other written submissions sent to the Director in response to the Director's initial written notice to terminate funds or take other significant adverse action against the center. (d) The date of filing a formal written appeal to the Secretary under paragraph (c) of this section is determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of 34 CFR 81.12. (e) If the center files a formal written appeal with the Secretary, the center shall send a separate copy of this appeal to the Director by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means that provide a record that the Director received a separate copy of the center's written appeal. (f) The center's formal written appeal to the Secretary must state why_ (1) The Director has not met the burden of showing that the center is not in compliance with the standards and assurances in section 725 (b) and (c) of the Act and in subparts F and G of this part; (2) The corrective action plan, if any, should have been approved; or (3) The Director has not met the procedural requirements of §§366.40 through 366.45. (g) As part of its submissions under this section, the center may request an informal meeting with the Secretary at which representatives of both parties will have an opportunity to present their views on the issues raised in the appeal. (h) A Director's decision to terminate funds that is described in an initial written notice or final written decision is stayed as of the date (determined pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section) that the center files a formal written appeal with the Secretary. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796f&hyph;2(g)(2) and (i)) §366.45 What must a Director do upon receipt of a copy of a center's formal written appeal to the Secretary? (a) If the center files a formal written appeal in accordance with §366.44(c), the Director shall, within 15 days of receipt of the center's appeal, submit to the Secretary one copy each of the following: (1) The Director's initial written notice to terminate funds or take any other significant adverse action against the center sent to the center. (2) The Director's final written decision, if any, to disapprove the center's corrective action plan and to terminate the center's funds or take any other significant adverse action against the center. (3) Any other written documentation or submissions the Director wishes the Secretary to consider. (4) Any other information requested by the Secretary. (b) As part of its submissions under this section, the Director may request an informal meeting with the Secretary at which representatives of both parties will have an opportunity to present their views on the issues raised in the appeal. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796f&hyph;2(g)(2) and (i)) §366.46 How does the Secretary review a center's appeal of a decision included in a Director's initial written notice or a Director's final written decision? (a) If either party requests a meeting under §§366.44(g) or 366.45(b), the meeting is to be held within 30 days of the date of the Secretary's receipt of the submissions from the Director that are required by §366.45(a). The Secretary promptly notifies the parties of the date and place of the meeting. (b) Within 30 days of the informal meeting permitted under paragraph (a) of this section or, if neither party has requested an informal meeting, within 60 days of the date of receipt of the submissions required from the Director by §366.45(a), the Secretary issues to the parties the Secretary's decision. (c) The Secretary reviews a decision included in a Director's initial written notice or a Director's final written decision to disapprove the center's corrective action plan and to terminate the center's funds or take any other significant adverse action against the center based on the record submitted under §§366.44 and 366.45 and may affirm or, if the Secretary finds that the decision included in a Director's initial written notice or a Director's final written decision is not supported by the evidence or is not in accordance with the law, may_ (1) Remand the appeal for further findings; or
