FR940412-2-00125 FR940412-2-00090 Applicants must state how an existing partnership will work with the proposed coalition. If not the applicant agency, collaboration and involvement with State and local governments will be required. Other active partnerships receiving funding from private groups such as the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, United Way organizations, or other business organizations that have formed a non-profit entity, may also apply. Applicants receiving Federal funds from other agencies such as the Department of Education or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention may also apply, but must identify the source of funding and purpose of their current grant. Availability of Funds: It is estimated that approximately $9 million will be available to support approximately 9&hyph;12 awards under this program announcement in Fiscal Year 1994. Average grants will be in the $500,000 range. However, funding levels will depend on the availability of appropriated funds. Period of Support: Support may be requested for a period of up to five (5) years. Annual awards will be made subject to continued availability of funds and progress achieved. Application Receipt and Review Schedule: Applications will be received and reviewed according to the following schedule: ␣ 1Receipt date 1IRG review 1Council review 1Earliest start date June 10, 1994 Aug. 1994 Sept. 1994 Sept. 30, 1994. Subject to the availability of funds in future years, CSAP may reissue this announcement and publish future receipt dates and a notice of availability of funds in the Federal Register . Because the President's 1995 budget request proposes to consolidate SAMHSA's categorical substance abuse prevention demonstrations, certain aspects of this program could change. Therefore, applicants are strongly encouraged to verify the availability and terms of funding for new awards for this program. Consequences of Late Submission: Applications must be received by the above receipt date to be accepted for review. An application received after the deadline may be acceptable if it carries a legible proof-of-mailing date (assigned by the carrier) and that date is not later than one week prior to the deadline date. However, private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing.
