FR941121-2-00055 FR941121-2-00044 [FRL&hyph;5110&hyph;5] Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) or Superfund, Section 104; Announcement of Competition for Final Five Brownfield Economic Redevelopment Initiative Pilots AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Environmental Protection Agency will begin accepting proposals for Brownfield Economic Redevelopment Pilots beginning December 1, 1994. The application period will close March 1, 1995, and the Agency intends to competitively select five Pilots by June 1, 1995. DATES: This action is effective as of December 1, 1994, and expires on March 1, 1995. All proposals must be received and/or post marked by the expiration date cited above. ADDRESSES: Application booklets can be obtained by calling the Superfund Hotline at 800&hyph;424&hyph;9346, or writing to: U.S. EPA_Brownfield Application, Superfund Document Center 5201G, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The Superfund Hotline, 800&hyph;424&hyph;9346. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Brownfield Economic Redevelopment Initiative is founded on the belief that ``economic development and environmental protection must go hand in hand,'' (Carol Browner, Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency, Announcing the Cleveland Brownfields Pilot on November 8, 1993). EPA's Brownfields Initiative is an organized commitment to help communities revitalize abandoned contaminated properties, and to thereby eliminate potential health risks and restore economic vitality to areas where these properties exist. Three national pilot projects already have been awarded. With as many as 100,000 sites potentially requiring evaluation under federal or state Superfund programs, hundreds of local, state, and tribal governments and their citizens inevitably will have to deal with contaminated properties. The ``polluter pays'' principle, fundamental to Superfund's success in deterring the creation of new contaminated sites, has caused public and private investors to shy away from buying and cleaning up land which may be contaminated. Fear of that liability drives investors toward undeveloped ``greenfields.'' The result can be a diminished supply of pristine land and economic decline in industrial and urban centers. Both are detrimental to communities. EPA's Brownfields Pilots (to be funded at $200,000 each over two years) will test redevelopment models, direct special efforts toward removing regulatory barriers without sacrificing protectiveness, and facilitate coordinated efforts at the federal, state, and local levels. EPA will develop a coordinated federal strategy to help initiate a significant national effort to clean up and redevelop brownfields. The objectives of the initiative are: to build the capacity of affected and interested parties to shape how contaminated sites are cleaned up and productively reused; to stimulate a national search for innovative ways to overcome the current obstacles to the reuse of contaminated properties; and to coalesce federal, state, and municipal efforts to examine new approaches to achieving cleanup and reuse; and to explore the potential for combining an economic stimulus and a speeded-up environmental cleanup to contribute to achieving environmental justice. Cities, counties, towns, states, and Native American tribes are all eligible to apply. Proposals will be evaluated on the following Criteria (a more detailed and complete set of criteria will be included in the application booklet): •Demonstrated commitment of public and private leadership to brownfields redevelopment. •Plans for effective community involvement. •Clear delineation of how federal support will make a difference. •Potential for national replication. •Government support and technical, legal, and political capacity to complete goals. •Clearly outlined potential sources of cleanup funding. •Contributions to environmental justice goals. •Well-defined approach to environmental assessment. Dated: November 15, 1994. Timothy Fields, Jr., Deputy Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28706 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
