FR940919-2-00048 FR940919-2-00032 Part IV Best Management Practices and Pollution Prevention Conditions Section A. General Conditions 1. BMP Plan Preparation of a Best Management Practices (BMP) Plan shall be prepared in conjunction with development of the Remedial Action Plan required by Florida Department of Environmental Protection (See Part II.F.c.). The permittee shall maintain the BMP plan at the facility and shall make the plan available to the permit issuing authority upon request. The ``NPDES Guidance Document'' can be used as a reference which contains technical information on BMPs and the elements of the BMP program. The permittee shall develop and implement a BMP plan which prevents, or minimizes the potential for, the release of pollutants from ancillary activities, including material storage areas; plant site runoff; in-plant transfer, process and material handling areas; loading and unloading operations, and sludge and waste disposal areas, to the waters of the United States through plant site runoff; spillage or leaks; sludge or waste disposal; or drainage from raw material storage. The term pollutants refers to any substance listed as toxic under Section 307(a)(1) of the Clean Water Act, oil, as defined in Section 311(a)(1) of the Act, and substance listed as hazardous under Section 311 of the Act. Copies of the ``NPDES Guidance Document'' may be obtained by submitting written requests to: Director, Water Management Division, U.S. EPA Region IV, 345 Courtland St. N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30365. 2. Pollution Prevention Plan New permittees with long term treatment systems expected to discharge one (1) year or more shall develop a Pollution Prevention Plan for the site and submit it with the NOI. It shall contain the following information: (a) A Narrative of What Caused the Groundwater Contamination. (b) Methods currently being deployed at the site to prevent groundwater contamination from reoccurring. (c) Other alternative treatment options which were considered in reducing the groundwater contamination. (d) Explanation of why long term treatment of discharge to Surface Waters of the United States was chosen as opposed to: (1) Reduction-Monitor Phase I_ Using a combination of techniques to significantly reduce groundwater contamination that could be achieved in three (3) months or less, with the objective of reaching a monitor-only status. (2) Reduction-Monitor Phase II_ Using a combination of techniques to significantly reduce groundwater contamination that could be achieved in six (6) months or less, with the objective of reaching a monitor-only status. In an effort to promote pollution prevention, the Permit Issuing Authority may issue permits which include or require pollution prevention activities. Part V Whole Effluent Toxicity Testing Program Acute Freshwater Language As required by Part I of the permit, within 30-days after commencement of discharge, permittees discharging to fresh waters, which are surface waters in which the chloride concentration at the surface is less than 1500 milligrams per liter, shall initiate the series of tests described below to evaluate whole effluent toxicity of the discharge from the outfall. If more than one (1) outfall exists, separate tests will be performed on each outfall. All test species, procedures and quality assurance criteria used shall be in accordance with Methods for Measuring the Acute Toxicity of Effluents to Freshwater and Marine Organisms, EPA/600/4&hyph;90/027F, or the most current edition. The dilution/control water used will be moderately hard water as described in EPA/600/4&hyph;90/027F, Section 7, or the most current edition. A standard reference toxicant quality assurance test shall be conducted concurrently with each species used in the toxicity tests and the results submitted with the discharge monitoring report (DMR). Alternatively, if monthly QA/QC reference toxicant tests are conducted, these results must be submitted with the DMR. 1. a. The permittee shall conduct 96-hour acute static-renewal multi-concentration toxicity tests using the daphnid ( Ceriodaphnia dubia ) and the fathead minnow ( Pimephales promelas ). All tests shall be conducted on one grab sample of 100% final effluent. All tests shall be conducted on a control (0%) and the following dilution concentrations at a minimum: 100.0%, 50.0%, 25.0%, 12.5%, and 6.25%. b. If control mortality exceeds 10% for either species in any test, the test(s) for that species (including the control) shall be repeated. A test will be considered valid only if control mortality does not exceed 10% for either species. 2. The toxicity tests specified above shall be conducted once every month until three (3) valid monthly tests have been completed, and once every year thereafter for the duration of the permit, unless notified otherwise by the permit issuing authority. These tests are referred to as ``routine'' tests. 3. a. If unacceptable acute toxicity (an LC 50 of 100% or less occurs in either test species in any of the above-described tests within the specified time) is found in a ``routine'' test, the permittee shall conduct two additional acute toxicity tests in the same manner as the ``routine'' test on the specie(s) indicating unacceptable acute toxicity. For each additional test, the sample collection requirements and test acceptability criteria specified in Section 1 above must be met for the test to be considered valid. The first test shall begin within two weeks of the end of the ``routine'' tests, and shall be conducted weekly thereafter until two additional, valid tests are completed. The additional tests will be used to determine if the toxicity found in the ``routine'' test is still present. b. Results from additional tests, required due to unacceptable acute toxicity in the ``routine'' test(s), must be reported on the Discharge Monitoring Report (DMR) Form for the month in which the test was begun. Such test results must be submitted within 45 days of completion of the second additional, valid test.
