FR940722-0-00048 FR940722-0-00013 b. NDCC 38&hyph;12.1&hyph;04(1)(a), Jurisdiction of the Industrial Commission North Dakota proposed to revise NDCC 38&hyph;12.1&hyph;04(1)(a) to grant the Industrial Commission (Commission) the authority to require the furnishing of a reasonable bond amount sufficient to ensure the reclamation of roads used in coal exploration. Specifically, North Dakota proposed to revise NDCC 38&hyph;12.1&hyph;04(1)(a) to provide that the Commission, acting through the office of the state geologist, has the authority to require (italicized language to be added): The furnishing of a reasonable bond with good and sufficient surety, conditioned upon the full compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and the rules and regulations of the commission prescribed to govern the exploration for coal on state and private lands and roads used in coal exploration within the state of North Dakota. The Federal program does not require bonding for coal exploration. Thus, North Dakota's proposed revision specifically referencing roads used in coal exploration with respect to the furnishing of a reasonable bond for reclamation goes beyond the requirements of the Federal program. In accordance with section 505(b) of SMCRA and the Federal regulations at 30 CFR 739.11(b), the State regulatory authority has the discretion to impose land use and environmental controls and regulations on coal exploration operations that are more stringent than those imposed under SMCRA and the Federal regulations. Moreover, the State regulatory authority has the discretion to impose land use and environmental controls and regulations on coal exploration operations for which no Federal counterpart exists. Section 505(b) of SMCRA and 30 CFR 730.11(b) dictate that such provisions shall not be construed to be inconsistent with the Federal program. Accordingly, the Director is approving the proposed revision to NDCC 38&hyph;12.1&hyph;04(1)(a). c. NDCC 38&hyph;12.1&hyph;08 and NDAC 43&hyph;02&hyph;01&hyph;05, Civil and Criminal Penalties North Dakota proposed to revise its statutory provision at NDCC 38&hyph;12.1&hyph;08, regarding civil and criminal penalties in the coal exploration portions of the State program to read as follows (italicized language to be added): 1. Any person, including a director, officer, or agent of a corporate permittee , who violates this chapter, or any permit condition or regulation implementing this chapter is subject to a civil penalty not to exceed five thousand dollars per day of such violation. Any person, including a director, officer, or agent of a corporate permittee , who knowingly violates this chapter, or any permit condition or regulation implementing this chapter or who knowingly reports information required by this chapter falsely is subject, upon conviction, to a criminal penalty of not more than ten thousand dollars or by imprisonment for not more than one year. In a letter dated November 12, 1993, OSM identified several concerns with North Dakota's proposed changes. 1. Statutory Authorization for Individual Penalties OSM notified North Dakota that although its proposed revisions to NDCC 38&hyph;12.1&hyph;08 purported to subject an individual director, officer, or agent of a corporate permittee to civil and criminal penalties when that individual committed a violation, the proposed revisions did not indicate under what circumstances an individual director, officer, or agent will be deemed to have committed a violation. In contrast, section 518(f) of SMCRA specifically addresses the circumstances under which a corporate director, officer, or agent may be individually subject to either civil or criminal penalties in connection with a violation committed by a corporate permittee. Section 518(f) of SMCRA provides, in part, that: Whenever a corporate permittee violates, a [law, rule, order, or permit condition] or fails or refuses to comply with an order issued under section 521 of this Act, or any order incorporated in a final decision issued by the Secretary under this Act *␣*␣* any director, officer, or agent of such corporation who willfully and knowingly authorized, ordered, or carried out such violation, failure, or refusal shall be subject to the same civil penalties, fines, and imprisonment that may be imposed upon a person under [sections 518(a) and (e) of SMCRA]. OSM stated that in order to be no less stringent than section 518(f) of SMCRA, North Dakota must revise proposed NDCC 38&hyph;12.1&hyph;08 to clearly subject corporate directors, officers, or agents, to individual civil and criminal penalties in connection with violations committed by a corporate permittee, under the circumstances outlined in section 518(f) of SMCRA.
