FR941027-2-00142 FR941027-2-00083 Thursday October 27, 1994 Part VI Department of Education Bilingual Vocational Instructor Training Program; Inviting Applications for New Grant Awards for Fiscal Year 1995; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 207␣/␣Thursday, October 27, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION [CFDA No.: 84.099] Bilingual Vocational Instructor Training Program; Notice Inviting Applications for New Grant Awards for Fiscal Year (FY) 1995 Note to Applicants: This notice is a complete application package. Together with the statute authorizing the program and applicable regulations governing the program, including the Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), this notice contains all of the information, application forms, and instructions needed to apply for a grant under this competition. Purpose of Program: The Bilingual Vocational Instructor Training Program provides financial assistance for preservice and inservice training for personnel participating in or preparing to participate in bilingual vocational education and training programs for limited English proficient individuals. The Bilingual Vocational Instructor Training Program supports the National Education Goal that, by the year 2000, every adult American will be literate and will possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. The program helps further this goal by helping to improve vocational education and training for limited English proficient adults. Eligible Applicants: State agencies or public and private non-profit educational institutions. Deadline for Transmittal of Applications: December 12, 1994. Deadline for Intergovernmental Review: February 2, 1995. Available Funds: $441,900. Estimated Range of Awards: $150,000&hyph;$250,000. Estimated Average Size of Awards: $221,000. Estimated Number of Awards: 2. Note: The Department is not bound by any estimates in this notice. Project Period: Up to 18 months. Applicable Regulations: (a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows: (1) 34 CFR part 74 (Administration of Grants to Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Nonprofit Organizations). (2) 34 CFR part 75 (Direct Grant Programs). (3) 34 CFR part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations). (4) 34 CFR part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities). (5) 34 CFR part 80 (Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments). (6) 34 CFR part 81 (General Education Provisions Act_Enforcement). (7) 34 CFR part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying). (8) 34 CFR part 85 (Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)). (9) 34 CFR part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses). (b) The regulations for this program in 34 CFR parts 400 and 428. Content of the Application An application must_(a) Provide an assurance that the activities and services for which assistance is sought will be administered by or under the supervision of the applicant; (b) Propose a project of a size, scope and design that will make a substantial contribution toward carrying out the purpose of the Bilingual Vocational Instructor Training Program; (c) Describe the capabilities of the applicant, including vocational training or education courses offered by the applicant, accreditation, and any certification of courses by appropriate State agencies; (d) Describe the qualifications of principal staff to be used in the bilingual vocational instructor training project; (e) Describe the number of participants to be served, the minimum qualifications for project participants, and the selection process for project participants; (f) Include the projected amount of the fellowships or traineeships, if any; (g) Contain sufficient information for the Secretary to determine that the applicant has an ongoing vocational education program in the field in which participants will be trained, and can provide instructors with adequate language capabilities in the language other than English to be used in the bilingual vocational training project; and (h) Provide an assurance that preservice training will be provided to individuals who have indicated their intent to engage as personnel in a vocational education program that serves limited English proficient individuals. Invitational Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(1) the Secretary is particularly interested in applications that meet the following invitational priority. However, an application that meets this invitational priority does not receive competitive or absolute preference over other applications: Applications that include strategies to developing the applicant's capacity to continue, expand, or build upon its bilingual vocational preservice and inservice training when Federal funding under this competition ends, as evidenced by such actions as_ (a) Extending training to additional sites that are not funded under this program; (b) Integrating the project into the long-term planning of the applicant;
