FR941007-1-00084 FR941007-1-00009 (ii) The innovativeness and responsiveness of community development services. (3) When evaluating a bank's overall service performance, the OCC shall weigh the bank's community development services according to the characteristics and needs of the bank's service area(s), the capacity and constraints of the bank, and the opportunities available to the bank to provide community development services. (4) At a bank's option, the OCC shall consider in its assessment of a bank's service performance a community development service provided by an affiliate of the bank, provided that the community development service is not claimed by any other institution. (d) Service performance rating. The OCC shall rate a bank's service performance as provided in Appendix A of this part. §25.25 Community development test for wholesale or limited-purpose banks. (a) Scope of test. (1) The OCC shall assess the degree to which a wholesale or limited purpose bank (as defined in §25.12 of this part) is helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) under the community development test only if the bank's written request to be designated as a wholesale or limited purpose bank has been approved by the OCC before the commencement of its CRA examination, and the designation has not been revoked either at the request of the bank or at the OCC's own initiative. (2) The community development test evaluates the record of a wholesale or limited purpose bank in helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) through qualified investments, community development lending, or community development services. (3) For purposes of the community development test only, community development loans include small business and small farm loans and loans to low- and moderate-income individuals and geographies, whether or not reported or collected by the bank or one of its affiliates as home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, or consumer loans, pursuant to §25.42 of this part. (b) Assessment criteria. The OCC shall evaluate the community development performance of a wholesale or limited purpose bank pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The number and amount of community development loans outstanding, qualified investments (as defined in §25.23 of this part), or community development services (as defined in §25.24 of this part); (2) The use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services and their connection to credit needs; and (3) The degree of responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (c) Indirect activities. The OCC shall, if the wholesale or limited purpose bank elects, consider in its community development performance assessment: (1) Qualified investments or community development services provided by an affiliate of the bank, provided the investment or services are not claimed by any other institution; and (2) Community development lending by affiliates, consortia and third parties, subject to the requirements and limitations in §25.22(c)(3) and (d) of this part.
