FR940406-0-00146 FR940406-0-00011 (b)(3) through (b)(4)(i) [Reserved]. For guidance see §86.094&hyph;30. (b)(4)(ii) Remove the vehicle configuration (or evaporative/refueling vehicle configuration, as applicable) which failed, from his application: (b)(4)(ii)(A) [Reserved]. For guidance see §86.094&hyph;30. (b)(4)(ii)(B) If the failed vehicle was tested for compliance with one or more of the exhaust, evaporative and refueling emission standards: The Administrator may select, in place of the failed vehicle, in accordance with the selection criteria employed in selecting the failed vehicle, a new emission data vehicle which will be tested for compliance with all of the applicable emission standards. If one vehicle cannot be selected in accordance with the selection criteria employed in selecting the failed vehicle, then two or more vehicles may be selected (e.g., one vehicle to satisfy the exhaust emission vehicle selection criteria and one vehicle to satisfy the evaporative and refueling emission vehicle selection criteria). The vehicle selected to satisfy the exhaust emission vehicle selection criteria will be tested for compliance with exhaust emission standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate) only. The vehicle selected to satisfy the evaporative and/or refueling emission vehicle selection criteria will be tested for compliance with exhaust, evaporative and/or refueling emission standards; or (iii) Remove the vehicle configuration (or evaporative/refueling vehicle configuration, as applicable) which failed from the application and add a vehicle configuration(s) (or evaporative/refueling vehicle configuration(s), as applicable) not previously listed. The Administrator may require, if applicable, that the failed vehicle be modified to the new engine code (or evaporative/refueling emission code, as applicable) and demonstrate by testing that it meets applicable standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate) for which it was originally tested. In addition, the Administrator may select, in accordance with the vehicle selection criteria given in §86.001&hyph;24(b), a new emission data vehicle or vehicles. The vehicles selected to satisfy the exhaust emission vehicle selection criteria will be tested for compliance with exhaust emission standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate) only. The vehicles selected to satisfy the evaporative emission vehicle selection criteria will be tested for compliance with all of the applicable emission standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate); or (iv) Correct a component or system malfunction and show that with a correctly functioning system or component the failed vehicle meets applicable standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate) for which it was originally tested. The Administrator may require a new emission data vehicle, of identical vehicle configuration (or evaporative/refueling vehicle configuration, as applicable) to the failed vehicle, to be operated and tested for compliance with the applicable standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate) for which the failed vehicle was originally tested. (b)(5) through (e) [Reserved]. For guidance see §86.094&hyph;30. (f) introductory text through (f)(3) [Reserved]. For guidance see §86.095&hyph;30. (f)(4) The electronic evaporative and/or refueling purge control device (if equipped) or any emission-related powertrain component connected to a computer is electrically disconnected.
