FR941230-1-00047 FR941230-1-00004 (ii) Special rule for certain facilities. To the extent that a mixed use facility consists of discrete portions that are used for a government use in the same manner as for a private business use, proceeds allocated to expenditures comprising one discrete portion may be subsequently reallocated to expenditures comprising another discrete portion in that facility. (iii) Examples. The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (b)(2). Example 1. State S and Corporation C enter into an agreement under which C will lease for 20 years the third and fourth floors of an 11-story office building to be constructed on land that S will acquire. S will occupy the grade floor and the remaining eight floors of the building. S will issue $10 million of bonds the proceeds of which will be used to finance 10/11ths of the cost of the purchase of the land and construction of the building. S will use other funds for the remaining costs of the land and building. From the facts and circumstances presented, it is determined that an allocation of the costs of the acquisition of land and the construction of the building to the leased space based on the ratio of area leased to the entire building is reasonable. Thus, no proceeds are allocated to 1 of the 2 floors used by C. Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1 except that some years after the building is placed in service, C and S agree that, in order to consolidate certain uses, S will begin to occupy the third and fourth floors and C will begin to occupy the seventh and eighth floors, each of which has an equal rental value. The result is the same as in Example 1. (c) Allocation of disposition proceeds. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c) and ยง1.141&hyph;1(c), disposition proceeds are allocated under the rules of this section. If a transfer that produces disposition proceeds is made pursuant to an installment sale or the property otherwise continues to have a nexus to the bonds, however, the disposition proceeds are allocated to the transferred property. (d) Allocation of common areas. The allocation of proceeds to common areas may be made according to any reasonable method that properly reflects the proportionate benefit to be derived directly or indirectly by the users of the facility. (e) Allocation of proceeds to bonds. Proceeds are allocated to bonds in a manner consistent with the allocation rules of ยง1.148&hyph;9(h). ยง1.141&hyph;7 Special rules for output facilities. (a) Private business use and private security or payments test _(1) General rule. The purchase by one or more nongovernmental persons of more than 10 percent of the available output of an output facility (including water facilities) financed with the proceeds of an issue may satisfy the private business use test and the private security or payment test under section 141(b)(1) and (2). These tests are satisfied if that use has the effect of transferring to those nongovernmental persons substantial benefits of owning the facilities and substantial burdens of paying the debt service on bonds used (directly or indirectly) to finance the facilities (the benefits and burdens test ), so as to constitute the indirect use by those persons of (and the indirect payment by those persons of debt service of) more than 10 percent of those proceeds. (2) Application of benefits and burdens test. The benefits and burdens test is satisfied (and the bonds are private activity bonds under section 141(b)(1) and (2)) if each of the following conditions is satisfied: (i) Either_ (A) A nongovernmental person agrees pursuant to a contract to take, or take or pay for, more than 10 percent of the available output of a facility; or (B) Two or more nongovernmental persons, each of whom pays an average annual demand charge or other guaranteed minimum payment during the contract term exceeding 1 percent of the average annual debt service with respect to the issue agree to take or take or pay for more than 10 percent of the available output of a facility. For purposes of this section, contractual conditions related to the production of output are disregarded;
