FR941117-0-00006 FR941117-0-00001 The Board has determined, pursuant to Executive Order 12612, that the final rule may have an occasional direct effect on the states, on the relationship between the national government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Further, the final amendments may supersede provisions of state law or regulation concerning federally insured state-chartered corporate credit unions. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 704 Credit unions, Reporting and record keeping requirements. By the National Credit Union Administration Board on November 10, 1994. Becky Baker, Secretary of the Board. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 12 CFR part 704 is amended as follows: PART 704_CORPORATE CREDIT UNIONS 1. The authority citation for part 704 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1762, 1766(a), 1781, and 1789. 2. Section 704.2 is amended by removing the definition of Affiliated organization, revising the definition of Corporate credit union, and adding in alphabetical order the definition of Trade association, to read as follows: ยง704.2 Definitions. * * * * * Corporate credit union means an organization that: (1) Is chartered under Federal or state law as a credit union; (2) Receives shares from and provides loan services to other credit unions; (3) Is operated primarily for the purpose of serving other credit unions; (4) Is designated by the National Credit Union Administration as a corporate credit union; (5) Limits natural person members to the minimum required by state or federal law to charter and operate the credit union; and (6) Does not condition the eligibility of any credit union to become a member on that credit union's membership in any other organization. * * * * * Trade association means an association of organizations or persons formed to promote their common interests. The term includes entities owned or controlled directly or indirectly by such an association but does not include credit unions. * * * * * 3. Section 704.12 is revised to read as follows: ยง704.12 Representation. (a) Board representation. The board shall be determined as stipulated in the standard corporate federal credit union bylaws governing election procedures, provided that: (1) At least a majority of directors, including the chair of the board, must serve on the board as representatives of member credit unions; (2) The chair of the board may not serve simultaneously as an officer, director, or employee of a credit union trade association; (3) A majority of directors may not serve simultaneously as officers, directors, or employees of the same credit union trade association or its affiliates (not including chapters or other subunits of a state trade association); (4) For purposes of meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, an individual may not serve as a director or chair of the board if that individual holds a subordinate employment relationship to another employee who serves as an officer, director, or employee of a credit union trade association; (5) In the case of a corporate credit union whose membership is composed of more than 25% non credit unions, the majority of directors serving as representatives of member credit unions, including the chair, must be elected only by member credit unions.
