FR940404-2-00084 FR940404-2-00059 2. Proposed Respondent GEI is a Delaware investment limited partnership with its office and principal place of business at 333 South Grand Avenue, suite 5400, Los Angeles, CA 90071. 3. Proposed Respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 4. Proposed Respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 5. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the Proposed Respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 6. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by the Proposed Respondents that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached, or that the facts as alleged in the draft complaint, other than the jurisdictional facts, are true. 7. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to Proposed Respondents, (1) Issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following Order to divest and to cease and desist, and for other relief in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public with respect thereto. When so entered, the Order shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified, or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The Order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the United States Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to Order to Proposed Respondents' addresses as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed Respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the Order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the Order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the Order. 8. Proposed Respondents have read the proposed Complaint and Order contemplated hereby. Proposed Respondents understand that once the Order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing they have fully complied with the Order. Proposed Respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the Order after it becomes final. Order I It is ordered that, as used in this Order, the following definitions shall apply: A. ``TCH'' or ``Thrifty'' means TCH Corporation, a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by the virtue of the laws of Delaware, its subsidiaries, divisions, and groups controlled by TCH, and their respective directors, officers, agents, representatives, and their respective successors and assigns. B. ``GEI'' means Green Equity Investors, L.P., an investment limited partnership organized, existing, and doing business under and by the virtue of the laws of Delaware, its general partners, subsidiaries, divisions, and groups controlled by GEI, and their respective directors, officers, agents, representatives, and their respective successors and assigns. C. ``Respondents'' means TCH and GEI. D. ``Commission'' means the Federal Trade Commission. E. ``Acquisition'' means the acquisition of the voting stock of PayLess Drug Stores Northwest, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kmart Corporation, by Respondents TCH and GEI. F. ``Acquirer'' means the party or parties to whom Respondents TCH and GEI divest the assets herein ordered to be divested. G. ``Prescription drugs'' means ethical drugs available at retail only by prescription. H. ``PayLess Pharmacy Business'' means PayLess's business of selling prescription drugs at retail stores located in any of the cities or towns listed in Paragraph I.L. of this Order, but does not include PayLess's business of selling other products in those retail stores. I. ``PayLess Pharmacy Assets'' means all assets constituting the PayLess Pharmacy Business, excluding those assets pertaining to the PayLess trade name, trade dress, trade marks and service marks, and including but not limited to: 1. Leases and properties, at the Acquirer's option; 2. Zoning approval and registrations, at the Acquirer's option;
