FR940222-2-00075 FR940222-2-00062 3. Cityfed's failure to become primarily engaged in a non-investment business by the end of the one year safe harbor of rule 3a&hyph;2 is due to factors beyond its control. Because of outstanding and potential claims against Cityfed and certain of its officers and directors, Cityfed cannot acquire an operating company. Cityfed has diligently pursued its claims against others and has taken steps to determine the extent of its contingent liabilities. Since the filing of this application on October 19, 1990, Cityfed has invested in money market instruments and money market mutual funds solely to preserve the value of its assets. 4. Cityfed requests an order that would exempt it from all provisions of the Act, subject to certain exemptions, until the earlier of one year from the date of any order issued on this application or such time as Cityfed would no longer be required to register as an investment company under the Act. Applicant's Conditions Cityfed agrees that the requested exemption will be subject to the following conditions, each of which will apply to Cityfed from the date of the order until it no longer meets the definition of an investment company or during the period of time it is exempt from registration under the Act: 1. Cityfed will not purchase or otherwise acquire any additional securities other than securities that are rated investment grade or higher by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization or, if unrated, deemed to be of comparable quality under guidelines approved by Cityfed's board of directors, subject to two exceptions: a. Cityfed may make an equity investment in issuers that are not investment companies as defined in section 3(a) of the Act (including issuers that are not investment companies because they are covered by a specific exclusion from the definition of investment company under section 3(c) of the Act other than section 3(c)(1)) in connection with the possible acquisition of an operating business as evidenced by a resolution approved by Cityfed's board of directors; and b. Cityfed may invest in one or more money market mutual funds that limit their investments to ``Eligible Securities'' within the meaning of rule 2a&hyph;7(a)(5) promulgated under the Act. 2. Cityfed's Form 10&hyph;KSB, Form 10&hyph;QSB and annual reports to shareholders will state that an exemptive order has been granted pursuant to sections 6(c) and 6(e) of the Act and that Cityfed and other persons, in their transactions and relations with Cityfed, are subject to sections 9, 17(a), 17(d), 17(e), 17(f), 36 through 45, and 47 through 51 of the Act, and the rules thereunder, as if Cityfed were a registered investment company, except insofar as permitted by the order requested hereby. 3. Notwithstanding sections 17(a) and 17(d) of the Act, an affiliated person (as defined in section 2(a)(3) of the Act) of Cityfed may engage in a transaction that otherwise would be prohibited by these sections with Cityfed: (a) if such proposed transaction is first approved by a bankruptcy court on the basis that (i) the terms thereof, including the consideration to be paid or received, are reasonable and fair to Cityfed, and (ii) the participation of Cityfed in the proposed transaction will not be on a basis less advantageous to Cityfed than that of other participants; and (b) in connection with each such transaction, Cityfed shall inform the bankruptcy court of (i) the identity of all of its affiliated persons who are parties to, or have a direct or indirect financial interest in, the transaction; (ii) the nature of the affiliation; and (iii) the financial interests of such persons in the transaction. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3874 Filed 2&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
