FR940128-1-00127 FR940128-1-00006 3. Find out whether the harvest area is closed (i.e. classified as prohibited) to fishing by a SSCA or equivalent due to chemical contamination. 4. Reject molluscan shellfish harvested from a closed (i.e., classified as prohibited) area, or delivered by an unlicensed harvester or uncertified dealer, or those not properly tagged. Example The ABC Fish Co. distributes clams, muscles, and oysters to restaurants. The shellfish are received from other processors. The firm examines the labels of the containers in each lot to learn the name, address, and certification number of the last processor. This information is compared to the ICSSL to confirm that the product is from a certified processor. Containers from uncertified processors and inadequately labeled containers are rejected. Contact the State Department of Health to confirm certification for unlisted processors. Frequency 1. For finding out the location: each lot or batch. 2. For checking licenses and certification: each lot or batch. 3. For finding out whether the harvest area is closed: before accepting shellfish from a new area and as often after that as necessary to ensure accuracy. 4. For rejecting molluscan shellfish: each lot or batch that does not meet the critical limit. Critical Limits Zero tolerance for molluscan shellfish (i.e., accept no molluscan shellfish) harvested from areas closed (i.e. classified as prohibited) by a SSCA or equivalent due to chemical contamination. Zero tolerance for molluscan shellfish (i.e., accept no molluscan shellfish) delivered by a harvester that is unlicensed or a processor that is not certified by a SSCA or equivalent. Zero tolerance for molluscan shellfish (i.e., accept no molluscan shellfish) that do not bear a tag on each container that contains the following information, at a minimum: harvester's name, address, the harvester number assigned by the SSCA or equivalent; date of harvest; location of harvest by state and site; type and quantity of shellfish. Bulk shipments should be identified by a bill-of-lading that contains the same information. Records A record for each lot or batch that shows the information from the harvester tag or bill of lading, including: name of harvester, address, identification number, the date of harvest, location of harvest by state and site, quantity and type of shellfish. Corrective Actions Destroy or recall product which fails to meet the critical limit. Any critical limit deviation should cause a timely assessment by management to: learn whether the process or HACCP plan needs changing to reduce the risk of recurrence of the deviation, and take appropriate followup action. Option 5 Where the firm receives shucked molluscan shellfish, the following applies: Control Measures 1. Find out the name, address, and certification number of the last processor from the containers of shucked molluscan shellfish in each lot or batch. 2. Compare the dealer's certification number to those listed in the most current edition of the ``Interstate Certified Shellfish Shippers List'' (ICSSL), which is published monthly. If the dealer is not listed, check for certification with the SSCA or equivalent. 3. Reject molluscan shellfish not from a dealer certified by a SSCA or equivalent, packed in containers not bearing the name, address, and certification number of the last processor.
