FR941006-1-00144 FR941006-1-00016 FDA revoked the nitroglycerin packaging and labeling requirements in 1985 because action taken by FDA and the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc., after publication of the requirements, had made them unnecessary and duplicative (50 FR 7584, February 25, 1985). When it proposed to revoke the regulation, FDA observed that the U.S.P. monograph for sublingual nitroglycerin tablets duplicated most of the packaging and labeling requirements that initially had been set forth in the rule (49 FR 24031, June 11, 1984). In addition, FDA found that the suitability of any packaging not in conformance with the rule or the monograph under CGMP regulations would have to be shown to FDA by adequate data (id.). Like the nitroglycerin regulation, this proposed regulation regarding iron-containing products is intended to address a public health problem that, FDA has tentatively concluded, can be alleviated by requiring specific packaging. As was the case with nitroglycerin before FDA required specific packaging, iron- containing products are not safe as currently packaged. FDA has tentatively determined that it is necessary to prohibit repackaging by pharmacists in order to protect product integrity and to provide the greatest assurance that iron-containing products will be used safely and as intended. FDA recognizes that pregnant women can receive their iron supplements by way of third-party reimbursement, which generally requires that a health care professional prescribe the supplements. These women present their prescriptions to pharmacists who, often, repackage iron dietary supplements in pharmacy vials. FDA recognizes the vital importance of iron supplements to prenatal health care and emphasizes that the proposed rule should not diminish the availability of iron tablets to pregnant women or to any other patient population. FDA expects that pharmacists will dispense the tablets in their original unit-dose packaging. Under the proposed rule, pharmacists would be free to dispense iron-containing products in the manufacturer's box, or in any other outer container, as long as the original unit-dose packaging remained intact. FDA does not believe that the proposed mandatory packaging and labeling regulation will encroach upon the practice of pharmacy. Under the proposed requirement, products will reach the pharmacy in unit-dose packaging with a warning statement printed directly on the immediate wrapping or container. FDA tentatively concludes that such a requirement, rather than representing an encroachment on the practice of pharmacy, is necessary to ensure that consumers receive adequate warning about the serious dangers associated with the use of iron-containing drugs. IV. Other Issues A. Formulation and Appearance of Iron-Containing Products The AG petition recommended that FDA prohibit the manufacture and sale of adult formulations of iron-containing products that look like candy or contain a sweet outer coating. The AAPCC petition asked FDA to urge the industry to voluntarily reformulate iron-containing products containing 30 mg or more of iron per dosage unit to be in less attractive dosage units, specifically avoiding resemblance to popular candies. NDMA asked FDA to reject the recommendation from the AG petition for several reasons. First, NDMA stated that ``candy can be_and is_made to look like just about any other consumable product. Once a supplement manufacturer decides on a shape, size, color_of which there are limited selections_for a supplement product, a candy manufacturer could choose independently to introduce a candy that looks like that dietary supplement.'' Second, NDMA stated that it is not known what a pill looks like to a very young child. ``A very young child puts everything into his or her mouth, and in fact there are no hard data to say that candy-like appearance is why a very young child chooses to investigate a consumable consumer product. It is quite likely that it may be even more important that the very young child sees his or her mother take that pill every day.'' Third, NDMA asserted that candy-like appearance is in the eye of the beholder and is simply too subjective a standard. It would be impossible to have an objective measure of candy-like appearance. Thus, NDMA stated that any provision for ``no candy- like appearance'' would not be practical and would be difficult to administer because of the subjective nature of assessing candy-like appearance.
