FR940328-1-00004 FR940328-1-00002 Background This regulatory package is an FmHA initiative to enhance the program by reducing the financial burden on small business borrowers of obtaining annual audits of their financial statements. The existing regulations require annual audited financial statements from all borrowers, except those with loans that have been paid down to no more than $100,000 and to no more than two thirds of the original balance and have been current on repayments for at least 24 months. The cost of the audits can often be the difference between a profit and a loss for the year for small businesses. Many small businesses that need and want the assistance of the B&I guaranteed loan decide not to apply because they are unwilling to commit to the cost of an annual audit. Small businesses that have obtained B&I guaranteed loans sometimes become delinquent on the loans because the funds were spent on audits or refuse to honor their agreement to provide the audits. The proposed revision will remove or allow FmHA to waive the requirement for annual audits for all loans of $500,000 or less and for loans that have been outstanding and have provided audits for three years, have an unpaid balance not exceeding $1,000,000, and are current on repayments. All borrowers that do not provide audited financial statements will be required to provide financial statements compiled or reviewed by an independent certified public accountant or licensed public accountant. Guaranteed loan borrowers subject to OMB Circulars A&hyph;128 or A&hyph;133 will also have to comply with those Circulars. Insured (direct) B&I loans are governed by the requirements of 7 CFR part 1942. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1980 Loan programs, Business and industry, Rural development assistance, Rural areas. Accordingly, chapter XVIII, title 7, Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 1980_GENERAL 1. The authority citation for Part 1980 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 CFR 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70. Subpart E_Business and Industrial Loan Program 2. Section 1980.445 is added to read as follows: §1980.445 Periodic financial statements and audits. All borrowers will be required to submit periodic financial statements to the lender. Lenders must forward copies of the financial statements and the lender's analysis of the statements to FmHA. (a) Audited financial statements . Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (d), and (e) of this section, all recipients of guaranteed loans of more than $500,000 will be required to submit annual audited financial statements. The audit must be performed in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards (GAGAS) using the publication, ``Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities and Functions,'' developed by the Comptroller General of the United States in 1988, and any subsequent revisions. In addition, the audits are also to be performed in accordance with various Office of Management and Budget (OMB) circulars and any FmHA requirements specified in this subpart. (b) Unaudited financial statements . For borrowers with a loan balance (principal plus interest) of $500,000 or less, FmHA will require annual financial statements which may be statements compiled or reviewed by an accountant qualified in accordance with the publication ``Standards for audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities and Functions,'' instead of audited financial statements. For all loans, FmHA may also accept compilation or review statements even though the loan agreement requires an audit, when all of the following conditions are met: (1) The loan has been outstanding and satisfactory audits have been provided for at least 3 years; (2) The loan balance does not exceed $1,000,000; and (3) The loan repayment is on schedule. (c) Internal financial statements . FmHA may require submission of financial statements prepared by the borrower's staff at whatever frequency is determined necessary to adequately monitor the loan. Quarterly financial statements should be required on new business enterprises or those needing close monitoring. (d) Minimum requirements . This section sets out minimum requirements for frequency and quality of financial statements to be submitted to FmHA. If specific circumstances warrant, FmHA may require audited financial statements or independent unaudited financial statements in excess of the minimum requirements. For example, loans that depend heavily on inventory and accounts receivable for collateral should normally be audited, regardless of the size of the loan. Nothing herein shall be considered an impediment to the lender requiring financial statements more frequently or of a higher quality than required by FmHA. (e) Public bodies and Nonprofit Corporations . Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, any public body or nonprofit corporation that receives a guarantee of a loan of $100,000 or more must provide an audit in accordance with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars A&hyph;128 or A&hyph;133 for the fiscal year of the borrower in which the Loan Note Guarantee is issued. If the loan is for development or purchases made in a previous fiscal year through interim financing, an audit will also be provided for the fiscal year in which the development or purchases occurred. Any audit provided by a public body or nonprofit corporation in compliance with OMB Circulars A&hyph;128 or A&hyph;133 will be considered adequate to meet the requirements of this section for that year. 3. Section 1980.451 is amended by revising paragraph (i)(13) to read as follows: §1980.451 Filing and processing applications. * * * * * (i) *␣*␣*
