FR941206-0-00093 FR941206-0-00012 (4) Maintaining records of agencywide volumes (in pieces) and agency postage expenditures (in dollars) by class, weight, special services, and subclass/rate category of mail. One consolidated report on outgoing mail volumes, postage expenditures, and mailable matter dispatched to all carriers must be maintained. (Suggested format appears in ยง101&hyph;9.4902.) (5) Establishing procedures for the review and verification of vendor charges including charges contained in the U.S. Postal Service's Official Mail Accounting System billings. U.S. Postal Service charges and other vendor charges must be reviewed and verified at each facility to ensure billing accuracy. (6) Ensuring that facility mail managers increase their knowledge and skills in mail management on a continuing basis. Training sources include, but are not limited to: U.S. Postal Forums, Postal Customer Council meetings, and training offered by the GSA Interagency Training Center. ยง101&hyph;9.202 Operational cost control functions at the facility level. The following operations and procedures are applicable to all Federal mail centers, facilities, and offices that generate and process mail. Each facility must designate a mail manager. The facility mail manager is responsible for: (a) Reviewing, on a continuing basis, facility mail practices and procedures to identify opportunities for improvement and simplification. (b) Providing centralized control at each facility of all mail processing activities including regularly scheduled and specialized mail messenger services, equipment, and personnel. (c) Providing training which: (1) Informs all levels of facility personnel on cost-effective mailing practices for incoming, internal, and outgoing mail. (2) Includes supplemental guidance and instruction in a format designed for easy reference, revision, and use by persons processing incoming, internal, and outgoing mail or using mail messenger operations. Such information must be distributed to all persons processing mail and users of mail messenger services. (d) Establishes a policy of and procedures for participation in the Cooperative Administrative Support Unit (CASU) program where applicable and when cost-effective. A CASU can typically provide pickup, sorting, and dispatch of mail through a CASU-managed mail center. (e) Where authorized, contracting for worksharing programs when mail volumes or lack of resources for proper mail preparation; e.g., presorting and barcoding, make contracting for worksharing the cost-effective choice. Any solicitation for contracting for a mail center must require the contractor to comply with operational procedures of the agency mail cost control program. (f) Conducting discussions with local U.S. Postal Service for mail related services and implementing operational procedures for services acquired from mail delivery vendors or couriers.
