FR940407-2-00028 FR940407-2-00018 Office of the Secretary Renewal of 22 Department of Defense (DoD) Advisory Committees ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Under the provisions of Public Law 92&hyph;463, the ``Federal Advisory Committee Act,'' notice is hereby given that the following 22 DoD advisory committees have been determined to be in the public interest and have been renewed: Advisory Council on Dependents' Education Advisory Group on Electron Devices Air University Board of Visitors Armed Forces Epidemiological Board Army Science Board Board of Advisors to the President, Naval War College Board of Advisors to the Superintendent, Naval Postgraduate School Board of Visitors, National Defense University Chief of Engineers Environmental Advisory Board Chief of Naval Operations Executive Panel Advisory Committee Command and General Staff College Advisory Committee Community College of the Air Force Advisory Committee Defense Advisory Committee on Military Personnel Testing Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services Defense Policy Advisory Committee on Trade Defense Science Board DoD Wage Committee National Security Agency Scientific Advisory Board Naval Research Advisory Committee Scientific Advisory Board of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology Strategic Advisory Group for the U.S. Strategic Command U.S. Air Force Scientific Advisory Board These committees provide necessary and valuable advice to the Secretary of Defense and other senior officials in the DoD in their respective areas of expertise. They make important contributions to DoD efforts in research and development, education and training, and various technical program areas. Several of them are mandated by law. It is a continuing DoD policy to make every effort to achieve a balanced membership in DoD advisory committees. Each committee is evaluated in terms of the functional disciplines, levels of experience, professional diversity, public and private association, and similar characteristics required to ensure that a high degree of balance is obtained. For further information, about the committees, contact Hank Gioia, 703&hyph;695&hyph;4281. Dated: April 1, 1994. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8263 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
