FR940203-0-00037 FR940203-0-00009 (D) Update information in the application for protective order as required by the protective order; and (E) Acknowledge that the person becomes subject to the provisions of 19 U.S.C. 1677f(f) and to this subpart, as well as corresponding provisions of Canadian and Mexican law on disclosure undertakings concerning proprietary information. (3) Timing of applications. An application for any person described in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section may be filed after a notice of request for panel review has been filed with the Secretariat. A person described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall file an application immediately upon assuming official responsibilities in the United States, Canadian or Mexican Secretariat. An application for any person described in paragraph (b)(5) or (b)(6) of this section may be filed at any time after the United States Trade Representative, the Canadian Minister of Trade, or the Mexican Secretary of Commerce and Industrial Development, as the case may be, has notified the Commission Secretary that such person requires access. (4) Filing and service of applications _(i) Applications of persons described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A person described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall submit the completed original of the form to the United States Secretary, NAFTA Secretariat, room 2061, U.S. Department of Commerce, Pennsylvania Avenue and 14th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20230. The United States Secretary, in turn, shall file the original plus three (3) copies of the application with the Commission Secretary. (ii) Applications of persons described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section _(A) Filing. A person described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall file the completed original of the form and three (3) copies with the Commission Secretary, and four (4) copies with the United States Secretary. (B) Service. If an applicant files before the deadline for filing notices of appearance for the panel review, the applicant shall concurrently serve each person on the service list with a copy of the application. If the applicant files after the deadline for filing notices of appearance for the panel review, the applicant shall serve each participant in the panel review in accordance with the applicable Article 1904 Rules and ECC Rules. Service on a person may be effected by delivering a copy to the person's service address; by sending a copy to the person's service address by facsimile transmission, expedited courier service, expedited mail service; or by personal service. (iii) Applications of persons described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. A person described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall file the original and three (3) copies of the protective order application with the Commission Secretary. (iv) Applications of persons described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. A person described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall file the original and three (3) copies with the Commission Secretary and four (4) copies with the United States Secretary. (v) Applications of persons described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. A person described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section shall submit the completed original of the protective order application to the relevant FTA Secretary. The relevant FTA Secretary in turn, shall file the original and three (3) copies with the Commission Secretary. (5) Persons who retain access to proprietary information under a protective order issued during the administrative proceedings. (i) If counsel or a professional has been granted access in an administrative proceeding to proprietary information under a protective order that contains a provision governing continued access to that information during panel review, and that counsel or professional retains the proprietary information more than fifteen (15) days after a First Request for Panel Review is filed with the Secretariat, that counsel or professional, and such clerical persons with access on or after that date, become immediately subject to the terms and conditions of Form C maintained by the Commission Secretary on that date including provisions regarding sanctions for violations thereof. (ii) Any person described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, concurrent with the filing of a complaint or notice of appearance in the panel review on behalf of the participant represented by such person, shall: (A) File four (4) copies of the original application, of all existing updates to that application, and of the protective order with the United States Secretary; and (B) Serve three (3) copies of the protective order and of all existing updates upon the Commission Secretary. (iii) Any person described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section need not submit a new application for a protective order at the commencement of a panel review. (d) Issuance of protective orders _(1) Applicants described in paragraphs (b) (1), (4), (5) and (6) of this section . Upon approval of an application of persons described in paragraphs (b)(1), (4), (5), or (6) of this section, the Commission Secretary shall issue a protective order permitting release of proprietary information. Any member of a binational panel proceeding initiated under the United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement to whom the Commission Secretary issues a protective order must countersign it and return one copy of the countersigned order to the United States Secretary. Any other applicant under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must file a copy of the order with the United States Secretary. (2) Applicants described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (i) The Commission shall not rule on an application filed by a person described in paragraph (b)(2) until ten (10) days after the request is filed unless there is a compelling need to rule more expeditiously. Any person may file an objection to the application within seven (7) days of the application's filing date, stating the specific reasons why the Commission should not grant the application. One (1) copy of the objection shall be served on the applicant and on all persons who were served with the application. Any reply to an objection will be considered if it is filed and served before the Commission Secretary renders a decision. Service of objections and replies shall be made in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
