FR940513-1-00065 FR940513-1-00017 Once the floor has been determined for new or existing sources for a category or subcategory, the Administrator must set MACT standards that ``shall require the maximum degree of emission reduction of the hazardous air pollutants subject to this section *␣*␣* that the Administrator, taking into consideration the cost of achieving such emission reduction, and any non-air quality health and environmental impacts and energy requirements, determines is achievable for new or existing sources *␣*␣*.'' These standards must be no less stringent than the MACT floor. Such standards must then be met by all sources within the category or subcategory. In establishing standards, the Administrator may distinguish among classes, types, and sizes of sources within a category or subcategory. C. Process Description and Description of Control Technologies 1. Process Description Marine tank vessel loading operations are facilities that load and unload liquid commodities (e.g., crude oil, gasoline, jet fuel, kerosene, toluene, alcohols, fuel oil Numbers 2 and 6, some chemicals, and groups of solvents or petrochemical products, etc.) in bulk. The cargo is pumped from the terminal's large, above-ground storage tanks through a network of pipes and into a storage compartment (tank) on the vessel. Most marine tank vessel loading operations are associated with petroleum refineries or synthetic organic chemical manufacturers, or are independent terminals. Gasoline, crude oil, and other VOC- and HAP-emitting commodities are normally delivered from refinery to terminal or terminal to terminal via pipeline, ship, or barge. During marine tank vessel loading operations, emissions result as the liquid that is being loaded into the vessel displaces vapors from the vessel's tank. The vapors emitted fall into two categories: Arrival emissions and generated emissions. Arrival emissions are attributed to any vapors remaining in the otherwise empty cargo tanks prior to loading. Generated emissions refer to vapors resulting from the evaporation of the liquid cargo as it is loaded. The ratio of arrival vapors to generated vapors can vary greatly depending upon the liquid, vapor pressure, loading method, and loading conditions. The major emission points for marine vessel loading operations include open tank hatches and overhead vent systems. Overhead vent systems collect vapors displaced during loading and route them to a vertical pipe or stack. The vapors are released well above the height of the deck with an upward velocity to help isolate the vapors from the deck. Other possible emission points are hatch covers or domes, pressure-vacuum relief valves, seals, and vents. Emissions may also occur during ballasting, which is the process of drawing ballast (i.e., water) into a cargo hold. When ballast is loaded into tanks that contain vapors from the preceding cargo, the vapor is displaced and emitted from the vessel. Most tankships carrying crude oil built since 1980 are required by domestic law and international agreement to use segregated ballast tanks, which prevent the possibility of ballast emissions (see also: The Port and Tanker Safety Act (1978), the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships (1980), the Marine Vapor Control System Standards (55 FR 25396, June 21, 1990); and the Double Hull Standards for Tank Vessels Carrying Oil (57 FR 36221, August 12, 1992). However, some older and smaller tankships may be exempt from these requirements. Inland barges do not carry ballast. 2. Control Technologies The description of control technologies has two components, the capture of vapors and the destruction or recovery of VOC and HAP. The capture of vapors at the marine vessel requires that the compartments on both tankships and barges be closed to the atmosphere during loading. Most tankships are already equipped for closed loading as a result of having inert gas systems on board because closed loading is necessary to maintain the legally required minimum inert gas pressure in the cargo tanks in accordance with Coast Guard regulations (46 CFR 32.53 and 46 CFR 153.500). Barges generally do not use inert gas and are usually open loaded. Equipment necessary for closed loading includes (1) devices to protect tanks from underpressurization and overpressurization, (2) level-monitoring and alarm systems to prevent overfilling, and (3) devices for cargo gauging and sampling. The vapor emissions captured from marine tank vessel loading operations can be controlled using one of two primary methods: Combustion or recovery. Combustion devices include flares, enclosed flares, and thermal and catalytic incinerators. The primary recovery methods are carbon adsorption, absorption, vapor balancing, and refrigeration. (For a more complete discussion of the capture and control techniques, consult the technical support document (TSD) previously mentioned in the ADDRESSES section.) II. Summary of the Proposed Standards The following summarizes the proposed standards. A full discussion of the rationale underlying these proposed regulations is found in part III. A. Source Category To Be Regulated The source category to be regulated is major source marine tank vessel loading and unloading operations. Regulations will require those operations exceeding certain gasoline or crude oil throughput cutoffs or certain HAP emissions cutoff at major sources to install vapor control systems. Approximately 300 marine tank vessel loading and unloading operations would be affected by these proposed regulations. Vessels loading at affected sources must meet vapor tightness criteria in order to load product. The source category includes only emissions that are directly caused by the loading and unloading of bulk liquids at points where marine terminal equipment is connected to marine vessel sources. Thus, this source category does not include storage tanks and leaking equipment associated with terminal transfer operations. Nor does this source category include emissions from offshore vessel-to-vessel bulk liquid transfer operations (i.e., lightering operations). Lightering operations do not take place at onshore terminals. The Agency may consider addressing lightering operations in a separate source category.
