FR940912-1-00056 FR940912-1-00011 ยง403.120 Credit to the project or tail-end credit requirements. Credits to the project or tail-end credits involve funds being directed to the Reclamation fund and applied to the construction obligation of the project associated with the revenues. (a) Revenues that may be credited to the project or as a tail-end credit. (1) Leasing of minerals from acquired lands _mineral revenues from lands acquired for project purposes; (2) Mineral leases (geothermal steam) on acquired lands _revenues from leasing of geothermal steam on lands acquired for project purposes; (3) Sale of timber on acquired lands _revenues from the sale of timber from lands acquired for project purposes; (4) Sale of sand and gravel on acquired lands _revenues from the sale of sand, gravel, and other mineral materials from lands acquired for project purposes; and (5) Rights-of-use on acquired lands _revenues generated by temporary uses, authorized under Reclamation law, of lands acquired for project purposes. (6) Sale of land _lands either withdrawn or acquired for project purposes and no longer required for the purpose for which the lands were designated may, upon the Secretary of the Interior's determination, be sold and the revenues distributed in accordance with applicable statutes. Specifically, revenues from the following types of sales will be applied as a tail-end credit to the project: (i) Sale of withdrawn public domain lands that were improved at the expense of the project; (ii) Sale of unimproved withdrawn public domain lands that are in tracts too small to qualify as farm units; and (iii) Sale of acquired lands. (b) Reclamation actions regarding credit to the project or tail-end credit requirements. Provisions in current contracts between water users and/or districts and Reclamation purporting to allow credits to the project or tail-end credits unauthorized by law are unenforceable and will not be honored. Reclamation will notify directly all water users or districts affected by this subsection and will provide information concerning rights of appeal. ยง403.130 General credit to the reclamation fund. General credit to the Reclamation fund does not provide a credit to either the project construction costs or to the districts' annual obligations. The following revenues will be credited as a general credit to the Reclamation fund: (a) Leasing of minerals from public domain lands _revenues from mineral leases issued under the authority of the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920; (b) Rights-of-way _revenues from rights-of-way issued under the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920; (c) Mineral leases (geothermal steam) from public domain lands _revenues from leases for geothermal steam on public domain lands pursuant to the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970; (d) Sale of townsites _revenues from the sale of the townsite lots on lands withdrawn from public entry; (e) Sale of timber from withdrawn lands _revenues from the sale of timber on withdrawn public domain lands, or from lands ``donated'' to a specific project by the United States; (f) Sale of sand and gravel from withdrawn lands _revenues from the sale of sand, gravel and other mineral materials on withdrawn lands; and (g) Rights-of-use on withdrawn lands _revenues from the granting of rights-of-use, authorized under Reclamation law, on withdrawn lands.
