FR941026-0-00030 FR941026-0-00008 (i) Consideration within the estimated range of present fair market value, as determined by the Secretary of the Military Department. Payments must be made to ensure consideration is within the estimated range of fair market value at the time of application. (ii) Consideration can be below the estimated range of fair market value, when proper justification is provided. The amount of consideration can be below the estimated range of fair market value, if the Secretary of the Military Department determines that a discount is necessary for economic redevelopment and job creation. (2) The amount of consideration paid in the future shall equal the present value of the agreed-upon fair market value or discounted fair market value. Additional provisions may be incorporated in the conveyance documents to protect the Department's interest in obtaining the agreed upon consideration. Also, the standard GSA excess profits clause, appropriately tailored to the transaction, will be used in the conveyance documents to the LRA. (3) In a rural area, as defined by this rule, any EDC approved by the Secretary of the Military Department shall be made without consideration when the base closure will have a substantial adverse impact on the economy of the communities in the vicinity of the installation and on the prospect for their economic recovery. The Secretary of the Military Department concerned will determine if these two conditions are met based on all the information considered in the application for an Economic Development Conveyance. Specific attention will be placed on the business and development plan submitted as part of the EDC application and the criteria listed in section 91.7(e)(8) will be used. (4) In those instances in which an EDC is made for consideration below the range of the estimated present fair market value of the property_or if the estimated fair market value is expressed as a range of values, below the lowest value in that range_the Military Department shall prepare a written explanation why the estimated fair market value was not obtained. Additionally, the Military Departments must prepare a written statement explaining why other Federal property transfer authorities could not be used to generate economic redevelopment and job creation. * * * * * Dated: October 20, 1994. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register, Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26504 Filed 10&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
