FR941021-0-00201 FR941021-0-00023 To protect hunters' privacy, it is the policy of the Service to use the names and addresses only for conducting hunter surveys and for no other purpose. All records of hunters' names and addresses will be deleted after the surveys, and no permanent record of names and addresses will be maintained by the Service. State uses of these names and addresses will be governed by State laws. The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(3) provides for a minimum of 30 days for a rule to become effective unless an agency, for good cause, has reason to make it sooner. The Service and the States are currently implementing this Program over a five year period at the request of the International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies. This rule will add Maryland to the list of States already participating. Maryland has implemented the requirements of this rule under State authority effective September 1. Therefore, the Service finds good cause to make this rule effective upon publication. Review of Comments and the Service's Response Comments on the proposed rule were received from 12 States. None of the comments questioned the need for the Program or for improved migratory bird harvest estimates; almost all expressed support for the proposed changes to the Program. Two States requested delays in their implementation date and four States requested advances in theirs. The Program was supported by the States of Arizona, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas and Vermont. 1. Impact of Procedures on State Wildlife Agencies Comments: Arkansas pointed out that, overall, the Program will add burdens to their Agency, license vendors, and sportsmen. They recommended reducing the hunter questions. Service Response: Changes as described in the Proposed Rule will reduce the number of questions. Enrolling hunters in the State of hunting eliminates questions concerning species not found in that State. For example, band-tailed pigeons are restricted to western States and this question will appear only in those States. This and some combining of species, such as duck/coot, will reduce the number of questions to roughly half of the original list. 2. Service Financial Support for the Program Comment: Louisiana stated that the amount of financial support the Service will provide States during the Implementation Phase appears to be declining. They requested firm and substantial funding support from the Service. Service Response: This Program has always been viewed in the context of a partnership with Federal and State funds being used to implement the effort. The Service's initial estimate of financial support for the Program was contingent upon approval of two funding sources. One was from Federal Aid Administrative Funds at $500,000 annually for each of the first three years of the implementation phase. The second was from the Service's annual appropriation which, in turn, was contingent upon Congressional approval of the President's FY 1994 budget request of $750,000. The Administrative Funds were approved in full, while the Congressional appropriation was reduced to $500,000. The present schedule of payment for names and addresses is 30¢ per hunter the first 2 years in the Program and 10¢ per hunter thereafter. 3. Implementation Phase_Schedule of State Participation Comments: Six States requested changes in their scheduled entry into the Program. Four requested to be advanced and two to be delayed. Maine requested to be moved ahead from 1998 to 1996. With the financial assistance provided by the Service, Maine will be able to adopt an automated system of issuing licenses. Oklahoma requested to move ahead from 1996 to 1995. A change in State licensing procedures will complement this agenda change. Vermont would like to advance to 1996 from their scheduled entry in 1998. Oregon has implemented a basic system of electronic license sale and is prepared to enter the program in 1995. Texas requested to move back from 1994 to 1995. Texas is working on several license-system changes and would like to implement these changes and the Harvest Information Program at the same time. Georgia also requested to move back from 1995 to 1996. Georgia is working toward a State program to improve their hunting and fishing license procedures and would like to include implementation of the Harvest Information Program at the same time.
