FR940617-2-00179 FR940617-2-00099 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20351; 812&hyph;8762] MIMLIC Asset Allocation Fund, Inc., et al.; Notice of Application June 10, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: MIMLIC Asset Allocation Fund, Inc., MIMLIC Fixed Income Securities Fund, Inc., MIMLIC Investors Fund I, Inc., MIMLIC Mortgage Securities Income Fund, Inc., MIMLIC Money Market Fund, Inc. (collectively, the ``Applicant Funds''), MIMLIC Asset Management Company (the ``Adviser''), and MIMLIC Sales Corporation (the ``Distributor''). Applicants also seek relief on behalf of registered, open-end management investment companies (collectively, with the Applicant Funds, the ``Funds'') for which the Adviser, or any person controlled by or under common control with the Adviser, hereafter may serve as investment adviser, or for which the Distributor, or any person controlled by or under common control with the Distributor, hereafter may serve as distributor of such Fund's shares. RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Exemption requested under section 6(c) from sections 2(a) (32), 2(a) (35), 18(f), 18(g), 18(i), 22(c), and 22(d) of the Act, and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek a conditional order to permit the Funds to create multiple classes of shares and to assess and, under certain circumstances, waive a contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') upon the redemption of certain shares. FILING DATES: The application was filed on January 10, 1994, and amended on April 6, 1994 and June 2, 1994. In a letter to the SEC, counsel to applicants agreed to file an amendment during the notice period to make certain changes to its application. This notice reflects the changes to be made to the application by such further amendment. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on July 5, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 400 Robert Street North, St. Paul Minnesota 55101. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James J. Dwyer, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0581, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Each Applicant Fund is a Minnesota corporation registered under the Act as an open-end management investment company. Except for MIMLIC Money Market Fund, Inc. 1 the Applicant Funds currently offer shares to the public at net asset value plus a front-end sales charge (``FESC''). The shares currently also are subject to ongoing distribution and service fees pursuant to a plan adopted under rule 12b&hyph;1 (the ``Plan''). 2 For shares of the Asset Allocation Fund, the Plan Fees currently are up to .35% of that Fund's average daily net assets; for shares of each of the other Funds, the Plan Fees are up to .30% of each Fund's average daily net assets. 1 MIMLIC Money Market Fund, Inc. (the ``Money Market Fund'') is a no-load fund that currently offers Class A shares to the public at net asset value. Applicants intend that the Money Market Fund and any other Funds that are ``money market'' Funds, as defined in rule 2a&hyph;7 under the Act, will continue to issue shares at net asset value without the imposition of a FESC or CDSC, but that the Money Market Fund may offer multiple classes of shares with variations in distribution or service fees and in class expenses. 2 Applicants anticipate that all shareholder servicing fees will be imposed under a rule 12b&hyph;1 plan. Nevertheless, applicants may subsequently decide to impose a non-rule 12b&hyph;1 shareholder servicing fee. Accordingly, the term ``Plans,'' as used herein, collectively refers to any rule 12b&hyph;1 plans and any non-rule 12b&hyph;1 shareholder services plans adopted in accordance with condition 16 below. The term ``Plan Fees'' refers to any fees charged pursuant to any of the Plans.
