FR940921-0-00152 FR940921-0-00016 (C) Minimum distance in-use between the exhaust manifold flange and the exit of the chassis exhaust system. (D) Manufacturer's recommended maximum exhaust backpressure limit for the engine. (E) Typical backpressure, as determined by typical application of the engine. (F) Minimum backpressure required to meet applicable noise regulations. (ii) Otto-cycle engines: Typical in-use backpressure in vehicle exhaust system. (d) Pre-test data. The following data shall be recorded and reported to the Administrator for each test conducted for compliance with the provisions of subpart A of this part: (1) Engine-system combination. (2) Engine identification. (3) Instrument operator(s). (4) Engine operator(s). (5) Number of hours of operation accumulated on the engine prior to beginning the test sequence (Figure N84&hyph;10). (6) Identification and specifications of test fuel used. (7) Date of most recent analytical assembly calibration. (8) All pertinent instrument information such as tuning, gain, serial numbers, detector number, calibration curve number, etc. As long as this information is traceable, it may be summarized by system or analyzer identification numbers. (e) Test data. The physical parameters necessary to compute the test results and ensure accuracy of the results shall be recorded for each test conducted for compliance with the provisions of subpart A of this part. Additional test data may be recorded at the discretion of the manufacturer. Extreme details of the test measurements such as analyzer chart deflections will generally not be required on a routine basis to be reported to the Administrator for each test, unless a dispute about the accuracy of the data arises. The following types of data shall be required to be reported to the Administrator. The Application Format for Certification for the applicable model year will specify the exact requirements which may change slightly from year to year with the addition or deletion of certain items. (1) Date and time of day. (2) Test number. (3) Engine intake air or test cell temperature. (4) Barometric pressure. (A central laboratory barometer may be used: Provided, that individual test cell barometric pressures are shown to be within # 0.1 percent of the barometric pressure at the central barometer location.) (5) Engine intake or test cell and CVS dilution air humidity. (6) Maximum torque versus speed curve as determined in ยง86.1332, with minimum and maximum engine speeds, and a description of the mapping technique used. (7) Measured maximum horsepower and maximum torque speeds. (8) Measured maximum horsepower and torque. (9) Measured high idle engine speed (governed diesel engines only). (10) Measured fuel consumption at maximum power and torque (diesel engines only). (11) Cold-soak time interval and cool down procedures. (12) Temperature set point of the heated continuous analysis system components (if applicable). (13) Test cycle validation statistics as specified in ยง86.1341 for each test phase (cold and hot). (14) Total CVS flow rate with dilution factor for each test phase (cold and hot). (15) Temperature of the dilute exhaust mixture and secondary dilution air (in the case of a double dilution system) at the inlet to the respective gas meter(s) or flow instrumentation used for particulate sampling. (16) The maximum temperature of the dilute exhaust mixture immediately ahead of the particulate filter. (17) Sample concentrations (background corrected) for HC, CO, CO 2 and NO X for each test phase (cold and hot). (18) For methanol-fueled engines: (i) Volume of sample passed through the methanol sampling system and the volume of deionized water in each impinger. (ii) The methanol concentration in the reference sample and the peak area from the GC analysis of the reference sample. (iii) The peak area of the GC analyses of the test samples (methanol). (iv) Volume of sample passed through the formaldehyde sampling system. (v) The formaldehyde concentration in the reference sample and the peak area from the LC analysis of the reference sample. (vi) The peak area of the LC analysis of the test sample (formaldehyde). (vii) Specification of the methanol-fuel used during testing. (19) For natural gas-fueled engines: Composition, including all carbon containing compounds; e.g. , CO 2 , of the natural gas-fuel used during the test. C 1 and C 2 compounds shall be individually reported. C 3 and heavier compounds, and C 6 and heavier compounds may be reported as a group.
