FR940616-0-00069 FR940616-0-00009 23. Section 1.1164 is added to read as follows: §1.1164 Payment by cashier's check for regulatory fees. Payment by cashier's check may be required when a person or organization makes payment, on one or more occasions, with a payment instrument on which the Commission does not receive final payment and such error is not excused by bank error. 24. Section 1.1165 is added to read as follows: §1.1165 Waivers, reductions and deferrals of regulatory fees. The fees established by §§1.1152 through 1.1155 of this subpart may be waived, reduced or deferred in specific instances, on a case-by-case basis, where good cause is shown and where waiver, reduction or deferral of the fee would promote the public interest. Requests for waivers, reductions or deferrals of regulatory fees for entire categories of payors will not be considered. (a) Requests for waivers, reductions or deferrals will be acted upon by the Managing Director with the concurrence of the General Counsel. If the request for waiver, reduction or deferral is accompanied by a fee payment, the request must be submitted to the Commission's lockbox bank at the address for the appropriate service set forth in §1.1152 through 1.1155 of this subpart. If no fee payment is submitted and the matter is within the scope of the fee rules in this subpart the request should be filed with the Commission's Secretary and clearly marked to the attention of the Managing Director. (b) Deferrals of fees will be granted for a period of six months following the date that the fee is initially due. (c) Petitions for waiver of a regulatory fee must be accompanied by the required fee and FCC Form 159. Submitted fees will be returned if a waiver is granted. Waiver requests that do not include the required fees or forms will be dismissed unless accompanied by a petition to defer payment due to financial hardship, supported by documentation of the financial hardship. (d) Petitions for reduction of a fee must be accompanied by the full fee payment less the amount of the requested reduction and FCC Form 159. Petitions for reduction accompanied by a fee payment must be addressed to the Federal Communications Commission, Post Office Box 358835, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15251&hyph;5835. 25. Section 1.1166 is added to read as follows: §1.1166 Error claims related to regulatory fees. (a) Challenges to determinations of an insufficient regulatory fee payment should be made in writing. Challenges submitted with a fee payment must be submitted to the same location as the original fee payment, marked ``Attention: Fee Supervisor''. Challenges not accompanied by a fee payment should be filed with the Commission's Secretary and clearly marked to the attention of the Managing Director. (b) The filing of a petition for reconsideration or an application for review of a fee determination will not toll the requirement that full and proper payment of the underlying fee payment be submitted, as required by the Commission's action, or delegated action, on a request for waiver, reduction or deferment. Petitions for reconsideration and applications for review submitted with a fee payment must be submitted to the same location as the original fee payment. Petitions for reconsideration and applications for review not accompanied by a fee payment should be filed with the Commission's Secretary and clearly marked to the attention of the Managing Director. (1) Failure to submit the fee by the date required will result in the assessment of a 25 percent penalty. (2) If the fee payment should fail while the Commission is considering the matter, the petition for reconsideration or application for review will be dismissed.
