FR940725-2-00053 FR940725-2-00036 Statutory General Preference Grant programs which are subject to the statutory general preference include Advanced Nurse Education, Nurse Practitioner and Nurse-Midwifery Programs, Professional Nurse Traineeships and Grants for Nurse Anesthetists. As provided in section 860(e)(1) of the PHS Act, statutory preference will be given to any qualified applicant that_ (A) Has a high rate for placing graduates in practice settings having the principal focus of serving residents of medically underserved communities; or (B) During the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which such an award is sought, has achieved a significant increase in the rate of placing graduates in such settings. This statutory preference will only be applied to applications that rank above the 20th percentile of proposals recommended for approval by the peer review group. Specific information concerning the implementation of this statutory preference for each of these grant programs is included later in this notice. Additional general information regarding the implementation of this statutory preference has been published in the Federal Register at 59 FR 15741, dated 4/4/94. Information Requirements Provision Grant programs which are subject to the information requirements provision include Advanced Nurse Education, Nurse Practitioner and Nurse-Midwifery Programs, Professional Nurse Traineeships and Grants for Nurse Anesthetists. Under section 860(e)(2) of the Act, the Secretary may make an award under certain title VIII grant programs only if the applicant for the award submits to the Secretary the following required information: 1. A description of rotations or preceptorships for students, or clinical training programs for residents, that have the principal focus of providing health care to medically underserved communities. 2. The number of faculty on admissions committees who have a clinical practice in community-based ambulatory settings in medically underserved communities. 3. With respect to individuals who are from disadvantaged backgrounds or from medically underserved communities, the number of such individuals who are recruited for academic programs of the applicant, the number of such individuals who are admitted to such programs, and the number of such individuals who graduate from such programs. 4. If applicable, the number of recent graduates who have chosen careers in primary health care. 5. The number of recent graduates whose practices are serving medically underserved communities. 6. A description of whether and to what extent the applicant is able to operate without Federal assistance under this title. Additional details concerning the implementation of this information requirement have been published in the Federal Register at 58 FR 43642, dated August 17, 1993, and will be provided in the application materials. Application Requests Application forms will be sent only to FY 1994 applicants and those who request kits. Requests for application materials and questions regarding grants policy and business management issues should be directed to Grants Management Branch, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 8C&hyph;26, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Completed applications should be returned to the Grants Management Branch at the above address. Please see Table 1 for specific names and phone numbers for each grant program. If additional programmatic information is needed, please contact the Division of Nursing, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 9&hyph;36, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Please see Table 1 for specific names and phone numbers for each grant program. Application Forms The standard application form PHS 6025&hyph;1, HRSA Competing Training Grant Application, General Instructions and supplement for these grant programs have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act. The OMB Clearance Number is 0915&hyph;0060. Deadline Dates The deadline dates for receipt of applications for each of these grant programs are shown in Table 1. Applications will be considered to be ``on time'' if they are either: (1) Received on or before the established deadline date, or (2) Sent on or before the established deadline date and received in time for orderly processing. (Applicants should request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) Late applications not accepted for processing will be returned to the applicant.
