FR941202-2-00188 FR941202-2-00098 (c) Failure to remit the accreditation fee within the time limit as established by the individual state authority will be grounds for immediate loss of accreditation in that state. The loss of accreditation will immediately be entered in the national database. 4.1.7␣Application Process The National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program encompasses a standardized set of elements in each application for accreditation that will be reported to and recorded in the national database. The application package includes any specific state regulatory requirements that are essential for accreditation within an individual state. The application form for national environmental laboratory accreditation shall include: (a) Legal name of laboratory (b) Laboratory mailing address (c) Name of owner (d) Location (full address) of laboratory (e) Name and phone number of laboratory contact person (f) Name and phone number of Quality Assurance Officer (g) Name and phone number of laboratory management representative (h) Laboratory hours of operation (i) States for which the laboratory is requesting accreditation (j) Categories for which the laboratory is requesting accreditation (k) Description of laboratory type _Commercial _Federal _Hospital or health care _State _University _Public water system _Public wastewater system _Industrial (an industry with discharge permits) _Other (Describe) XXXXXX (1) Certification of compliance by laboratory management (vide infra: 4.1.9) 4.1.8␣Transfer of Ownership/Change of Ownership and/or Location of Laboratory Accreditation may be transferred when the legal status or ownership of an accredited laboratory changes without affecting its staff, equipment, and organization. The accrediting agency may charge a transfer fee and shall conduct an on-site assessment to verify affects of such changes on laboratory performance. The following conditions apply to the change in ownership and/or the change in location of a laboratory that has national accreditation. (a) Any change in ownership and/or location of an accredited laboratory must be reported in writing to the primary state(s) and the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program within twenty business days of such a change taking effect. (b) Such a change in ownership and/or location will not necessarily require reaccreditation or reapplication in any or all of the categories in which the laboratory is currently accredited. (c) Change in ownership and/or location may require a mandatory on-site assessment with the elements of the assessment being determined by the inspector. (d) Any change in ownership must assure historical traceability of the laboratory accreditation number(s).
