FR940429-0-00214 FR940429-0-00015 Comments: Six commenters stated that the requirement that an institution provide examples of an institution's refund policy to prospective students is burdensome and unnecessary. The commenters asserted that most students would not understand such examples and that the examples would inevitably be misleading because the many variables that might apply to a real student's withdrawal situation would not be represented. Three commenters shared the Secretary's view that prospective and current students should receive a written statement containing an institution's refund policy, but one commenter believed providing such a statement would be burdensome and costly for institutions. Discussion: The Secretary believes that current and prospective students have the right to be informed in writing of an institution's refund policies and practices, and that the costs of providing such information are part of the normal costs of doing business. A particular student's ability to completely comprehend such information does not impact that student's right to receive the information. Further, the Secretary would expect that, in accordance with 34 CFR 668.45(a), an institution would have designated an employee or group of employees who must be available on a full-time basis to assist students or prospective students with any questions they might have in this area. The Secretary wishes to clarify that, as discussed in the February 28, 1994 NPRM, the requirement to provide examples would be met if the institution informs students in the written refund policy that examples are available and the institution makes the examples readily available to current and prospective students on request. The Secretary does not believe refund examples must include all possible variables to be useful to students. An institution is expected to provide reasonable examples of common refund situations applicable to its average student population. Changes: Section 668.22(a)(2) has been amended to clarify that the institution must make available to students, upon request, examples of the application of the refund policy and inform students of the availability of these examples in the written statement. Fair and equitable refund policy. Comments: Many commenters believed the requirement for a fair and equitable refund, as interpreted in the February 28, 1994 NPRM, is needlessly complex, is intrusive upon the rights of institutions to determine policy, and extends beyond the intent of the law. The commenters believed institutions should not be forced to calculate up to three separate refund amounts for each withdrawing student, as this would be burdensome and confusing both to institution employees and to students, resulting in withdrawing students inevitably receiving incorrect information. The commenters asserted that an institution should be allowed to determine which calculation generally provides the most beneficial refund to its average student body population and use that calculation consistently for Title IV, HEA program refunds. Four commenters believed the Secretary should provide certified refund calculation software for institutional use, rather than unfairly expecting institutions to create or purchase from a private source software that is potentially erroneous. Two commenters requested the Secretary commit to providing clear notice of revisions and changes to the refund requirements, to avoid the inevitable widespread confusion and noncompliance that will otherwise result if the February 28, 1994 NPRM is published as a final rule. One commenter believed it is inappropriate and inefficient to require institutions to implement a policy which affects such a small number of individuals, and that institutions are capable of developing workable refund policies that are fair and reasonable. One commenter supported the Secretary's interpretation of the statute and believed withdrawing students deserve the benefit of the largest refund possible. Discussion: The Amendments of 1992 define a fair and equitable refund policy as one that provides for at least the largest of the amounts provided under applicable State law, nationally recognized accrediting agency requirements approved by the Secretary, or the pro rata refund calculation for qualifying students, as described in the statute. The Secretary asserts that the individual calculation of all possible refunds for each withdrawing student is the only possible means by which an institution can determine which refund calculation provides the largest amount, as required by the statute. The Secretary is exploring the development by the Department of software for institutional use. The Secretary believes the equity to the student provided by the law and the proposed rule override the commenters' concerns of burden and potential confusion, and will continue to provide ample direction and guidance on refunds to institutions in the form of examples, Dear Colleague Letters, and the Federal Student Financial Aid Handbook. Changes: None. Comments: Four commenters believed the requirements of Appendix A are too cumbersome and should be replaced with a more reasonable policy. Three commenters believed the Appendix A requirements are intrusive and extend beyond the scope of the statute, resulting in excessive burden and cost for institutions. The commenters suggested Appendix A should be a guideline for problem-free institutions, required only of institutions with demonstrated compliance problems. Two commenters suggested all institutions should be required to follow the guidelines of Appendix A, thereby eliminating all the other detailed and stringent refund requirements proposed in the February 28, 1994 NPRM. Four commenters asserted that institutions have already adopted procedures in line with the Appendix A guidance and that further intrusion on the part of the Secretary is unnecessary and unjustifiable. The commenters believed institutions have the ethical means to decide these issues among themselves and should be allowed to do so. Discussion: The Secretary believes the Amendments of 1992 clearly give every student who receives Title IV, HEA program assistance_not just those students who attend institutions with compliance problems_the right to a fair and equitable refund as defined in the statute. The Secretary is concerned, as discussed in the February 28, 1994 NPRM, with instances wherein an institution's State and accrediting agency do not have specific refund policies and a particular student is not entitled to a pro rata refund. In such a case, a loophole exists and the law offers no alternative standard by which to ensure the student receives a fair and equitable refund. Consistent with existing FFEL programs regulations, the Secretary intends to provide Appendix A as an acceptable refund standard in the absence of all other standards. Changes: None. Pro rata Refund. Comments: Many commenters believed the 60 percent point in time (for the purposes of the pro rata refund requirement), when measured in clock hours, should be calculated using the hours scheduled instead of the proposed use of hours completed by the student. Two commenters specifically referred to the statute's concept of elapsed time, stating that the treatment proposed in the February 28, 1994 NPRM is in conflict with the Secretary's earlier guidance and the intent of the law. All of these commenters believed the costs of providing education are fixed for each day a class is offered, regardless of an individual student's attendance. The commenters further suggested the Secretary is openly discriminating against clock-hour institutions by allowing credit-hour institutions to figure the 60 percent point in time using weeks, while insisting that clock-hour institutions consider individual students' rates of progress. Two commenters suggested the Secretary allow clock-hour institutions to include excused absences and repeated hours in the total hours completed by a student. One commenter noted that the determination of the 60 percent point in time conflicts with the determination of the portion of the enrollment period that remains for the purposes of calculating a refund after an institution has determined that a pro rata refund must be calculated. This commenter believed these two determinations should be simple and consistent with one another.
