FR940429-0-00293 FR940429-0-00016 Change: The final regulations have been revised to incorporate this clarification. Section 682.402(d)(3)(ii)(C) 20. Comment: Some commenters believed that a borrower who was unable to transfer all of the academic credits or hours earned at the closed school to another school should qualify for a partial loan discharge. Discussion: If a student chooses to transfer any amount of academic credits or hours earned at the closed school to another school, and as a result of that action is able to complete the program of study that the student was enrolled in at the closed school, the student would not meet the requirement contained in section 437(c)(1) of the HEA that restricts a closed school loan discharge to a student ``*␣*␣* unable to complete the program*␣*␣*'' because of the school's closing. Thus, there would be no statutory basis for discharging the borrower's loan obligation. Change: None. 21. Comment: Some commenters believed that a borrower who transferred academic credits or hours earned at the closed school to another school should not qualify for a discharge if the borrower enrolled in a different program of study at the new school or enrolled in a similar program but quickly withdrew. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the borrower is entitled to a loan discharge under the HEA in any case in which a student's program of education is disrupted by the closing of the school to the extent that the student does not, for any reason, complete the program. The presumption must be that the school's closing directly hindered the student's achievement of his or her educational goals. Change: None. 22. Comment: Some commenters recommended that the regulations define the term ``teach-out at another school.'' The commenters believed that the absence of a definition would result in widespread confusion as to what constitutes a ``teach-out'' for purposes of a closed school loan discharge. The commenters suggested that the key elements of a teach-out are: (a) No charges additional to the original program cost; (b) identity of subject matter taught; (c) geographic proximity between the original and teach-out schools; (d) demonstrated compatibility of program structure and scheduling ( e.g. , student is able to begin the teach-out within a reasonable time after the school closure, and the completion dates, class times, and instructional methodology are comparable); and (e) review and approval by the state licensing agency. Discussion: The Secretary believes that a prescriptive regulatory definition of ``teach-out'' is unnecessary. The Secretary notes that because a student may decline to complete the program through a teach-out at another school for any reason, it is therefore reasonable to conclude that a student who chooses to participate in a teach-out and completes the program, has demonstrated an acceptance of those teach-out conditions. In short, a student can be protected from being forced to accept what he or she believes to be an onerous teach-out condition by simply declining the teach-out. A student who, even though inconvenienced, chooses to complete his or her program through a teach-out, has received value from the loan and needs no loan discharge. The Secretary asks interested parties to submit information to him concerning the actual costs paid by students who completed their programs through teach-outs. The Secretary will evaluate those costs to determine if the regulations should be revised in the future to permit a discharge based on certain circumstances. Change: None. Section 682.402(d)(3)(iv) 23. Comment: Some commenters, while believing that borrower cooperation is important in an enforcement action undertaken against a school or other related parties, were concerned that a borrower may be unable to take time away from work, home, or other activities to travel to multiple court appearances needed to assist the Secretary or his designee in the enforcement action. The commenters believed that a borrower should be required to assist in an enforcement action only to the extent practicable for the borrower. Discussion : It would not be in the interests of the Secretary or the taxpayer to make unreasonable demands on the borrower when pursuing an enforcement action. It would equally not be in the interests of the Secretary or the taxpayer to create an opportunity for a borrower to frustrate the Secretary's enforcement action by claiming that he or she was unavailable to testify. The use of the word ``cooperate'' in the regulations implies a process of two or more parties reasonably working together toward a common goal, and needs no further elaboration.
