FR941003-1-00051 FR941003-1-00003 55. Section 1.660 is proposed to be amended by adding paragraph (e) to read as follows: §1.660 Notice of reexamination, reissue, protest or litigation. * * * * * > (e) The notice required by this section is designed to assist the administrative patent judge and the Board in efficiently handling interference cases. Failure of a party to comply with the provisions of this section may result in sanctions under §1.616. Knowledge by, or notice to, an employee of the Office other than an employee of the Board, of the existence of the re-examination, application for reissue, protest, or litigation shall not be sufficient. The notice contemplated by this section is noticed addressed specifically to an administrative patent judge or the Board. < 56. Section 1.662 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: §1.662 Request for entry of adverse judgment; re-issue filed by patentee. (a) A party may, at any time during an interference, request and agree to entry of an adverse judgment. The filing by > a party < an applicant or patentee of a written disclaimer of the invention defined by a court, concession of priority or unpatentability of the subject matter of a count, abandonment of the invention defined by a count, or abandonment of the contest as to a count will be treated as a request for entry of an adverse judgment against the applicant or patentee as to all claims which correspond to the count. Abandonment of an application by an applicant , other than an applicant > application < for re-issue having a claim of the patent sought to be reissued involved in the interference, will be treated as a request for entry of an adverse judgment against the applicant as to all claims corresponding to all counts. Upon the filing by a party of a request for entry of an adverse judgment, the Board may enter judgment against the party. (b) If a patentee involved in an interference files an application for reissue during the interference and > the reissue application does not include a claim that corresponds to a count < omits all claims of the patent corresponding to the counts of the interference for the purpose of avoiding the interference , judgment may be entered against the patentee. A patentee who files an application for re-issue > which includes a claim that corresponds to a count < other than for the purpose of avoiding the interference shall > , in addition to complying with the provisions of §1.660(b), < timely file a preliminary motion under §1.663(h) or show good cause why the motion could not have been timely filed or would not be appropriate. * * * * * 57. Section 1.664 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: §1.664 Action after interference. (a) After termination of an interference, the examiner will promptly take such action in any application previously involved in the interference as may be necessary. Unless entered by order of an > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief , amendments presented during the interference shall not be entered, but may be subsequently presented by the applicant subject to the provisions of this subpart provided prosecution of the application is not otherwise closed. (b) After judgment, the application of any party may be held subject to further examination, including an interference with another application. 58. Section 1.671 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (a), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(6), (c)(7), (f) and (g) to read as follows, deleting paragraph (e) and redesignating it as ``Reserved'', redesignating current paragraph (h) as (i), and adding new paragraphs (h) and (j) to read as follows: §1.671 Evidence must comply with rules. (a) Evidence consists of testimony and exhibits, official records and publications filed under §1.682, evidence > testimony < from another interference, proceeding, or action filed under §1.683, and discovery relied upon under §1.688, and the specification (including claims) and drawings of any application or patent: * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (1) Courts of the United States, U.S. Magistrate, court, trial court, or trier of fact means > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief or Board as may be appropriate.
