FR941003-1-00095 FR941003-1-00006 (1) The Section 106 process should be used during the planning process to progressively narrow resource concerns and issues requiring resolution about historic properties and historic preservation. Ultimately, the objective is to resolve outstanding conflicts between proposed undertakings and their effects on historic properties, and to make available an appropriate level of information to decisionmakers so that they can ``take into account'' the effects of those undertakings on historic properties when the conflicts are not completely resolved. Consequently, the process will be most effective when planning, review, consultation, and decisionmaking steps are explicitly linked to the nature and scope of the undertaking as well as to other relevant planning and program requirements to the maximum extent possible. (2) The Agency Official should establish a procedure and schedule for completing the Section 106 process that is consistent with the planning approach and approval schedule for the undertaking. (3) The Agency Official should begin the Section 106 process and integrate it with other planning needs at the earliest possible time, when the widest feasible range of alternatives is open for consideration. The process should be fully coordinated with actions and preparation of documents necessary to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and other environmental and planning requirements. This will help to ensure that planning and decisions fully reflect historic preservation issues and cultural values and concerns, maximize program and budgetary efficiency, and head off potential conflicts later in the process that could lead to delays and litigation. (b) Early planning. At the earliest feasible stage in planning any undertaking, in conjunction with the preparation of any Environmental Assessment (EA) or Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), and in consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer where appropriate, the Agency Official should: (1) Establish the nature of the proposed undertaking. Does it deal principally with operation of a program with a variety of public policy objectives, management or maintenance of resources and resource types, or planning and approval of a specific project? What is the extent of public investment in the undertaking? Will the effects of the undertaking be widespread or localized? (2) Determine what decisions need to be made about the proposed undertaking, and who needs to make them. Does the Agency Official for a single agency have jurisdiction and control over the undertaking, or is that jurisdiction shared with other agencies? At what level will decisions be made within the agency? If there are other Federal agencies involved, who will be the lead Federal agency, and how will responsibilities be apportioned? Is all or part of the undertaking on tribal or State lands, and subject to other legal requirements?
