FR940429-0-00201 FR940429-0-00015 Discussion: Section 498(c)(5) of the HEA requires that all institutions maintain a minimum cash reserve. The requirement for an institution to maintain a cash reserve does not apply to institutions which reside in a State that has a tuition recovery fund if that state's tuition recovery fund is acceptable to the Secretary. As discussed above, under certain situations an institution may be able to demonstrate that the State tuition recovery fund to which it contributes will supplant the institution's requirement to maintain a separate cash reserve. In such an instance, the institution will not be able to treat its contributions to the State tuition recovery fund as a portion of its current assets. Changes: None Comments: One commenter believed that the requirement for an institution to demonstrate a positive tangible net worth would discourage employee ownership of institutions because amounts invested in employee stock ownership plans (ESOP's) are treated as intangibles and would be excluded from the calculation of net worth. Furthermore, the commenter believed that this particular provision was retroactive because intangibles that may have been acquired several years ago would still appear on an institution's balance sheet. The same commenter believed that the expense item representing amortization of intangibles should be excluded from the calculation of operating loss in view of the Secretary's exclusion of intangible assets from the calculation of tangible net worth. Another commenter requested that the Secretary consider the market value of assets purchased years ago and carried at depreciated book value on the institution's financial statement. One commenter believed that intangibles should be excluded only if the Secretary has reason to believe that the value of these assets does not reflect an arm's length valuation. Discussion: In general, an intangible asset has no physical existence and depends on some expected future benefit to derive its value. While the Secretary believes that the presence of an intangible on an institution's balance sheet can, and often does, imply some future economic benefit to the institution, the Secretary does not believe that such an asset should be included in the institution's net worth calculation to determine whether the institution demonstrates financial responsibility for HEA program purposes. The Secretary does not believe that it would be necessary to exclude the expense item in the calculation of operating losses. Generally accepted accounting principles require that an institution show asset values at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. In the ordinary course of business, it would not be possible for the Secretary to make a determination regarding the current market value of any asset unless that asset was actually sold in an arm's length transaction or an actuarial valuation was obtained in a manner acceptable to the Secretary. Administrative efficiency and a preference for certainty as documented through the audited financial statements warrant the exclusion of such items. Changes: None. Documentation of financial responsibility. Comments: Two commenters felt that audited financial statements should be submitted only once every four years, when most institutions are recertified. The commenters believed that the statute allows for this limited reporting. A few commenters believed that the submission of an audited financial statement should be accepted by the Secretary as sufficient evidence to establish an institution's financial responsibility without regard to the content of the statements. Discussion: The statute is clear in making annual audited financial statements a requirement. Further, the Secretary believes that the Department has a responsibility to verify on an annual basis that institutions have sufficient financial strength to provide the educational services for which its students are contracting. The Secretary has prescribed an acid test ratio in accordance with ยง498(c)(2) of the HEA. The calculation of the acid test ratio is based on information contained in an institution's audited financial statement as prescribed in ยง498(4). The Secretary believes that the acid test ratio provides reliable information about the financial condition of an institution. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter believed that the requirement that an institution submit a financial statement for its two most recently complete fiscal years should be clarified by the Secretary to require two years of financial information in only the first year following the implementation of the regulation because annual financial statements would be required thereafter. Discussion: The Secretary requires the submission of two years of financial data on an annual basis. To be considered financially responsible, an institution must demonstrate that it has not experienced operating losses in either or both of its two most recently completed fiscal years that in sum total more than ten percent of the institution's total net worth at the beginning of the first year in the two year period. The Secretary shall make this determination on the basis of financial information submitted by the institution in the form of an audited comparative financial statement representing each of the institution's two most recently completed fiscal years or by comparing information provided by the institution in the form of two individual audited financial statements, each representing one of the institution's two most recently completed fiscal years. Changes: None. Comments: Many commenters believed that the requirement for an institution to submit an audited financial statement within four months of the institution's fiscal year end was burdensome because institutions were also required to perform compliance audits during the year at points that did not necessarily coincide with the institution's fiscal year end. As a result the institution would be required to incur additional audit costs that would be unnecessary if both audits could be performed simultaneously. To accomplish this, the commenters requested that the Secretary extend the period in which audits are due from four months to within six months of the institution's fiscal year end. Two commenters believed that the requirement for an institution to submit an audited financial statement within four months of the fiscal year end contradicted the objectives of the Single Audit Act, and OMB circular A&hyph;128 and A&hyph;133, because timing differences related to the availability of information would result in an institution being required perform both a financial audit and a compliance audit. Another commenter noted that audits prepared in accordance with the Single Audit Act were acceptable under 34 CFR 668.23(f), and suggested that an audit prepared in accordance with the Single Audit Act ought to be acceptable to the Secretary in other sections of the same regulation.
