FR941222-0-00124 FR941222-0-00019 If a borrower repays more than one loan under ICR and the loans enter repayment at different times, a separate repayment period for each loan begins when the loan enters repayment. This approach ensures that no loan will be repaid under ICR for more than 25 years. If loans enter repayment at the same time, a single repayment period applies. To encourage borrowers to begin repaying their loans and to limit negative amortization at the beginning of the repayment period, a borrower must make monthly payments of accrued interest until the Secretary calculates the borrower's monthly payment on the basis of the borrower's income. A borrower who is unable to make monthly payments of accrued interest or is unable to qualify for a deferment under ยง685.204, may request forbearance under ยง685.205. Limit on Capitalization of Interest The Secretary believes a limit on the amount of interest that is added to principal (the capitalization of interest) is desirable to prevent an excessive increase in a borrower's debt burden when the borrower's income is insufficient to cover accruing interest. Paragraph (d)(3) permits capitalization of unpaid interest until the outstanding principal amount is 10 percent greater than the original principal amount, a decrease from the 50 percent proposed in the NPRM. Thereafter, unpaid interest accrues but is not capitalized. Consent to Disclosure of Tax Return Information In order to repay a Direct Loan under ICR, a borrower must consent, on a form provided by the Secretary, to the disclosure of certain tax return information by the Internal Revenue Service to agents of the Secretary for purposes of calculating a monthly repayment amount and servicing and collecting a loan. The information subject to disclosure is taxpayer identity information as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6103(b)(6) (including such information as name, address, and social security number), tax filing status, and AGI. Paragraph (d)(5) describes the procedures for providing written consent and requires that consent be provided for a period of five years. If a borrower selects ICR but fails to provide or renew consent, or withdraws consent without selecting a different repayment plan, the Secretary designates the 10-year standard repayment plan for the borrower. III. Waiver of Rulemaking In accordance with the Administrative Procedures Act, 5 U.S.C. 553, it is the practice of the Secretary to offer interested parties an opportunity to comment on proposed regulations. However, Pub. L. 103&hyph;66 permits the Secretary to publish a notice in lieu of regulations for the first year of the Direct Loan Program and exempts the contents of the notice from the rulemaking requirements of section 431 of the General Education Provisions Act (recently revised and renumbered by Pub. L. 103&hyph;382 as section 437). In developing this notice, the Secretary's representatives have consulted extensively with the other members of the Direct Student Loan Regulations Negotiated Rulemaking Advisory Committee established to develop proposed regulations for the second and subsequent years of the program, and has taken into consideration the public comments submitted in response to the Secretary's invitation in the August 18, 1994 Direct Loan NPRM. The timely implementation of the ICR plan for borrowers entering repayment in academic year 1994&hyph;1995 does not permit the solicitation of further public comment. A public comment period would seriously delay operation of the Direct Loan Program and would prevent borrowers entering repayment during the first year of the program from receiving the same benefits as borrowers who enter repayment in the second year of the program. Therefore, the Secretary finds that solicitation of public comments is impracticable and contrary to the public interest under 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B). For the same reasons, the Secretary has decided to waive the 30-day delayed effective date under 5 U.S.C. 553(d). List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 685 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and universities, Education, Loan programs-education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid, Vocational education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers: 84.268, William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program) Dated: December 16, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education. The Secretary revises part 685 of title 34 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 685_STANDARDS, CRITERIA, AND PROCEDURES FOR THE DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM 1. The authority citation continues to read as follows: Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. 2. Section 685.208 is amended by revising paragraph (g) to read as follows: ยง685.208 Repayment plans. * * * * * (g) Alternative repayment . (1) The Secretary may provide an alternative repayment plan for a borrower who demonstrates to the Secretary's satisfaction that the terms and conditions of the repayment plans specified in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section are not adequate to accommodate the borrower's exceptional circumstances. (2) The Secretary may require a borrower to provide evidence of the borrower's exceptional circumstances before permitting the borrower to repay a loan under an alternative repayment plan. (3) If the Secretary agrees to permit a borrower to repay a loan under an alternative repayment plan, the Secretary notifies the borrower in writing of the terms of the plan. After the borrower receives notification of the terms of the plan, the borrower may accept the plan or choose another repayment plan. (4) A borrower shall repay a loan under an alternative repayment plan within 30 years of the date the loan entered repayment, not including periods of deferment and forbearance.
