FR940112-2-00122 FR940112-2-00087 Participants that have a low volume of deposits and that do not want to purchase a bar-coded printer will be able to use the PTS Deposit Automation Management Participant (``DAMP'') function to enter details of their intended deposits. 8 The PTS DAMP function also can be used by CCF users to modify or delete deposit data already transmitted to DTC as well as to enter additional deposit data. 8 The DAMP function is part of the DAM service that allows participants to enter data, to correct data previously entered, to make inquiries, or to print bar-code tickets. Telephone conversation between Cheryl Lambert, Group Director, DTC, and Richard C. Strasser, Attorney, Division, Commission (December 22, 1993). For instance, if a participant had notified DTC that it planned to deliver 1,000 shares of stock in ABC Corporation when in fact the participant intended to deliver 1,100 shares, the participant could use the DAMP function to make the necessary correction in the number of shares it intended to deliver. By year-end 1993, DTC expects to have processed more than 4.5 million deposits comprised of approximately 17.5 million certificates. The automation features of DAM will reduce DTC's costs and enhance DTC's efficiency in handling these deposits. DTC will pass the savings that it will realize from DAM directly to participants by lowering deposit fees as follows: (a) For deposits made under DAM, DTC will reduce the deposit charge by 40 ¢ (29 ¢ for legal deposits) from the applicable zone deposit charge for participants that print bar-coded tickets in their office and (b) by 29 ¢ (for deposits other than legal deposits) from the applicable zone deposit charge for participants that ask DTC to print the bar-coded tickets. In addition, because DTC will prescreen the issues of securities that participants intend to deposit, the new service will help participants save money by minimizing costly deposit rejects. II. Discussion The Commission believes that DTC's proposal is consistent with the Act and in particular with sections 17A (a)(1)(C) and (b)(3)(F) thereunder. 9 In section 17A(a)(1)(C) of the Act, Congress expressed its finding that new communications and data processing techniques create the opportunity for more efficient, effective, and safe procedures for clearance and settlement. In this regard, the Commission believes that DTC's DAM service facilitates the efficient, effective, and safe procedures for the clearance and settlement of securities transactions by employing the electronic communication of information between DTC and its participants. 9 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1 (a)(1)(C) and (b)(3)(F) (1988). Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act requires that the rules of a clearing agency be designed to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to ensure the safeguarding of securities and funds that are in the clearing agency's custody or control or for which it is responsible. The Commission believes that by enabling DTC to review proposed deposits before securities are delivered, the DAM service helps to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions in accordance with DTC's requirements under the Act. Moreover, DTC's current safeguards will remain in place with the implementation of the DAM service. These safeguards require DTC participants to take steps necessary to assure that the certificates presented to DTC are in good deliverable and transferable form. As with current procedures, after the certificates are presented to DTC, DTC will send them to the transfer agent who will reregister them in DTC's nominee name, Cede & Co. The certificates typically then will be returned to DTC for safekeeping in its vault. On occasion, however, the transfer agent will reject a certificate for reregistration. 10 If a certificate is rejected, DTC will debit the depositing participant's securities account to the extent it was credited when the securities were delivered to DTC. If the debit results in a short position, DTC will impose a charge of 130% of market value until the short position is resolved. 11 These safeguards, as they have in the past, will help to ensure that suspect securities or those with transfer restrictions are excluded from DTC's system. Because the implementation of the DAM service will incorporate DTC's current safeguards, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with DTC's requirements under the Act. 10 Transfer agents may reject a certificate for a number of reasons including improper or missing endorsements, missing stock or bond powers, stops, called bonds, certificates reported as lost or stolen, or restrictions on the transfer of the security. 11 Letter from Richard B. Nesson, Executive Vice President and General Counsel, DTC, to Judith Poppalardo, Assistant Director, Division, Commission (December 3, 1993). III. Conclusion On the basis of the foregoing, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the Act and in particular with section 17A thereunder. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 12 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;9) be, and hereby is, approved. 12 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 13 13 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;740 Filed 1&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
