FR941130-2-00045 FR941130-2-00030 [Docket No. 94&hyph;29] Practices of the Trans-Atlantic Agreement and its Members With Respect to Independent Action; Order of Investigation and Hearing The Trans-Atlantic Agreement (``TAA'' or ``Agreement''), FMC Agreement No. 202&hyph;011375, first became effective August 31, 1992, pursuant to the Shipping Act of 1984 (``1984 Act''), 46 U.S.C. app. 1701 et seq. Sixteen ocean common carriers, identified in Appendix A hereto, currently are members of the Agreement. 1 1 On October 24, 1994, additional modifications of the basic agreement were permitted by the Federal Maritime Commission (``Commission'') to take effect under the 1984 Act, among which amendments was a change of the agreement's name to the Trans-Atlantic Conference Agreement. While officially renamed to clarify its designation as a conference, the carrier members continue to refer to the Agreement as TAA. By Order issued July 27, 1994, the Commission instituted Fact Finding Investigation No. 21, entitled Activities of the Trans-Atlantic Agreement and Its Members. In the Fact Finding Order, the Commission directed the designated Investigative Officers to investigate, inter alia, allegations that TAA or its members may have reached agreements or taken other actions which discourage or suppress the right of members to take independent action (``IA'') on rate or service items. The Fact Finding Order also provides that the Investigative Officers are not precluded from developing facts related to any possible violations of the 1984 Act that may be uncovered in the course of the proceeding. In commencing the above nonadjudicatory investigation, the Commission's objective was to determine whether sufficient evidence exists to warrant formal adjudicatory, assessment or injunctive proceedings for alleged violations of the 1984 Act by the TAA or its carrier members. Through responses to subpenas issued by the Investigative Officers and to an order issued by the Commission pursuant to section 15 of the 1984 Act, 46 U.S.C. app. 1714, through testimony in hearings held in connection with the Fact Finding Investigation, and through other means, it now appears to the Commission that carrier members of the TAA engaged in practices which may have artificially constricted the members' right of independent action. Testimony from numerous shipper witnesses appearing in the hearing failed to identify any meaningful IA rate activities taken by a TAA member, despite shipper requests. To the contrary, shippers have testified that they had been informed by TAA carrier representatives that independent action would not, or could not be taken under TAA. In addition to shipper testimony concerning the absence of IA, documents have been obtained which indicate that TAA members may have agreed to a procedure requiring that rate matters be tabled for discussion at a conference meeting before filing an IA rate, and that TAA members expected and demanded that other members adhere to this IA procedure. Also, it appears that TAA members may have agreed to limit their authority to take IAs to one or two designated high level executives, and that TAA's Executive Director may have been authorized by the members to cancel any tariff filing that he deemed not to be in the best interests of TAA. Such strategies appear designed to inhibit and curtail IA rather than facilitate its exercise. It appears that these alleged agreements or other similar practices designed to constrict IA may violate section 5(b)(8), 46 U.S.C. app. 1704(b)(8), which requires that every conference agreement must provide that any conference member may take IA on any rate or service item required to be filed in a tariff. Such agreements or practices also may violate section 10(a) (2) or (3) of the 1984 Act, 2 46 U.S.C. app. 1709(a) (2) or (3). In addition, such practices may violate provisions of the Commission's regulations designed to protect the integrity of the right of independent action within conferences. In particular, 46 CFR 572.801 prohibits a conference from prescribing notice periods for adopting, withdrawing, postponing, canceling or taking similar actions on independent action matters; from requiring that notice of independent action be given by the proposing member to the other parties to the agreement; from requiring the proposing member to attend a conference meeting, to submit any further information other than that necessary to accomplish the filing of the independent tariff item, or to comply with any other procedure for the purpose of explaining, justifying, or compromising the proposed independent action; and from failing to include an IA rate or service item in the conference tariff effective no later than 10 days after receipt of an IA notice, 46 CFR 572.801(b)(2), (c), and (d). 2 Section 10(a) (2) and (3) provide that a carrier or conference may not: (2) operate under an agreement required to be filed under section 5 of this Act that has not become effective under section 6, or that has been rejected, disapproved or canceled; or (3) operate under an agreement required to be filed under section 5 of this Act except in accordance with the terms of the agreement or any modifications made by the Commission to the agreement. In commencing the Fact Finding Investigation, the Commission noted that the right of independent action is a critical ingredient of the compromise reflected in the 1984 Act between carrier and shipper interests and has been guarded carefully by the Commission. In the Conference Report accompanying the 1984 Act, H.R. Rep. No. 98&hyph;600, 98th Cong., 2d Sess., 34 (1984), the conferees state their belief ``that potential reductions in competition will be at least partially offset by a member carrier's right of independent action and ability to enter and leave the conference freely.'' It appears that TAA may have suppressed that right and, thus, removed a competitive counterbalance to the conference's ability and desire to increase rates. The Commission recognizes that its action instituting this formal adjudication necessarily precludes that opportunity to obtain additional testimony on this subject from conference and carrier witnesses in the context of the ongoing Fact Finding Investigation. The Commission is taking action at this time because it believes that there is sufficient evidence to warrant such action, and because of the importance of this issue to effective Commission regulation of conferences. The initiation of a formal adjudicatory proceeding will provide the full measure of procedural due process accorded respondents in adjudicatory matters generally. Now therefore, it is ordered, That pursuant to sections 5, 10, 11, and 13 of the 1984 Act, 46 U.S.C. app. 1704, 1709, 1710, and 1712, an investigation is instituted to determine:
