FR940413-2-00035 FR940413-2-00023 [FRL&hyph;4862&hyph;8] Missouri; Final Program Determination of Full Adequacy of State/Tribal Municipal Solid Waste Landfill Permit Program AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of final determination of full program adequacy for Missouri's application. SUMMARY: Section 4005(c)(1)(B) of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), as amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments (HSWA) of 1984, requires States to develop and implement permit programs to ensure that municipal solid waste landfills (MSWLFs) which may receive hazardous household waste or small quantity generator waste will comply with the revised Federal MSWLF Criteria (40 CFR part 258). RCRA section 4005(c)(1)(C) requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to determine whether States have adequate ``permit'' programs for MSWLFs, but does not mandate issuance of a rule for such determinations. EPA has drafted and is in the process of proposing a State/Tribal Implementation Rule (STIR) that will provide procedures by which EPA will approve, or partially approve State/Tribal landfill permit programs. EPA intends to approve adequate State/Tribal MSWLF permit programs as applications are submitted. Thus, these determinations will be made based on the statutory authorities and requirements. In addition, State/Tribes may use the draft STIR as an aid in interpreting these requirements. The Agency believes that early approvals have an important benefit. Approved State/Tribal permit programs provide interaction between the State/Tribe and the owner/operator regarding site-specific permit conditions. Only those owners/operators located in State/Tribes with approved permit programs can use the site-specific flexibility provided by 40 CFR part 258. To the extent the State/Tribal permit program allows such flexibility, 40 CFR part 258 will apply to all permitted and unpermitted MSWLF facilities. Missouri applied for a determination of adequacy under section 4005 of RCRA. EPA reviewed Missouri's application and proposed a determination that Missouri's MSWLF permit program is adequate to ensure compliance with 40 CFR part 258. After consideration of all comments received, EPA is today issuing a final determination that Missouri's program is adequate. EFFECTIVE DATE: The determination of adequacy for Missouri shall be effective on April 13, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Althea M. Moses, 726 Minnesota Avenue, Mail Code: WSTM/RCRA/STPG, Kansas City, Kansas, 64105; telephone: (913) 551&hyph;7649. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background On October 9, 1991, EPA promulgated revised Criteria for MSWLFs (40 CFR part 258). Subtitle D of RCRA, as amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste amendments of 1984 (HSWA), requires States to develop permitting programs to ensure that facilities comply with the Federal Criteria under 40 CFR part 258. Subtitle D also requires in section 4005 that EPA determine the adequacy of State municipal solid waste landfill permit programs to ensure that facilities comply with the revised Federal Criteria. To fulfill this requirement, the Agency has drafted and is in the process of proposing a State/Tribal Implementation Rule (STIR). The rule will specify the requirements which State/Tribal programs must satisfy to be determined adequate. The EPA intends to approve State/Tribal MSWLF permit programs prior to the promulgation of the STIR. EPA interprets the requirements for States or Tribes to develop ``adequate'' programs for permit or other forms of prior approval to impose several minimum requirements. First, each State/Tribe must have enforceable standards for new and existing MSWLFs that are technically comparable to 40 CFR part 258. Next, the State/Tribe must have the authority to issue a permit or other notice of prior approval to all new and existing MSWLFs in its jurisdiction. The State/Tribe also must provide for public participation in permit issuance and enforcement as required in section 7004(b) of RCRA. Finally, EPA believes that the State/Tribe must show that it has sufficient compliance monitoring and enforcement authorities to take specific action against any owner or operator that fails to comply with an approved MSWLF program. EPA Regions will determine whether a State/Tribe has submitted an ``adequate'' program based on the interpretation outlined above. EPA plans to provide more specific criteria for the evaluation when it proposes the STIR. EPA expects States/Tribes to meet all of these requirements for all elements of a MSWLF program before it gives full approval to a MSWLF program.
