FR940414-0-00004 FR940414-0-00001 Response: REA believes one form of Software License to be used in all Software leasing situations involving the Forms 525 and 545 Contracts is in the best interests of the suppliers, the borrowers, and REA because a single uniform Software License presents a fair and equitable distribution of risk to all parties involved and assures borrowers that all manufacturers must meet the same requirements. Two commenters felt that the term ``Licensed Software'' be used consistently throughout the Agreement. Response: The Agreement has been revised to reflect the above comment. Section (1) One commenter suggested that the definition of Licensed Software and the associated documentation be more specific. Response: The definition of Licensed Software and associated documentation has been revised to resolve this problem. One commenter suggested that the definition of Licensee and Licensor be expanded to include sublicensors of the Licensor so that resellers or distributors could sign the Agreement. Response: REA believes that there should be one party responsible for meeting the Licensee's obligations and one party responsible for meeting the Licensor's obligations so that the ultimately responsible entities can be easily ascertained. The language in this definition has not been changed. Section (2) Two commenters suggested that the last sentence of Section (2) be changed to more clearly define the use of the Licensed Software. Response: REA has revised this sentence to clarify the intention that the Licensed Software can only be used with the System provided under the Contract. One commenter suggested that section (2)(i) be changed to require the Licensee to notify the Licensor of any change in location of the equipment and Licensed Software so that the Licensor could track its software and assist in providing software support (e.g., change notices, etc). Response: REA agrees. Section (2)(i) has been revised to incorporate the suggested change.
