FR940804-2-00120 FR940804-2-00068 8. The claims made herein are assets of the said bankruptcy case except to the extent exempted or surplus beyond that needed to pay claims and administrative expenses. 9. Defendants are corporations organized under the laws of Colorado which do substantial business in Western Pennsylvania. Factual Background 10. Gianotti was engaged in the business of producing television programs primarily for use on cable television and primarily of a sports nature. 11. On or about October 19, 1989, Gianotti entered into a written agreement with the University of Pittsburgh Athletic Department for the production of certain sports telecasts. The Agreement was for a term of two years from October 21, 1989, to October 21, 1991. The Agreement gave exclusive broadcast and cable distribution rights to Gianotti. The Agreement provided for an exclusive 30-day negotiating period following October 21, 1991. 12. During the term of the said Agreement, Gianotti produced various sports television programs involving University of Pittsburgh athletic events and arranged for the viewing of such programs through KBL. 13. Gianotti provided KBL with a copy of his said Agreement with the University of Pittsburgh Athletic Department prior to the first cable distribution of such a program. 14. Although Gianotti's dealings were formally with KBL, he was paid for programming by checks of TCI mailed to his address is Pennsylvania from TCI's office. 15. Before the end of the term of the said agreement, in August, 1991, KBL successfully negotiated directly with the University of Pittsburgh Athletic Department to provide for the production of the same sports events covered by the said Agreement. 16. In the spring of 1991, in order to harm Gianotti's chances of extending his contractual relationship with the University of Pittsburgh, KBL refused to provide cable distribution of University of Pittsburgh men's baseball games and other sports events such as auto racing from Gianotti. 17. In a concerted effort to take over Gianotti's business, KBL cancelled his Steeler Talk Show and replaced it with its own Sports Beat. 18. KBL directly approached and contracted with advertisers developed by Gianotti, such as Carriage Limousine and Coors Beer. 19. In February, 1991, in a meeting between William Craig, a managerial employee of KBL, and Gianotti, William Craig told Gianotti that KBL would not distribute any University of Pittsburgh athletic events unless KBL could distribute men's basketball. When Gianotti offered to produce men's basketball, William Craig rejected the offer and advised him that KBL wanted to negotiate that directly with the University of Pittsburgh.
