FR940817-2-00160 FR940817-2-00080 Any disclosure of information regarding a proposed increase in the rate of any fees for secondary services will be accompanied by an additional Termination Form with instructions on the use of the form as described above. Therefore, the Second Fiduciary will have prior notice of the proposed increase and an opportunity to withdraw from the Funds in advance of the date the increase becomes effective. Although the Second Fiduciary will also have notice of any increase in the rates of fees charged by M&I to the Funds for investment advisory services, through an updated prospectus or otherwise, such notice will not be accompanied by an additional Termination Form since all increases in investment advisory fees will be credited by M&I to the Client Plans and will be subject to an annual reauthorization as described above. M&I states that the Second Fiduciary always receives a current prospectus for each Fund and a written statement giving full disclosure of the Fee Structure prior to any investment in the Funds. The disclosure statement explains why M&I believes that the investment of assets of the Client Plan in the Funds is appropriate. The disclosure statement also describes whether there are any limitations on M&I with respect to which Client Plan assets may be invested in shares of the Funds and, if so, the nature of such limitations. 26 26 See section II(d) of PTE 77&hyph;4 which requires, in pertinent part, that an independent plan fiduciary receive a current prospectus issued by the investment company and a full and detailed written disclosure of the investment advisory and other fees charged to or paid by the plan and the investment company, including a discussion of whether there are any limitations on the fiduciary/investment adviser with respect to which plan assets may be invested in shares of the investment company and, if so, the nature of such limitations. M&I states further that the Second Fiduciary receives an updated prospectus for each Fund at least annually and either annual or semi-annual reports for each Fund. M&I provides monthly reports to the Second Fiduciary of all transactions engaged in by the Client Plan, including purchases and sales of Fund shares. 9. No sales commissions are paid by the Client Plans in connection with the purchase or sale of shares of the Funds. In addition, no redemption fees are paid in connection with the sale of shares by the Client Plans to the Funds. The applicant states that all other dealings between the Client Plans and the Funds, M&I Management or any affiliate, are on a basis no less favorable to the Client Plans than such dealings are with the other shareholders of the Funds. 10. In summary, M&I represents that the transactions described herein satisfy the statutory criteria of section 408(a) of the Act because: (a) The Funds provide the Client Plans with a more effective investment vehicle than the CIFs maintained by M&I without any increase in investment management, advisory or similar fees paid to M&I; (b) with respect to the transfer of a Client Plan's CIF assets into a Fund in exchange for Fund shares, a Second Fiduciary authorizes in writing such transfer prior to the transaction only after full written disclosure of information concerning the Fund; (c) each Client Plan receives shares of a Fund in connection with the transfer of assets of a terminating CIF which have a net asset value that is equal to the value of the Client Plan's pro rata share of the CIF assets on the date of the transfer, based on the current market value of such assets as determined in a single valuation at the close of the same business day using independent sources in accordance with procedures established by the Fund which comply with Rule 17a-7 of the 1940 Act; (d) with respect to any investments in a Fund by the Client Plans and the payment of any fees by the Fund to M&I, a Second Fiduciary receives full written disclosure of information concerning the Fund, including a current prospectus and a statement describing the Fee Structure, and authorizes in writing the investment of the Client Plan's assets in the particular Fund and the fees paid by such Fund to M&I; (e) any authorizations made by a Client Plan regarding investments in a Fund and fees paid to M&I, or any increases in the rates of fees for secondary services which are retained by M&I, are or will be terminable at will by the Client Plan, without penalty to the Client Plan, upon receipt by M&I of written notice of termination from the Second Fiduciary; (f) M&I requires annual audits by an independent accounting firm to verify the proper crediting to the Client Plans of fees charged by M&I to the Funds; (g) no commissions or redemption fees are paid by the Client Plan in connection with either the acquisition of Fund shares, through either a direct purchase of the shares or a transfer of CIF assets in exchange for the shares, or the sale of Fund shares; and (h) all dealings between the Client Plans, the Funds and M&I, are on a basis which is at least as favorable to the Client Plans as such dealings are with other shareholders of the Funds. Notice to Interested Persons Notice of the proposed exemption shall be given to all Second Fiduciaries of Client Plans described herein that had investments in a terminating CIF and from whom approval was sought, or will be sought prior to the granting of this proposed exemption, for a transfer of a Client Plan's CIF assets to a Fund. In addition, interested persons shall include the Second Fiduciaries of all Client Plans which have invested in the Funds, from the effective date of the proposed exemption (November 20, 1992) until the date the notice of the proposed exemption is published in the Federal Register , where M&I has provided services to the Funds and received fees which would be covered by the exemption, if granted. Notice to interested persons shall be provided by first class mail within fifteen (15) days following the publication of the proposed exemption in the Federal Register . Such notice shall include a copy of the notice of proposed exemption as published in the Federal Register and a supplemental statement (see 29 CFR 2570.43(b)(2)) which informs all interested persons of their right to comment on and/or request a hearing with respect to the proposed exemption. Comments and requests for a public hearing are due within forty-five (45) days following the publication of the proposed exemption in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. E. F. Williams of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8194. (This is not a toll-free number.)
