FR940725-0-00107 FR940725-0-00013 (8) Day treatment or other partial hospitalization services, psychosocial rehabilitation services and clinic services (whether or not furnished in a facility) for individuals with chronic mental illness, subject to the conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. (9) Other services requested by the agency and approved by HCFA as cost effective and necessary to avoid institutionalization. (c) Expanded habilitation services, effective April 7, 1986 _(1) General rule. Expanded habilitation services are those services specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, that are provided to recipients who have been discharged from a Medicaid-certified NF or ICF/MR, regardless of when the discharge occurred. (2) Services included. The agency may include as expanded habilitation services the following services: (i) Prevocational services, which means services that prepare an individual for paid or unpaid employment and that are not job-task oriented but are, instead, aimed at a generalized result. These services may include, for example, teaching an individual such concepts as compliance, attendance, task completion, problem solving and safety. Prevocational services are distinguishable from noncovered vocational services by the following criteria: (A) The services are provided to persons who are not expected to be able to join the general work force or participate in a transitional sheltered workshop within one year (excluding supported employment programs). (B) If the recipients are compensated, they are compensated at less than 50 percent of the minimum wage; (C) The services include activities which are not primarily directed at teaching specific job skills but at underlying habilitative goals (for example, attention span, motor skills); and (D) The services are reflected in a plan of care directed to habilitative rather than explicit employment objectives. (ii) Educational services, which means special education and related services (as defined in sections 602(16) and (17) of the Education of the Handicapped Act) (20 U.S.C. 1401 (16 and 17)) to the extent they are not prohibited under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section. (iii) Supported employment services, which facilitate paid employment, that are_ (A) Provided to persons for whom competitive employment at or above the minimum wage is unlikely and who, because of their disabilities, need intensive ongoing support to perform in a work setting; (B) Conducted in a variety of settings, particularly worksites in which persons without disabilities are employed; and (C) Defined as any combination of special supervisory services, training, transportation, and adaptive equipment that the State demonstrates are essential for persons to engage in paid employment and that are not normally required for nondisabled persons engaged in competitive employment. (3) Services not included. The following services may not be included as habilitation services: (i) Special education and related services (as defined in sections 602(16) and (17) of the Education of the Handicapped Act) (20 U.S.C. 1401 (16) and (17)) that are otherwise available to the individual through a local educational agency. (ii) Vocational rehabilitation services that are otherwise available to the individual through a program funded under section 110 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 730). (d) Services for the chronically mentally ill _(1) Services included. Services listed in paragraph (b)(8) of this section include those provided to individuals who have been diagnosed as being chronically mentally ill, for which the agency has requested approval as part of either a new waiver request or a renewal and which have been approved by HCFA on or after October 21, 1986. (2) Services not included. Any home and community-based service, including those indicated in paragraph (b)(8) of this section, may not be included in home and community-based service waivers for the following individuals: (i) For individuals aged 22 through 64 who, absent the waiver, would be institutionalized in an institution for mental diseases (IMD); and, therefore, subject to the limitation on IMDs specified in ยง435.1008(a)(2) of this subchapter. (ii) For individuals, not meeting the age requirements described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, who, absent the waiver, would be placed in an IMD in those States that have not opted to include the benefits defined in ยง440.140 or ยง440.160. 3. Section 440.185 is added to read as follows: ยง440.185 Respiratory care for ventilator-dependent individuals. (a) ``Respiratory care for ventilator-dependent individuals'' means services that are not otherwise available under the State's Medicaid plan, provided on a part-time basis in the recipient's home by a respiratory therapist or other health care professional trained in respiratory therapy (as determined by the State) to an individual who_ (1) Is medically dependent on a ventilator for life support at least 6 hours per day;
