FR940228-1-00095 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary proposes to make explicit that record-keeping is a basic standard of administrative capability. Those new institutions that do not have adequate record-keeping capability would not be approved to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs. The record-keeping capability of participating institutions would be evaluated when the institutions seek renewal of their program participation. The Secretary proposes to revise the satisfactory progress standards to require that the maximum time frame for completion of an undergraduate program be no longer than 150 percent of the published length of the educational program and that increments of the maximum time frame not exceed the lesser of one academic year or one-half the published length of the educational program. The establishment of the maximum time frame must, as usual, take into account a student's enrollment status. Thus, an institution that offers a four-year degree program (as listed in the institution's catalog) would have to establish a maximum time frame of no more than six years for completion of the program by a full-time student. The time frame could be proportionally longer for a half-time student. The Secretary emphasizes that this requirement would set an upper limit on the period of time for which a student may receive Title IV, HEA program aid. An institution would not be required to expel or otherwise remove a student from the educational program after the expiration of this maximum time frame (unless, of course, the institution has a similar requirement for students who do not receive Title IV, HEA program assistance). The Secretary has a longstanding policy under which 150 percent of the length of an educational program is considered to be a reasonable period in which a serious student should be able to complete the program. The Secretary notes that this proposed time frame is also consistent with proposals made by the NPRM implementing the Student Right-to-Know provisions in section 485(a) of the HEA (57 FR 30826). The Secretary does not believe that Title IV, HEA program aid should be provided beyond the point at which a student can reasonably be expected to complete his or her educational objective. The Secretary proposes to expand and clarify the requirements for reporting information about possible fraud or illegal misconduct related to the Title IV, HEA programs. The proposed regulations would eliminate the current provision for an institution to refer suspected instances of fraud or other criminal misconduct involving Title IV, HEA program assistance to a State or local law enforcement agency rather than the Office of Inspector General (OIG), if more appropriate. Instead, the proposed regulations would require the institution to notify only the OIG. The proposed regulations would also remove a related requirement_that the institution report to the OIG, for each calendar year, all relevant referrals to State or local law enforcement agencies, as this would no longer be necessary if all referrals were made directly to the OIG. Upon receipt of the information, the OIG will notify and work with the appropriate officials to resolve the issue. The Secretary is proposing to amend this section to streamline the referral process and reduce the burden of reporting information. Currently, under this provision governing the reporting of instances of suspected fraud and criminal misconduct, institutions are required to report only information regarding applicants for Title IV, HEA program assistance. Another proposed change would expand the reporting requirement with respect to both the types of misconduct to be reported and the individuals and entities involved in the misconduct. In addition to the information currently required, an institution would be required to report information regarding illegal conduct involving the eligibility and funding of the institution and its students through Title IV, HEA programs believed by the institution to have been committed by any employee, third-party servicer, or other agent of the institution that acts in a capacity that involves the administration of the Title IV, HEA programs. This provision would specify that illegal conduct would include possible fraud, misrepresentation, conversion or breach of fiduciary responsibility, or any other illegal conduct. The Secretary believes it is important to investigate any possible illegal misconduct (i.e., misconduct where formal criminal charges have not been brought) in addition to possible criminal misconduct. The intent of this expansion is to specify that institutions should report not only acts that constitute fraud or criminal conduct, but any and all other illegal conduct involving Title IV, HEA programs in which an employee or third-party servicer might have engaged.
