FR941003-0-00076 FR941003-0-00013 (i) The abbreviated new drug application or 505(b)(2) application number. (ii) The name of the abbreviated new drug or 505(b)(2) application applicant. (iii) The established name of the drug product or, if no established name exists, the name(s) of the active ingredient(s), the drug product's strength, and dosage form. (iv) A certification that an action for patent infringement identified by number, has been filed in an appropriate court on a specified date. The applicant of an abbreviated new drug application shall send the notification to FDA's Office of Generic Drugs (HFD&hyph;600). A 505(b)(2) applicant shall send the notification to the appropriate division in the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research reviewing the application. A patent owner or its representative may also notify FDA of the filing of any legal action for patent infringement. The notice should contain the information and be sent to the offices or divisions described in this paragraph. (3) If the patent owner or approved application holder who is an exclusive patent licensee waives its opportunity to file a legal action for patent infringement within 45 days of a receipt of the notice of certification and the patent owner or approved application holder who is an exclusive patent licensee submits to FDA a valid waiver before the 45 days elapse, approval of the abbreviated new drug application or the 505(b)(2) application will be made effective upon completion of the agency's review and approval of the application. FDA will only accept a waiver in the following form: ( Name of patent owner or exclusive patent licensee ) has received notice from ( name of applicant ) under ( section 505(b)(3) or 505(j)(2)(B) of the act ) and does not intend to file an action for patent infringement against ( name of applicant ) concerning the drug ( name of drug ) before ( date on which 45 days elapses. ( Name of patent owner or exclusive patent licensee ) waives the opportunity provided by ( section 505(c)(3)(C) or 505(j)(B)(iii) of the act ) and does not object to FDA's approval of ( name of applicant )'s ( 505(b)(2) or abbreviated new drug application ) for ( name of drug ) with an immediate effective date on or after the date of this letter. ยง314.108 New drug product exclusivity. (a) Definitions. The following definitions of terms apply to this section: Active moiety means the molecule or ion, excluding those appended portions of the molecule that cause the drug to be an ester, salt (including a salt with hydrogen or coordination bonds), or other noncovalent derivative (such as a complex, chelate, or clathrate) of the molecule, responsible for the physiological or pharmacological action of the drug substance. Approved under section 505(b) means an application submitted under section 505(b) and approved on or after October 10, 1962, or an application that was ``deemed approved'' under section 107(c)(2) of Pub. L. 87&hyph;781. Clinical investigation means any experiment other than a bioavailability study in which a drug is administered or dispensed to, or used on, human subjects. Conducted or sponsored by the applicant with regard to an investigation means that before or during the investigation, the applicant was named in Form FDA&hyph;1571 filed with FDA as the sponsor of the investigational new drug application under which the investigation was conducted, or the applicant or the applicant's predecessor in interest, provided substantial support for the investigation. To demonstrate ``substantial support,'' an applicant must either provide a certified statement from a certified public accountant that the applicant provided 50 percent or more of the cost of conducting the study or provide an explanation why FDA should consider the applicant to have conducted or sponsored the study if the applicant's financial contribution to the study is less than 50 percent or the applicant did not sponsor the investigational new drug. A predecessor in interest is an entity, e.g., a corporation, that the applicant has taken over, merged with, or purchased, or from which the applicant has purchased all rights to the drug. Purchase of nonexclusive rights to a clinical investigation after it is completed is not sufficient to satisfy this definition. Date of approval means the date on the letter from FDA stating that the new drug application is approved, whether or not final printed labeling or other materials must yet be submitted as long as approval of such labeling or materials is not expressly required. ``Date of approval'' refers only to a final approval and not to a tentative approval that may become effective at a later date. Essential to approval means, with regard to an investigation, that there are no other data available that could support approval of the application. FDA means the Food and Drug Administration. New chemical entity means a drug that contains no active moiety that has been approved by FDA in any other application submitted under section 505(b) of the act. New clinical investigation means an investigation in humans the results of which have not been relied on by FDA to demonstrate substantial evidence of effectiveness of a previously approved drug product for any indication or of safety for a new patient population and do not duplicate the results of another investigation that was relied on by the agency to demonstrate the effectiveness or safety in a new patient population of a previously approved drug product. For purposes of this section, data from a clinical investigation previously submitted for use in the comprehensive evaluation of the safety of a drug product but not to support the effectiveness of the drug product would be considered new.
