FR940118-0-00063 FR940118-0-00014 (a) The effectiveness of the strategic plan, in accordance with the key principles set out in §25.201. (b) The effectiveness of the assurances made pursuant to §25.200(a)(2) that the strategic plan will be implemented. (c) The extent to which an application proposes activities that are creative and innovative. (d) Such other factors as established by the Secretary, which include the degree of need demonstrated by the nominated area for assistance under this part and the diversity within and among the nominated areas. If other factors are established by USDA, a Federal Register Notice will be published identifying such factors, along with an extension of the application due date if necessary. §25.302 Number of Rural Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities. The Secretary may designate up to 3 rural Empowerment Zones and up to thirty rural Enterprise Communities. Subpart E_Post-Designation Requirements §25.400 Reporting. USDA will require periodic reports for the Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities designated pursuant to this part. These reports will identify the community, local government and State actions which have been taken in accordance with the strategic plan. In addition to these reports, such other information relating to designated Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities as USDA shall request from time to time shall be submitted promptly. On the basis of this information and of on-site reviews, USDA will prepare and issue periodic reports on the effectiveness of the Empowerment Zones/Enterprise Communities Program. §25.401 Periodic performance reviews. USDA will regularly evaluate the progress in implementing the strategic plan in each designated Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community on the basis of performance reviews to be conducted on site and using other information submitted. USDA may also commission evaluations of the Empowerment Zone program as a whole by an important third party. Where not prevented by State law, nominating State governments must provide the timely release of data requested by USDA for the purposes of monitoring and assisting the success of Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities. §25.402 Validation of designation. (a) Reevaluation of designations. On the basis of the performance review described in §25.401 of this part, and subject to the provisions relating to the revocation of designation appearing at §25.403 of this part, USDA will make findings as to the continuing eligibility for the validity of the designation of any Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Determinations of whether any designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community remains in good standing shall be promptly communicated to all Federal agencies providing assistance or administering programs under which assistance can be made available in such Zone or Community. (b) Modification of designation. Based on a rural Zone or Community's success in carrying out its strategic plan, and subject to the provisions relating to revocation of designation appearing at §25.403 of this part and the requirements as to the number, maximum population and other characteristics of rural Empowerment Zones set forth in §25.100 of this part, the Secretary may modify designations by reclassifying rural Empowerment Zones as Enterprise Communities or Enterprise Communities as Empowerment Zones. §25.403 Revocation of designation. (a) Basis for revocation. The Secretary may revoke the designation of a rural area as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community if the Secretary determines on the basis of the periodic monitoring described in §25.401 of this part, that the applicant of the State(s) or local government(s) in which the rural area is located: (1) Has modified the boundaries of the area; (2) Has failed to make satisfactory progress in achieving the benchmarks set forth in the strategic plan; or (3) Has not complied substantially with the strategic plan. (b) Warning letter. Before revoking the designation of a rural area as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community, the Secretary will issue a letter of warning to the applicant and the nominating State(s) and local government(s): (1) Advising that the Secretary has determined that the applicant and/or the nominating local government(s) and/or State(s) has: (i) modified the boundaries of the area; or
