FR940314-1-00019 FR940314-1-00006 In accordance with the provisions of 30 CFR 732.17(h), OSM is seeking comments on whether the proposed amendment satisfies the applicable program approval criteria of 30 CFR 732.15. If the amendment is deemed adequate, it will become part of the North Dakota program. Written Comments Written comments should be specific, pertain only to the issue proposed in this rulemaking, and include explanations in support of the commentor's recommendations. Comments received after the time indicated under DATES or at locations other than the Casper Field Office will not necessarily be considered in the final rulemaking or included in the administrative record. Public Hearing Persons wishing to testify at the public hearing should contact the person listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT by 4 p.m., m.s.t. March 29, 1994. The location and time of the hearing will be arranged with those persons requesting the hearing. If no one requests an opportunity to testify at the public hearing, the hearing will not be held. Filing of a written statement at the time of the hearing is requested as it will greatly assist the transcriber. Submission of written statements in advance of the hearing will allow OSM officials to prepare adequate responses and appropriate questions. The public hearing will continue on the specified date until all persons scheduled to comment have been heard. Persons in the audience who have not been scheduled to testify, and who wish to do so, will be heard following those who have been scheduled. The hearing will end after all persons scheduled to testify and persons present in the audience who wish to testify have been heard. Public Meeting If only one person requests an opportunity to testify at a hearing, a public meeting, rather than a public hearing, may be held. Persons wishing to meet with OSM representatives to discuss the proposed amendment may request a meeting at the OSM office listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . All such meetings will be open to the public and, if possible, notices of meetings will be posted at the locations listed under ADDRESSES . A written summary of each meeting will be made a part of the administrative record. IV. Procedural Determinations Compliance With Executive Order 12866 This proposed rule is exempted from review by the office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866 (Reduction of Regulatory Burden). Compliance With Executive Order 12778 The Department of the Interior has conducted the reviews required by section 2 of Executive Order 12778 (Civil Justice Reform) and has determined that this rule meets the applicable standards of subsections (a) and (b) of that section. However, these standards are not applicable to the actual language of State regulatory programs and program amendments since each such program is drafted and promulgated by a specific State, not by OSM. Under sections 503 and 505 of SMCRA (30 U.S.C. 1253 and 1255) and the Federal regulations at 30 CFR 730.11, 732.15, and 732.17(h)(10), decisions on proposed State regulatory programs and program amendments submitted by the States must be based solely on a determination of whether the submittal is consistent with SMCRA and its implementing Federal regulations and whether the other requirements of 30 CFR parts 730, 731, and 732 have been met.
