FR940617-0-00092 FR940617-0-00019 •Name, address, and telephone number of the waste generator •Name and address of the local, State, or EPA regional office responsible for administering the asbestos NESHAP program •Quantity of waste in cubic meters (or cubic yards) •Name and telephone number of the disposal site operator •Name and physical site location of the disposal site •Date transported •Name, address, and telephone number of the transporter(s) •Certification that the contents meet all government regulations for transport by highways. 4.B.2. The waste generator is responsible for ensuring that a copy of the WSR is delivered to the disposal site along with the waste shipment. If a copy of the WSR signed by the disposal site operator is not returned to the waste generator within 35 days, the waste generator must contact the transporter and/or the disposal site to determine the status of the waste shipment. 40 CFR 61.150(d)(3). If the signed WSR is not received within 45 days, the waste generator must report, in writing, to the responsible NESHAP program agency and send along a copy of the WSR. 40 CFR 61.150(d)(4). Copies of WSRs, including those signed by the disposal site operator, must be retained for at least 2 years. 40 CFR 61.150(d)(5). V. Training 5.1. For those roof removals that are subject to the NESHAP, at least one on-site supervisor trained in the provisions of the NESHAP must be present during the removal of the asbestos roofing material. 40 CFR 61.145(c)(8). In EPA's view, this person can be a job foreman, a hired consultant, or someone who can represent the building owner or contractor responsible for the removal. In addition to the initial training requirement, a refresher training course is required every 2 years. The NESHAP training requirements became effective on November 20, 1991. 5.2. Asbestos training courses developed specifically to address compliance with the NESHAP in roofing work, as well as courses developed for other purposes can satisfy this requirement of the NESHAP, as long as the course covers the areas specified in the regulation. EPA believes that Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act (AHERA) training courses will, for example, satisfy the NESHAP training requirements. However, nothing in this interpretive rule or in the NESHAP shall be deemed to require that roofing contractors or roofing workers performing operations covered by the NESHAP must be trained or accredited under AHERA, as amended by the Asbestos School Hazard Abatement Reauthorization Act (ASHARA). Likewise, state or local authorities may independently impose additional training, licensing, or accreditation requirements on roofing contractors performing operations covered by the NESHAP, but such additional training, licensing or accreditation is not called for by this interpretive rule or the federal NESHAP. 5.3. For removal of Category I asbestos containing roofing material where RB roof cutters or equipment that similarly damages the asbestos-containing roofing material are used, the NESHAP training requirements (§61.145(c)(8)) apply as discussed in Section I above. It is EPA's intention that removal of Category I asbestos-containing roofing material using hatchets, axes, knives, and/or the use of spud bars, pry bars and shovels to lift the roofing material, or similar removal methods that slice, punch, or shear the roof membrane are not subject to the training requirements, since these methods do not cause the roof removal to be subject to the NESHAP. Likewise, it is EPA's intention that roof removal operations involving Category II nonfriable ACM are not subject to the training requirements where such operations are not subject to the NESHAP as discussed in section I above. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14815 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P 3
