FR940627-0-00151 FR940627-0-00019 In addition to specifying particular polycyclic aromatic compounds for analysis, the final rule reduces the families and/or categories of F/FAs which are subject to these requirements. PAH and NPAH speciation need not be done for F/FAs in the methane and propane fuel families, nor for F/FAs in the atypical categories of other fuel families. Furthermore, speciation of dioxins/furans is required only for F/FAs which contain chlorine as an atypical element. This is consistent with the requirement applicable to atypical F/FAs in general, that all emission species containing the relevant atypical elements be identified and measured (see section f, below). While EPA believes that characterization of dioxins/furans is also important in the case of baseline and non-baseline F/FAs, the NPRM did not propose to require this procedure on a wider basis. EPA has thus refrained from including mandatory requirements for speciation of dioxins/furans in the case of baseline and non-baseline F/FAs. Instead, for manufacturers of F/FAs other than chlorine-containing atypical F/FAs, dioxin/furan characterization is included in the final rule only on a voluntary basis. EPA strongly encourages manufacturers of baseline and non-baseline F/FAs to collect the necessary emission samples and conduct these voluntary procedures at the same time that mandatory emission characterization requirements are being fulfilled. The recent attention and concern about the potential health effects of dioxins/furans, combined with the current dearth of information on the specific sources and generation of these compounds, increases the likelihood that these procedures will be prescribed under EPA's discretionary Tier 3 authority if the necessary data are not otherwise submitted on a voluntary basis. If so, the incremental costs are likely to be considerably higher than if the procedures were conducted in conjunction with the standard Tier 1 emission characterization tasks. As was proposed, the final rule requires the measurement and speciation of polycyclic aromatic compounds in both the semi-volatile phase and particulate phase of combustion emissions. While, in the past, these compounds have been analyzed primarily in the particulate phase, the quantity of these compounds in the semi-volatile phase at the temperatures encountered in dilute exhaust may also be important. Particulate and semi-volatile phase emissions are to be collected using methods described in Section VI.B.1. The soluble organic fraction (SOF) is to be extracted from the filter and polymer bed separately. The extracts of the two phases are to be tested separately for PAHs and NPAHs, but may be combined before testing for dioxins/furans. Examples of protocols suitable for characterizing polycyclic aromatic compounds are available in the literature. 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 51 Coordinating Research Council, ``Chemical Methods for the Measurement of Unregulated Diesel Emissions,'' CRC Report No. 551, 1987; available in Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;07, Item No. II&hyph;J&hyph;15. 52Tejada, S.B., ``Fluorescence Detection and Identification of Nitro Derivatives of Polynuclear Aromatic Hydrocarbons by On-Column Catalytic Reduction to Aromatic Amines,'' Analytical Chemistry, Volume 58, Number 8, pp. 1827&hyph;1834, July 1986. 53Tejada, S.B. et al., ``Analysis of Nitroaromatics in Diesel and Gasoline Car Emissions,'' SAE Paper No. 820775, 1982. 54Schuetzle D., ``Analysis of Nitrated Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons in Diesel Particulates,'' Analytical Chemistry, Volume 54, pp. 265&hyph;271, 1982. 55John J. H. et al., ``A review of diesel particulate control technology and emissions effects_1992 Horning Memorial Award Lecture,'' SAE Technical Paper Series No. 940233, 1994. 56A protocol for identification and measurement of poly-chlorinated dibenzodioxins and dibensofurans is provided in 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, Method 23. f. Characterization of Emissions with Atypical Elements. F/FAs containing chemical elements other than those included in the baseline formulations for the respective fuel family are classified as atypical formulations (see Section IV.B.2). In addition to the emission characterization requirements described above, producers of atypical F/FAs are required to identify and measure the emission products containing the associated atypical element(s). For example, if a gasoline additive product contains chlorine, then this manufacturer must identify and measure all emission compounds that contain chlorine. Due to the nature of atypical products, special procedures for the generation of emissions are required (see Section VI.E). The presence of atypical species in specific emission fractions will be dependent on the nature of the particular atypical element/compound of concern. In view of this, EPA recommends that manufacturers of atypical products examine all emission fractions (i.e., vapor, semi-volatile, and particulate) for the measurement and identification of potential atypical species. Because of the variety of potential elements and reaction products involved, all of the necessary chemical/analytical procedures cannot be specified in this final rule. The selection of the particular method(s) for measuring atypical elements or compounds is left to the manufacturer. However, the procedures used must be state-of-the-art and based on sound analytical chemistry principles applicable to the atypical element or compound of concern. 3. Quality Assurance While today's rule requires emissions to be generated and characterized three times as a way to evaluate the repeatability of the test results, additional quality assurance procedures are needed to control variability during the characterization of emissions. Laboratories conducting emission characterization/speciation analyses are required to perform verification testing to examine the repeatability and accuracy of test procedures. For this purpose, a prepared mixture of chemical compounds, as appropriate for each particular procedure, should be subjected to the speciation protocols. The use of analytical standards and controls for calibration of instruments is also required to assure precision and accuracy of results. EPA reserves the right in this final rule to audit testing facilities involved in the generation and characterization of emissions, as well as the health effects testing of F/FAs. Such audits will be organized and administered by EPA at its own expense. The audit procedures could include a requirement that facilities submit a completed questionnaire in which equipment and procedural information is described. EPA might make recommendations based on the submitted information and/or might follow up with a visit to observe the performance of the protocols. The audit could also include EPA distribution of ``blind'' samples for analysis at participating laboratories (at their expense). The audit will not have the purpose of certifying that the laboratory is ``EPA approved''. Rather, it will have the purpose of determining the weaknesses of laboratories and the acceptability of the laboratory's current performance. C. Exposure Analysis
