FR940922-2-00064 FR940922-2-00038 Request for Nominations for Members on Public Advisory Committees; Science Board to the Food and Drug Administration AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is requesting nominations for members to serve on the Science Board to the Food and Drug Administration (the board). Nominations will be accepted for current vacancies and vacancies that will or may occur on the board during the next 18 months. FDA has a special interest in ensuring that women, minority groups, and individuals with disabilities are adequately represented on advisory committees and, therefore, extends particular encouragement to nominations for appropriately qualified female, minority, or physically disabled candidates. Final selections from among qualified candidates for each vacancy will be determined by the expertise required to meet specific agency needs and in a manner to ensure appropriate balance of membership. DATES: Nominations should be received by October 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: All nominations and curricula vitae from academia, industry, and government representatives for membership, except for general public representatives (consumer-nominated members), should be sent to Zelma S. Rein (address below). All nominations for general public representatives (consumer-nominated members) should be sent to Susan K. Meadows (address below). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Regarding all nominations for membership, except for general public representatives: Zelma S. Rein, Office of the Commissioner (HF&hyph;33), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;5839. Regarding all nominations for general public representatives: Susan K. Meadows, Office of Consumer Affairs (HFE&hyph;40), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;5006. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FDA is requesting nominations for members to serve on the board for the following vacancies: Two vacancies immediately, four vacancies occurring December 31, 1994, and three vacancies occurring December 31, l995. Function The function of the board is to provide advice primarily to the agency's Senior Science Advisor and, as needed, to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs and other appropriate officials on specific complex and technical issues as well as emerging issues within the scientific community in academia and industry. Additionally, the board provides advice to the agency on keeping pace with technical and scientific evolutions in the field of regulatory science, on formulating an appropriate research agenda, and on upgrading its scientific and research facilities to keep pace with these changes. The board also provides the means for critical review of agency sponsored intramural and extramural scientific research programs. Criteria for Members Persons nominated for membership from academia, industry, and government representatives shall be knowledgeable in the fields of chemistry, pharmacology, toxicology, clinical research, and other scientific disciplines. The term of office is up to 4 years, depending on the appointment date. General Public Representatives (Consumer-nominated Members) FDA currently attempts to place members on advisory committees who are nominated by consumer organizations. These members are recommended by a consortium of 12 consumer organizations that has the responsibility for screening, interviewing, and recommending consumer-nominated candidates with appropriate scientific credentials. Candidates are sought who are aware of the consumer impact of committee issues, but who also possess enough technical background to understand and contribute to the committee's work. The agency notes, however, that for some advisory committees, it may require such nominees to meet the same technical qualifications and specialized training required of other expert members of the committee. The term of office for these members is up to 4 years, depending on the appointment date. Nominations are invited for consideration for membership as openings become available. Nomination Procedures Any interested person may nominate one or more qualified persons for membership on the board. Nominations shall state that the nominee is aware of the nomination, is willing to serve as a member of the board, and appears to have no conflict of interest that would preclude board membership. Potential candidates will be asked by FDA to provide detailed information concerning such matters as financial holdings, consultancies, and research grants or contracts in order to permit evaluation of possible sources of conflict of interest. This notice is issued under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. app. 2) and 21 CFR part 14, relating to advisory committees. Dated: September 14, 1994. Linda A. Suydam, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23376 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
