FR940407-2-00156 FR940407-2-00081 Criterion VI: Public-Private Partnerships (Maximum: 10 Points) _The cooperative partnership arrangements are fully described and clearly relate to the objectives of the proposed project, and the activities include one or more of the mandatory or optional components of the State's JOBS program as described in Part II, Section A. _The application documents that the applicant will mobilize from public and/or private sources cash and/or third-party in-kind contributions. Applications that document that the value of such contributions will be at least equal to the OCS funds requested, and demonstrate that the cooperative partnership arrangements clearly relate to the objectives of the proposed project, will receive the maximum number of points for this criterion. Lesser contributions will be given consideration based upon the value documented. _Applicants should note that partnership relationships are not created via service delivery contracts; partners should be responsible for substantive project components or elements. Criterion VII: Budget Appropriateness and Reasonableness (Maximum: 5 Points) Funds requested are commensurate with the level of effort necessary to accomplish the goals and objectives of the project. The application includes a detailed budget break-down for each of the budget categories in the SF&hyph;424A. The applicant presents a reasonable administrative cost if an indirect cost rate has not been negotiated with the cognizant Federal agency (See Part VI, Section B, Line 6j). The estimated cost to the government of the project also is reasonable in relation to the anticipated results. Part V_Application Procedures A. Availability of Forms Attachment B contains all of the standard forms necessary for the application for awards under this OCS program. This attachment and Parts VI and VII of this announcement contain all of the instructions required for submittal of applications. These forms may be photocopied for the application. Copies of the Federal Register containing this announcement are available at most local libraries and Congressional District Offices for reproduction. If copies are not available at these sources, they may be obtained by writing or telephoning the office listed under the section entitled FOR FURTHER INFORMATION at the beginning of this announcement. The applicant must be aware that in signing and submitting the application for this award, it is certifying that it will comply with the Federal requirements concerning the drug-free workplace and debarment regulations set forth in Attachments C and D. Part VII, Section A contains instructions for the project narrative. B. Application Submission The closing date for submission of applications is June 6, 1994. 1. Deadlines. Applications shall be considered as meeting the deadline if they are either: a. Received on or before the deadline date at the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20447, or b. Sent on or before the deadline date and received by the granting agency in time for them to be considered during the competitive review and evaluation process under Chapter 1&hyph;62 of the Health and Human Services Grants Administration Manual. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or the U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) 2. Applications submitted by other means. Applications which are not submitted in accordance with the above criteria shall be considered as meeting the deadline only if they are physically received before the close of business on or before the deadline date. Hand delivered applications will be accepted at the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 901 D Street, SW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20447 during the normal working hours of 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.
