FR941003-2-00064 FR941003-2-00034 The grant must be administered in accordance with the following regulations: 13 CFR Part 121_Small Business Size Regulations 42 CFR Part 52_Grants for Research Projects 45 CFR Part 46_Protection of Human Subjects 45 CFR Part 74_Administration of Grants 45 CFR Part 80_Nondiscrimination Under Programs Receiving Federal Assistance Through the DHHS Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 45 CFR Part 84_Nondiscrimination of the Basis of Handicap in Programs and Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance 45 CFR Part 91_Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age in HHS Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance. I. Cost Sharing Cost sharing is not required nor will it be an evaluation factor in consideration of the proposal. However, due to the special nature of the SBIR Program, the applicant may choose to share the costs of a project. This may be done through cash or in-kind contributions. Most frequently, we expect that the applicant will contribute more labor or use unreimbursed equipment as the applicant's share. J. Additional Information This Federal Register notice is intended for informational purposes and reflects current planning. If there is any inconsistency between the information contained in this notice and the terms of any resulting SBIR grant, the terms of the grant are controlling. Before award of an SBIR grant, HCFA may request the applicant to submit certain organization, management, personnel, and financial information in order to ensure responsibility of the applicant. The Federal government is not responsible for any monies expended by the applicant before the award of any grant. This notice is not an offer by HCFA and does not obligate HCFA to make any specific number of awards. The SBIR Program is not a substitute for HCFA's existing unsolicited proposal mechanisms, and unsolicited proposals will not be accepted under either Phase I or Phase II of the SBIR Program. The applicant may be required to certify that he or she has not previously been paid, nor is currently being paid, for essentially equivalent work by an agency of the Federal government. If a grant is made under this notice for a project, some of whose elements are being supported, or will be supported, by another Federal agency, HCFA and the applicant will negotiate a budget that reflects the elimination of any overlapping support. This program is not covered by Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernment Review of Federal Programs.'' Executive Order 12372 provides for a State clearinghouse in each State to review Federal programs. Research grants are exempt from this review. VII. Research Topic Areas This notice invites SBIR Phase I applications in the following areas. The topics are defined in general terms. They are intended to indicate where we believe we can properly offer assistance in the development of innovative technology. ORD will consider any idea that is within the general subject of a topic. In addition, ORD will review any idea that is within the general purview of HCFA, as described in section I. of this notice. Applicants are reminded that the overall intent of the HCFA SBIR Program is to provide assistance to the development of products and processes that have commercial potential and not to the acquisition of products for HCFA's own use. A. High Quality and Effective Care HCFA invites ideas that would develop products to assist all participants in health care in assessing and monitoring the quality of care and level of care being furnished to patients. Projects should aim to develop tools for health care professionals, providers, and managers that permit them to examine patterns of services being delivered, and the health and social outcome of those services. Projects that would assist private organizations in developing patient guidelines and in conducting technology assessments are of interest. These tools should provide a way to monitor and measure the delivery of health services and the outcomes of those services. They should also make possible a judgment about the quality of the care, the effectiveness of the care, or both. The technical efficiency with which care is delivered and the appropriateness of the overall outcome for the patient should be addressed. B. Management of Ambulatory Services HCFA invites ideas that would develop tools to monitor, assess, and control overutilization and underutilization of ambulatory services and products at all levels of the health care system. Apart from the inflation in the cost of each service, a significant cause of the rising cost of health care services is excessive utilization. Traditionally, utilization review techniques have been applied to high cost, acute services, such as surgery and hospitalizations. We wish to focus on physician services and other ambulatory services and products, for example, drugs, medical equipment, and testing. HCFA invites applications related to services or products commonly associated with Medicare beneficiaries and Medicaid recipients, who are primarily the aged, the poor, the disabled, and persons with end-stage renal disease. Techniques to be explored involve systems both for retrospective utilization pattern review and for managing prospective interventions in individual physician or beneficiary and recipient service or product use. This area also includes broader management tools, based on information derived from utilization review, that promote or ensure more efficient and effective service delivery.
