FR940419-1-00019 FR940419-1-00006 Paragraph (e) of the proposal refers to written progress reports. OSHA policy currently provides for progress reports whenever the Area Director requests them in connection with safety or health violations requiring multi-step or long term abatement. The proposed regulation would make such progress reports mandatory when required by the Area Director and indicated on the citation. Paragraph (f), Tagging of Cited Equipment Paragraph (f) of the proposed regulation requires the placement of a tag on cited equipment in order to alert employees who might be exposed to the hazards of that equipment. The tag will state that this equipment has been cited. This procedure will address the situation, common to the construction industry, in which cited equipment is removed from one worksite to another where employees are not aware of the hazardous condition. The tag requirements found in this proposed regulation are intended to provide such employees with knowledge of the violative condition of the equipment. The proposal provides that these warning tags shall comply with the current OSHA requirements for accident prevention tags (i.e. use, signal word, and general tag criteria) found in ยง1910.145(f). The proposed regulation would require the tag to remain in place on the equipment until the defect has been remedied. If the equipment is removed from the workplace, sold, or otherwise transferred, it is OSHA's intent that the tag remain on the equipment. Mere lack of employee exposure to the equipment will not allow the employer to remove the tag. The reference to ``tagging equipment'' does not require the tagging of supplies, furnishings, policies, procedures or building service distribution systems such as for water. However, individual component parts within a distribution system may be subject to tagging. For example, an unguarded drive shaft on a circulating pump in a water distribution system found in violation of the machine guarding standard would be considered equipment within the meaning of the regulation and thus require tagging. Paragraph (g), Transmittal of Documents OSHA has included the following note in paragraph (g). Note: Receipt of an employer's documents by the Agency under this regulation does not constitute an agreement that the employer is in compliance. There are three reasons for this provision. First, although the Agency will try to evaluate submitted material in a timely fashion, other agency priorities may delay such action. Second, in some cases, the submitted materials may not accurately or completely describe the abatement. Third, changing working conditions may make the abatement action described in the materials submitted inaccurate or inadequate. Paragraph (i), Posting Requirements Paragraph (i)(5) of the proposed regulation states that the final abatement certificate must remain posted until abatement has been completed or for six calendar days, whichever is later. Thus, if abatement has been completed, the certificate shall remain posted for at least six days after completion. If abatement has not been completed, the abatement certificate initially submitted shall remain posted until the violation has been abated. When abatement has been accomplished, the new final abatement certificate shall remain posted for six days. If a final abatement certificate deals with a number of citation items, it shall remain posted for as long as it takes to comply with the posting requirements for all of the items. OSHA believes that the posting of the abatement certificate will inform employees whether or not the hazard has been abated and also help to assure the accuracy of the certificate. III. Pertinent Legal Authority
