FR940607-2-00065 FR940607-2-00048 1. All employees involved in the draining and flushing operations shall receive specific, onsite, and documented training as discussed in Envirosafe's Emergency Evacuation Plan at least once annually. The general workforce shall be trained in emergency procedures, including recognition and operation of emergency alarms, procedures for notifying designated authorities of an emergency, operation of emergency communication equipment, evacuation procedures, containing and controlling spills, fire drills, and fire suppression techniques and procedures ( i.e. , procedures for locating, using, inspecting, repairing and replacing facility emergency and monitoring equipment, including Class ABC 20-pound fire extinguishers). 2. Members of the fire brigade shall receive specialized training in controlling and suppressing explosions/fires, including using dry chemicals and carbon dioxide on small fires, and standard firefighting agents ( i.e. , foam and high-pressure water) on large fires; they shall demonstrate proficiency in operating Class ABC 20-pound fire extinguishers and Class BC 125-pound fire extinguishers. The fire brigade shall be equipped with a fire truck carrying a foam unit, high-pressure water applicator, and water supply. A 16,000-gallon storage tank shall be installed and maintained at the facility to supply water during fire emergencies. Additionally, all fire brigade members shall be trained in first aid and CPR. 3. A continuing education program shall be conducted at least annually for members of the fire brigade by a person or persons qualified by experience or special training in current fire-fighting techniques. 4. All employees in the processing building shall receive emergency training drills semi-annually, including practice in emergency evacuations. 5. All employees shall be instructed in the procedures of the Emergency Evacuation Plan immediately upon being hired. 6 . At least two employees on duty during regular operating hours, and who are not members of the fire brigade, must be trained in first aid and CPR. 7. Every employee shall have access to either the internal telephone system or a two-way radio to report fires/explosions to the Emergency Coordinator. 8. All emergency equipment requiring electricity shall be capable of operating via batteries or auxiliary power should regular electrical service be disrupted during an emergency involving fire/explosion. 9. During emergencies involving PCB contamination, emergency personnel shall be provided with the appropriate personal protective clothing and equipment ( i.e. , chemical-protective clothing such as polyethylene-coated coveralls, pvc or composite-rubber gloves, and full-face fitted respirators). 10. All operators shall be supervised during the transfer of PCBs or ignitable materials. 11. All waste-handling ( i.e. , draining and flushing) areas shall be properly marked by readily visible warning signs stating that ``Only authorized employees are allowed in the tank areas, and in the draining and flushing areas.'' 12. The draining and flushing area shall be inspected for flammable/combustible fuel spills and leaks at least once daily during regular operating periods by designated inspectors/supervisors to prevent the accumulation of hazardous concentrations of vapors generated by combustible/flammable liquids. 13. Smoking shall be prohibited inside the processing building. ``No smoking'' signs shall be displayed conspicuously throughout the processing building. 14. All emergency exits shall be properly marked by readily visible signs.
