FR940711-2-00119 FR940711-2-00049 6. Consistent with present DOL policy, SDA's that pass through the ``gate'' and exceed all six of the Secretary's Titles II&hyph;A and II&hyph;C standards must receive an incentive award. 7. Determination of an SDA's failure to meet these standards and the consequent imposition of technical assistance and reorganization requirements under section 106(j) will be based only on the Secretary's Title II&hyph;A and Title II&hyph;C core measures. _``Meeting Performance Standards'' overall is defined as meeting at least four of the six core standards, one of which must be a youth standard. Conversely, overall ``Failure'' is defined as failing any three (3) or more of the core standards or failing both youth standards. Definitions for meeting and failing individual standards will be established by Governors. _Failure for the first year precludes an SDA from receiving any incentive awards and requires Governors to provide technical assistance to the underperforming SDA. _Failure in the second consecutive year precludes an SDA from receiving any incentive award and requires Governors to impose a reorganization plan. 8. Section 106(j)(3) requires each State to report to the Secretary, not later than 90 days after the end of each program year, the actual performance and performance standards for each SDA within that State. Within the same timeframe, technical assistance plans developed by the State are required for each SDA ``failing'' for the first year. A 90-day timeframe also applies to the imposition of a reorganization plan, which is mandatory when an SDA ``fails'' for a second consecutive year. Specific procedures for the formal performance standards report and required State action will be provided under separate cover. However, in addition to the formal annual process, there should be ongoing oversight of SDA performance and continuous technical assistance and capacity-building aimed at addressing areas where program performance can be improved. In addition, the Employment and Training Administration will initiate a national JTPA Report Card that will highlight programs showing the greatest returns on their human resource investments in terms of high-quality employment (type of job, wages and fringe benefits) for those participants most at-risk of failure. Further information on the content and procedures for preparing the ``report card'' will be provided separately. 9. Governors must specify in the GCSSP their incentive award policy under section 202(c)(1)(B) and 202(c)(3)(A) and imposition of sanctions policy under section 106(j). It is recognized that the timing of this issuance may preclude some States from submitting complete incentive policies with their PY 1994&hyph;95 GCSSPs. States are to provide as much information as possible in compliance with required due dates and submit a GCSSP amendment containing complete information no later than August 31, 1994. 10. In PY 1994 and 1995, Governors will continue to have the authority to exclude pilot projects serving ``hard-to-serve'' individuals funded from the 5 percent incentive fund set-aside in computing their standards and actual performance. States and SDA's are encouraged to use such funds to develop or replicate model programs serving out-of-school youth, particularly those based on contextual learning models. Note: For those SDA's in which ``incentive projects'' are indistinguishable from those that provide general training, these programs would not be considered exempt from performance standards. 7. State Action. States are to distribute this Guidance Letter to all officials within the State who need such information to implement the new performance standards policies and requirements for PY 1994&hyph;95. It is especially critical that States, State Councils, Private Industry Councils and SDA operational staff become thoroughly familiar with the new provisions concerning incentive and sanctions policies. A copy of this Guidance Letter is also being sent to your State JTPA Liaison, the State Wagner-Peyser Administering Agency, and the State Worker Adjustment Liaison. 8. Inquiries. Questions concerning this issuance may be directed to Steven Aaronson at (202) 219&hyph;5487, ext. 107. 9. Attachments . 1. Definitions for Performance Standards; 2. Youth Employability Enhancement Definitions; 3. Rewarding Model Programs for Out-of-School Youth; 4. Rewarding Placements in Jobs Providing Employer-Assisted Benefits.
