FR940912-1-00026 FR940912-1-00010 Test methods are provided for use by the owner or operator in determining applicability of the standards to a given wastewater stream. The three variables of concern, annual wastewater quantity, average total volatile organic concentration, and annual average wastewater flow rate, may be determined using a variety of methods. For example, the proposed standards include provisions that would allow a SOCMI process unit owner or operator to use either direct measurement or knowledge of the wastewater to determine the volatile organic concentration of the wastewater. Direct measurements would be conducted in accordance with the requirements of Method 25D in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60. Knowledge of the wastewater can be demonstrated by material balances, records of chemical purchases, process stoichiometry, or previous test results. A determination of the volatile organic concentration or average annual flow rate of a wastewater would be required by the proposed standards only when a wastewater subject to the standards is placed in a waste management unit that is not equipped with air emission controls in accordance with the rules. The SOCMI process unit owner or operator would not be required to determine the volatile organic concentration or average annual flow rate of wastewater streams that are managed only in units equipped with air emission controls in accordance with the requirements of the proposed standard up to the point of ultimate recycle, disposal, or discharge. J. Monitoring Requirements To ensure that emission control equipment is properly operated and maintained, the proposed standards would require the owner or operator to inspect and monitor certain air emission control equipment used to comply with the rules. Enhanced monitoring of control device operation is required under the proposed standards to demonstrate compliance with the standards. This involves the use of automated instrumentation to measure critical operating parameters that indicate whether the control device is operating correctly or is malfunctioning. Failure to maintain the established values of the monitored parameters would be an enforceable violation of the emission limits of the standard. In addition to the enhanced monitoring requirements, an initial leak detection test using Method 21 under appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 is required for certain cover components to ensure gaskets and seals are in good condition and for closed-vent systems to ensure all fittings remain leak-tight. The Method 21 test would be supplemented by annual visual inspections for leaking components as well as periodic inspection and measurement of other monitoring parameters. Special inspection and monitoring provisions are included in the proposed standards for cover fittings that monitor. Leak monitoring using Method 21 is not required for the following: (1) Drums that meet applicable DOT regulations specified in the rules; (2) trucks, trailers, and rail cars that are annually demonstrated to be vapor tight by Method 27 in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60; and (3) closed-vent systems operated under vacuum conditions. K. Reporting and Recordkeeping The proposed standards require the owner or operator to record certain information in the on-site facility operating logs or files. The information to be collected and recorded includes: the results of all waste determinations such as volatile organic concentration at the point of waste generation and organic vapor pressure; design specifications for closed-vent systems and control devices and control equipment; emission control equipment inspection and monitoring results; Method 21 and Method 27 test results; control device monitoring results; leak repairs; identification of incinerators, boilers, or industrial furnaces in which wastewater is treated in accordance with the general requirements of the rule; documentation for biological wastewater treatment units complying with the rule; and identification of equipment designated as unsafe or difficult to monitor or inspect. This information is to be readily available for review by authorized representatives of the EPA. The EPA seeks comment on the accessibility of the monitoring data and periodic reports that may be kept in logs on the plant site when it is not required to be reported to the appropriate agency. These data and reports should be accessible to citizen groups that contemplate citizen suits or other members of the public interested in the source's compliance status. This access is required by section 114(c) of the Clean Air Act as Amended (CAAA). Means of providing that accessibility include: direct inspection of the logs or files on-site with authority to access the data equal to that of the EPA, submission of a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request to the EPA with an affirmative duty on the part of the EPA or the state/local delegated agent to obtain any data from the source that the agency does not have in its files, submission of a FOIA-like request to the source owner/operator with an obligation on the part of the owner/operator to provide the requested data, or a requirement to keep electronic files/logs which would be accessible through EPA electronic bulletin boards. Other suggestions for meeting the mandates of section 114 are welcome.
