FR940302-2-00013 FR940302-2-00007 Comment 5: The petitioner asserts that the Department did not evaluate or adjust Aida's transfer prices from a certain related party supplier for such things as direct materials, labor, and/or overhead, as applicable, to reach a fully-loaded cost of production. The petitioner further states that the only adjustment made to the related party inputs was an adjustment made by the Department to include the general and administrative expense of the related supplier. Aida contends that it made an adjustment for the difference between the transfer price of components purchased from its related party supplier and the related party supplier's cost of manufacturing the components. Aida acknowledges that it inadvertently failed to take into account its related party's processing cost variance and general and administrative expense, but notes that the Department made an adjustment for these, based on verification findings, in its preliminary results. Department's Position: We agree with Aida. The Department was able to verify Aida's adjustment to restate related party inputs to fully-loaded costs. Aida's adjustment included direct materials, labor, and overhead. Based on the Department's findings at verification, an adjustment was made to not only general and administrative expenses, but also to the related party's processing variance. (See cost verification report dated October 22, 1993, page 9.) Comment 6: Petitioner contends that the Department failed to verify, but should establish, whether transfer prices of inputs acquired by Aida from other related parties were at or above cost. Aida states that the only material purchased for the subject presses from a related company, other than those from the related party discussed in Comment 5, above, consisted of control panels purchased from a partially-owned subsidiary. Aida further states that the reasonableness of the transfer prices used to determine the cost of these components was reviewed and confirmed at verification. With respect to subcontracted work, Aida states that, with the exception of the related party the Department verified, all subcontractors are unrelated. Department's Position: We agree with Aida. At verification, the Department analyzed all transactions with related parties. Based on our analysis, we found these transactions to have been made at or above cost. (See cost verification report dated October 22, 1993, page 9.)
