FR941205-0-00115 FR941205-0-00026 These factors and their application to Melicope adscendens (St. John and E. Hume) T. Hartley and B. Stone (alani), M. balloui (Rock) T. Hartley and B. Stone (alani), and M. ovalis (St. John) T. Hartley and B. Stone (alani) are as follows: A. The present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range. The native vegetation of East Maui has undergone extreme alterations because of past and present land management practices, including deliberate alien plant and animal introductions and agricultural development (Scott et al. 1986). Degradation of habitat by feral animals and competition with alien plants are considered to be the major threats to the three species. Cattle, introduced to Maui in the early 1800s, were permitted to range freely and subsequently became quite numerous. Cattle have converted large tracts of forest to open pasture on southern and northwestern Haleakala. Feral cattle consume native vegetation, trample roots and seedlings, accelerate erosion, and promote the invasion of alien plants (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Stone 1985). Along with goats, cattle are considered one of the two most damaging alien vertebrates to Hawaii's native ecosystems. The long history of cattle grazing has so altered the southern slope of Haleakala that only pockets of native vegetation remain (Scott et al. 1986). The single known individual of Melicope adscendens grows in an area used for grazing, and cattle are considered an immediate threat to the species (A. Medeiros, pers. comm., 1992). Goats were introduced to Maui by the early 1800s and are now a serious threat to the integrity of Maui's forests. The impact of goats on the native vegetation is similar to that described for cattle (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Stone 1985). Although they have now been removed, feral goats entered Kipahulu Valley in the past and could become a threat to Melicope balloui and M. ovalis if they return. Goats also occur near M. adscendens in Auwahi and are a potential threat to that species as well (A. Medeiros, pers. comm., 1992). Axis deer cause habitat degradation by trampling, consuming, and overgrazing vegetation. This process removes ground cover and often results in soil erosion. Alien plant taxa are then able to exploit the newly disturbed areas (Cuddihy and Stone 1990). Axis deer have become established at low elevation slopes of western and southern Haleakala and may become a threat to mesic and wet native forests on Haleakala. They are a potential threat to all three endangered species of Melicope (R. Hobdy and A. Medeiros, pers. comms., 1992). In contrast to goats and cattle, pigs typically occupy the wetter regions of Hawaii's forests and are one of the major current modifiers of wet forest habitats. Pigs damage native vegetation by their rooting and trampling activities. This process encourages the ingress of alien plants, which are able to exploit newly disturbed soil better than native taxa. In addition, these animals disseminate alien plant taxa through their feces and on their bodies (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Stone 1985). Pigs have severely damaged fragile and limited communities, such as that of Argyroxiphium virescens (greensword) (Stone 1985). This species of greensword was found at an historic site of Melicope balloui, which has not been relocated since 1920, and it is possible that pig damage caused the destruction of the habitat (HHP 1992g). Although M. balloui and M. ovalis grow in areas of Kipahulu Valley that are fenced to exclude pigs, the areas are not yet pig-free, so trampling of seedlings by pigs remains a threat to these two species (HHP 1992b, 1992d, 1992f; L. Cuddihy and R. Hobdy, pers. comms., 1992). Pigs are also present in Auwahi and constitute a potential threat to M. adscendens (S. Perlman, pers. comm., 1992).
