FR940503-1-00033 FR940503-1-00010 Congress specifically limited field citations to minor violations, as defined by the Agency. While EPA's proposed definition of minor violation does not specify each and every violation that might be considered minor, it does set clear limits on the kinds of violations that will be considered minor violations. The many different kinds of violations that may meet the definition of minor violation will exhibit common features. For example, the typical minor violation will involve a clear and straightforward violation, both factually and legally, of limited frequency or duration and limited environmental impact. The factual and legal issues that EPA expects to arise in field citation assessments are, overall, expected to be simple and uncomplicated. The basic private interest at stake is the assessment of civil penalties of up to a maximum of $5,000 per day for each violation, as well as the resources needed to contest such assessments where considered appropriate. The maximum penalty is significantly lower than the maximum administrative or judicial civil penalties authorized under sections 113, 205 and 211 of the Act. The primary governmental interest is implementation of a program that fairly fills a gap in EPA's enforcement programs, without undue drain on EPA's limited enforcement resources. EPA believes this interest is best served by addressing minor violations in a straightforward and direct manner, somewhat akin to a traffic enforcement program. The deterrence effect from this program will come in large part from the issuance of a citation immediately upon or shortly after detection of a violation, with final assessment of the penalty occurring shortly after issuance of the citation. EPA has considered these and other factors in evaluating the three options proposed today for hearing procedures, and believes all three fully implement Congressional intent and satisfy due process requirements. The three options draw different balances between complexity and simplicity, formality and informality, but are all designed to implement a program aimed at simple and uncomplicated violations, involving penalties significantly lower than others authorized in the Act, and requiring straightforward, quick and fair adjudication to obtain the desired deterrent effect without undue drain on limited Agency resources. 1. Modified 40 CFR Part 22_Consolidated Rules of Practice Governing the Administrative Assessment of Civil Penalties and the Revocation or Suspension of Permits Under the first Agency proposal, administrative hearings on field citations would be conducted pursuant to the procedures established by EPA s consolidated APA rules of practice for the administrative assessment of civil penalties, 40 CFR part 22. In a separate rulemaking, the Agency would propose to amend part 22, where appropriate, to make that regulation applicable to field citations.
