FR940706-2-00134 FR940706-2-00078 2. Do not include in the FAR: a. Procedures, policies, provisions or clauses which are not essential. b. Guidance that is not needed by procurement personnel. 3. Include in the acquisition manual_ a. Examples of various optional methods for compliance with FAR policies, provisions, and clauses. b. Procedures, practices, forms provisions, and clauses that may be used, modified, or not used, at the discretion of the Contracting Officer. Proposed Drafting Principles_General 1. Clearly identify the statutory requirements, basic policies, and principles. 2. Avoid proscription and rigid rules in favor of setting forth guiding principles. 3. Use goals and expected outcomes in place of processes or procedures. 4. Assume the reader is a procurement professional with appropriate knowledge, skills and abilities to do the job. 5. Assume contractors and contracting officials are going to do the ``right thing.'' 6. Assign responsibility for decisions to the lowest practicable level, giving contracting officers authority, responsibility, and maximum flexibility to find the most efficient, cost-effective way to meet customer mission needs and time frames. 7. Minimize administrative and paperwork burdens on contracting officials and contractors. 8. Include in the FAR references to procurement related statutes and regulations, such as labor laws, and small business size standards. Provide, as appropriate, in the acquisition manual, necessary additional information to assist the contracting officers in complying with those requirements. 9. Provide guidance that encourages sound business practices, streamline the contracting process, contributes to increased productivity, and cost effectiveness. 10. Provide guidance that implements policies based on statute without just restating the law. 11. Avoid guidance and other controls that impose unnecessary dollar thresholds, approval levels, contractor certifications, coordination and documentation requirements, determinations. 12. Provide guidance that offers maximum opportunity for innovative contracting approaches. 13. Avoid the creation of regulations to address every contracting contingency. 14. Provide guidance to contracting officers that encourages risk management rather than risk avoidance. 15. Avoid regulations that impose government-unique, unnecessary requirements on federal contractors. Promote the acquisition of commercial products and reliance on the commercial marketplace. 16. Apply a consistent set of drafting conventions so that the FAR will be succinct and understandable to the general reader. Second Proposed Approach The second approach is essentially the same as the first approach with respect to which material would be regulations and which material would be provided in a nonregulation acquisition manual. However, the nonregulation material would not be published as a governmentwide manual. Rather, each agency, or group of agencies would be authorized to publish its own manual containing its own guidance. These manuals would contain a minimal amount of mandatory material applicable to the internal operations of the agency or necessary to implement the statutes that apply to that agency or group of agencies. The remainder of the material in the manual would be that as noted in the first approach as nonregulation in nature and not mandatory. Thus the FAR system would be comprised of the FAR (regulations) and agency acquisition manuals (nonmandatory guidance and minimal mandatory requirements) that would take the place of current agency supplements. Illustration of the First Proposed Approach Model of revised Part 9. The model FAR Part 9 is provided in the appendix to illustrate the first approach being considered by the Board. Comment only on the approach illustrated by this model rewrite, and not on the content of the model rewrite on Part 9. FAR Part 9 will be submitted to a committee for revisions in accordance with these Drafting Principles once the Drafting Principles have been approved. The following model rewrite of FAR Part 9 shows the governmentwide acquisition manual as it would appear under proposed number one.
