FR940207-2-00162 FR940207-2-00076 Issuer Delisting; Notice of Application To Withdraw From Listing and Registration; (Brock Exploration Corporation, Common Stock, $.10 Par Value) File No. 1&hyph;9461 February 1, 1994. Brock Exploration Corporation (``Company'') has filed an application with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission''), pursuant to section 12(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') and Rule 12d2&hyph;2(d) promulgated thereunder, to withdraw the above specified security from listing and registration on the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc. (``PSE''). The reasons alleged in the application for withdrawing this security from listing and registration include the following: The Company has determined to withdraw the listing and registration of the Common Stock on the PSE for the following reasons: (a) According to the Company, the Common Stock is listed and registered for trading on the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'') and will continue to be so listed following withdrawal from trading on the PSE; (b) According to the Company, the transactions in the Common Stock on the PSE are small and infrequent with the majority of the transactions in the Common Stock now taking place on the Amex; and (c) According to the Company, it has determined that, in light of the fact that the Common Stock is listed and traded on the Amex, the benefits from the continued listing of the Common Stock on the PSE do not warrant the additional listing fees and other expenditures associated with the continued listing on the PSE. Any interested person may, on or before February 23, 1994 submit by letter to the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549, facts bearing upon whether the application has been made in accordance with the rules of the exchanges and what terms, if any, should be imposed by the Commission for the protection of investors. The Commission, based on the information submitted to it, will issue an order granting the application after the date mentioned above, unless the Commission determines to order a hearing on the matter. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2713 Filed 2&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
