FR940128-1-00108 FR940128-1-00006 6. Time and Temperature Critical Control Points a. Cooling After Cooking After cooking, the product must be rapidly cooled to minimize recontamination. Continuous cooling from 140 ○F (60 ○C) to achieve an internal temperature of 70 ○F (21.1 ○C) or below within 2 hours and an internal temperature of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below within an additional 4 hours, unless processing after cooking, as described in section 6.b. of this Appendix, occurs during either of these time periods, will effectively minimize recontamination. Other time/temperature parameters may also be effective. Processors should ensure that the cooling parameters are met by either: 1. Monitoring. Monitoring and recording internal product temperatures at least every 2 hours; or 2. Studies. i. Conducting or obtaining a study that establishes that appropriate cooling temperatures are always met under prescribed processing conditions. The study should establish the limits of significant variables that could affect the rate of cooling. These variables may include product size, ambient air temperature, and amount of product in the cooler. An adequate study should consist of at least three processing runs under the prescribed processing conditions; and ii. Monitoring and recording the prescribed processing conditions as identified by the study in section 6.a.2.i. of this Appendix at least every 2 hours. b. Processing After Cooking Products that will receive processing after cooking should not be exposed to ambient temperatures of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or higher for longer than a cumulative total of 4 hours after cooking. If they are exposed to such temperatures for more than 4 hours, unacceptable recontamination is the likely result. Processors are required to regularly monitor and record the length of time that the product is exposed to temperatures above 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) under 21 CFR 123.8. FDA recommends that such monitoring and recording be done at least every 2 hours. c. Final Product Cooling To avoid microbiological hazards for perishable finished products, the internal temperature of the finished product should be 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below within 4 hours of either placement in a finished product container or the completion of pasteurization. Processors should either conduct: 1. Monitoring. Monitor and record internal product temperatures at least every 2 hours; or 2. Studies. i. Conduct or obtain a study that establishes that the internal temperature of the finished product will always be 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below within 4 hours of either placement in a finished product container or completion of pasteurization under prescribed processing conditions. The study should establish the limits of significant variables that could affect the rate of cooling. These variables may include product size, ambient air temperature, and amount of product in the cooler. An adequate study should consist of at least three processing runs under the prescribed processing conditions; and ii. Monitoring and recording the prescribed processing conditions as identified by the study in section 6.c.2.i. of this Appendix at least every 2 hours. d. Refrigerated Storage 1. In-process products. Refrigeration units that are being used to store in-process products or finished products shall operate at a temperature of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below in accordance with 21 CFR 123.10(a)(14). 2. Temperature devices. Units should be equipped with both a temperature-indicating device and a temperature-recording device. In lieu of a temperature-recording device, a processor may equip a refrigeration unit with a high temperature alarm or a maximum-indicating thermometer and maintain a temperature log that notes temperature with such frequency as is necessary to achieve control. e. Distribution All perishable finished products should be distributed in a manner that ensures that the internal temperature is maintained at 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below. 7. Temperature Monitoring Equipment Where reference is made in this Appendix to temperature-indicating devices and temperature-recording devices, the following conditions should apply: a. Temperature-Indicating Devices Temperature-indicating devices should be installed where they can be easily read and located to ensure that they accurately measure the warmest temperature of the refrigeration equipment and the coldest temperature of the heating equipment, as appropriate. Temperature-indicating devices should be calibrated at the routine operating temperature of the refrigeration, cooling, or heating equipment against a known accurate standard thermometer upon installation and at least once a year thereafter, or more frequently, if necessary, to ensure their accuracy. Records required to be maintained under 21 CFR 123.8 of accuracy checks for temperature-indicating devices should specify the date, standard used, method used, results, and person performing the test. A temperature-indicating device that has a divided fluid column or that cannot be adjusted to the standard should be immediately repaired or replaced.
