FR940525-1-00013 FR940525-1-00007 I. Introduction and Background A. Overview Each of the Agencies is proposing to amend its risk-based capital standards to clarify and revise the treatment of recourse arrangements and certain direct credit substitutes that expose banking organizations (banks and bank holding companies) and thrifts to credit risk. The Banking Agencies (OCC, FRB, and FDIC) are also proposing to recommend that the FFIEC make conforming revisions to the regulatory reporting requirements applicable to asset transfers with recourse and direct credit substitutes for insured commercial banks and FDIC-supervised savings banks. This notice of proposed rulemaking would amend the Agencies' risk-based capital standards to: •Define the term ``recourse'' and expand the definition of the term ``direct credit substitute''; 1 1 The OTS is adding definitions for ``public sector entity'' and ``standby-type letter of credit'' to be consistent with the Banking Agencies. •Create an exception to the Banking Agencies' current guidelines that would reduce the amount of capital required for certain low-level recourse transactions; 2 2 The OTS risk-based capital regulation already permits thrifts to hold reduced capital against low level recourse transactions and requires thrifts to treat purchased recourse servicing and certain purchased subordinated interests as recourse. 12 CFR 567.6(a)(2)(i)(C). The OTS is not proposing to amend these existing treatments. •Require banking organizations that purchase loan servicing rights that provide loss protection to the owners of the loans serviced to hold capital against those loans; •Require banking organizations that purchase subordinated interests in loans or pools of loans that absorb the first dollars of losses from those loans to hold capital against the subordinated interest plus all more senior interests; and •Require banking organizations and thrifts that provide financial standby letters of credit or other guarantee-type arrangements for third-party assets that absorb the first dollars of losses from those assets to hold the same amount of capital that they would be required to hold under a recourse arrangement with equivalent risk exposure. The Agencies are also publishing as an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) a preliminary ``multi-level approach,'' that would use credit ratings from nationally recognized statistical rating organizations to measure relative exposure to risk in rated securitized asset transactions and would allow the capital assessment to vary with the risk. The Agencies are also requesting comment in the ANPR on the need for a separate multi-level approach for unrated securitizations and on how such a system could be designed. B. Purpose and Effect Implementation of all aspects of this proposal, including one or more multi-level approaches for securitization transactions, would result in more consistent treatments of recourse and similar transactions among the Agencies, more consistent risk-based capital treatments for transactions involving similar risk, and capital requirements that more closely reflect a banking organization or thrift's relative exposure to credit risk. In particular, the proposed treatments of low-level recourse transactions, purchased loan servicing rights that provide loss protection, and purchased subordinated interests that absorb the first dollars of losses from the underlying assets would bring the capital requirements of the Banking Agencies into greater conformity with those of the OTS. The proposal would allow banks and bank holding companies (banking organizations) to maintain lower amounts of capital against low-level recourse transactions. The proposal would also require higher amounts of risk-based capital to be maintained against certain direct credit substitutes, including, for banking organizations, purchased servicing rights that provide loss protection to the owners of the loans serviced and purchased subordinated interests that absorb the first dollars of losses from the underlying assets, and, for both banking organizations and thrifts, certain guarantee-type arrangements provided for third-party assets that absorb the first dollars of losses from those assets. Additionally, the Agencies expect that a multi-level approach will provide a method for identifying participants in securitization transactions that are relatively insulated from credit risk and therefore eligible for reduced capital assessments. The Agencies intend that any final rules adopted in connection with this notice of proposed rulemaking and advance notice of proposed rulemaking that result in increased risk-based capital requirements for banking organizations or thrifts would apply only to transactions that are consummated after the effective date of such final rules. The Agencies intend that any final rules adopted in connection with this notice that result in reduced risk-based capital requirements for banking organizations or thrifts would apply to all transactions outstanding as of the effective date of such final rules and to all subsequent transactions. The Agencies believe that the proposed rule would satisfy the requirements of section 618(b)(3) of the Resolution Trust Corporation Refinancing, Restructuring, and Improvement Act, since the proposed rule would apply to multifamily residential property loans sold with recourse. C. Background 1. Recourse and Direct Credit Substitutes Asset securitization is the process by which loans and other receivables are pooled, reconstituted into one or more classes or positions, and then sold. Securitizations typically carve up the risk of credit losses from the underlying assets and distribute it to different parties. The ``first dollar'' loss or subordinate position is first to absorb credit losses, the ``senior'' investor position is last, and there may be one or more loss positions in between (``second dollar'' loss positions). Each loss position functions as a credit enhancement for the more senior loss positions in the structure. For residential mortgages that are sold through the federally sponsored mortgage programs, a federal government agency or federally sponsored agency guarantees the securities sold to investors. However, many of today's asset securitization programs involve nonmortgage assets and are not supported in any way by the federal government. Sellers of these privately securitized assets therefore provide other forms of credit enhancement_first and second dollar loss positions_to reduce investors' risk of loss. Sellers may provide this credit enhancement themselves through recourse arrangements. For purposes of this notice, ``recourse'' refers to any risk of loss that an institution may retain in connection with the transfer of its assets. While banking organizations and thrifts have long provided recourse in connection with sales of whole loans or loan participations, recourse arrangements today are frequently associated with asset securitization programs. Sellers may also arrange for a third party to provide credit enhancement in an asset securitization. If the third-party enhancement is provided by another banking organization or thrift, that institution assumes some portion of the assets' credit risk. For purposes of this proposal, all forms of third-party enhancements, i.e., all arrangements in which an institution assumes risk of loss from third-party assets or other claims that it has not transferred, are referred to as ``direct credit substitutes.'' 3 In economic terms, an institution's risk of loss from providing a direct credit substitute can be identical to its risk of loss from transferring an asset with recourse. 3 As used in this preamble, the terms ``credit enhancement'' and ``enhancement'' refer to both recourse arrangements and direct credit substitutes. Depending upon the type of asset securitization, a portion of the total credit enhancement may also be provided internally, as part of the securitization structure, through the use of spread accounts, overcollateralization, or other forms of self-enhancement. Many asset securitizations use a combination of internal enhancement, recourse, and third-party enhancement to protect investors from risk of loss. 2. Prior History On June 29, 1990, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) published a request for comment on recourse arrangements. See 55 FR 26766 (June 29, 1990). The publication announced the Agencies' intent to review the regulatory capital, reporting and lending limit treatments of assets transferred with recourse and similar transactions, and set out a broad range of issues for public comment. The FFIEC received approximately 150 comment letters in response. The FFIEC then narrowed the scope of the review to the reporting and capital treatments of recourse arrangements and direct credit substitutes that expose banking organizations and thrifts to credit-related risks.
