FR940722-2-00004 FR940722-2-00001 (2) USDA may disclose information in this system of records in a proceeding before a court or other adjudicative body before which USDA is authorized to appear, if USDA or any component thereof determines that disclosure of the records to the court or other adjudicative body is a use that is compatible with the purpose(s) for which the records were collected, where USDA determines that the information is relevant and necessary to the conduct of the litigation and any of the following are parties to the litigation or have an interest that would be affected by the litigation: (a) USDA, or any component thereof; (b) Any USDA employee acting in an official capacity; (c) Any USDA employee acting in an individual capacity whom DOJ has agreed to represent; or (d) The United States, if USDA determines that the litigation is likely to affect USDA or any of its components. (3) When available information indicates a violation or potential violation of civil, criminal, or administrative law arising by statute or rule, regulation, or order, USDA may refer any record within this system to the appropriate Federal, State, local or foreign agency charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting a violation of law or of enforcing a statute, or rule, regulation or order issued thereto. (4) USDA may disclose information from the record of an individual contained in this system in response to an inquiry from a congressional office made at the request of that individual. (5) USDA may disclose information (name, address, social security number, date of birth, date of entry, education progress, vocational progress, test scores, and pay status) from this system of records to the appropriate officials of the United States Department of Labor (DOL) who maintain the Student Pay Allowance and Management Information Data Base (SPAMIS) in San Marcos, Texas, for the purpose of paying students their living allowances and incentive bonuses. Policy and practice for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records will be maintained on computer magnetic tapes, disk, or other electronic format, as well as in file folders. Retrievability: Records will be indexed and retrieved by names and social security numbers. Safeguards: All records containing personal information will be maintained in secured file cabinets and secured computer rooms or tape libraries which can only be accessed by authorized personnel. Electronic access to records is controlled through a system of computer access identification and authorization utilizing passwords. Access to the data is controlled by the data base management system. Retention and disposal: Records will be retained or disposed of in accordance with the retention periods contained in the DOL Policy and Requirements Handbook Chapter 8, Section 5.3. whose standards the Forest Service has agreed to adopt. The records are maintained at the FS Job Corps Center for 3 years after the students complete their stay at the Center. System manager(s) and address: The FS Washington Office Job Corps Branch Chief will be the system manager. The address is: Job Corps Branch Chief, Human Resource Programs, USDA Forest Service, PO Box 96090, Washington, DC 20090. Notification procedure: Individuals will be able to request information regarding them contained in this system of records, or information as to whether the system contains records pertaining to them from the Center Director of the appropriate Center. Center addresses are listed in the previous section called System Location. A request for information should contain the name, address, social security number, and approximate dates the student was enrolled at the Center, and any details that aid in defining the desired information. Record access procedures: Individuals will be able to obtain information on the procedures for gaining access to records in the system which pertain to them by contacting the Center Director at the appropriate Center. The envelope and letter should be marked ``PRIVACY ACT REQUEST.'' Contesting records procedures: The same procedures will be used as for record access. Record source categories: Information in this system will come primarily from interviews with the students who enrolled in a FS Job Corps Center. Information will also be obtained from test results and from measurements made against vocational accomplishment criteria and from other progress measuring devices that a Center uses. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17822 Filed 7&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
