FR940323-0-00064 FR940323-0-00020 (3) Whether the participant has met any other performance criteria which had been clearly communicated both orally and in writing at the beginning of the term of service. (e) Limitation. The Corporation may set a minimum or maximum percentage of hours of a full-time, part-time, or reduced term of service described in paragraphs (a)(1),(a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section that a participant may engage in training, education, or other similar approved activities (f) Grievance procedure. Any AmeriCorps participant wishing to contest a program's ruling of unsatisfactory performance may file a grievance according to the procedures set forth in part 2540 of this chapter. If that grievance procedure or subsequent binding arbitration procedure finds that the participant did in fact satisfactorily complete a term of service, then that individual will be eligible to receive an educational award and/or be eligible to serve a second term of service. §2522.230 Under what circumstances may AmeriCorps participants be released from completing a term of service, and what are the consequences? In general, AmeriCorps programs have the authority to release participants serving in approved AmeriCorps positions from completing a term of service for two reasons: for compelling personal circumstances as demonstrated by the participant or for cause. (a) Release for compelling personal circumstances. In general, AmeriCorps programs have the authority to define the circumstances by which a participant may be released for compelling personal circumstances. Programs wishing to release participants serving in approved AmeriCorps positions may elect either_ (1) To grant the release and provide a portion of the educational award equal to the portion of the term served; or (2) To permit the participant to temporarily suspend performance of the term of service for a period of up to two years (and such additional period as the Corporation may allow for extenuating circumstances) and, upon completion of such period, to allow the participant to return to the program with which he or she was serving or to a similar AmeriCorps program with the assistance of the Corporation, in order to complete the remainder of the term of service and obtain the entire AmeriCorps educational award. (b) Release for cause. AmeriCorps programs have the authority to define the circumstances by which a participant may be released for cause, except as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. AmeriCorps programs must establish a written policy to be signed both by the participant and the program directors that clearly states the circumstances under which participants may be released for cause. Examples of conduct which programs may decide constitutes grounds for release for cause include chronic truancy, consistent failure to follow directions, and failure to adhere to program rules and guidelines. Under no circumstances may a participant s disability constitute grounds for release for cause. (1) Circumstances requiring release for cause. AmeriCorps programs are required to release for cause any participant who is convicted of a felony during a term of service. Any participant who is officially charged with a violent felony (e.g., rape or homicide), or sale or distribution of a controlled substance, or any participant convicted of the possession of a controlled substance, will have his or her service suspended without a living allowance and without receiving credit for hours missed. Any individual whose service was suspended because of being charged with a violent felony or sale or distribution of a controlled substance may resume service if he or she is found not guilty or if such charge is dismissed. Any individual whose service was suspended because of being convicted of a first offense of the possession of a controlled substance may resume service by demonstrating that he or she has enrolled in an approved drug rehabilitation program. A person convicted of a second or third possession of a controlled substance may resume service by demonstrating successful completion of a rehabilitation program. Any person that drops out of an AmeriCorps program without obtaining a release for compelling personal circumstances is considered to have been released for cause. (2) Impact of release for cause. A participant released for cause may not receive any portion of the AmeriCorps educational award. In addition, any individual released for cause who wishes to reapply to the program from which he or she was released or to any other AmeriCorps program is required to disclose the release to that program. Failure to disclose to an AmeriCorps program any history of having been released for cause from another AmeriCorps program will render an individual ineligible to receive the AmeriCorps educational award, notwithstanding whether or not that individual successfully completes the term of service. (3) Grievance procedure. Any AmeriCorps participant wishing to contest a program decision to release that participant for cause may file a grievance according to the procedures set forth in part 2540 of this chapter. Pending the resolution of such grievance procedure, a program may suspend the service of that participant. If the initial grievance procedure or subsequent binding arbitration proceedings find that there was not cause for release, the AmeriCorps program must reinstate the participant; moreover, the program must credit the participant with any service hours missed and pay the participant the full amount of any living allowance the participant did not receive as a result of such suspension. The Corporation retains the discretion to determine whether Corporation funds may be used to pay the living allowance withheld during a participant's suspension. §2522.240 What financial benefits do AmeriCorps participants serving in approved AmeriCorps positions receive? (a) AmeriCorps educational awards. An individual serving in an approved AmeriCorps position will receive an educational award from the National Service Trust upon successful completion of each of up to two terms of service as defined in §2522.220. (b) Living allowances_(1) Amount. Subject to the provisions of this part, any individual who participates on a full-time basis in an AmeriCorps program carried out using assistance provided pursuant to §2521.30 of this chapter, including an AmeriCorps program that receives educational awards only pursuant to §2521.30(c) of this chapter, will receive a living allowance in an amount equal to or greater than the average annual subsistence allowance provided to VISTA volunteers under §105 of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4955). This requirement will not apply to any program that was in existence prior to September 21, 1993 (the date of the enactment of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993).
