FR941006-2-00008 FR941006-2-00003 Forest Service Management of Vegetation Within Electric Utility Rights-of-Way on the Allegheny National Forest in Elk, Forest, McKean and Warren Counties, PA AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: A draft and a final environmental impact statement is being prepared for the management of vegetation on 776 acres of land associated with 120 miles of electric utility rights-of-way on the Allegheny National Forest. Herbicide application, mechanical clearing and manual cutting alone, and in combination, are alternatives that will be considered. The herbicides being considered in the analysis include glyphosate (trade names are Roundup R Rodeo R, and Accord R ), metsulfuron methyl (trade names is Escort R ), triclopyr (trade names are Garlon 3A R and Garlon 4 R ), picloram (trade names are Tordon K R and Access R ), imazapyr (trade name is Arsenal R ), and fosamine (trade name is Krenite UT R ). The herbicide would be applied in water or mineral oil, depending on the formulation used and the method of application. Various manual and mechanical herbicide application methods are being considered. Manual ground level applications include low volume basal, low volume foliar and stump treatment. Mechanical ground level applications include low volume selective foliar and high volume foliar. The specific herbicide formulation (trade named product), carrier and method of application will vary with the characteristics of the site, the components of the vegetation community and other factors. Aerial application of herbicide is not being considered in this analysis. The purpose of these treatments is to ensure safe and reliable transmission and distribution of electric power across portions of the Allegheny National Forest. This environmental impact statement will amend the Allegheny National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan completed in 1986. The environmental impact statement will be site specific on approxiamtely 120 miles of electric utility rights-of-way located on the Forest. The electric utility lines are owned and operated by the Pennsylvania Electric Company or West Penn Power Company. The environmental impact statement is being prepared by Environmental Consultants, Incorporated, jointly funded by the Allegheny National Forest and the two electric utility companies. The decision that will be made in the EIS is to determine the site specific treatments for vegetation management projects on the specific sites. The decision will be made with full public participation and is appealable under 36 CFR part 217.
