FR941021-0-00186 FR941021-0-00022 G. International Issues 1. Coordination 210. As we stated in the Notice, non-geostationary mobile satellites, in their orbits around the world, will pass over all countries. Because these systems provide global coverage, each will require global coordination. As with all satellite services, each Big LEO applicant and licensee will be required to provide the Commission with all information necessary for advance publication, coordination, and notification of frequency assignments pursuant to the international Radio Regulations and for consultation pursuant to Article 14 of the INTELSAT Agreement and Article 8 of the INMARSATQ Convention. 302 302 See 47 CFR 25.111(b). 211. Furthermore, the ITU (WARC&hyph;92) has adopted Resolution 46 to govern the coordination of mobile satellite systems in this frequency band. This procedure assures that worldwide coordination is accomplished in a manner that requires both the administration proposing the system and the administration that is affected by the planned system to cooperate in resolving coordination difficulties. 303 We agree with LQP and TRW that successful coordination under Resolution 46 is not a prerequisite for licensing, launching and operating these systems. 304 We note, however, that until they successfully complete coordination they cannot cause harmful interference to other primary services operating in these frequency bands, nor can they claim protection. We, however, will follow the coordination procedures prescribed by the ITU and will work with the global community to promote mobile satellite services through the development of sharing techniques and the exploration of other technical issues. 305 Moreover, as we stated in our Notice, we will continue to require our licensees to meet both their international obligations and any national requirements imposed by other licensing administrations regarding operations within their territories. 306 We continue to believe that decisions relating to the implementation of Big LEO service within a country's territory will remain within that country's jurisdiction and control. 303 ITU Resolution No. 46 (WARC&hyph;92, Res. 46) states that ``[a]ffected administrations, as well as the administration seeking coordination, shall make all possible mutual efforts to overcome the difficulties in a manner acceptable to the parties concerned.'' 304 See LQP Comments at 117 and TRW Comments at 196. However, as we stated in our Notice, if a licensee has not completed coordination prior to launch, it must operate on a non-interference basis with respect to authorized users. See International Radio Regulation (RR) 342. 305 Indeed, the United States participates actively in ITU&hyph;R Study Groups 2, 4 and 8, all of which are examining issues that address sharing and coordination of MSS systems. 306 To the extent a licensee does not desire to meet a national requirement of a licensing administration within its territory, it may refrain from providing service to that particular administration. See TRW Comments at 196. 212. In the Joint Proposal, the parties state that the Commission should establish a global band segmentation sharing plan different than the spectrum domestic spectrum plan. Specifically, the parties state that outside of North America, CDMA MSS licensees should be limited to operating their systems over 9.75 MHz of spectrum at 1610&hyph;1619.75 MHz and that the TDMA MSS licensee should be limited to operating its system over 6.75 MHz of spectrum at 1619.75&hyph;1626.5 MHz. According to the Joint Proposal, all U.S. international coordination activity should be based either on the domestic band segmentation plan we are adopting today, or, outside North America, on the proposed global plan. In addition, the parties to the Joint Proposal request the Commission to prohibit MSS licensees from seeking or accepting an exclusive assignment in the 1.6 GHz band that would preclude other MSS systems from providing service in any foreign country. LQP objects to these proposals, stating that they could be construed as preempting other nations' sovereign decisions.
