FR940527-2-00207 FR940527-2-00152 Minimal (100 Points) 1. Some need is evident, but it is not serious compared to other applications, or is not well documented. 2. Project may bring most units up to standard, but not to same extent as in other applications. 3. There are serious feasibility questions. 4. Benefits a small number of persons. 5. Minimally supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Insignificant (0 Points) 1. Very little need has been demonstrated. 2. Project would not rehabilitate most units. 3. There are serious feasibility questions. 4. Benefits a very small number of persons. 5. Does not support the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. (ii) Creation of new housing . CDBG funds may be used to support the construction of new housing units, and, in certain circumstances, to finance the actual cost of constructing new units. New construction may be carried out by an eligible non-profit entity pursuant to 24 CFR 570.204, or as last resort housing. Support of new construction could include activities such as the acquisition and/or clearance of land, the provision of infrastructure, or the payment of certain planning costs. Where the creation of new units is proposed, the application should document the need for additional units based on vacancy rates, waiting lists, and other pertinent information. The proposed project clearly must support, or result in, additional units for low- and moderate-income persons. The units may result from new construction projects for which the proposed project will provide non-construction assistance. Where the proposed project involves the use of Federally assisted housing, the applicant must identify and document the current commitment status of the Federal assistance. Lack of a firm financial commitment for assistance may adversely affect project impact. Applicants should address issues of site control and marketability, in addition to addressing feasibility from the standpoint of market financing. The impact of the proposed project will be based on the degree of need, the number of units to be created, overall feasibility and the nature and cost of the proposed activities. Scoring . Individual projects often vary in the extent to which they meet the criteria outlined above. Accordingly, it is difficult to define precisely those combinations of characteristics which constitute, for example, ``maximum'' versus ``substantial'' impact. Not all projects receiving a particular rating will match all the criteria point-by-point, in the same manner. Accordingly, the following standard will be used for rating projects supporting new housing construction: Maximum (400 Points) 1. Severe need for new housing affordable to low- and moderate-income persons is shown in the project area. 2. Project would create a large number of new housing units affordable to low- and moderate-income persons. 3. There are no feasibility questions, such as availability of other resources, marketability, or appropriateness of project design, which would hinder the timely completion of the project as proposed. 4. Benefits a large number of persons when compared to other new housing projects. 5. Project would affirmatively further fair housing choice by resulting in the spatial deconcentration of minorities throughout the community, or would provide spatial deconcentration of low- and moderate-income households if there are no areas of minority concentration. 6. Significantly supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Substantial (300 Points) 1. Serious need for new units affordable to low- and moderate-income persons is shown. 2. Project would create a substantial number of new housing units. 3. There are no major feasibility questions. 4. Benefits a substantial number of persons. 5. Project would affirmatively further fair housing choice through significant efforts toward the spatial deconcentration of minorities throughout the community, or would provide significant efforts toward spatial deconcentration of low- and moderate-income households if there are no areas of minority concentration. 6. Substantially supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Moderate (200 Points) 1. Serious need is shown, but is not as well documented as in other applications. 2. Project would create new units but not a substantial number. 3. There may be some minor feasibility questions. 4. Benefits a significant number of persons. 5. Project would have some effect of affirmatively furthering fair housing choice by encouraging spatial deconcentration of minorities throughout the community, or would encourage spatial deconcentration of low- and moderate-income households if there are no areas of minority concentration. 6. Moderately supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Minimal (100 Points) 1. Some need is evident, but it is not serious compared to other applications, or is not well documented. 2. Project will create a few new units but not as many as in other applications.
