FR940418-1-00036 FR940418-1-00009 A. The Present or Threatened Destruction, Modification, or Curtailment of Its Habitat or Range Due to its recent discovery, it is impossible to determine what the original range of this butterfly was. Based upon its demonstrated dependency on periodic fires to create new habitat and the present trend of fire suppression on private lands, it is assumed that francisci once occupied a more extensive area with a greater number of populations and individuals. Massive habitat alterations are a major factor in the reduction of the range of francisci . The extensive loss of wetland habitats in the Carolina Coastal plains and the draining of swamps, pocosins, bays, savannas, flatwoods, and bogs for conversion to agriculture and silviculture is well documented. The extirpation of beavers from the Carolinas at the turn of the century may have played an important role in the reduction of this butterfly's range. Beavers play an active role in the creation of sedge meadow habitats which are favored by Saint Francis' satyr (Hall 1993, Woodward and Hazel 1991). The open woodlands and wetlands of the coastal plain have declined drastically during the past two centuries; thus the range of francisci has become increasingly fragmented and the structure of their meta-populations may have been destroyed. The fracturing of meta-populations is cited in the decline of the aragos skipper and a number of other butterflies associated with tall grass prairies (Panzer 1988, D. Schweitzer pers. comm.) Since francisci may be a relict population already, the further destruction and fragmentation of its existing habitat has brought it close to extinction. The sole remaining population is now fragmented into less than 5 or 6 small colonies of individuals which occupy a total area of a few square miles. B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Both subspecies of Neonympha mitchellii are highly prized by collectors, including commercial collectors, who often collect every available individual. Several populations of the nominate subspecies, mitchellii, have been destroyed by collectors and other populations are extremely vulnerable to this threat (Refsnider 1991). The single known population of francisci was extremely over-collected following its initial discovery and it is was believed to have been extirpated from the wild. Since the emergency listing of the nominate subspecies, mitchellii, in 1991, North Carolina was the only place where Neonympha mitchellii could be legally collected in the wild. Following the emergency listing of the northern subspecies (Mitchell's satyr), the North Carolina Heritage Program received several inquiries from collectors concerning the location of the North Carolina population (Saint Francis' satyr). These collectors expressed apprehension about placing any restrictions on the collecting of this rare and much sought after satyr_ francisci. Collectors have reportedly visited the known site of francisci on a daily basis during the flight period, taking every available adult (Hall 1993). After this initial wave of over-collecting, many unsuccessful searches were made for Saint Francis' satyr before it was eventually rediscovered. Little is known about this butterfly's ecological requirements and life history, but it appears to be more vulnerable than its northern relative. It may be more dependent upon a longer meta-population structure than its northern cousin in order to colonize new sites or to recolonize old sites from which it has been extirpated. C. Disease or Predation There is no available evidence at this time that predation or disease are factors in this butterfly's decline or threaten its continued existence in the wild. D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms Presently, insects are not protected from taking under North Carolina law. Also the Department of Defense regulations do not prohibit the take of butterflies on military lands (Saint Francis' satyr occurs on Fort Bragg). Federal listing of this butterfly will provide legal protection against taking and illegal trade in the species. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence This species is dependent upon some form of disturbance (e.g., periodic fires and/or beaver impoundments) to create the desired habitat needed for survival. But intense fires at critical stages during its life cycle could eliminate small colonies of this butterfly. Since only one population of francisci remains and there are no other known adjacent populations to recolonize extirpated sites, this species is extremely vulnerable to catastrophic climatic events, inbreeding depression, disease and parasitism. Part of its habitat is adjacent to a well-traveled road where there is the possible threat of toxic chemical spills into its wetland habitat. Current military use of the lands favor this species, due to the frequent fires associated with shelling. The Department of Defense personnel are aware of the species' plight and have limited troop movement through the area. Heavy siltation of the small drainage areas occupied by francisci could pose a potential threat to the species. Other potential threats to this butterfly include pest control programs for mosquitoes and/or gypsy moths and beaver eradication.
