FR940607-1-00017 FR940607-1-00003 2. Paragraph (a)(1) of §240.6a&hyph;2 is amended by removing ``, or in Exhibits B, C and D,'' and ``and Exhibits B, C and D''. 3. Revise paragraph (a)(3) of §240.6a&hyph;2 to read as follows: §240.6a&hyph;2 Periodic amendments to registration statements or exemption statements of exchanges. (a) *␣*␣* (3) Complete Exhibits G, H, J, L and M, except that Exhibit J need only contain the name, principle place of business, and, if available, the date of election to membership for each member organization. The information contained in these exhibits shall be up to date as of the latest practicable date within 3 months of the date on which the annual amendment is filed. If a national securities exchange publishes or cooperates in the publication of the information required in these exhibits on an annual or more frequent basis, in lieu of filing such an exhibit a national securities exchange may: (i) Identify the publication in which such information is available, the name, address, and telephone number of the person from whom such publication may be obtained, and the price thereof; and (ii) Certify to the accuracy of such information as of its date. If a national securities exchange keeps the information required in Exhibits L and M up to date and makes it available to the Commission and the public on request, in lieu of filing such an exhibit a national securities exchange may certify that the information is kept up to date and is available to the Commission and the public upon request. * * * * * 4. Section 240.6a&hyph;2 is amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §240.6a&hyph;2 Periodic amendments to registration statements or exemption statements of exchanges. * * * * * (b) Unless exempted pursuant to paragraph (c) of this rule, on or before June 30, 1983, and every three years thereafter each exchange registered as a national securities exchange shall file complete Exhibits A(1), A(2) and A(3) to its registration statement. The information contained in these exhibits shall be up to date as of the latest practicable date within 3 months of the date on which these exhibits are filed. If a national securities exchange publishes or cooperates in the publication of the information required in these exhibits on an annual or more frequent basis, in lieu of filing such an exhibit a national securities exchange may: (1) Identify the publication in which such information is available, the name, address, and telephone number of the person from whom such publication may be obtained, and the price thereof; and (2) Certify to the accuracy of such information as of its date. If a national securities exchange keeps the information required in these exhibits up to date and makes it available to the Commission and the public on request, in lieu of filing such an exhibit a national securities exchange may certify that the information is kept up to date and is available to the Commission and the public upon request. * * * * * 5. Paragraph (e) of §240.19b&hyph;4 is revised to read as follows: §240.19b&hyph;4 Filings with respect to proposed rule changes by self-regulatory organizations. * * * * * (e) A proposed rule change may take effect upon filing with the Commission pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act if properly designated by the self-regulatory organization as: (1) Constituting a stated policy, practice, or interpretation with respect to the meaning, administration, or enforcement of an existing rule; (2) Establishing or changing a due, fee, or other charge; (3) Concerned solely with the administration of the self-regulatory organization; (4) Effecting a change in an existing service of a registered clearing agency that: (i) Does not adversely affect the safeguarding of securities or funds in the custody or control of the clearing agency or for which it is responsible; and (ii) Does not significantly affect the respective rights or obligations of the clearing agency or persons using the service; (5) Effecting a change in an existing order-entry or trading system of a self-regulatory organization that: (i) Does not significantly affect the protection of investors or the public interest; (ii) Does not impose any significant burden on competition; and (iii) Does not have the effect of limiting the access to or availability of the system; or (6) Effecting a change that: (i) Does not significantly affect the protection of investors or the public interest; (ii) Does not impose any significant burden on competition; and (iii) By its terms, does not become operative for 30 days after the date of publication of the notice of the filing, or such shorter time as the Commission may designate if consistent with the protection of investors and the public interest; provided that the self-regulatory organization has given the Commission written notice of its intent to file the proposed rule change, along with a brief description and text of the proposed rule change, at least five business days prior to the date of filing of the proposed rule change. * * * * *
