FR940627-0-00256 FR940627-0-00019 (D) Sampling. Cross-sections of the following areas shall be examined: The forebrain, the center of the cerebrum, the midbrain, the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata; the spinal cord at the cervical swelling (C 3 &hyph;C 6 ), and proximal sciatic nerve (mid-thigh and sciatic notch) or tibial nerve (at knee). Other sites and tissue elements (e.g., gastrocnemius muscle) shall be examined if deemed necessary. Any observable gross changes shall be recorded. (iv) Specimen storage. Tissue samples from both the central and peripheral nervous system shall be further immersion fixed and stored in appropriate fixative (e.g., 10 percent buffered formalin for light microscopy; 2.5 percent buffered gluteraldehyde or 4.0 percent buffered paraformaldehyde for electron microscopy) for future examination. The volume of fixative versus the volume of tissues in a specimen jar shall be no less than 25:1. All stored tissues shall be washed with buffer for at least 2 hours prior to further tissue processing. (v) Histopathology examination_ (A) Fixation. Tissue specimens stored in 10 percent buffered formalin may be used for this purpose. All tissues must be immersion fixed in fixative for at least 48 hours prior to further tissue processing. (B) Dehydration. All tissue specimens shall be washed for at least 1 hour with water or buffer, prior to dehydration. (A longer washing time is needed if the specimens have been stored in fixative for a prolonged period of time.) Dehydration can be performed with increasing concentration of graded ethanols up to absolute alcohol. (C) Clearing and embedding. After dehydration, tissue specimens shall be cleared with xylene and embedded in paraffin or paraplast. Multiple tissue specimens (e.g. brain, cord, ganglia) may be embedded together in one single block for sectioning. All tissue blocks shall be labelled showing at least the experiment number, animal number, and specimens embedded. (D) Sectioning. Tissue sections, 5 to 6 microns in thickness, shall be prepared from the tissue blocks and mounted on standard glass slides. It is recommended that several additional sections be made from each block at this time for possible future needs for special stainings. All tissue blocks and slides shall be filed and stored in properly labeled files or boxes. (E) Histopathological techniques. The following general testing sequence is proposed for gathering histopathological data: ( 1 ) General staining. A general staining procedure shall be performed on all tissue specimens in the highest treatment group. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) shall be used for this purpose. The staining shall be differentiated properly to achieve bluish nuclei with pinkish background. ( 2 ) Peripheral nerve teasing. Peripheral nerve fiber teasing shall be used. Detailed staining methodology is available in standard histotechnological manuals such as AFIP (1968), Ralis et al. (1973), and Chang (1979) under paragraph (g) of this section. The nerve fiber teasing technique is discussed in Spencer and Schaumberg (1980) under paragraph (g) of this section. A section of normal tissue shall be included in each staining to assure that adequate staining has occurred. Any changes shall be noted and representative photographs shall be taken. If a lesion(s) is observed, the special techniques shall be repeated in the next lower treatment group until no further lesion is detectable. (F) Examination. All stained microscopic slides shall be examined with a standard research microscope. Examples of cellular alterations (e.g., neuronal vacuolation, degeneration, and necrosis) and tissue changes (e.g., gliosis, leukocytic infiltration, and cystic formation) shall be recorded and photographed. (f) Data collection, reporting, and evaluation. In addition to information meeting the requirements stated under 40 CFR 79.60 and 79.61, the following specific information shall be reported:
