FR940527-0-00004 FR940527-0-00002 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 7 CFR Part 354 [Docket No. 94&hyph;043&hyph;1] Commuted Traveltime Periods: Overtime Services Relating to Imports and Exports AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the regulations concerning overtime services provided by employees of Plant Protection and Quarantine by removing and adding commuted traveltime allowances for travel between various locations in Florida, Mississippi, and Tennessee. Commuted traveltime allowances are the periods of time required for Plant Protection and Quarantine employees to travel from their dispatch points and return there from the places where they perform Sunday, holiday, or other overtime duty. The Government charges a fee for certain overtime services provided by Plant Protection and Quarantine employees and, under certain circumstances, the fee may include the cost of commuted traveltime. This action is necessary to inform the public of commuted traveltime for these locations. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Paul R. Eggert, Assistant to the Deputy Administrator, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 458, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7764. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 7 CFR, chapter III, and 9 CFR, chapter I, subchapter D, require inspection, laboratory testing, certification, or quarantine of certain plants, plant products, animals, animal byproducts, or other commodities intended for importation into, or exportation from, the United States. When these services must be provided by an employee of Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) on a Sunday or holiday, or at any other time outside the PPQ employee's regular duty hours, the Government charges a fee for the services in accordance with 7 CFR part 354. Under circumstances described in ยง354.1(a)(2), this fee may include the cost of commuted traveltime. Section 354.2 contains administrative instructions prescribing commuted traveltime allowances, which reflect, as nearly as practicable, the periods of time required for PPQ employees to travel from their dispatch points and return there from the places where they perform Sunday, holiday, or other overtime duty. We are amending ยง354.2 of the regulations by removing and adding commuted traveltime allowances for travel between various locations in Florida, Mississippi, and Tennessee. The amendments are set forth in the rule portion of this document. This action is necessary to inform the public of the commuted traveltime between the dispatch and service locations. Effective Date The commuted traveltime allowances appropriate for employees performing services at ports of entry, and the features of the reimbursement plan for recovering the cost of furnishing port of entry services, depend upon facts within the knowledge of the Department of Agriculture. It does not appear that public participation in this rulemaking proceeding would make additional relevant information available to the Department. Accordingly, pursuant to the administrative procedure provisions in 5 U.S.C. 553, we find upon good cause that prior notice and other public procedure with respect to this rule are impracticable and unnecessary; we also find good cause for making this rule effective less than 30 days after publication of this document in the Federal Register . Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. The number of requests for overtime services of a PPQ employee at the locations affected by our rule represents an insignificant portion of the total number of requests for these services in the United States. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V.) Executive Order 12778 This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule is intended to have preemptive effect with respect to any State or local laws, regulations, or policies that conflict with its provisions or that would otherwise impede its full implementation. This rule is not intended to have retroactive effect. There are no administrative procedures that must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule or the application of its provisions. Paperwork Reduction Act This rule contains no new information collection or recordkeeping requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq .). List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 354 Exports, Government employees, Imports, Plant diseases and pests, Quarantine, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Travel and transportation expenses. Accordingly, 7 CFR part 354 is amended as follows: PART 354_OVERTIME SERVICES RELATING TO IMPORTS AND EXPORTS; AND USER FEES 1. The authority citation for part 354 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 2260; 21 U.S.C. 136 and 136a; 49 U.S.C. 1741; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.51, and 371.2(c). 2. Section 354.2 is amended by removing or adding in the table, in alphabetical order, the information as shown below:
