FR941107-2-00095 FR941107-2-00049 GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION Renovation of the U.S. Plaza at the Rainbow Bridge, Niagara Falls, New York; Notice of Draft Environmental Impact Statement Availability and Public Hearing AGENCY: General Services Administration (GSA). ACTION: Notice of Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) Availability and Public Hearing. SUMMARY: A DEIS concerning the proposed renovation of the U.S. plaza at the Rainbow Bridge has been prepared by the GSA under Section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The DEIS has been released for public review and comment, and a public hearing is scheduled. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Peter Sneed, Director, Planning Staff, U.S. General Services Administration, Public Buildings Service, 26 Federal Plaza, Room 1609, New York, NY 10278, (212) 264&hyph;3581. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) has been prepared to evaluate the potential impacts of the proposed renovation of the U.S. plaza at the Rainbow Bridge in Niagara Falls, New York. The GSA is acting as NEPA lead agency in this project, which will be funded and constructed by the Niagara Falls Bridge Commission (NFBC). The construction of new inspection and toll booths, new office spaces, and a widened bridge approach at the existing site are proposed. Existing plaza facilities, which do not provide sufficient space for tenant agencies, will be demolished. Upon its completion, the new plaza would provide approximately 49,800 net square feet (nsf) of interior and exterior space, which will be leased to GSA for the essential functions of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and the U.S. Customs Service. The DEIS for this project contains detailed background information, an overview of the alternatives considered, a description of the affected environment, and a discussion of the project's potential environmental impacts. Potential impacts identified include visual impacts to the Niagara Reservation_a National Historic Landmark, the demolition of National Register-eligible plaza buildings, and higher peak hour traffic volumes on streets within the City of Niagara Falls. Mitigation measures have been proposed for these potential impacts. Impacts to the Reservation will be mitigated through adherence to review procedures outlined in Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 and Section 6(f) of the Land and Water Conservation Fund (L&WCF) Act. The demolition of National Register eligible plaza buildings will be mitigated by recording the buildings to Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) standards prior to demolition, as documented in the National Park Service's ``Schedule of Documentation for Recording of Rainbow Toll Plaza.'' Increasing the maximum green time at two intersections near the bridge has been recommended to accommodate traffic volumes associated with the renovated plaza. More importantly, the elimination of bridge queues from city streets will significantly improve traffic operations at intersections adjacent to the bridge. The DEIS for the project was released on November 2, 1994, to Federal, state, and local agencies, interested persons, and community groups. The DEIS and supporting documents are available for public review at the locations listed below: Niagara Falls Public Library, Earl W. Brydges Library Building, 1425 Main Street, Niagara Falls, NY General Services Administration, Public Buildings Service, 26 Federal Plaza, Room 1609, New York, NY 10278 Written comments are invited and may be submitted to GSA at the informational contact listed in this notice December 19, 1994. A public hearing will be held to formally present the DEIS to the public and to provide an additional opportunity for public comment. Public Hearing Date: November 29, 1994. Time: 7:00 p.m. Place: Orin Lehman Visitor's Center, Niagara Reservation, Niagara Falls, NY. Purpose: To receive comments concerning the potential environmental impacts of the proposed plaza renovation. Instructions: Those interested in commenting orally at the public hearing may register at the desk outside the auditorium on the night of the hearing. Speakers will be heard in the order they register. Each speaker will be allotted a maximum of five (5) minutes to allow all who are interested the opportunity to speak. Oral comments may be accompanied by written statements or by an additional oral presentation after the list of registered speakers is complete. A verbatim transcript will be prepared and will be summarized in the Final Environmental Impact Statement. Dated: October 26, 1994. Karen R. Adler, Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27420 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;23&hyph;M
