FR941216-1-00116 FR941216-1-00012 Subpart H_Manufacturing and Processing Pyrotechnics §184.71 General. The safety precautions for manufacturing and processing pyrotechnics parallel those of many types of explosives and other energetic materials. Pyrotechnics, as a group, display many different characteristics because they are formulated for different purposes. Pyrotechnics can be divided into general categories, such as: Initiators (igniters); illuminants; smokes; gas generators; sound generators; heat producers; and timing compositions. Each has its own characteristics and attendant processing requirements. Knowledge of these characteristics is necessary to ensure safety in processing. The range of characteristics associated with pyrotechnics includes easily initiated compositions from those that burn in seconds at temperatures exceeding 2763 ○C (5000 ○F) through those that require substantial energy for initiation and have relatively low output temperatures. As examples, the auto-ignition temperature for smoke Compositions is typically about 180 ○C while for illuminants it is about 500 ○C; illuminants burn approximately 2.7 times faster than smokes and the heat of reaction is 1.5 times as great; infrared (IR) flare compositions are both hotter and faster-burning than illuminants. Many of the compositions in the ignitor or initiator class are as sensitive to static electricity, friction, or impact as are initiating explosives such as lead azide and lead styphnate. Initiation thresholds to such stimuli as impact, friction, and electrostatic discharge must be known for safety in specific processes. The response of the material in terms of energy release shall be considered in ensuring personnel safety. In addition to the safety precautions generally required for the handling of explosives and other energetic materials, the following paragraphs provide specific guidance pertinent to pyrotechnic operations. §184.72 Machinery, equipment, and facilities. Except as provided for in this subpart, the design, layout, and operation of facilities and equipment shall follow the mandatory provisions for the processing of explosives and other energetic materials contained elsewhere in this part. Where guidance is not provided, operations should be governed by the results of hazard analyses performed and documented to address specific operations. Since most pyrotechnic compositions are sensitive to initiation by static electricity, bonding and grounding, along with other means of static elimination and control, have paramount importance. §184.73 Weighing of raw materials. Separate weight or measurement rooms, cubicles, or areas (dependent upon the quantity and sensitivity of the materials handled) shall be provided_one for oxidizers and one for combustible materials and metallic powders. It is important that containers, equipment, hand tools, scale pans, etc., used for weighing processes are not mixed with those weighing or measuring oxidizers and fuels, particularly where distance rather than physical barriers separates these areas. Positive measures shall be adopted to ensure the complete separation of such equipment and tools. Personnel weighing or handling exposed oxidizers or fuels shall, at a minimum, wear flame retardant uniforms, cotton undergarments, cotton socks, and conductive shoes. §184.74 Drying of materials.
