FR940314-2-00141 FR940314-2-00072 3 Cases that pertain to specially denatured alcohol (SDA) or taxfree (TF) alcohol where the offer in compromise does not exceed $10,000 and the tax liability sought to be compromised is based upon either (a) use of SDA or TF alcohol for unauthorized purposes or (b) activities to which no liability would normally attach if the proponent completed required notification and/or approval procedures, but for which the proponent failed to complete such procedures. This delegation is limited to cases in which the misuse of SDA or TF alcohol or the activities in question are: a Not willful, and b Not for beverage purposes, and c Not for a purpose that poses a health risk to the public, and d Not for any purpose that poses a jeopardy to the revenue. (b) Violations of the FAA Act where cases include an offer in compromise which does not exceed $10,000. (c) Cases that combine liabilities arising under chapter 51, Title 26 U.S.C., and the FAA Act where the tax liability sought to be compromised does not exceed $20,000 and the offer in compromise does not exceed $10,000. (4) Each regional director is authorized to accept or reject offers in compromise arising from cases outlined in paragraph 5b provided the following circumstances apply: (a) The final action to be taken follows specific written case resolution guidance previously furnished by the division chief (compliance). (b) The relevant circumstances of the case have not changed subsequent to the guidance of the division chief (compliance). (5) Offers Encompassing Violations in Multiple Regions. (a) The regional director (compliance) in whose region the permittee or brewer responsible for the majority of violations is located will be the deciding official for offers involving violations or permittees in more than one region. However, cases that include a previously issued order to show cause will be resolved by the regional director who authorized issuance of the order. (b) Tax cases regarding members of controlled groups as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1563(a) will generally be resolved by the regional director (compliance) in whose region the members are located. However, if multiple liabilities for the same tax period(s) have occurred as a result of preparation of late filed tax returns or late paid tax handled by a central location, the penalties will be resolved by the regional director (compliance) in whose region lies the central location.
