FR940429-0-00249 FR940429-0-00015 (24) It will comply with the institutional refund policy established in §668.22; (25) It is liable for all_ (i) Improperly spent or unspent funds received under the Title IV, HEA programs, including any funds administered by a third-party servicer; and (ii) Refunds that the institution or its servicer may be required to make; and (26) If the stated objectives of an educational program of the institution are to prepare a student for gainful employment in a recognized occupation, the institution will_ (i) Demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the length of the program and entry level requirements for the recognized occupation for which the program prepares the student. The Secretary considers the relationship to be reasonable if the number of clock hours provided in the program does not exceed by more than 50 percent the minimum number of clock hours required for training in the recognized occupation for which the program prepares the student, as established by the State in which the program is offered, if the State has established such a requirement, or as established by any Federal agency; and (ii) Establish the need for the training for the student to obtain employment in the recognized occupation for which the program prepares the student. (c) In order to participate in any Title IV, HEA program (other than the SSIG and NEISP programs), the institution must certify that it_ (1) Has in operation a drug abuse prevention program that the institution has determined to be accessible to any officer, employee, or student at the institution; and (2)(i) Has established a campus security policy in accordance with section 485(f) of the HEA; and (ii) Has complied with the disclosure requirements of §668.47 as required by section 485(f) of the HEA. (d) In order to participate in any Title IV, HEA program (other than the SSIG and NEISP programs), an institution that offers athletically related student aid must_ (1) Cause an annual compilation, independently audited not less often than every 3 years, to be prepared within 6 months after the end of the institution's fiscal year, of_ (i) The revenues derived by the institution from the institution's intercollegiate athletics activities, according to the following categories: (A) Total revenues. (B) Revenues from football. (C) Revenues from men's basketball. (D) Revenues from women's basketball. (E) Revenues from all other men's sports combined. (F) Revenues from all other women's sports combined; (ii) Expenses made by the institution for the institution's intercollegiate athletics activities, according to the following categories: (A) Total expenses. (B) Expenses attributable to football. (C) Expenses attributable to men's basketball. (D) Expenses attributable to women's basketball. (E) Expenses attributable to all other men's sports combined. (F) Expenses attributable to all other women's sports combined; and (iii) The total revenues and operating expenses of the institution; and (2) Make the compilation and, where allowable by State law, the results of the audits required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section available for inspection by the Secretary and the public. (e) For the purposes of paragraph (d) of this section_ (1) Revenues from intercollegiate athletics activities allocable to a sport shall include without limitation gate receipts, broadcast revenues and other conference distributions, appearance guarantees and options, concessions, and advertising; (2) Revenues such as student activities fees, alumni contributions, and investment interest income that are not allocable to a sport shall be included in the calculation of total revenues only; (3) Expenses for intercollegiate athletics activities allocable to a sport shall include without limitation grants-in-aid, salaries, travel, equipment, and supplies; and (4) Expenses such as general and administrative overhead that are not allocable to a sport shall be included in the calculation of total expenses only. (f)(1) A program participation agreement becomes effective on the date that the Secretary signs the agreement. (2) A new program participation agreement supersedes any prior program participation agreement between the Secretary and the institution. (g)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, the Secretary terminates a program participation agreement through the proceedings in subpart G of this part. (2) An institution may terminate a program participation agreement. (3) If the Secretary or the institution terminates a program participation agreement under paragraph (g) of this section, the Secretary establishes the termination date. (h) An institution's program participation agreement automatically expires on the date that_ (1) The institution changes ownership that results in a change in control as determined by the Secretary under 34 CFR part 600; or (2) The institution's participation ends under the provisions of §668.26(a) (1), (2), (4), or (7). (i) An institution's program participation agreement no longer applies to or covers a location of the institution as of the date on which that location ceases to be a part of the participating institution. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1085, 1088, 1091, 1092, 1094, 1099a-3, 1099c, and 1141) 12. Newly redesignated §668.15 is revised to read as follows: §668.15 Factors of financial responsibility. (a) General. To begin and to continue to participate in any Title IV, HEA program, an institution must demonstrate to the Secretary that the institution is financially responsible under the requirements established in this section. (b) General standards of financial responsibility. In general, the Secretary considers an institution to be financially responsible only if it_ (1) Is providing the services described in its official publications and statements; (2) Is providing the administrative resources necessary to comply with the requirements of this subpart; (3) Is meeting all of its financial obligations, including but not limited to_ (i) Refunds that it is required to make; and (ii) Repayments to the Secretary for liabilities and debts incurred in programs administered by the Secretary;
