FR940418-1-00015 FR940418-1-00004 (a) The tonnage of a ship shall consist of PC/UMS Net Tonnage. (b) The net tonnage shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the regulations in this subpart. (c) The net tonnage of novel types of craft whose constructional features are such as to render the application of the provisions of the regulations in this subpart unreasonable or impracticable shall be determined in a manner which is acceptable to the Panama Canal Commission. ยง135.12 Definitions. (a) Upper Deck means the uppermost complete deck exposed to weather and sea, which has permanent means of weathertight closing of all openings in the weather part thereof, and below which all openings in the sides of the ship are fitted with permanent means of watertight closing. In a ship having a stepped upper deck, the lowest line of the exposed deck and the continuation of that line parallel to the upper part of the deck is taken as the upper deck. (b) Moulded Depth means the vertical distance measured from the top of the keel to the underside of the upper deck at side. (1) In wood and composite ships the distance is measured from the lower edge of the keel rabbet. Where the form at the lower part of the midship section is of a hollow character, or where thick garboards are fitted, the distance is measured from the point where the line of the flat of the bottom continued inwards cuts the side of the keel. (2) In ships having rounded gunwales, the moulded depth shall be measured to the point of intersection of the moulded lines of the deck and side shell plating, the lines extending as though the gunwales were of angular design. (3) Where the upper deck is stepped and the raised part of the deck extends over the point at which the moulded depth is to be determined, the moulded depth shall be measured to a line of reference extending from the lower part of the deck along a line parallel with the raised part. (c) Breadth or moulded breadth means the maximum breadth of the ship, measured amidships to the moulded line of the frame in a ship with a metal shell and to the outer surface of the hull in a ship with a shell of any other material. (d) Enclosed spaces mean all spaces which are bounded by the ship's hull, by fixed or portable partitions or bulkheads, by decks or coverings other than permanent or movable awnings. No break in a deck, nor any opening in the ship's hull, in a deck or in a covering of a space, or in the partitions or bulkheads of a space, nor the absence of a partition or bulkhead, shall preclude a space from being included in the enclosed space. (e) Excluded spaces mean, notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, the spaces referred to in paragraphs (e)(1) to (e)(5) of this section. Excluded spaces shall not be included in the volume of enclosed spaces, except that any such space which fulfills at least one of the following three conditions shall be treated as an enclosed space: _The space is fitted with shelves or other means for securing cargo or stores; _The openings are fitted with any means of closure; _The construction provides any possibility of such openings being closed. (1)(i) A space within an erection opposite an end opening extending from deck to deck except for a curtain plate of a depth not exceeding by more than 25 millimeters (one inch) the depth of the adjoining deck beams, such opening having a breadth equal to or greater than 90 percent of the breadth of the deck at the line of the opening of the space. This provision shall be applied so as to exclude from the enclosed spaces only the space between the actual end opening and a line drawn parallel to the line or face of the opening at a distance from the opening equal to one-half of the width of the deck at the line of the opening (Figure 1). In the figure: O = excluded space C = enclosed space I = space to be considered as an enclosed space Hatched in parts to be included as enclosed spaces. B = breadth of the deck in way of the opening. In ships with rounded gunwales the breadth is measured as indicated in Figure 11 in paragraph (e)(5). BILLING CODE 3640&hyph;04&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEP18AP94.003 BILLING CODE 3640&hyph;04&hyph;C (1)(ii) Should the width of the space because of any arrangement except by convergence of the outside plating, become less than 90 percent of the breadth of the deck, only the space between the line of the opening and a parallel line drawn through the point where the athwartships width of the space becomes equal to, or less than, 90 percent of the breadth of the deck shall be excluded from the volume of enclosed spaces. (Figures 2, 3 and 4). In the figures: O = excluded space C = enclosed space I = space to be considered as an enclosed space Hatched in parts to be included as enclosed spaces. B = breadth of the deck in way of the opening. In ships with rounded gunwales the breadth is measured as indicated in Figure 11 in paragraph (e)(5). BILLING CODE 3640&hyph;04&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEP18AP94.004 E:GRAPHICSEP18AP94.005 BILLING CODE 3640&hyph;04&hyph;C (1)(iii) Where an interval which is completely open except for bulwarks or open rails separates any two spaces, the exclusion of one or both of which is permitted under paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and/or (e)(1)(ii) of this section, such exclusion shall not apply if the separation between the two spaces is less than the least half breadth of the deck in way of the separation. (Figures 5 and 6).
