FR941117-0-00176 FR941117-0-00012 Discussion: Many contractors already have a negotiated indirect cost rate because they are direct recipients of Federal funds. Under current procedures State and local governments are expected to assign an indirect cost rate to a contractor or other lower tier organization that does not already have one. Thus State educational agencies assign rates to their local educational agencies (see §75.561). These regulations do nothing to change these practices and contractors or other lower tier organizations are not expected to negotiate a rate with the Department. Changes: None. Section 75.561␣Approval of indirect cost rates. Comments: Several commenters were confused by the statement in §75.561(c) that the Secretary approves indirect cost rate agreements, an apparent conflict with the practice of the cognizant agency negotiating a rate with an applicant. Discussion: The Secretary does negotiate indirect cost rates with applicants, but only when the Department is the cognizant agency. A change has been made to clarify this paragraph. Changes: Section 75.561(a) has been revised to make it clear that the Secretary approves indirect cost rates for applicants when the Department is the cognizant agency. Comments: One commenter suggested that State educational agencies have the same flexibility to approve multi-year indirect cost rates as the proposed revision to §75.561 would give the Secretary. The commenter observed that it would be more cost-effective, particularly for small local educational agencies, to have rates in effect for more than one year. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with this comment and has made a change. Changes: Section 75.561(b) has been revised to allow State educational agencies to approve indirect cost rates_for local educational agencies_that are in effect for more than one year. Section 75.562␣Indirect cost rates for educational training projects. Comments: A commenter objected to the inclusion of research training programs in the proposed definition of an educational training grant, observing that OMB Circular A&hyph;21 specifies that research training is part of an institution's sponsored research activities. Discussion: OMB Circular A&hyph;21, in Section B, Definition of Terms, states that the term ``sponsored research'' includes ``activities involving the training of individuals in research techniques (commonly called research training) *␣*␣*.'' In order to be consistent with this circular, the Secretary has made a change in the definition of an educational training grant. Changes: The phrase ``including special research training programs'' has been deleted from the definition of an educational training grant in §75.562(a). Comments: A few commenters thought that the definition of a training grant was ambiguous and too broad. One suggested that it be limited to grants that were designated as training grants by statute or where the grant includes such costs as tuition and fees (so-called ``flow-through'' funds) that are used by the recipient to cover a portion of its indirect costs. Another asked if the Secretary would be using this definition in determining which grants are training grants, as stated in §75.562(b). Discussion: The fact that the proposed definition of a training grant is broad and comprehensive is a reflection of the great variety of grants administered by the Department that are training grants. The definition suggested by the commenter would overly limit the designation of training grants and exclude certain programs that clearly are primarily for the provision of training. The intent of the definition is to provide the public with the criteria used by the Secretary in determining what is a training grant and a change has been made to make this clear. Changes: Section 75.562(b) has been revised to indicate that the Secretary does use the definition of a training grant in paragraph (a) in determining which grants are educational training grants. Comments: Several commenters objected to the Department's use of the eight percent limit on training grants and thought the rate negotiated by the recipient with its cognizant agency should be employed instead. Discussion: Since its inception, the Department has consistently maintained the necessity of limiting the indirect cost rate on training grants. This policy was originally established when the Department was a component of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, now the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). This policy is still in effect at HHS and is intended in part to maximize the number of projects funded under these programs. In addition, a number of training projects contain significant amounts of flow-through funds and therefore do not carry the same burden of overhead or administrative costs as do other projects. The Secretary does not agree that the recipients of training grants should be reimbursed at their full negotiated rates and no change in this section has been made. Changes: None. Comments: Nine comments were received on the proposed revision to §75.562(c) that would require the training rate of eight percent to be applied to a modified total direct cost base, instead of using a base of total direct costs as in the current regulation. Commenters opposed this change on grounds that it would further reduce a grantee's ability to recover legitimate indirect costs under training grants and reduce the number of organizations that could afford to apply for those grants. Several commenters also asked for a definition of ``modified total direct cost base.'' Discussion: There is general agreement in the grants community that indirect costs should not be charged to activities that do not have significant administrative costs associated with them, such as ``flow-through funds'' (e.g., tuition, fees, and stipends). The Secretary proposed to revise these regulations to be consistent with this principle and to clarify for all interested parties what base should be used in computing indirect costs under a training grant. Though this change will reduce the indirect costs charged to the Department's grants for some recipients, the Secretary does not agree that the indirect cost base for training grants should include activities or costs that do not generate significant administrative expenses. However, the Secretary has made a change to clarify the term ``modified total direct cost base.'' Changes: Section 75.562(c) has been revised to include a definition of ``modified total direct cost base.'' It has also been reworded to make it clearer that the paragraph is referring to the lesser amount of funds, not the lesser rate. Comments: One commenter stated that the eight percent limitation should not apply to contractors under training grants, as required by §75.562(c)(1), since not all contractors are in a position to absorb the costs not covered by the limited rate. Discussion: If the contractor is not conducting training activities, the eight percent limitation would not apply and the contractor could use its negotiated rate. However, a contractor that is conducting training under a training grant would still be subject to the limitation of eight percent. No change has been made in this paragraph.
