FR940617-1-00058 FR940617-1-00012 In the previous tentative final monograph (43 FR 1235), the agency recognized that elemental iodine complexed with a surfactant type ``carrier'' molecule reduces the amount of immediate ``free'' iodine, because most of the formulated iodine is bound in the complex. Effectiveness of all iodophors is dependent on the release of free iodine as the active agent from the complexing molecule which acts only as a carrier. The agency acknowledges that iodine complexed with a surfactant is an acceptable way of presenting iodine as an antimicrobial agent to the skin. However, because most of the formulated iodine may be tied up in the complex and because the information submitted by the comment to support in vitro efficacy (Ref. 2) dealt only with aqueous and/or tincture solutions of free iodine, testing of the complete formulation is necessary to judge the importance of formulation on the release of the active ingredient and, thus, its influence on aspects of effectiveness. Based on the data submitted, the agency concludes that iodine complexed by ammonium ether sulfate and polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate is safe but additional data from appropriate studies are needed to establish general recognition of effectiveness for use as a surgical hand scrub and health-care personnel handwash. The data should include results obtained from both in vitro and in vivo testing procedures. (See section I.N., comment 28.) References (1) Unpublished Nonclinical and Clinical Studies on V.I.S., Vestal Iodine Scrub (iodine complexed by ammonium ether sulfate and polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate), Comment No. C106, Docket No. 75N&hyph;0183, Dockets Management Branch. (a) Acute Dermal Toxicity in Rabbits. (b) Acute Dermal Application_Rabbits. (c) Determination of the Influence of Scrubbing with Vestal Iodine Surgical Scrub Detergent on the Protein Bound Iodine Level of the Blood. (d) Determination of the Influence of Scrubbing with Vestal Iodine Surgical Scrub Detergent on the Protein Bound Iodine and Total Serum Iodine Levels in the Blood. (e) Percutaneous Absorption of Iodine in Monkeys from the Dermal Application of an Iodine Surgical Scrub Detergent. (f) Three Month Sub-Acute Dermal Toxicity Study in Monkeys with Vestal Iodine Scrub Detergent. (g) Iodine Surgical Scrub Detergent, Surgical Hand Scrub Study in Five Human Test Subjects. (2) Gershenfeld, L., ``Iodine,'' in ``Disinfection, Sterilization, and Preservation'' 1st ed., Lee and Febiger, Philadelphia, pp. 329&hyph;347, 1968. 16. Several comments objected to the warning proposed for the professional labeling for povidone-iodine and iodophor-surfactant products: ``Caution: Do not use this product in the presence of starch-containing products. Starch can adsorb iodophors and the resulting complex can cause serosal adhesions (abnormal union of the serous membranes) and other undesirable effects in the body'' (43 FR 1210 at 1221). The comments pointed out that the study by Goodrich, Prine, and Wilson (Ref. 1) on which the warning is based is not well controlled, is rudimentary, and lacks rigorous testing that produces evidence which can be statistically analyzed. The comments contended that this article is not sufficient basis for the warning. The comments requested that the impact of the article by Goodrich, Prine, and Wilson on the labeling of nonsurfactant iodophors be reevaluated and that povidone-iodine be exempt from the required warning relating to contact of starch and iodophors. One comment stated that there are numerous papers in the literature describing the antiadhesive effect of povidone and povidone-iodine and submitted nine references dealing with humans and animals that support an antiadhesive effect when povidone or povidone-iodine is used in intraperitoneal surgery (Ref. 2). Another comment explained that starch is well known for producing granuloma and that every package of surgeons' gloves carries a warning statement to the effect that the outside of the gloves must be cleansed of starch powder prior to use. The comment concluded that FDA should require a warning label on the gloves, but not on products containing the drug.
