FR940429-0-00182 FR940429-0-00015 Comments: One commenter was of the opinion that the activities of administering or scoring ability-to-benefit tests should be included in the examples of what the Secretary considers to be a third-party servicer activity because these activities constitute the determination of student eligibility. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenter that these activities could be considered to be an aspect of the administration of Title IV, HEA programs and therefore should be regulated. However, the Secretary believes that any abuses in these types of activities will be protected against in the regulations governing the administration of ability-to-benefit tests. The Secretary plans to issue an NPRM on this subject shortly. Therefore, the Secretary does not believe it necessary to regulate administering or scoring ability-to-benefit test activities as part of these regulations. Changes: None. Comments: A few commenters requested that attorneys litigating on behalf of institutions to collect loan funds or interpreting statutory or regulatory requirements be excluded from the definition of third-party servicer. Discussion: The Secretary generally considers attorneys not to be covered by the definition of a third-party servicer under these regulations. The Secretary, in promulgating the definition of third-party servicer, applied the definition to a set of activities relating to the administration of the Title IV, HEA programs, and thus is not regulating distinct entities by their identity but rather the activities that individuals or organizations perform in contracting with institutions. Provision of legal advice is not one of these activities. However, it is conceivable that an attorney would be considered a third-party servicer under these regulations if the activity of the attorney, performed on behalf of an institution, constitutes administration of the Title IV, HEA programs. It would not be appropriate to state that attorneys are never considered third-party servicers as that would permit services to escape oversight simply by being provided under attorney signature or by non-attorneys working for attorneys or their law firms. Changes: None. Section 668.8␣Eligible Program Definitions. Comments: Some commenters believed that the definition of ``equivalent of an associate degree'' would be difficult to administer because colleges do not have consistent standards for accepting two-year programs for full credit toward a bachelor's degree and for qualifying a student for admission into the third year of a bachelor's degree program. Some of these commenters suggested that any person who completes the equivalent number of credit hours necessary to receive an associate degree should be included in this definition as long as the person earned those credits from an institution that was accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency. Other commenters suggested that any program that leads to an occupational objective that requires licensing or certification and equals at least the length of a typical associate degree program, should be added to the proposed definition. Another commenter expressed support for the provision as written in the February 28, 1994 NPRM. Discussion: As stated in the February 28, 1994 NPRM, this definition is modeled after section 1201(a)(3) of the HEA, and is designed to measure the educational backgrounds of students admitted to programs offered by a proprietary institution of higher education and postsecondary vocational institutions. The Secretary believes that a student does not have the equivalent of an associate degree unless he or she has completed an educational program that includes two critical characteristics: the student successfully completed at least a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor's degree and the student qualifies for admission into the third year of a bachelor's degree program. The alternatives suggested by commenters lack these characteristics. In response to comments about the absence of consistent standards, the Secretary notes that inconsistent standards apply to students with associate degrees as well. The two-year programs completed by students with an associate degree may be fully transferable to some institutions offering bachelor's degree, but not to other institutions. Institutions that have programs leading to a bachelor's degree also have different standards for determining a transfer student's standing. Changes: None. Qualitative Factors. Comments: Some commenters argued that short-term programs (programs of less than 600 clock hours) should not be required to be in existence for a year before establishing eligibility because the rate of technological change in the workplace dictates rapid responses by institutions in offering educational programs to meet those changes. Some of these commenters also believed that factors related to quality should be determined by accrediting agencies. Another commenter suggested that initial eligibility for these programs should be based on an institution's track record of success rather than the existence of the program for one year. Discussion: The Secretary believes that a good track record of success is whether an institution can maintain a new program for one year. The Secretary agrees that the quality of these programs should continue to be monitored by accrediting agencies, but the history of abuse in these programs necessitates Federal regulatory standards as well. Institutions are not prevented from responding rapidly to the demands of the economy by offering new short-term programs, but institutions must be able to demonstrate that these new programs can meet the minimum placement and completion rate standards before Title IV, HEA funds are provided to students enrolled in these programs. Obviously, this data cannot be provided unless the program has been in existence for a period of time. Changes: None. Comments: A number of commenters objected to limiting the length of a program to no more than 150 percent of the minimum number of clock hours required for training in the recognized occupation for which the program prepares students, as established by the State in which the program is offered, if the State has established such a requirement. Some of these commenters observed that the requirement would create inconsistent standards because States have different requirements and that maximum program lengths should be determined by accrediting agencies. Another commenter argued that differing State standards would make it difficult to train students from neighboring States if those States have higher standards. Some commenters believed that ``course stretching'' was a frequent source of abuse. They cited examples of institutions' combining short programs into one accredited course that does not specifically lead to licensure, purely for the purpose of exceeding the statutory 600 clock hour minimum. These commenters recommended that the standard in the February 28, 1994 NPRM was too lenient and that the program length should not exceed the minimum State standard. Some commenters suggested that the minimum licensing standards of the Federal government should also be taken into account in limiting the length of a program. Another commenter suggested that exceptions should be made to the general standard if the education provided by a particular program was better than average. Discussion: The Secretary believes that 150 percent of the State minimum allows enough latitude for institutions to provide quality programs and furnishes a sufficient safeguard against the abuses of course stretching. Because States have different licensing standards, the Secretary does not believe that a single standard for a maximum program length is appropriate. The argument made by one commenter about training students from neighboring States with higher standards only serves to illustrate the importance of recognizing each State's requirements. Training students who will not be able to meet the licensing requirements of the States in which they intend to work is a terrible disservice to those students. The Secretary agrees that these regulations ought to recognize any minimum standards established by various Federal agencies for applicable short-term programs. Changes: This provision is revised to prohibit a short-term eligible program from exceeding by 50 percent any applicable minimum number of clock hours required by a Federal agency for training in the recognized occupation for which the program prepares students.
