FR940719-2-00033 FR940719-2-00012 An application must receive at least 70% of the points assigned to each evaluation criteria category to be considered programmatically acceptable and response. Those applications determined to be acceptable and responsive will then be evaluated by the Director of MBDA. Final award selections shall be based on the number of points received, the demonstrated responsibility of the applicant, and the determination of those most likely to further the purpose of the MBDA program. Negative audit findings and recommendations and unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal Awards may result in an application not being considered for award. The applicant with the highest point score will not necessarily receive the award. MDCSs shall be required to contribute at least 15% of the total project cost through non-Federal contributions. To assist them in this effort, MBDCs may charge client fees for management and technical assistance (M&TA) rendered. Based on a standard rate of $50 per hour, MBDCs will charge client fees at 20% of the total cost for firms with gross sales of $500,000 or less, and 35% of the total cost for firms with gross sales of over $500,000. Quarterly reviews culminating in year-to-date evaluations will be conducted to determine if funding for the project should continue. Continued funding will be at the total discretion of MBDA based on such factors as the MBDC's performance, the availability of funds and Agency priorities. DATES: The closing date for application is June 21, 1994. Applications must be postmarked on or before June 21, 1994. The mailing address for submission is: ADDRESSES: New York Regional Office, Minority Business Development Agency, Jacob K. Javits Federal Building, room-3729, New York, New York 10278, (Area Code & Telephone Number): (212) 264&hyph;3262. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William R. Fuller, Acting Regional Director, New York Office at (212) 264&hyph;3262. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Anticipated processing time of this award is 120 days, Executive order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' is not applicable to this program. The collection of information requirements for this project have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0640&hyph;0006. Questions concerning the preceding information can be answered by the contact person indicated above, and copies of the application kits and applicable regulations can be obtained at the above address. Pre-Award Costs _Applicants are hereby notified that if they incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal assurance that an applicant may have received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce to cover pre-award costs. Awards under this program shall be subject to all Federal laws, and Federal and Departmental regulations, policies, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. Outstanding Account Receivable _No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either the delinquent account is paid in full, repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received, or other arrangements satisfactory to the Department of Commerce are made. Name Check Policy _All non-profit and for-profit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. Award Termination _The Departmental Grants Officer may terminate any grant/cooperative agreement in whole or in part any time before the date of completion whenever it is determined that the award recipient has failed to comply with the conditions of the grant/cooperative agreement. Examples of some of the conditions which can cause termination are failure to meet cost-sharing requirements; unsatisfactory performance of the MBDC work requirements; and reporting inaccurate or inflated claims of client assistance. Such inaccurate or inflated claims may be deemed illegal and punishable by law. False Statements _A false statement on an application for Federal financial assistance is grounds for denial or termination of funds, and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. Primary Applicant Certifications _All primary applicants must submit a completed Form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying.''
