FR940516-0-00096 FR940516-0-00030 (h) Estimation of total harvest in the CDQ fisheries_ (1) Observer coverage. Vessel operators and processors participating in CDQ fisheries must comply with the following requirements for observer coverage: (i) Each shoreside processing operation participating in the CDQ fisheries must have one NMFS-certified observer present at all times while groundfish harvested under a CDQ are being received or processed. The Regional Director is authorized to require more than one observer for a shoreside processing operation if: (A) The CDQ delivery schedule requires an observer to be on duty more than 12 hours in a 24-hour period; (B) Simultaneous deliveries of CDQ harvests by more than one vessel cannot be monitored by a single observer; or (C) One observer is not capable of adequately monitoring CDQ deliveries; (ii) Each processor vessel participating in the CDQ fisheries must have two NMFS-certified observers aboard the vessel at all times while groundfish harvested under a CDQ are being harvested, processed, or received from another vessel; (iii) Each catcher vessel delivering groundfish harvested under a CDQ, other than a catcher vessel delivering only unsorted codends to a processor or another vessel, must have a NMFS-certified observer on the vessel at all times while the vessel is participating in the CDQ fisheries, regardless of the vessel length. Observer coverage requirements for catcher vessels participating in the CDQ fisheries are in addition to any observer coverage requirements in ยง675.25. (2) Equipment and operational requirements. (i) Each shoreside processing operation participating in the CDQ fisheries must comply with the following requirements: (A) Groundfish harvested in the CDQ fisheries must be recorded and weighed on a scale certified by the State of Alaska. Such a scale must measure catch weights at all times to at least 95-percent accuracy, as determined by a NMFS-certified observer or authorized officer. The scale and scale display must be visible simultaneously by the observer; (B) Observers must be provided access to the scale used to weigh groundfish landings; (C) Printouts of scale measurements of each CDQ delivery must be made available to observers and be maintained in the shoreside processing operation for the duration of the fishing year, or for as long after a fishing year as product from fish harvested during that year are retained in the shoreside processing operation; and (D) The manager of each shoreside processing operation must notify the observer(s) of the offloading schedule of each CDQ groundfish delivery at least 1 hour prior to offloading to provide the observer an opportunity to monitor the weighing of the entire delivery. (ii) Each processor vessel participating in the CDQ fisheries must either estimate the total weight of its groundfish catch by the volumetric procedures specified in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(A) of this section or must weigh its catch in accordance with the procedures under (h)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. (A) Volumetric measurements of total catch. ( 1 ) Each processor vessel estimating its catch by volumetric measurement must have one or more receiving bins in which all fish catches are placed to determine total catch weight prior to sorting operations. ( 2 ) The volume of each bin must be accurately measured, and the bin must be permanently marked and numbered in 10-cm increments on all internal sides of the bin. Marked increments, except those on the wall containing the viewing port or window, must be readable from the outside of the bin at all times. Bins must be lighted in a manner that allows marked increments to be read from the outside of the bin by a NMFS-certified observer or authorized officer. ( 3 ) The location of bin markings, as certified, must be described in writing. Tables certified under paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(A)( 2 ) of this section indicating the volume of each certified bin in cubic meters for each 10-cm increment marked on the sides of the bins, must be submitted to the NMFS Observer Program prior to harvesting or receiving groundfish and must be maintained aboard the vessel and made available to NMFS-certified observers at all times. All bin certification documents must be dated and signed by the certifier. The bin volume and marked and numbered increments must be certified by a registered engineer with no financial interest in fishing, fish processing, or fish tender vessels, or by a qualified organization that has been designated by the U.S. Coast Guard Commandant, or an authorized representative thereof, for the purpose of classing or examining commercial fishing industry vessels under the provisions of 46 CFR 28.76. Bin volumes and marked and numbered increments must be recertified each time a bin is structurally or physically changed. ( 4 ) Vessel operators must notify observers prior to any removal or addition of fish from each bin used for volumetric measurements of catch in such a manner that allows an observer to take bin volume measurements prior to fish being removed from or added to the bin. Once a volumetric measurement has been taken, additional fish may not be added to the bin until at least half the original volume has been removed. Fish may not be removed from or added to a bin used for volumetric measurements of catch until an observer indicates that bin volume measurements have been completed and any samples of catch required by the observer have been taken. ( 5 ) Fish from separate hauls or deliveries from separate harvesting vessels may not be mixed in any bin used for volumetric measurements of catch. (B) Scale weight measurements of total catch. ( 1 ) Any scale used on a processor vessel to weigh groundfish harvested in the CDQ fisheries must measure catch weights to at least 95-percent accuracy at all times as determined by a NMFS-certified observer or authorized officer. The scale must be equipped with a functional motion compensation device to account for vessel acceleration, roll, pitch and vibration movement. The scale and scale display must be visible by the observer simultaneously. ( 2 ) Printouts of scale measurements of each haul weight must be made available to the observer and be maintained on board the vessel for the duration of the fishing year or for as long after a fishing year as products from fish harvested during that year are retained aboard a vessel. ( 3 ) The catch from each haul must be kept separate, such that the scale weight can be obtained separately for each haul. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11763 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
