FR940325-0-00032 FR940325-0-00009 As noted earlier, this rulemaking has a limited scope and EPA is therefore not revisiting many of the policy and other issues resolved in the rulemakings establishing the ABT program. This rulemaking is focused on the narrow issue of determining what credit accounting procedure best implements the intended goals of the ABT program, with the existence of an ABT program as a given. In that context, EPA believes that the regulatory changes in this rule are appropriate. A FIFO credit accounting provision will better serve the intended goals of the ABT program than the current LIFO accounting provision. In addition, EPA does not expect an adverse environmental impact from these changes, and over time believes the changes should benefit the environment. First, as was explained in the preamble to the notice of proposed rulemaking (58 FR 32498, June 10, 1993), FIFO is preferred over LIFO, because LIFO may induce manufacturers to use any credits in the bank before generating new credits, for fear of having the previously banked credits expire. Thus, LIFO may reduce the incentive for manufacturers to pull ahead new technology. On the other hand, FIFO encourages manufacturers to put into production new technology in order to generate new credits and gain experience on the overall effect of the technology on emissions before it is required by standards. This experience may lead to improved reliability when new technology is implemented on a wider scale. In addition, FIFO has the added environmental benefit of having more credits discounted, because credits are banked first rather than averaged first, as under LIFO. (Averaged credits are not discounted, while banked or traded credits are.) Second, while MECA, NRDC, and ALA claim that the increase in availability of credits in the 1994&hyph;1996 model years resulting from the switch to FIFO credit accounting is an environmental detriment, EPA emphasizes that the credits in question are credits that manufacturers have previously generated and therefore represent an emission reduction that has already taken place. Furthermore, under FIFO, credits are banked more frequently than under LIFO, because LIFO requires averaging first. Therefore, FIFO provides the additional environmental benefit of a 20% discount to more credits. One final commenter, Michael Walsh, questioned EPA's rationale for ``relaxing'' the ABT requirements when a stated goal of the program was to not undercut the purpose of the Clean Air Act to promote the achievement of the greatest degree of emissions reductions available now and in the future. In support of his argument, Mr. Walsh states that the ABT program has actually been used by manufacturers to employ engine modifications to meet emission standards rather than employing more significant pollution controls (presumably particulate traps). Mr. Walsh further bolsters his argument with studies showing the health hazards associated with oxides of nitrogen and particulate matter. Finally, Mr. Walsh comments that EPA has withheld data from the public which has denied the public a reasonable opportunity to comment on the proposed rule change. EPA has, through rulemaking, set the emission standards for heavy-duty engines at levels which reflect the greatest degree of emissions reductions available now and in the future. The Agency will work hard to ensure that overall emissions will not exceed the levels set by those standards. Indeed, the environmental safeguards built into the ABT program, safeguards which remain in effect today, are intended to ensure that overall emissions will not exceed the standards. EPA does not believe, however, that it is appropriate to dictate which emission control technologies manufacturers must use to meet those standards. A principal goal of the ABT program is to provide flexibility to the manufacturers to choose the most economically efficient means of meeting the emission standards. If manufacturers do employ less expensive emission control options to meet the standards, that is their prerogative. The overall emission levels set by the standards are not exceeded and, theoretically, resources have been allocated more efficiently. Until data is provided that overall emissions levels are being exceeded, EPA will assume that the ABT program is achieving its goals. As for Mr. Walsh's claim that EPA is withholding data, EPA asserts that it has placed in the docket all accurate data on which it has relied to make this decision. The only data which has been withheld is confidential business information (CBI) which EPA is statutorily prohibited from releasing; even that information, if it was considered by EPA in making this decision, has been recharacterized to avoid revealing CBI and placed in the docket.
