FR940920-2-00057 FR940920-2-00027 Drilling Muds and Drilling Cuttings _Combination of wastestreams: In accordance with the guidelines, drilling muds, drilling cuttings and washwater have been combined into a single discharge wastestream called drilling fluids and drilling cuttings (Discharge 001). Washwater had previously been combined with drilling cuttings in a separate wastestream but washwater is now covered as an intrinsic component of the drilling muds and cuttings wastestream. _Discharge prohibitions: Under Section 403(c) of the Act, discharge of drilling muds and cuttings is prohibited to waters shallower than 5 meters depth in accordance with computer modeling done in preparation for this proposed permit. Previously discharge had been prohibited in waters shallower than 2 meters. _Toxicity limit: A toxicity limit of a minimum of 30,000 ppm suspended particulate phase (SPP) has been applied to the discharge in accordance with the guidelines. _Oil content: In accordance with the guidelines, EPA has eliminated the 10% by weight maximum oil limitation on cuttings in favor of the no free oil limitation. _Barite: EPA has maintained the limitations on the mercury and cadmium content of stock barite but has eliminated the case-by-case waiver option present in previous permits. This waiver option has been eliminated to ensure consistency with the effluent guidelines. _Mud Plan: EPA has included a requirement that a mud plan be developed by operators to encourage operators to estimate in advance the toxicity of the drilling muds and cuttings to ensure compliance with the toxicity limitation. The individual NPDES permit recently issued to Arco Alaska for operations in Cook Inlet contains a similar requirement. _Area and Seasonal Restrictions: In addition to several continued restrictions, based on Section 403(c) of the Act the proposed permit also prohibits discharges within 3 miles of Kasegaluk Lagoon and its passes. _Environmental monitoring: The requirements for environmental monitoring are more specific and detailed. These changes reflect the current level of specificity present in other NPDES permits issued by Region 10. Domestic Wastes _Garbage (``All other domestic waste''): Under the Coast Guard Regulations, discharges of garbage, including plastics, are prohibited with one exception. Victual or food waste can be discharged with restrictions. This requirement reflects the new offshore guidelines (58 FR 12506, March 4, 1993). Several definitions have been included to clarify this new effluent parameter. Test Fluids _Oil and grease: Per EPA's best professional judgement and the new guidelines, the oil and grease limitation on test fluids has been made more stringent. The limitations are now 29 mg/l monthly average and 42 mg/l daily maximum. Discharge Limitations for All Wastestreams _Rubbish, Trash and Other Refuse: As proposed the permit will prohibit the discharge of ``garbage'' including food wastes within 12 nautical miles of nearest land. With restrictions, comminuted food waste may be discharged further than 12 nautical miles from nearest land. Under the proposed permit these limitations, which are already effective under the Coast Guard regulations, will be incorporated into the Arctic general permit for consistency purposes. Best Management Practice Plan Requirement _The proposed general permit requires permittees to develop and implement a Best Management Practices (BMP) Plan which prevents or minimizes the generation of pollutants, their release, and potential release from the permitted facilities to the waters of the United States. V. Specific Permit Conditions A. Approach The determination of appropriate conditions for each discharge was accomplished through: (1) consideration of technology-based effluent limitations to control conventional pollutants under BCT; (2) consideration of technology-based effluent limitations to control toxic and nonconventional pollutants under BAT; and (3) evaluation of the Ocean Discharge Criteria for discharges, assuming conditions in (1) and (2), above, were in place. Discussions of the specific effluent limitations and monitoring requirements derived from (1) through (3) appear below in sections B. through G. For convenience, these conditions and the regulatory basis for each are cross-referenced by discharge in the following table:
