FR940429-0-00030 FR940429-0-00009 Grantee or grant recipient means the recipient of funding or an eligible owner receiving funding under the Congregate Housing Services Program. HUD means the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Indian tribe means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional corporation as defined in or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. Instrumental activity of daily living means a regularly necessary home management activity, and includes preparing meals, shopping for personal items, managing money, using the telephone, and performing light or heavy housework. Local nonprofit housing sponsor means an owner or borrower of eligible housing for the elderly; no part of the net earnings of the owning organization shall lawfully inure to the benefit of any shareholder or individual. Nonprofit , as applied to an organization, (1) Means no part of the net earnings of the organization inures, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual; or (2) Means a public housing agency as that term is defined in section 3(b)(6) of the United States Housing Act of 1937. Person with disabilities means a household composed of one or more persons, at least one of whom is an adult who has a disability. A person shall be considered to have a disability if such person is determined under regulations issued by the Secretary to have a physical, mental, or emotional impairment which (1) Is expected to be of long-continued and indefinite duration; (2) Substantially impedes his or her ability to live independently; and (3) Is of such a nature that the person's ability could be improved by more suitable housing conditions. A person shall also be considered to have a disability if the person has a developmental disability as defined in section 102(5) of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6001&hyph;7). Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this paragraph, the terms ``person with disabilities'' or ``temporarily disabled'' include two or more persons with disabilities living together, one or more such persons living with another person who is determined (under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of HUD) to be essential to their care or well-being, and the surviving member or members of any household where at least one or more persons was an adult with a disability who was living, in a unit assisted under this section, with the deceased member of the household at the time of his or her death. Professional Assessment Committee (PAC) means a group consisting of at least 3 individuals appointed by the officials of the eligible housing project responsible for the Congregate Housing Services Program and shall include at least one qualified medical and other health and social service professional competent to appraise the functional abilities of the frail elderly, persons with disabilities, and temporarily disabled persons in relation to the performance of activities of daily living. Program participant means a frail elderly person, person with disabilities, or temporarily disabled person receiving services under the Congregate Housing Services Program. Qualifying supportive services means new or significantly expanded services determined by the Secretary concerned to be minimally necessary and essential to enable eligible residents to live independently and avoid unnecessary institutionalization, including, but not limited to: (1) Meal service adequate to meet nutritional need; (2) Housekeeping aid; (3) Personal assistance (which may include, but is not limited to, aid given to eligible residents in grooming, dressing, and other activities which maintain personal appearance and hygiene); (4) Transportation services; (5) Non-medical supervision, wellness programs, preventive health screening, monitoring of medication consistent with State law; (6) Non-medical components of adult day care; (7) Personal emergency response systems and other requested supportive services essential for achieving and maintaining independent living if approved by the Secretary concerned. An owner may provide the qualifying services directly to eligible residents or may, by contract, provide such services through other appropriate agencies or providers. Secretary concerned means: (1) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, with respect to eligible federally assisted housing administered by HUD; and (2) The Secretary of Agriculture, with reference to programs administrated by the Administrator of the Farmers Home Administration. Service coordinator means a social services staff person who is hired by an eligible owner, grantee or management company, or another third party contractor such as a local case management agency. The service coordinator is responsible for assuring thorough case management so that program participants are linked to the supportive services they need to continue independent living. Service provider means a person or organization licensed or otherwise approved in writing by a State or local agency (e.g., Department of Health, Department of Human Services or Welfare) to provide supportive services. State means the states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States. State agency on aging means the single agency designated by the Governor to administer the program described in Title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (see 45 CFR part 13).
