FR940407-0-00098 FR940407-0-00014 (i) The averaging time for any specified mass emissions caps or emission rate limits shall be consistent with: attaining and maintaining all applicable NAAQS, meeting RFP requirements, and ensuring equivalency with all applicable RACT requirements. (ii) If the averaging time for any specified VOC or NO X mass emissions caps or emission rate limits for stationary sources (and for other sources, as appropriate) is longer than 24 hours, the State shall provide, in support of the SIP submittal, a statistical showing that the specified averaging time is consistent with attaining the O 3 NAAQS and satisfying RFP requirements, as applicable, on the basis of typical summer day emissions; and, if applicable, a statistical showing that the longer averaging time will produce emissions reductions that are equivalent on a daily basis to source-specific RACT requirements. (3) Accounting for shutdowns and production curtailments. This accounting shall include provisions which ensure that: (i) Emissions reductions associated with shutdowns and production curtailments are not double-counted in attainment or RFP demonstrations. (ii) Any resultant ``shifting demand'' which increases emissions from other sources is accounted for in such demonstrations. (4) Accounting for batch, seasonal, and cyclical operations. This accounting shall include provisions which ensure that the approaches used to account for such variable operations are consistent with attainment and RFP plans. (5) Accounting for travel mode choice options, as appropriate, for TCM's. This accounting shall consider the factors or attributes of the different forms of travel modes (e.g., bus, ridesharing) which determine which type of travel an individual will choose. Such factors include, but are not limited to, time, cost, reliability, and convenience of the mode. (e) Source requirements. This program element shall include all source-specific requirements that constitute compliance with the program. Such requirements shall be appropriate, readily ascertainable, and State and federally enforceable, including, as applicable: (1) Emission limits. (i) For programs that impose limits on total mass emissions, emission rates, or other emission-related parameter(s), there must be an appropriate tracking system so that a facility's limits are readily ascertainable at all times. (ii) For emission-limiting EIP's that authorize RACT sources to meet their RACT requirements through RACT/non-RACT trading, such trading shall result in an exceptional environmental benefit. Demonstration of an exceptional environmental benefit shall require either the use of the statutory offset ratios for nonattainment areas as the determinant of the amount of emissions reductions that would be required from non-RACT sources generating credits for RACT sources or, alternatively, a trading ratio of 1.1 to 1, at a minimum, may be authorized, provided exceptional environmental benefits are otherwise demonstrated. (2) Monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements. (i) An EIP (or the SIP as a whole) must contain test methods and, where necessary, emission quantification methodologies, appropriate to the emission limits established in the SIP. EIP sources must be subject to clearly specified MRR requirements appropriate to the test methods and any applicable quantification methodologies, and consistent with the EPA's title V rules, where applicable. Such MRR requirements shall provide sufficiently reliable and timely information to determine compliance with emission limits and other applicable strategy-specific requirements, and to provide for State and Federal enforceability of such limits and requirements. Methods for MRR may include, but are not limited to: (A) The continuous monitoring of mass emissions, emission rates, or process or control parameters. (B) In situ or portable measurement devices to verify control system operating conditions. (C) Periodic measurement of mass emissions or emission rates using reference test methods.
