FR941230-2-00118 FR941230-2-00069 Develop and Conduct a National Safe Boating Campaign Coast Guard seeks grantee to develop and conduct 1997 year-round National Safe Boating Campaign that targets boater market segments and issue-specific recreational boating safety topics. This year-round campaign must support the organizational objectives of the Recreational Boating Safety program, as well as the nationwide grassroots activity of the many volunteer groups who coordinate local media events, education programs and public awareness activities. Deliverable will include, but is not limited to: situation analysis, evaluation processes, measures of effectiveness, marketing strategy, and distribution plan. All print, audio and video material will be designed to emphasize multiple year-round boating safety and accident prevention messages. Highlights of the Calendar year 1996 national campaign, will be special select materials and activities to support National Safe Boating Week and the Summer Olympic games. A specific portion of allocated grant funds will support a National Boating Accident Reporting Awareness component designed to reach all boaters with a message on the importance of reporting all boating accidents. Efforts will be coordinated with other national transportation safety activities, in particular those which focus on operating under the influence of alcohol or drugs. National Recreational Boater Survey Coast Guard seeks grantee to conduct initial states of a comprehensive National Boater Survey to determine boat occupant exposure hours and profile typical boater outings. Grantee will define required exposure data elements; determine existence, collection methods and status of data elements; identify missing data, and produce a data collection plan for needed data. The grantee will also recommend a plan of action in proceeding with the next stage of the survey. Electronic Information Transfer Technology Applications Coast Guard seeks grantee to assess and integrate previous and ongoing efforts with recently developed technologies to allow receipt of information from our customers and to provide information to them via electronic mediums. Goal is to allow states, other Federal agencies and the public to access and interact with a relational database management system and to provide a standard format for converting current print literature into an electronic media format. Technology should allow the public to down load complete forms, publications, and manuals from an electronic bulletin board. Electronic information transfer and interaction will also permit transmission of data, correspondence, reports, and standardized forms. Boating Risk Analysis Model The grantee will develop an appropriate computer based analytical model that can be used to analyze and manipulate boating accident data using accepted statistical methods to detect relationships between variables and important changes or trends in accident data. Boat Accident Investigation Training and Field Manual Coast Guard seeks grantee to develop instructional materials and to conduct ten, forty hour, nationwide training courses for boat accident investigators. The grantee, after a thorough review of past and present problem areas, shall develop improved accident investigation procedures, techniques, and instructional materials for the following areas: (1) boat accident investigations, (2) analyzing and determining the cause of accidents, and (3) preparing thorough and complete accident reports. As part of the course instructional materials, the grantee shall develop and provide a stand alone boat accident investigation manual that contains essential information for guiding an investigator through different types of boating accident investigations. Support Greater Participation and Uniformity in Boating Safety Efforts and Standards for Boat and Associate Equipment Construction and Performance Coast Guard seeks programs to support greater participation and uniformity in Federal and State boating safety efforts and development/promotion of consensus standards for boat and associated equipment construction and performance. Applicants will provide a forum to work toward greater uniformity of boating laws and regulations, reciprocity among jurisdictions, and closer cooperation and assistance in developing, administering, and enforcing Federal and State laws and regulations pertaining to boating safety, or to ensure public interests are reflected in development of boat and equipment construction and safety standards through public participation. This list should not constrain submission of proposals addressing other boating safety concerns. Innovative approaches are welcome. More detailed discussions of specific projects of interest to the Coast Guard will be included in the application package which may be obtained as stated in ADDRESSES, above. The Boating Safety Financial Assistance Program is listed in section 20.005 of the Federal Domestic Assistance Catalog. Dated: December 27, 1994. G.A. Remington, Rear Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard Chief, Office of Navigation Safety and Waterway Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;32224 Filed 12&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
