FR940125-2-00009 FR940125-2-00005 1. The use of the product or service can or will permanently remove facial wrinkles; or 2. The product or service is as effective as, or more effective than, the prescription drug Tretinoin (currently marketed as Retin-A) in the removal of facial wrinkles. B. Representing, in any manner, directly or by implication, in connection with the advertising, packaging, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale or distribution of any other product or service in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act: 1. The efficacy of the product or service in the treatment of facial wrinkles; or 2. That the product or service is as effective as, or more effective than, any other product or service in the treatment of facial wrinkles, unless such representation is true and, at the time of making such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. III It is further ordered , That respondents Nu Skin, CJM, Inc., CST Management, Inc., and CK&C, Inc., corporations, their successors and assigns, and their officers; Clara McDermott, individually and as an officer and director of CJM, Inc.; Craig Tillotson, individually and as an officer and director of CST Management, Inc.; Craig Bryson, individually and as an officer and director of CK&C, Inc., and respondents' agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any partnership, corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device do forthwith cease and desist from: A. Representing, in any manner, directly or by implication, in connection with the advertising, packaging, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale or distribution or Celltrex or any substantially similar skin treatment product or service in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, that the product or service will promote the healing of third degree burns. B. Representing, in any manner, directly or by implication, in connection with the advertising, packaging, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale or distribution of any other product or service in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, that the product or service will promote the healing of, or is otherwise an effective treatment for burns, unless such representation is true and, at the time of making such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representations. IV It is further ordered , That respondents Nu Skin, CJM, Inc., CST Management, Inc., and CK&C, Inc., corporations, their successors and assigns, and their officers; Clara McDermott, individually and as an officer and director of CJM, Inc.; Craig Tillotson, individually and as an officer and director of CST Management, Inc.; Crain Bryson, individually and as an officer and director of CK&C, Inc., and respondents' agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any partnership, corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with the advertising, packaging, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale or distribution of any product or service in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from:
