FR940603-1-00035 FR940603-1-00008 Proposed Agency Action For the reasons set out above, the Secretary has declared that a natural fishery resource disaster exists under section 308(d) of the Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986 (IFA), as amended (16 U.S.C. 4107). The Secretary has asked the President to transmit to Congress a request for $12 million to assist those persons affected by the West Coast salmon fisheries disaster. The IFA authorizes the Secretary to award grants to ``persons'' (defined as individuals, corporations, partnerships, trusts, associations, or other nongovernmental entities) engaged in commercial fisheries impacted by a natural fishery resource disaster, with the following conditions: 1. Eligibility for a grant shall be limited to any person that has less than $2 million in gross revenues annually, as determined by the Secretary. 2. A person may receive a grant under this subsection for up to 75 percent of any uninsured commercial fishery loss resulting from the fishery resource disaster (to the extent that such losses have not been compensated by other Federal and state programs), but shall receive no more than $100,000 in the aggregate for all such losses suffered as a result of the disaster. NMFS intends to develop specific implementing regulations governing the award of the proposed grants. Section 308(d) of the IFA requires the Secretary to establish appropriate limitations, terms, and conditions for awarding grants, including provisions specifying the means by which an applicant must demonstrate claimed losses and limiting the aggregate amounts that may be paid to persons affiliated with each other or under common ownership. Such limitations, terms, and conditions are to be established after there has been notice and opportunity for public comment. NMFS is seeking comments from the fishing industry regarding the design of an assistance program that will alleviate economic hardship, including a program that would reduce future levels of fishing effort for resources covered under the Disaster Declaration. NMFS is considering compensating fishermen who relinquish their state fishing permits for the lost value of their permits as a result of the fishery resource disaster. Given the pivotal role of the States of California, Oregon, and Washington in regulating the coastal salmon fisheries, NMFS would need to work closely with these states in designing an effective program. Although government entities are not eligible under the statute to receive assistance, NMFS also is requesting comments from Indian tribes, state fisheries agencies, and any other interested parties. Specific comments and recommendations are requested on the following questions: 1. What would be appropriate goals for the program? How might salmon abundance be increased through this program? 2. Should there be additional eligibility criteria, within statutory constraints, to receive a grant? 3. NOAA is considering soliciting applications from non-governmental partnerships, trusts, and associations of fishermen in order to administer significant numbers of awards; do such associations exist? 4. If fishing permits are relinquished, how can their future reissuance be handled by the states? 5. What should be the basis for the valuation of the permits, and should inactive permits be valuated differently? 6. What would be appropriate documentation to determine the extent of uninsured losses? 7. What should be the starting and ending dates of the disaster period for purposes of awarding grants, and what factors should the Secretary consider in determining these dates? Classification This advance notice of proposed rulemaking has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. Dated: May 27, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13490 Filed 5&hyph;31&hyph;94; 9:42 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
