FR940413-0-00084 FR940413-0-00026 Response: The final rule imposes (as did the proposed rule) the same public participation requirements on updated plans, as imposed on initial allocation plans. This is a statutory requirement. Section 622 provides that ``in preparing the initial allocation plan, or updates of a plan, for submission under this section, a public housing agency shall consult with *␣*␣*.'' Comment: Three commenters stated that the requirement to submit updated allocation plans every two years is burdensome. Response: The requirement to submit biennial updates is a statutory requirement. Comment: Two commenters stated that the Department exceeds its statutory authority in providing that projects for which updated plans were disapproved will revert to occupancy status before designation. Response: The Department disagrees with the commenter. The Congress would not have required PHAs to submit updated plans every two years if the Congress were not concerned that there may be instances in which designated housing is a failure. That is, the Congress was concerned that the number of families who have been denied housing assistance, or the delay in providing housing assistance has increased substantially as a result of designated housing, to cite two examples of concern. If one of these consequences were to occur, the Department cannot permit the PHA to continue to operate designated housing for which the impact is adverse for a substantial number of families or a protected class of families. However, the Department has revised the final rule to clarify that disapproval of the updated plan will not result in automatic reversal of a designated project to its predesignation occupancy status. As with the initial allocation plan, there may be factors that a PHA can, and is willing to change, that will correct the situation and minimize the adverse impact of the designated housing process on the families served by the PHA. Section 945.205␣Designated housing for disabled families Comment: One commenter stated that the two year commitment for a service provider may be in violation of some State laws that permit only one-year contracts. Response: The Department is sympathetic to this situation. However, the statute requires that a designated project for disabled families cannot be approved without a supportive service plan. The Department must have some assurance that if it approves the designated project for disabled families, the supportive services will remain in place at least until the PHA submits its updated allocation plan. Comment: Nine commenters stated that it will be difficult if not impossible to identify the supportive service needs of disabled families. These commenters stated that HUD must keep in mind that PHAs can no longer require disclosure of specific disabling conditions. Response: The Department recognizes the difficulties for PHAs to identify the specific disabling condition of persons with disabilities, and the designated housing process does not impose this type of investigation on PHAs. The designated housing process, as implemented by this final rule, intends for PHAs to informally survey residents and potential residents about service needs and desires. The Department's experience, generally, is that the public is not shy about expressing needs and desires. From this survey, the PHA should be able to determine the services that residents actually need and demand, and those that the PHA believes that it can reasonably provide. Comment: Two commenters stated that the PHA should be required to document the need for specific supportive services it intends to provide. Response: As discussed in Section III of the preamble, the revisions made to the approval process for designated housing for disabled families impose this type of requirement. The final rule provides that designated housing for disabled families will be approved if the allocation plan meets the requirements of §945.203 and demonstrates both a need and a demand for designated housing for disabled families. The need and demand will be based on the information provided in the supportive service plan that will (or should) evidence the need and demand for the services to be provided to families occupying this project. Comment: Six commenters stated that the final rule should provide that supportive services not be linked to a project, but must be portable. Response: For designated housing for disabled families, the supportive services are project specific. (However, the units in the project that constitute the designated housing need not be contiguous; and the Department encourages non-contiguous units.) The project specific aspect recognizes that if projects are designated for disabled families the designation in itself establishes ``separate housing'' for the designated families, even if non-contiguous units comprise the designated housing. Whenever the PHA undertakes designation of a project for disabled families, the Department wants assurance that there are sufficient numbers of persons with disabilities who are current tenants or applicants on the waiting list who express a need and demand for housing that provides supportive services (i.e., designated housing for disabled families). Comment: Eleven commenters stated that the rule must clarify that designated projects for disabled families are also available to persons not needing, or opting for supportive services. Response: As discussed in section III of the preamble, the final rule makes this clarification. Comment: One commenter stated that the final rule should require PHAs to determine which disabled families will occupy designated housing for disabled families. Response: The final rule requires PHAs, as part of the approval process for designated housing for disabled families, to demonstrate the need and demand for this type of housing. The Department believes that this requirement will address the concern expressed by the commenter.
