FR940207-2-00079 FR940207-2-00031 [FRL&hyph;4834&hyph;6] Revision of the Kansas National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Program To Authorize the Issuance of General Permits AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice of Approval of the NPDES General Permits Program of the State of Kansas. SUMMARY: On November 24, 1993, the Regional Administrator for the EPA, Region VII, approved the State of Kansas' NPDES General Permits Program. This action authorizes the State of Kansas to issue general permits in lieu of individual NPDES permits. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Donald C. Toensing, Chief, Permits/Compliance Section, Water Compliance Branch, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region VII, 726 Minnesota Avenue, Kansas City, Kansas 66101, (913) 551&hyph;7034. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background EPA regulations at 40 CFR 122.28 provide for the issuance of general permits to regulate discharges of wastewater which result from substantially similar operations, contain the same types of wastes, require the same effluent limitations or operating conditions, require similar monitoring, and are appropriately controlled under a general permit rather than individual permits. Kansas was authorized to administer the NPDES Permit Program in 1974. As previously approved, the State's program did not include provisions for the issuance of general permits. There are several categories of discharges which could appropriately be regulated by general permits in Kansas, including storm water. Therefore, the Kansas Department of Health and Environment requested a revision of its NPDES program to provide for issuance of general permits. Each general permit will be subject to EPA review as provided by 40 CFR 123.44. Public notice and opportunity to request a hearing is also provided or each general permit. II. Discussion The State of Kansas submitted, in support of its request, a Program Description and revised NPDES Memorandum of Agreement between EPA and the State, as well as copies of relevant statutes and regulations. The State also submitted a statement by the Attorney General certifying, with appropriate citations to the statues and regulations, that the State has adequate legal authority to administer a general permit program consistent with the applicable federal regulations. Based upon Kansas' submission and its experience in administering an approved NPDES program, EPA has concluded that the State will have the necessary approved procedures and resources to administer the general permits program. Under 40 CFR 123.62, NPDES program revisions are either substantial (requiring publication of proposed program approval in the Federal Register for public comment) or non-substantial (where approval may be granted by letter from EPA to the State). EPA has determined that assumption by Kansas of general permit authority is a non-substantial revision of its NPDES program. EPA has generally viewed approval of such authority as non-substantial because it does not alter the substantive obligations of any discharger under the State program, but merely simplifies the procedures by which permits are issued to a number of similar point sources. Moreover, under the approved program, the State retains authority to issue individual permits where appropriate, and any person may request the State to issue an individual permit to a discharger otherwise eligible for general permit coverage. While not required under 40 CFR 123.62, EPA is publishing notice of this approval action to keep the public informed of the status of its general permit program approvals.
