FR940222-1-00062 FR940222-1-00011 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 649 [I.D. 021494E] American Lobster Fishery AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of availability of an amendment to a fishery management plan and request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS issues this notice that the New England Fishery Management Council has submitted Amendment 5 to the Fishery Management Plan for American Lobster (FMP) for Secretarial review and is requesting comments from the public. DATES: Written comments will be accepted through April 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Richard B. Roe, Regional Director, National Marine Fisheries Service, 1 Blackburn Dr., Gloucester, Massachusetts 01930. Clearly mark the outside of the envelope ``Comments on Lobster FMP.'' Copies of the Amendment and Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement are available upon request from Douglas G. Marshall, Executive Director, New England Fishery Management Council, Suntaug Office Park, 5 Broadway, Saugus, Massachusetts 01906. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paul H. Jones, Fishery Policy Analyst, 508&hyph;281&hyph;9273. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. ) (Magnuson Act) requires that each regional fishery management council submit any fishery management plan or plan amendment it prepares to the Secretary for review and approval, disapproval, or partial disapproval. The Magnuson Act also requires that the Secretary, upon receiving the plan or amendment, must immediately publish a notice that it is available for public review and comment. The Secretary will consider the public comments in determining whether to approve, disapprove, or partially disapprove the FMP amendment. Amendment 5 would implement: (1) A freeze of the minimum size limit for lobsters at the current carapace size of 31/4 inches; (2) a five year moratorium on new Federal vessel permits; (3) new permit requirements for vessel operators and dealers; (4) several categories of Federal vessel permits and limits on lobster landings according to a vessel's permit category; (5) the development a stock rebuilding program for all segments of the lobster fishery; (6) mandatory reporting for permitted vessels and dealers; (7) changes to the width of the escape vent size from 6 inches to 53/4 inches; and (8) framework measures to adjust the effort control and other measures in the proposed amendment and provisions in the plan. This amendment also includes a revised definition of overfishing for lobster and a determination, based on this definition, that the resource is overfished. The intent of this amendment is to reduce the fishing mortality rate and rebuild the American lobster resource. This proposed amendment also included a provision that would allow moratorium qualification for vessels with state endorsed permits in states that did not notify vessel owners of the control date for lobster. This provision has been disapproved based on National Standard 4 and the determination that it would discriminate against individuals from different states. A notice of proposed rulemaking will be published within 15 days after the submission of the amendment. Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. Dated: February 15, 1994. David S. Crestin, Acting Director, Office of Fisheries Conservation and Management, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3811 Filed 2&hyph;15&hyph;94; 4:46 pm] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;M
