FR940930-0-00231 FR940930-0-00029 The labor/management group supported the proposal. The ATA recommended that railroads be required to post information at the crossing to expedite malfunction reporting. As discussed above (see §234.5) FRA is in favor of the posting of such information, but requiring such posting is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. Final Rule This section requires that each sign mounted on a highway- rail grade crossing signal post shall be maintained in good condition and be visible to the highway user. Inspections and Tests Section 234.247␣Purpose of Inspections and Tests; Removal From Service of Relay or Device Failing To Meet Test Requirements The proposed rule requires that certain FRA-required tests be made to determine whether apparatus and equipment are maintained in a condition to perform their intended function. An electronic device, relay, or other electromagnetic device that fails to meet the requirements of specified tests will be required to be removed from service and not restored to service until its operating characteristics are in accordance with the limits within which such device or relay is designed to operate. The only party commenting on this section, the labor/management group, supported the proposal. Final Rule FRA is revising the first sentence of this section to eliminate the redundant and possibly confusing terms ``apparatus'' and ``equipment'' and to clarify which tests are being referred to. This section therefore provides that the inspections and tests set forth in §§234.249 through 234.271 shall be made to determine if the warning system and its component parts are maintained in a condition to perform their intended function. Any electronic device, relay, or other electromagnetic device that fails to meet the requirements of tests required by this part shall be removed from service and shall not be restored to service until its operating characteristics are in accordance with the limits within which such device or relay is designed to operate. Section 234.249␣Ground Tests As proposed, this section requires a test for grounds on each energy bus furnishing power to circuits that affect the safety of highway-rail grade crossing warning system operation. The rule requires that the test be made when an energy bus is placed in service, and at least once each month thereafter. The rule will assist in maintaining the integrity and safety of the warning system. As provided in §234.213, tests would not be required on circuits that include track rail, alternating current power distribution circuits that are grounded in the interest of safety, and common return wires of grounded common return single break circuits. There was no opposition to the proposed rule. The labor/management group, the only party commenting, supported the rule as proposed. Final Rule This section is adopted as proposed. Section 234.251␣Standby Power The proposed section, entitled ``Battery voltage.'' requires that battery voltage be checked at the battery, with battery- charging current removed, at least once each month to determine battery capability for instances of battery-charging current loss. There was no opposition to the proposed rule. However, FRA is amending this section to reflect changes to §234.215. Final Rule This section requires that standby power be tested at least once each month. Section 234.253␣Flashing Light Units and Lamp Voltage The proposed rule requires that lamp voltage be tested when installed and at least once every twelve months, with battery- charging current removed and with battery charging current restored, to determine the lamp voltage. Each flashing light unit would be required to be inspected at installation and once every twelve months for alignment, focus, and frequency of flashes in accordance with installation specifications. The exterior of each flashing light unit would be required to be inspected for dust and damage to roundels to ensure visibility of the light unit, at least once each month.
