FR941017-2-00068 FR941017-2-00048 Item 8. Security Backups of Files. Electronic copy consisting of data identical in logical format to the master copy of an electronic record or file and retained in case the master file or database is damaged or inadvertently erased. a. File identical to records scheduled for transfer to the National Archives. Delete when the identical records have been transferred to the National Archives and successfully copied, or when replaced by a subsequent security backup file. b. File identical to records authorized for disposal in a NARA-approved records schedule. Delete when the identical records have been deleted, or when replaced by a subsequent security backup file. [ Note: This item does not cover system backups. See introduction to this schedule for further information on system backups.] Item 9. Item 9 is unchanged from the current GRS which reads as follows: Item 9. Finding Aids (or Indexes). Electronic indexes, lists, registers, and other finding aids used only to provide access to records authorized for destruction by the GRS or a NARA-approved SF 115, EXCLUDING records containing abstracts or other information that can be used as an information source apart from the related records. Delete with related records or when no longer needed, whichever is later. Item 10. Item 10 is unchanged from the current GRS which reads as follows: Item 10. Special Purpose Programs. Application software necessary solely to use or maintain a master file or database authorized for disposal in a GRS item or a NARA-approved records schedule, EXCLUDING special purpose software necessary to use or maintain any unscheduled master file or database or any master file or database scheduled for transfer to the National Archives. Delete when related master file or database has been deleted. Item 11. Item 11 is unchanged from the current GRS which reads as follows: Item 11. Documentation. a. Data systems specifications, file specifications, codebooks, record layouts, user guides, output specifications, and final reports (regardless of medium) relating to a master file or database that has been authorized for destruction by the GRS or a NARA-approved disposition schedule. Destroy or delete when superseded or obsolete, or upon authorized deletion of the related master file or database. b. Computer center copies of records relating to system security, including records documenting periodic audits or review and recertification of sensitive applications, disaster and continuity plans, and risk analysis, as described in OMB Circular No. A&hyph;130. Destroy or delete when superseded or obsolete. [ Notes: (1) Documentation that relates to permanent or unscheduled master files and databases is not authorized for destruction by the GRS. (2) See item 1a of this schedule for documentation relating to system testing.] Item 12. Item 12 is unchanged from the current GRS which reads as follows: Item 12. Downloaded and Copied Data. Derived data and data files that are copied, extracted, merged, and/or calculated from other data, when the original data is retained. a. Derived data used for ad hoc or one-time inspection, analysis or review, if the derived data is not needed to support the results of the inspection, analysis or review. Delete when no longer needed. b. Derived data that provide user access in lieu of hard copy reports that are authorized for disposal. Delete when no longer needed. c. Metadata or reference data, such as format, range or domain specifications, which is transferred from a host computer or server to another computer for input, updating, or transaction processing operations. Delete from the receiving system when the input operation is completed. [ Note: See item 5 of this schedule for other extracted data.] Item 13. Item 13 was extracted from GRS 23, item 2, which covered both word processing documents and electronic messages. Item 13 covers only word processing documents; messages will be covered in new item 14. The coverage of the item has been expanded and clarified to include word processing documents that are copied to an electronic recordkeeping system. This item will authorize the disposal of documents on the word processing system if they are copied to paper or another electronic form for recordkeeping, or if they are already authorized for disposal by the GRS or a NARA-approved agency records schedule. The revised item reads as follows: Item 13. Word Processing Files. Documents such as letters, memoranda, reports, handbooks, directives, and manuals recorded on electronic media such as hard disks or floppy diskettes: a. When copied to paper, microform, or an electronic records system for recordkeeping purposes. Delete when no longer needed. b. When maintained in electronic format only on the word processing system or separate diskette, providing the records have been authorized for destruction by the GRS or NARA-approved SF 115. Delete after the expiration of the retention period authorized by the GRS or a NARA-approved SF 115. Item 14. Item 14 was extracted from current GRS 23, item 2. Because electronic mail has become so widespread, a separate item for electronic mail messages is now needed. This item will authorize deletion of records on the electronic mail system only when they have been copied to paper, microform, or another electronic system for recordkeeping purposes, or when their retention period has expired as specified by a GRS or NARA-approved agency records schedule. The new item reads as follows: Item 14. Electronic mail records. Senders' and recipients' copies of messages, regardless of length or substance, that meet the definition of Federal records created using the electronic mail (e-mail) system and any attachments. a. Records, including transmission data and any receipt data that may be required, that have been converted to paper or microform or copied to another electronic system for recordkeeping. Delete from the e-mail system when no longer needed. b. Records maintained only on the e-mail system for recordkeeping, providing the records have been authorized for destruction by the GRS or a NARA-approved SF 115. Delete from the e-mail system at the expiration of the retention period authorized by the GRS or NARA-approved SF 115.
