FR941110-0-00056 FR941110-0-00016 Part 431␣State Organization and General Administration Comment: In response to our proposed revisions to part 431, most opposing comments concerned the effect on ICFs/MR of withdrawing FFP during appeals. Some commenters noted that OBRA '87 specifically exempted ICFs/MR from its scope, and stated that it is not appropriate to change the ICF/MR rules in implementing a law that applies to other facilities. Some commenters stated that the discussion on ICFs/MR was lost within the SNF/NF regulations, and there was no discussion in the preamble concerning applicability to ICFs/MR. Some stated that HCFA provided no rationale for this change in the ICF/MR rules, and therefore a proposed rule should be published which allows for full notice and comment rulemaking. Some commented that if the proposal had been written in a more direct manner, more groups would have written to object. Response: We agree that it would be preferable to include the provisions applicable to ICFs/MR at a later date in rulemaking focused on ICFs/MR. Therefore, we are adopting the commenters' proposals that the 120 days of FFP continue for ICFs/MR until this issue may be more fairly resolved in such a rulemaking. Therefore, at this time, we are leaving the existing appeals system in place for ICFs/MR. There were other comments concerning ICFs/MR that are outside the purview of this regulation, and are therefore not addressed in this discussion. For the reasons stated directly above, we are revising §§431.151, 431.153, and 431.154 to delete reference to SNFs and ICFs as follows: •§431.151 (``Scope and applicability.'') is revised so that subpart B of part 431 specifies the appeal procedures the State must make available to an ICF/MR for which the State denies, terminates, or fails to renew certification or a provider agreement for the Medicaid program. •§431.153 (``Evidentiary hearing.'') is revised to state that _An ICF/MR whose certification or provider agreement is denied, terminated, or not renewed must be given an opportunity for a full evidentiary hearing on the denial, termination or nonrenewal; _If the facility requests a hearing, it must be completed either before the effective date of the denial, termination or nonrenewal or within 120 days after that date; and _The hearing must, at a minimum, include the provisions of §431.153(e).
