FR940128-1-00051 FR940128-1-00006 If assurances do not exist, as described in §123.12(a), that the product has been produced under an HACCP plan and under sanitation controls that are equivalent to those required of domestic processors, the agency will deny entry to the products as provided in proposed §123.12(b) because the product will appear to be adulterated (see section 801(a) of the act). I. Raw Molluscan Shellfish FDA is proposing to require in part 123, subpart C that processors of raw molluscan shellfish include in their HACCP plans how they control the origin of the molluscan shellfish that they process. Proposed §123.28 requires that these controls include obtaining raw shellfish only from approved growing waters through harvesters or processors licensed by a shellfish control authority. FDA is proposing to require that processors maintain records to document that each lot of raw molluscan shellfish meets these requirements. Under this proposal, these records will constitute HACCP records subject to the requirements of proposed §123.8. The agency is also proposing to establish a system of tagging or other labeling that provides information about the origin of all shellstock and shucked molluscan shellfish received by a processor. FDA is proposing to amend §1240.60 (21 CFR 1240.60) to provide for such a tagging system. Raw molluscan shellfish are molluscan shellfish that have not been subject to a treatment sufficient to kill pathogens of public health significance. Shellfish that have been subjected to any form of treatment, such as steam, hot water, or dry heat, for a short period of time before shucking to facilitate removal of the meat from the shell are still considered to be raw. Molluscan shellfish consumed raw or partially cooked pose unique public health risks. They probably cause the majority of all seafood-related illnesses in the United States (Refs. 6; and 7, p. 330). The safety of raw molluscan shellfish directly reflects the cleanliness of its aquatic environment. Of all edible species of fish, molluscan shellfish are unique in that they are nonmotile, filter feeding organisms. They pump large quantities of water through their bodies during the normal feeding process (Refs. 7, p. 331; and 90, p. c-4). The positive relationship between harvesting areas contaminated by sewage pollution and shellfish-borne enteric disease has been demonstrated many times (Refs. 7, p. 76; 91 and 92). During feeding, the shellfish may concentrate pathogenic microorganisms, deadly toxins associated with naturally occurring marine plankton (Ref. 93), or forms of agricultural and industrial pollution (Ref. 94). Among the pathogenic microorganisms is the Norwalk virus, probably the most common cause of seafood-borne illness. This virus commonly occurs in waters contaminated by sewage effluent (Refs. 7, p. 76; 91, 92, and 95). Before the adoption of the current public health controls in the United States, shellfish commonly transmitted many serious communicable diseases. Consumption of raw or undercooked seafood from polluted waters can be a mode of transmission for typhoid fever, infectious hepatitis, and cholera (Ref. 67). These diseases are still commonly associated with raw shellfish consumption in lesser developed countries (Ref. 7, p. 73). However, the incidence of these diseases in the United States has been largely controlled under section 361 of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 264). This statute was enacted to prevent the introduction, transmission, and spread of communicable disease. Under provisions of the PHS Act, FDA is empowered to accept assistance from the States to protect public health. Accordingly, FDA participates in a Federal/State cooperative program called NSSP. Established in 1925, the NSSP provides water quality criteria for assessing the safety of shellfish growing areas. These criteria are applied by the States under the authority of their own laws. The NSSP ``Manual of Operations'' provides the basis (Refs. 90 and 96) for State regulation in 23 shellfish-producing States and 6 nations. Each participating State or nation classifies and monitors its shellfish growing waters, controls harvesting, inspects shellfish packing and shucking facilities, and issues certificates to individual shellfish processors that meet the State or foreign government's shellfish control criteria.
