FR940407-1-00037 FR940407-1-00012 FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION 46 CFR Part 552 [Docket No. 94&hyph;07] Financial Reporting Requirements and Rate of Return Methodology in the Domestic Offshore Trades AGENCY: Federal Maritime Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Maritime Commission proposes to amend its regulations governing financial reporting requirements and rate of return methodology applicable to vessel-operating common carriers by water in the domestic offshore trades to discontinue use of the comparable earnings test in determining the reasonableness of a carrier's return on rate base. In its place, the Commission proposes to use the weighted average cost of capital methodology. In addition, the Commission proposes to amend its rules pertaining to the treatment of insurance expenses, accumulated deferred taxes and the Capital Construction Fund for purposes of calculating a carrier's rate base. The proposed rule addresses a number of shipper and carrier concerns regarding the Commission's current rate of return methodology and would align the Commission's ratemaking methodologies more closely with those used by numerous other regulatory agencies. The intent is to improve the Commission's methodology for evaluating the reasonableness of rates filed by carriers in the domestic offshore trades and for acquiring the data that are essential to that evaluation. DATES: Comments due June 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments (original and fifteen copies) to: Joseph C. Polking, Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington DC 20573&hyph;0001, 202&hyph;523&hyph;5725. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard J. Kwiatkowski, Bureau of Trade Monitoring and Analysis, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington DC 20573&hyph;0001, 202&hyph;523&hyph;5790. C. Douglass Miller, Office of the General Counsel, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington DC 20573&hyph;0001, 202&hyph;523&hyph;5740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On March 11, 1993, the Federal Maritime Commission (``FMC'' or ``Commission'') published a final rule in Docket No. 91&hyph;51, Financial Reports of Common Carriers by Water in the Domestic Offshore Trades, which amended the provisions under which carriers could obtain waivers of certain financial reporting requirements. 58 FR 13414. (1993) (``Docket No. 91&hyph;51''). The Commission stated that it intended ``*␣*␣* to turn its attention, separately, to the numerous other substantive changes to 46 CFR part 552 that have been suggested in this proceeding.'' Id. at 13417. 1 In this regard, the Commission conducted an extensive review of part 552 to assess the need for changes to its financial reporting requirements and rate of return methodology in the domestic offshore trades. 1 In its Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking issued in Docket No. 91&hyph;51, 56 FR 57298, the Commission had solicited comments and information from the public on issues which could be addressed in a proposed rule concerning substantive guidelines for determining what constitutes a just and reasonable rate of return or profit for common carriers by water in the domestic offshore trades. Based on its review, the Commission has determined that several issues regarding the adequacy and appropriateness of various aspects of its present regulations should be addressed. The issues on which the Commission is proposing changes to existing regulations include: •The FMC's methodology for computing an allowable rate of return on rate base. •The treatment of deferred taxes and the Capital Construction Fund for rate base purposes. •The definition of working capital. Each of these issues is discussed in turn below. 2 Also discussed are the rules governing the allocation of assets and expenses, but no changes are proposed. 2 Copies of the proposed new schedules for collecting the data required under the proposed regulations are available from the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission. Computing an Allowable Rate of Return on Rate Base I. The Allowable Rate of Return Should Equal the Cost of Capital The fundamental objective when using a rate of return on rate base method of regulation is to set a regulated firm's maximum allowable rate of return on rate base equal to the regulated firm's cost of capital. The cost of capital, sometimes referred to by economists as ``the opportunity cost of capital'' or ``the required rate of return,'' is the minimum rate of return necessary to attract capital to an investment. It is the expected rate of return prevailing in capital markets on alternative investments of equivalent risk. 3 The bases for setting the allowable rate of return equal to the cost of capital are legal and economic. 3 A. Lawrence Kolbe, James A. Reed, Jr., and George R. Hall, The Cost of Capital , 3rd Printing, The MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1986, p. 13.
