FR940513-2-00194 FR940513-2-00091 3. Program Planning A detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive rigor and logistical capacity. 4. Thematic Expertise Proposal should demonstrate the organization's expertise in the subject area which promises an effective sharing of information. 5. Cross-Cultural Sensitivity and Area Expertise Evidence should be provided of sensitivity to historical, linguistic, religious, and other cross-cultural factors, as well as relevant knowledge of the target geographic area/country. 6. Ability to Achieve Program Objectives Objectives should be realistic and feasible. The proposal should clearly demonstrate how the grantee institution will meet program objectives. 7. Multiplier Effect Proposed program should strengthen long-term mutual understanding and contribute to maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual ties. 8. Cost-Effectiveness Overhead and direct administrative costs to USIA should be kept as low as possible. All other items proposed for USIA funding should be necessary and appropriate to achieve the program's objectives. 9. Cost-Sharing Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as direct funding contributions and/or in-kind support from the prospective grantee institution and its partners. 10. Follow-on Activities Proposals should provide a plan for continued exchange activity (without USIA support) which ensures that USAI-supported programs are not isolated events. 11. Project Evaluations Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the activity's success, both as the activities unfold and at the end of the program. USIA recommends that the proposal include a draft survey questionnaire or other technique plus description of a methodology to use to link outcomes to original project objectives. Grantees will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is concluded or quarterly, which is less frequent. Notice The terms and conditions published in the RFP are binding and may not be mofified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency which contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the U.S. Government. Awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress and allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about September 26, 1994. Award grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluaton requirements. Dated: May 9, 1994. David Michael Wilson, Acting Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11497 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
