FR941110-2-00104 FR941110-2-00062 States (23) California Colorado Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maryland Missouri Montana Oklahoma Pennsylvania Rhode Island Tennessee Utah Virginia Washington West Virginia Localities (35) Phoenix, AZ Clearwater, FL Hillsborough County, FL Orlando, FL Pinellas County, FL St. Petersburg, FL Tampa, FL Des Moines, IA Springfield, IL Hammond, IN Olathe, KS Salina, KS Louisville-Jefferson County, KY Lexington-Fayette Urban County, KY Elgin, IL Evanston, IL Springfield, IL Gary, IN South Bend, IN Dubuque, IO Kansas City, MO Asheville-Buncombe County, NC Charlotte-Mecklenburg County, NC Greensboro, NC New Hanover, NC Winston-Salem, NC Omaha, NE Dayton, OH Shaker Heights, OH Dallas, TX Fort Worth, TX Knoxville, TN Charleston, WV Huntington, WV King County, WA Following a review of performance standards and other materials pertaining to the fair housing laws of the above-listed States and localities, the Department expects to make final determinations that the law of each State and locality, in operation, provides rights and remedies that are substantially equivalent to those available under the Fair Housing Act. The Department intends to execute a Memorandum of Understanding with the agency charged with enforcement of the fair housing law of each State and locality in accordance with 24 CFR 115.6(c). In accordance with 24 CFR 115.6(b), the public is invited to submit written comments on this notice. Specifically, the Department requests written comments on the proposed determinations that the current practices and past performance of the State and local agencies charged with administration and enforcement of the fair housing laws of the above-listed States and localities demonstrate that, in operation, these laws provide substantive rights and remedies that are substantially equivalent to the Fair Housing Act. This notice also invites comments from the public on the Department's determination that the fair housing laws of the above-listed States and localities are, on their face, substantially equivalent to the Fair Housing Act. In commenting on this notice, the Department requests that commenters clearly identify the State or locality for which comments are submitted. Dated: September 23, 1994. Roberta Achtenberg, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27895 Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;28&hyph;P
