FR941227-2-00130 FR941227-2-00087 IV. Summary of Comments The Commission received two comment letters regarding the proposed uniform voting rights policy: one in favor of the Policy 24 and one against the Policy because it was not sufficiently restrictive. 25 In addition to generally supporting the Policy and favoring the flexibility accorded to SROs in interpreting the new Policy, the ABA letter urges regular, periodic, fully informed, and generally consistent interpretations by the SROs. Further, it favors prompt publication of any meaningful distinctions in interpretation by the SROs. The HFRRF letter principally opposes the ability under the Policy for corporations with dual class structures to an unlimited right to issue additional shares of super voting stock. The HFRRF letter believes this aspect of the Policy will permit further disenfranchisement of lower vote shareholders. It recommended that the SROs adopt certain structural safeguards for those limited instances where multiple capitalization is permitted. 26 24 See letter from John F. Olson and Robert Todd Lang, American Bar Association Section of Business Law, Task Force on Listing Standards of Self-Regulatory Organizations, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission, dated September 8, 1994 (``ABA letter''). 25 See letter from Jennifer Morales, Executive Director, Houston Firemen's Relief and Retirement Fund, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission, dated August 31, 1994 (``HFRRF letter''). 26 The recommendation includes: (1) Ensuring the voting disparity between the classes is not greater than 10&hyph;1; (2) providing the low-vote class with the exclusive right to elect at least 25% of the board; and (3) at any time the high vote class represents less than 12.5% of equity, providing the low vote class shares with the right to vote in the election of the 75% of the board that they did not elect directly. In addition, the NYSE previously solicited comments on an earlier version of the proposed rule change before it submitted the proposal to its board of directors. The NYSE received 93 letters supporting, 39 opposing, and 14 taking a neutral position towards the Policy. 27 According to the NYSE, the negative comment letters generally opposed the proposal for the following reasons: The NYSE does not have jurisdiction in this area; the Policy is too restrictive and should permit any shareholder voting policy that shareholders ratify; the Policy is too flexible and the NYSE should revert to a strict ``one-share, one-vote'' standard; and the Policy lacked specificity, thus not providing sufficient guidance as to what voting rights structures the Policy would permit. The letters in favor of the Policy supported its adoption primarily for the following reasons: the Policy protects the interests of shareholders; the Policy allows issuers responsible flexibility in the issuance of lower voting stock; the Policy provides greater certainty in the U.S. capital markets; the Policy provides publicly traded companies flexibility with respect to formulating their capital structures; and the Policy and its application will result in uniformity among the markets, while providing the SROs needed flexibility in certain circumstances to conduct a case-by-case analysis. The NYSE circulated a revised draft to various of its advisory committees to address some of these concerns and received 12 written comments_eight in support, four offering various technical suggestions. 27 See SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;20. Finally, the Commission notes that several commenters to the NYSE draft proposal expressed concern that it could conflict with the Business Roundtable decision, although no commenters raised this concern directly to the Commission. The Commission believes such concerns are misplaced. Each of the three SROs is adopting the Policy into its own rules, whereas former Rule 19c&hyph;4 was adopted by the Commission. The Business Roundtable court merely rejected the basis offered by the Commission in adopting the Rule pursuant to Section 19(c) of the Act, holding that the Commission's justification had exceeded its statutory authority thereunder. Although the substance of former Rule 19c&hyph;4 is similar to the Policy, this has no bearing on the validity of SRO action taken pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act. In fact, the court in the Business Roundtable decision specifically noted that exchanges and securities associations have the authority to propose rules, including listing standards, pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act, even through in its opinion the Commission may not itself impose similar rules under Section 19(c) of the Act. 28 28 See The Business Roundtable v. SEC , 905 F.2d 406, 409&hyph;10 (D.C. Cir. 1990).
