FR941019-2-00030 FR941019-2-00020 2. Residential and Commercial Buildings Comments on the supporting document for the Residential and Commercial Buildings Sector reflect similar concerns to those raised on the Electricity Supply Sector document. In response to comments, DOE has added discussions of electrotechnologies specific to this sector and identified additional conservation techniques. DOE has clarified that the ability to report the results of an activity is not dependent on whether that technology or technique is mentioned in the guidelines or supporting documents. Activities in this sector are characterized by an array of measurement and estimation methodologies, some of which are mentioned in the document. Comments were received on requiring reporters to use specific protocols available for this sector. For the same reasons as discussed in section D.1., above, the guidelines do not prescribe the use of specific methodologies or protocols for measurement or estimation. 3. Industrial In response to comments, DOE has modified discussions on the appropriate consideration of the obsolescence of equipment in determining the reference case for reportable projects. Biomass emissions factors have been clarified, and the distinction between temporary and permanent fuel switching has been eliminated. Similar to other sector-specific documents, the final Industrial Sector supporting document has expanded discussions of electrotechnologies specific to this sector and identified additional conservation techniques. The ability to report the results of an activity is not dependent on whether a technology or technique is mentioned in the guidelines or supporting documents. 4. Transportation In addition to the general revisions discussed above, DOE has expanded the discussion on electric vehicles in the Transportation Sector supporting document. Activities in the transportation sector are characterized by an extensive array of measurement and estimation methodologies, some of which are mentioned in the document. The use of some of these methodologies is required under various Federal regulatory and funding programs, such as those which regulate vehicle air pollutant emissions or award highway construction funds. For the reasons discussed above, reporters are not limited to using these protocols. 5. Forestry Comments on the Forestry Sector document related to its apparent emphasis on carbon sequestration activity from new or replacement forestation, together with a corresponding lack of emphasis on forest preservation, forest management, and urban forestry. The varying treatment of types of carbon sequestration activity is not meant to imply a preference by DOE, or by the reporting program, for any particular type of forestry activity. It is, rather, based primarily on the state of the knowledge in these areas of forest carbon sequestration. Similar to other sector documents, reporting is not limited to the activities discussed. Comments on the limited tree species and associated reference cases provided for standard forestry projects suggested that the table be expanded to include additional species. These data were developed with the assistance of U.S. Forest Service staff, and the tables are based on the availability of sufficient information to generalize carbon sequestration effects of certain activities. While such information is available for the major commercial species which are addressed in the tables, DOE believes that there is insufficient information available to develop adequate default tables on other species or reference cases. For additional species and reference cases, as well as for other forestry activities, the reporter will need to develop specific project data. Other commenters stated that field measurements for projects in this sector were particularly essential to assure the accuracy of the data submitted. Consistent with the flexibility necessary to encourage reporting in this and all other sectors, the guidelines do not provide prescriptive features such as requiring field measurements. Rather, the guidelines indicate that a reporter will be asked to categorize the data submitted, including whether it is based on measurement. 6. Agricultural Comments received on the draft document for the Agricultural Sector were indicative of the complexity of the sector, and its unique characteristic of including reportable activities that contribute both to greenhouse gas emissions and to carbon sequestration.
