FR941028-0-00094 FR941028-0-00009 This rule is not intended to have retroactive effect. E. Are Administrative Proceedings Required Before Parties may File Suit in Court? Which Proceedings Apply? Is the Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies Required? No administrative proceedings are required before parties may file suit in court challenging the provisions of this rule under section 526(a) of SMCRA, 30 U.S.C. 1276(a) Prior to any judicial challenge to the application of the rule, however, administrative procedures must be exhausted. In situations involving OSM application of the rule, applicable administrative procedures may be found at 43 CFR part 4. In situations involving State regulatory authority application of provisions equivalent to those contained in this rule, applicable administrative procedures are set forth in the particular State program. F. Does the Rule Define Key Terms, Either Explicitly or by Reference to Other Regulations or Statutes That Explicitly Define Those Items? Terms which are important to the understanding of this rule are set forth in 30 CFR 700.5 and 701.5. G. Does the Rule Address Other Important Issues Affecting Clarity and General Draftsmanship of Regulations set Forth by the Attorney General, With the Concurrence of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, That are Determined to be in Accordance With the Purposes of the Executive Order? The Attorney General and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget have not issued any guidance on this requirement. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Department of the Interior has determined that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. et seq. The final rule will not change costs to industry or to the Federal, State, or local governments. Furthermore, the rules produce no adverse effects on competition, employment, investment, productivity, innovation, or the ability of United States enterprises to compete with foreign-based enterprises in domestic or export markets. Executive Order 12866 The final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) OSM has prepared a final environmental assessment (EA) of this rule and has made a finding that the rules adopted in this rulemaking will not significantly affect the quality of the human environment under section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C). A finding of no significant impact (FONSI) has been approved for the final rule in accordance with OSM procedures under NEPA. The EA is on file in the OSM Administrative Record, room 660, 800 North Capitol St., NW., Washington, DC. Author: The principal author of this final rule is Harvey P. Blank, Attorney-Adviser, Division of Surface Mining, Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street, NW, Washington, DC 20240. Inquiries, however, with respect to the rule should be directed to Russell Frum at the address and telephone number specified in FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. List of Subjects
