FR940804-0-00064 FR940804-0-00022 In all cases following disapprovals and findings of nonimplementation, the sanctions clock stops permanently and any sanctions applied are permanently lifted only when EPA completes final notice-and-comment rulemaking action fully approving the SIP revision or finding that the State is implementing its SIP. 25 25 These actions permanently stop the sanctions clock and permanently remove sanctions because such actions represent EPA's final determination that the State has met the requirements of the Act and thus has corrected the deficiency that initiated the sanctions process. (4) Legal Basis and Rationale for Change One. The EPA believes that its policy clarification is consistent with the statutory language of section 179 and that it is a reasonable interpretation of that language. The EPA believes this policy is consistent with the legal requirements of section 179 of the Act and section 553 of the APA. Section 179(a) of the Act requires sanctions to apply 18 months after a deficiency finding ``unless such deficiency has been corrected *␣*␣*,'' and requires that sanctions apply ``until the Administrator determines that the State has come into compliance *␣*␣*.'' The EPA interprets this language to require that EPA make a determination that the State has corrected the deficiency before permanently stopping the sanctions clock or lifting sanctions. In the case of a clock started by a disapproval, such a determination would be represented by a final, full approval. However, EPA does not believe that section 179(a) requires a final approval in order to defer or stay the application of sanctions, since the statutory language speaks generally in terms of ``correcting'' deficiencies and ``determining'' compliance without explicitly linking those events to final approval actions. Regarding SIP disapprovals, EPA recognizes the first commenter's concern over timing and believes that this policy clarification eliminates the potential for sanctions applying in an area when EPA has a submittal in house for which EPA has determined that it is more likely than not that the State has corrected the deficiency that prompted the original disapproval. Extending the approach for disapprovals to findings of nonimplementation also serves to avoid applying sanctions when EPA has proposed that a State is implementing its approved SIP. Consequently, EPA believes it is consistent with section 179 to treat proposed full approvals following disapprovals 26 as the basis for deferring or staying the application of sanctions, while not permanently stopping the sanctions clock or permanently lifting sanctions. The EPA also believes it is consistent with section 179 for proposed and final conditional approvals to be the basis for deferring and/or staying the application of sanctions. 27 The proposed full or conditional approval then forms the basis for EPA to issue an interim final determination, which EPA would publish in a separate action in the Federal Register contemporaneously with the proposed approval notice, that the State had corrected the deficiency and come into compliance with the requirements of the Act. 28 While this interim final determination would have the effect of deferring or staying sanctions, it would not have the final effect of either approving the submitted SIP revision, or permanently stopping a sanctions clock or permanently lifting sanctions. The interim final determination would be subject to notice and comment and would have effect only until either EPA made a final determination that the deficiency was corrected at the time of a final approval of the SIP revision, or EPA reversed its interim final determination at the time EPA reverses its proposed full or conditional approval. If an EPA proposed full approval were reversed by a proposed disapproval, the Agency would publish a separate action in the Federal Register withdrawing the interim final determination (that the State has corrected the deficiency) contemporaneously with the notice of the proposed disapproval. If an EPA proposed approval were reversed by a final disapproval, EPA would take final action finding that the deficiency has not been corrected in the final disapproval action. For an EPA proposed conditional approval, a reversal could occur by a proposed or final disapproval. For an EPA final conditional approval, a reversal would occur when the conditional approval converts to a disapproval through the State's failing to submit a complete revised SIP to which it committed or by EPA's disapproval of the State's revised SIP. 26 The following discussion on EPA's legal rationale and basis for staying and deferring sanctions only explicitly addresses SIP disapprovals but applies equally to findings of nonimplementation. 27 In NRDC v. EPA, No. 92&hyph;1535, slip. op. at 18 (D.C. Cir. May 6, 1994), the Court struck down EPA's policy of conditionally approving committal SIP's (i.e., SIP's consisting solely of a commitment). However, the Court provided that ``the conditional approval mechanism was intended to provide EPA with an alternative to disapproving substantive, but not entirely satisfactory, SIP's *␣*␣*.'' The EPA will issue conditional approvals consistent with that Court's opinion. 28 Since a final conditional approval has the effect of continuing the staying and/or deferring of sanctions, upon final conditional approval, EPA would not publish a second interim final determination that the State has corrected the deficiency (see footnote 18).
