FR941220-1-00091 FR941220-1-00013 (2) Duration . A suspension shall last for a specified period of time, but not less than 6 months and generally not more than 1 year. The Board may extend the suspension for an additional 6 months it if determines that the extension is in the public interest. These time limits may also be extended upon the voluntary written agreement of the mortgagee. * * * * * (d) *␣*␣* (4) *␣*␣* (iii) Upon receipt of the hearing official's decision under §25.8. * * * * * 5. Section 25.7 would be revised to read as follows: §25.7 Notice of administrative action. Whenever the Board takes an action to issue a letter of reprimand, place a mortgagee on probation, or to suspend or withdraw a mortgagee's approval, the Board shall promptly notify the mortgagee in writing of the determination. Except for a letter of reprimand, the notice shall describe the nature and duration of the administrative action, shall specifically state the violations and shall set forth the findings of the Board. The notice shall inform the mortgagee of its right to a hearing regarding the administrative action (except for a letter of reprimand) and of the manner and time in which to request a hearing pursuant to §25.8. A supplemental notice may be issued in the discretion of the Board to add or modify the reasons for the action. 6. Section 25.8 would be revised to read as follows: §25.8 Hearings and hearing request. (a) Hearing request. In the case of probation, suspension or withdrawal action, a mortgagee is entitled to a hearing on the record before a hearing official designated by the Board. The mortgagee shall submit its request for a hearing within 30 days of receiving the Board's notice of administrative action. The request shall be addressed to the Board Docket Clerk, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20410. The request shall specifically respond to the violations set forth in the notice of administrative action. If the mortgagee fails to request a hearing within 30 days after receiving the notice of administrative action, the Board's action shall become final. (b) Procedural rules. The hearing official shall hold a de novo hearing within 30 days of HUD's receipt of the mortgagee's request, unless the mortgagee requests a later hearing date or requests an informal conference, under paragraph (e) of this section, in addition to the hearing. The mortgagee or its representative shall be afforded an opportunity to appear, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses and confront any witness the agency presents. The parties shall not be allowed to present members of the Board as witnesses. A transcribed record of the hearing shall be made available at cost to the mortgagee. (c) Hearing location. The hearing shall generally be held in Washington, D.C. However, upon a showing of undue hardship or other cause, the hearing official may, in his or her discretion, order the hearing to be held in a location other than Washington, D.C. (d) Hearing official's decision. The hearing official shall make a written decision within 45 days after the conclusion of the hearing, unless the hearing official extends this period for good cause. If there is any dispute as to material facts, the hearing official shall make written findings of fact. The decision shall be based upon the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the parties and any other information in the administrative record. The hearing official's decision shall be mailed to the mortgagee, and shall serve as the final agency action concerning the mortgagee. (e) Informal conference. The mortgagee may request an informal conference with respect to a notice of withdrawal, suspension, or probation. The conference shall, at the option of the mortgagee, be in lieu of or precede the hearing on the Board action. The mortgagee must submit the request for an informal conference to the Board Docket Clerk within 30 days after receipt of the notice of Board action. If the mortgagee elects to request a hearing in addition to the conference, the mortgagee must include with the request for a conference and hearing an express waiver of the mortgagee's right to the hearing within 30 days after the Department's receipt of the request for hearing. The conference shall be conducted by the hearing official, or another designated official, within 15 days after receipt of the request for a conference. 6. In §25.9, paragraphs (i) and (w) would be revised to read as follows: §25.9 Grounds for an administrative action. * * * * *
