FR940707-2-00036 FR940707-2-00018 (1) expanding fundamental knowledge and understanding of education; (2) promoting excellence and equity in education and the achievement of the National Education Goals by spurring reform in the school systems of the United States; (3) promoting the use and application of research and development to improve practice in the classroom; and (4) monitoring the state of education. The statute requires that OERI establish five new research institutes and a national dissemination system. Specifically, the new OERI must include: •The National Institute on Student Achievement, Curriculum, and Assessment; •The National Institute on the Education of At-Risk Students; •The National Institute on Early Childhood Development and Education; •The National Institute on Educational Governance, Finance, Policymaking, and Management; •The National Institute on Postsecondary Education, Libraries, and Lifelong Learning; •The Office of Reform Assistance and Dissemination; and •The National Library of Education. The Assistant Secretary is interested in receiving comments and recommendations from the public regarding the functions and responsibilities of these new organizational components, the priorities that should govern their work, and the mix of activities that would best serve OERI's mission. The Assistant Secretary welcomes recommendations related to any aspect of the implementation of the ``Educational Research, Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994,'' but is especially interested in recommendations regarding: •Research priorities for each institute, especially those topics and issues that should be the focus of long-term, sustained, systematic, and integrated research and development; •Strategies to help ensure that the research agenda is relevant to the needs of educators working with students; •Dissemination strategies that will be most effective in meeting the needs of a range of different customers_education researchers, practitioners, policymakers, parents, students, and employers; •Strategies and technical assistance activities that will help ensure that knowledge gained from research will help improve teaching and learning; •Strategies for identifying proven and promising educational practices and programs; •Coordination of OERI's research, development and dissemination with similar activities of other agencies and organizations, including other units of the Department and other federal agencies, to ensure that customer needs are met and the federal investment is maximized; •Peer review and program evaluation activities to ensure that the programs and projects OERI supports meet the highest standards of professional excellence; •Education topic areas in which syntheses of research-based information are urgently needed to help guide improvement efforts; and •Information services, resources and materials that should be available to the public through a National Library of Education. The Assistant Secretary is interested in wide public comment_from education researchers, practitioners, policymakers, parents, students, employers and others interested in systemic education reform_regarding the policies and priorities OERI must identify and develop. In seeking public comment, OERI is committed to supporting Executive Order 12862, Setting Customer Service Standards, which provides that the Federal Government be ``customer driven.'' To deliver the highest quality service, OERI must understand its customers' needs and interests and how it can be most responsive to these needs and interests. Availability of Reauthorization Legislation and Topic Papers : To provide the public with a complete description of the provisions of the new legislation, OERI will make available upon request a copy of the ``Educational Research, Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994.'' Prior to submitting any comments, OERI encourages commenters to review this legislation. In addition, OERI has prepared topic papers on a number of discrete subject areas, including each of the major OERI organizational entities required by the new legislation. Individuals who wish to respond to this notice may find these topic papers helpful as they develop their comments. The purpose of these topic papers is to share information and to generate discussion and recommendations. Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding this notice. All comments and recommendations will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in room 600, 555 New Jersey Avenue, NW., Washington, DC between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m. Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Dated: June 30, 1994. Sharon P. Robinson, Assistant Secretary for Educational Research and Improvement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16404 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
