FR940616-2-00114 FR940616-2-00088 Institutional Commitment Proposals must include documentation of institutional support for the proposed program in the form of signed letters of endorsement from the U.S. and foreign partners' directors, or in the form of a signed agreement by the same persons. Letters of endorsement must describe each institution's or organization's commitment and make specific reference to the proposed program, each institution's activities in support of that program, and each institution's ability to provide access to archival or manuscript repositories. Documentation of support from governmental ministries or academies will be acceptable when appropriate, replacing individual documentation from each foreign educational institution involved. Applicants must submit this documentation as part of the completed application; letters and agreements will not be accepted if sent separately to USIA. Applying institutions are expected to make their own arrangements with the appropriate foreign institutions. National ministries of educational and culture and academies of science are included as eligible foreign partner institutions. Authorization to work in archives, manuscript repositories, and to use research materials is critical for U.S. scholars. Proposals should include evidence of such authorization. Proposal Narrative The proposal narrative describing the program must conform to the Guidelines dated April 1993 and must include any subgrants to be issued. All narratives must describe in detail the abilities of the participating organizations to adapt to the changing exchanges environments in the countries eligible for participation in this program. Participant Selection The proposal must include detailed descriptions of the selection processes of participants, both foreign and American. This must include procedures by which selecting officials are named. A goal for this program is to select students and scholars from geographically diverse backgrounds in the home country and place them in wide geographic distribution in the host country. Categories A and B (Short and Long-term Research Exchange): All scholars, at a minimum, must be Ph.D. candidates and currently enrolled at or affiliated with a university. Applicants should not have travelled on a similar grant in the last five years, or should have little opportunity to travel unless as a participant of this program. Applying organizations must demonstrate the ability to conduct competitive award programs that are national in scope. Programs must be based on an open, nationwide competition, incorporating peer group review mechanisms. The selection process for U.S. participants must be merit based. Selection criteria for the U.S. participants must be based on: (1) Academic rigor of the participant's proposed project, including a demonstration of the need to study abroad; (2) feasibility of the participant's proposed project, including time-frame and methodology; (3) language proficiency in the language of the host country by the participant; and (4) a solid foundation of background knowledge and research through general literature available in Western repositories. The selection process for foreign researchers should be merit based and the result of a country-wide or multi-country wide competition. Selection criteria for the foreign participants should be based on: (1) Academic rigor of the participant's proposed project, including a demonstration of the need to study abroad; (2) feasibility of the participant's proposed project, including time-frame and methodology; (3) English language proficiency by the participant; and (4) a solid foundation of background knowledge and research through general literature available in the repositories of the foreign region. Although not a requirement, preference should be given to junior faculty holding lecturing positions. Orientation Programs Participants should be provided with a substantive and comprehensive orientation to the countries of their visits, and proposals should describe these orientation programs, including costs, in detail. Alumni Activities USIA recognizes the contributions of alumni to the goals of the program and the goals of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchanges Act. Priority will be given to proposals which include detailed and comprehensive alumni tracking and networking plans. Electronic mail access and training may be included in any such plans. Proposed Budget Funding anticipated for Category A is estimated at $1,300,000, which includes all program and administrative costs. Funding anticipated for Category B is estimated at $240,000, which includes all program and administrative costs. The following budgetary guidance applies to both Categories A and B: Project awards to U.S. organizations will be made in a wide range of amounts. The Agency reserves the right to reduce, revise or increase proposal budgets in accordance with the needs of the program. All organizations must submit a comprehensive line-item budget, the details and format of which are contained in the application packet. The budget should list all sources of support for the program fiscal year 1995 including both cash and in-kind contributions. Allowance Costs Grant-funded items of expenditure may include, but are not limited to, the following categories:
