FR940318-2-00135 FR940318-2-00078 ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Weights: l (Criteria ``a'' through ``f'' refer to section I. Research Plan.) 4 a. Specific Aims: statement of study question(s) and objective(s). Are the study questions stated clearly and precisely? Does the rest of the Research Plan follow logically from the study questions? 10 b. Background in Research Literature: Does the background in research literature include the important existing research and knowledge relevant to the study question(s), and pilot data applicable)? Do the conclusions follow from the review? 4 c. Progress Report (for competing continuation studies only). What is the progress to date? Is the report timely? Does the progress report demonstrate that investigators will achieve the objective(s) of the research? 15 d. Research design and methods to be used. Does the Research Plan adequately describe the research design? Is the proposed approach appropriate for the objective(s) of the research? Does the Plan adequately describe: The population to be studied; the inclusion and exclusion criteria, and how the investigators will determine inclusion and exclusion, the sampling techniques; selection of controls (if any); the definition of the independent and dependent variables (if any) and how to measure them; the interventions (if any) and how to assure that they are done in fact; and the definition of the expected outcomes or effects (if any) and how to measure them? Are these methods appropriate to achieve the objective(s) of the research? Are sample size calculations included, if needed? Is the projected sample size achievable, and sufficient to achieve the objective(s) of the research? Does the Plan adequately account for alternative explanations of expected findings? Is the application's timeline, with completion dates of all major tasks, appropriate and feasible? 10 e. Data sources, management, quality control, and analysis. Does the Research Plan adequately describe: the data to be collected, by whom, and at what time; the data sources, and how access to the sources will be attained; the procedures to collect, receive, code, and prepare for analysis of the data; the contents of interviews (if they were to be done), and the connection between the interview question and the variables to be studied; how the data will be made secure; how completeness of the data will be assured and low response rates dealt with; how accuracy of the data will be measured and assured; the plan for analysis; the statistical analyses to be done (if any); and the non-statistical analyses to be done (if any)? Are these plans appropriate and adequate for the research questions? 4 f. Originality. Will this research likely develop new methods, or directly lead to new information, useful for research in general? (Criteria ``g'' through ``K'' refer to section J. Importance and Utility.) 10 g. Importance of the health problem(s) for the community(ies) involved. Are the health problems addressed by the research project of high importance in the community(ies) involved? 9 h. Importance of the health problem(s) for all AI/AN people and the IHS Area. Are the health problems addressed by the research project of high importance in all or major segments of AI/AN people, and in the IHS Area? 4 i. Setting of the study. Should the research be done only, or be done best, in an AI/AN population, and in the proposed community(ies)? 10 j. Utility of the product and experience to the community(ies) and SUs involved. Does the research project have a high expected utility of the product (e.g., new information) or of the experience (e.g., new research skills, capabilities, resources, or liaisons to do practice-based or community-based research) to the community(ies) and/or SUs involved? 5 k. Utility of the product and experience to the IHS and other AI/AN people. Does the research project have a high expected utility of the product (e.g., new information) or of the experience (e.g., new research skills, capabilities, resources, or liaisons to do practice-based or community-based research) to the IHS, to the IHS Area, and/or to other AI/AN people? 5 l. Budget. (This criterion refers to section G. Budget.) Is the proposed budget sufficient to do the project? Is the proposed budget excessive? Is the proposed budget being used for the purchase of computers or other expensive equipment? If the research project is a competing continuation, are the additional years necessary? Is the cost justified by the expected benefit? 10 m. Key Personnel and Research Team. (This criterion refers to section H. Key Personnel and Research Team.) Does the principal investigator have the training, experience, and time necessary to do and to manage the proposed research project? Does the research team have the capabilities to carry out and complete the project successfully? N. Results of the Review The recommendations of the IHRSS will be forwarded to the Associate Director, OHPRD, for final review and approval. The Associate Director will also consider the recommendations from the appropriate Area Research Committee and the Grants Management Office. Applicants will be notified of their approval with funds, or approval without funds, on or about November 16, 1994. A Notice of Grant Award will be issued approximately 10 days prior to the start date. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified in writing of disapproval on or about November 16, 1994. A brief explanation of the reasons why the application was not approved will be provided along with the name of the IHS official to contact if more information is desired. Dated: December 10, 1993. Michel E. Lincoln, Acting Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6384 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;16&hyph;M
