FR940728-2-00150 FR940728-2-00107 Guideline for the Juvenile Mentoring Program Purpose: To support one-to-one mentoring programs for youth at risk of educational failure, dropping out of school, or involvement in delinquency activities. Background: Part G of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended (JJDP Act), establishes authority for the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) to fund a new Juvenile Mentoring Program (JUMP). For Fiscal Year 1994, Congress appropriated $4,000,000 to implement this program. Mentoring, as the term is currently used, can be defined as a one-to-one relationship between a pair of unrelated individuals, usually of different ages, which takes place on a regular basis over an extended period of time. It is usually characterized by a ``special bond of mutual commitment'' and ``an emotional character of respect, loyalty and identification.'' (Hamilton, 1990.) As a movement, mentoring has its roots in the closing decades of the 19th century with ``Friendly Visitors'' who would serve as role models for children of the poor. In 1904, Ernest K. Coulter founded a new movement which utilized ``Big Brothers'' to reach out to children who were in need of socialization, firm guidance and human connection with mainstream adults. The resulting program, Big Brother/Big Sisters of America, continues to operate today as the largest mentoring organization of its kind. Mentoring underwent a second reincarnation in the 1970's as corporations heralded the concept as one which fosters achievement. Mentoring was seen as a particularly critical ingredient to success on the corporate ladder (Freedman, 1992). Within the past ten years, mentoring has taken on a new dimension and a new target group, disadvantaged children and youth. It has emerged as a promising approach for enriching children's lives; addressing the isolation of youth from adult contact; and providing, on a one-to-one basis, support and advocacy to children who need it. Mentoring is also recognized as an important vehicle for harnessing the talents of volunteers to address the problems of poverty (Freedman, 1992). Congress has recognized the potential of mentoring as a tool for addressing two critical concerns: poor school performance and delinquent activity. Accordingly, OJJDP is making funds available for mentoring programs that specifically address these concerns. Congress also has recognized the importance of school collaboration in mentoring programs, whether as a primary applicant or in partnership with other public/non-profit private entities. Goals of Mentoring Programs: To reduce juvenile delinquency and gang participation; To improve academic performance; and To reduce the dropout rate through the use of mentors for at-risk youth. Objectives: Provide general guidance to at-risk youth; Promote personal and social responsibility among at-risk youth; Increase at-risk youth participation in and enhance their ability to benefit from elementary and secondary education; Discourage at-risk youths' use of illegal drugs and firearms, involvement in violence, and other delinquent activity;
