FR941027-2-00135 FR941027-2-00082 (5) 34 CFR Part 80 (Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments). (6) 34 CFR Part 81 (General Education Provisions Act_Enforcement). (7) 34 CFR Part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying). (8) 34 CFR Part 85 (Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)). (9) 34 CFR Part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses). (b) The regulations for this program in 34 CFR Parts 400 and 427. Content of the Application (a) An application must_ (1) Provide an assurance that the activities and services for which assistance is sought will be administered by or under the supervision of the applicant; (2) Propose a project of a size, scope and design that will make a substantial contribution toward carrying out the purpose of the Bilingual Vocational Training Program; (3) Contain measurable goals for the enrollment, completion, and placement of program participants; (4) Include a comparison of how the applicant's goals take into consideration any related standards and measures in the geographic area for the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills Training (JOBS) program (42 U.S.C. 681 et seq. ) and any Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) programs (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq. ) and any standards set by the State Board for Vocational Education for the occupational and geographic area; (5) Describe, for each occupation for which training is to be provided, how successful program completion will be determined and reported to the Secretary in terms of the academic and vocational competencies to be demonstrated by enrollees prior to successful completion and any academic or work credentials expected to be acquired upon completion; and (6) Be submitted to the State board for vocational education (State board) established under section 111 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (the Act) for review and comment, including comment on the relationship of the proposed project to the State's vocational education program. (b) An applicant shall include any comments received under paragraph (a)(6) of this section with the application. Invitational Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(1) the Secretary is particularly interested in applications that meet the following invitational priority. However, an application that meets this invitational priority does not receive competitive or absolute preference over other applications: Applications that include strategies for developing the applicant's capacity to continue, expand, or build upon its bilingual vocational education and training when Federal funding under this competition ends, as evidenced by such actions as_ (a) Extending training to additional sites that are not funded under this program; (b) Integrating the project into the long-term planning of the applicant; (c) Committing funding and staffing for continued implementation of the project; (d) Incorporating the project into the applicant's organizational and program structure; or (e) Establishing and strengthening relationships within the community, region, or State that will support continuation of the project. Selection Criteria The Secretary uses the following selection criteria to evaluate applications for new grants under this competition. The maximum score for all of these criteria is 100 points. The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses. For this competition, the Secretary assigns the 15 points, reserved in 34 CFR 427.20(b), as follows: Plan of operation (34 CFR 427.21(b)). Five points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 20 points. Demonstration and dissemination (34 CFR 427.21(g)). Ten points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 20 points. (a) Need. (15 points) The Secretary reviews each application for specific information that shows the need for the proposed bilingual vocational training project in the local geographic area, including_ (1) The employment training need of limited English proficient individuals to be met; (2) The labor market need to be met; and (3) The relationship of the proposed project to other employment training programs in the community. (b) Plan of operation. (20 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the project proposes measurable goals for student enrollment, completion, and placement and describes how the applicant sets the goals taking into consideration the standards and measures for JOBS programs and JTPA programs and any standards set by the State Board established under section 111 of the Act for the occupation and geographic area. (2) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the project defines successful program completion (or describes how successful program completion will be defined and reported to the Secretary) in a way consistent with the goals of the program for each occupation for which training is to be provided. (3) (i) The Secretary reviews each application for specific information that, upon completion of their training, more than 65 percent of the trainees will be employed in jobs (including military specialties) related to their training, or will be enrolled for further training related to their training under this program. This information must correspond to the information described in paragraph (a) of this section. (ii) The estimated job placement rate must be supported by past records, actual employer job commitments, anticipated job openings, or other pertinent information. (4) The Secretary reviews each application for an effective plan of management that ensures proper and efficient administration of the project, including_ (i) Clearly defined project objectives that relate to the purpose of the Bilingual Vocational Training Program; (ii) For each objective, the specific tasks to be performed in order to achieve the specified project objective; (iii) How the applicant plans to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective; and (iv) If the applicant plans to use a project advisory committee, a clear plan for using a project advisory committee to assist in project development, to review curriculum materials, and to make recommendations about job placements. (c) Program factors. (20 points)
