FR940426-1-00072 FR940426-1-00007 a. Except as provided in paragraph B.3.c. of this section, payment of an involuntary allotment shall commence within 30 days after the designated DFAS official has approved the involuntary allotment. b. Payments under this part shall not be required to be made more frequently than once each month, and the designated official shall not be required to vary normal pay and disbursement cycles. c. If the designated DFAS official receives several applications concerning the same member of a Military Service, payments shall be satisfied on a first-come, first-served basis. d. Payments shall continue until the sum certain amount of the judgment is collected. Interest or other costs earned during the collection period can be collected only by submitting a separate judgment and involuntary allotment application. e. If the member is found not to be entitled to money due from or payable by the Military Services, the designated official shall return the application and advise the applicant that no money is due from or payable by the Military Service to the member. When it appears that disposable pay available for the purpose of involuntary allotment is exhausted temporarily or otherwise unavailable, the applicant shall be told why and for how long that money is unavailable, if known. If the member separates from active duty, the applicant shall be informed that the allotment is discontinued. f. The applicant shall notify the designated official promptly if the judgment upon which the allotment is based is satisfied, vacated, modified, or set aside, and the designated official shall adjust or discontinue the involuntary allotment accordingly. g. The Comptroller may, in DoD 7000.14&hyph;R, Volume 7, Part A, designate the priority to be given to such involuntary allotments among the deductions and collections taken from members' pay, except that they may not give precedence over deductions required to arrive at a member's disposable pay or garnishments for alimony and child support payments and statutorily required child and spousal support allotments. In the absence of a contrary designation by the Comptroller, all other lawful deductions (except voluntary allotments by the member) and collections shall take precedence over these involuntary allotments. Appendix B to Part 50_Certificate of Compliance ␣I certify that the upon extending credit (Name of Creditor) to on (Date) complied with the full disclosure requirements of the Truth-in-Lending Act and Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z, and the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (or the laws and regulations of State of XXXXXXXXXX ), and that the attached statement is a true copy of the general and specific disclosures provided the obligor as required by law. I further certify that the Standards of Fairness set forth in DoD Directive 1344.9 1 have been applied to the consumer credit transaction to which this form refers. (If the unpaid balance has been adjusted as a consequence, the specific adjustments in the finance charge and the annual percentage rate should be set forth below.) 1 See footnote 1 to §50.4(c). (Adjustments) (Date of Certification) Signature of Creditor or Authorized Representative (Street) (City, State and Zip Code) Appendix C to Part 50_Standards of Fairness 1. No finance charge contracted for, made, or received under any contract shall be in excess of the charge which could be made for such contract under the law of the place in which the contract is signed in the United States by the military member. a. In the event a contract is signed with a U.S. company in a foreign country, the lowest interest rate of the State or States in which the company is chartered or does business shall apply. b. However, interest rates and service charges applicable to overseas military banking facilities will be as established by the Department of Defense. 2. No contract or loan agreement shall provide for an attorney's fee in the event of default unless suit is filed, in which event the fee provided in the contract shall not exceed 20 percent of the obligation found due. No attorney fees shall be authorized if the attorney is a salaried employee of the holder. 3. In loan transactions, defenses which the debtor may have against the original lender or its agent shall be good against any subsequent holder of the obligation. In credit transactions, defenses against the seller or its agent shall be good against any subsequent holder of the obligation, provided that the holder had actual knowledge of the defense or under conditions where reasonable inquiry would have apprised the holder of this fact. 4. The military member shall have the right to remove any security for the obligation beyond State or national boundaries if the military member of the family moves beyond such boundaries under military orders and notifies the creditor, in advance of the removal, of the new address where the security will be located. Removal of the security shall not accelerate payment of the obligation. 5. No late charge shall be made in excess of 5 percent of the late payment, or $5,00, whichever is the lesser amount, or as provided by law or applicable regulatory agency determination. Only one late charge may be made for any tardy installment. Late charges will not be levied where an allotment has been timely filed, but payment of the allotment has been delayed. Late charges by overseas banking facilities are a matter of contract with the Department of Defense. 6. The obligation may be paid in full at any time or through accelerated payments of any amount. There shall be no penalty for repayment. In the event of prepayment, that portion of the finance charges which has inured to the benefit of the seller or creditor shall be prorated on the basis of the charges which would have been ratably payable had finance charges been calculated and payable as equal periodic payments over the terms of the contract, and only the prorated amount to the date of prepayment shall be due. As an alternative, the ``Rule of 78'' may be applied. 7. If a charge is made for loan insurance protection, it must be evidenced by delivery of a policy or certificate of insurance to the military member within 30 days. 8. If the loan or contract agreement provides for payments in installation, each payment other than the down payment, shall be in equal or substantially equal amount, and installments shall be successive and of equal or substantially equal duration. 9. If the security for the debt is repossessed and sold in order to satisfy or reduce the debt, the repossession and resale will be governed by the laws of the State in which the security is requested. 10. A contract for personal goods and services may be terminated at any time before delivery of the goods or services without charge to the purchaser. However, if goods made to the special order of the purchaser result in preproduction costs, or require preparation for delivery, such additional costs will be listed in the order form or contract. a. No termination charge will be made in excess of this amount. Contracts for delivery at future intervals may be terminated as to the undelivered portion. b. The purchaser shall be chargeable only for that proportion of the total cost which the goods or services delivered bear to the total goods called for by the contract. This is in addition to the right to rescind certain credit transactions, involving a security interest in real estate provided by Public Law 90&hyph;321 and Federal Reserve Board Regulation Z (12 CFR part 226). Dated: April 20, 1994. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register, Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10070 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
