FR940616-0-00110 FR940616-0-00012 Discussion: The Secretary believes that current professional accreditation by the designated accrediting agency in the professional field in which grant support is being provided is adequate assurance that an academic program offers an appropriate degree. From time to time, the Secretary may assign an absolute priority to proposals offering a specific degree or certificate if the Secretary has determined that personnel shortages in the professional field require that preference. Those priorities will be presented for public comment before applications are solicited. The Secretary agrees that, to the extent possible in responding to personnel shortages, a wide range of degree and certificate programs offering Federal rehabilitation scholarship assistance should be available to facilitate student choice. However, no change in the regulations is required. Changes: None. Exclusion of Federal Employees From Receiving Training Scholarships (§386.33(a)(2)) Comment: One commenter protested that this is not a fair regulation because it discriminates against a group of people_Federal employees. The example was a full-time GS&hyph;7 Federal correctional officer enrolled in a rehabilitation counseling program at a university with an RSA grant. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the limitation on Federal employees serves no useful purpose. Changes: The restrictive language has been dropped. Grantee Disbursement and Scholarship Assurance Provisions (§§386.33 Through 386.43) Comments: Several commenters called for a less adversarial phrasing of scholarship conditions to enhance recruitment of trainees. Other suggestions included placing the burden on the scholar (at the time of the exit interview) to report to the grantee using a packet containing several change-of-address forms, change-of-employment forms, and a completion of work obligation form. Another commenter stated the belief that any tracking or reporting activities pursuant to payback obligations are the exclusive responsibility of the granting agency. Discussion: The regulations describe conditions that must be met by a grantee after award in subpart D and conditions that must be met by a scholar in subpart E. No adversarial system of grantee vs. scholar or Federal agency vs. grantee is implied or intended. The intent is to clearly identify the responsibilities of all parties. Tracking and recordkeeping, which can be facilitated by change-of-address and change-of-employment forms, are not excessively burdensome for the numbers of students supported by the average grant under the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program. Changes: None. Work-or-Repay Requirements for Certificate Programs (§§386.4 and 386.34) Comment: One commenter asked for assurances that the work-or-repay provisions will be applied to all academic degree pre- or post-employment programs as well as to non-degree awarding, certificate granting continuing education programs. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the work-or-repay provision applies to each individual who receives a scholarship, whether for a degree or a certificate program. The term ``certificate'' is defined in §386.4 of the regulations. Examples of certificate programs that offer scholarships and are subject to the work-or-repay provision include post-baccalaureate training in allied health areas, such as occupational therapy, physical therapy, and prosthetics and orthotics. The Secretary believes that the work-or-repay provision does not apply to certificate programs in non-academic or emerging areas because no scholarship assistance is provided to individuals. Assistance in the form of per-diem expenses for short-term training is not considered to be scholarship assistance subject to the work-or-repay provision. It would be burdensome and inappropriate to enforce a work-or-repay provision for that assistance. The Secretary believes that confusion about the different types of certificates and the applicability of repayment will be resolved by focusing the Rehabilitation Long-Term Training program on academic scholarship training (degree and certificate) subject to the work-or-repay provision and using other more appropriate training authorities for non-academic, non-scholarship, post-employment training. Changes: None.
