FR940616-0-00127 FR940616-0-00013 The Secretary amends part 682 of title 34 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 682_FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN PROGRAM 1. The authority citation for part 682 continues to read as follows: Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1071 to 1087&hyph;2, unless otherwise noted. 2. A new ยง682.215 is added to read as follows: ยง682.215 Federal Stafford Loan forgiveness demonstration program. (a) General. The Federal Stafford Loan forgiveness demonstration program is intended to encourage individuals to enter the teaching and nursing professions and to perform national and community service. Under this demonstration program, the Secretary repays portions of unsubsidized, subsidized and nonsubsidized Federal Stafford obligations that were incurred by a borrower during the borrower's last two years of undergraduate education if that borrower worked in those professions or performed that service. For purposes of this section, an eligible borrower is a borrower who, as of October 1, 1989, had no outstanding debt under the FFEL programs. (b) Borrower eligibility; requirements for qualification. A borrower may obtain loan forgiveness under this program if he or she was employed as a full-time teacher in certain elementary and secondary schools teaching certain subjects or as a full-time nurse in certain types of hospitals or health care centers, or was serving as a volunteer under the Peace Corps Act or under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, or was performing comparable service as a full-time employee of a tax exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. For purposes of this section, full-time means the standard used by a State or profession in defining full-time employment. For a borrower serving in more than one organization, the determination of ``full-time'' is based on the combination of all qualifying employment. A borrower who is in default on a FFEL loan and has not made satisfactory repayment arrangements is not eligible for forgiveness. However, if a borrower has made satisfactory repayment arrangements on the loan or loans in default, the forgiveness applies only to the loan or loans held by the holder that are not in default. Federal Stafford loans that have been rehabilitated are eligible for forgiveness. (c) Application. To qualify for the forgiveness program, an eligible borrower shall apply to the Secretary each year following a completed year of service, but no earlier than September 1 and no later than October 1 of a given year. The application must be in writing, on a form provided by the Secretary and according to procedures established by the Secretary. An eligible borrower must complete a year of service prior to filing a loan forgiveness application with the Secretary. Eligible borrowers are chosen on a first-come, first-served basis to participate and must receive forbearance upon request for each year of service for which forgiveness is requested. An eligible borrower must reapply each year to receive the forgiveness benefit. Incomplete or inaccurate applications are not considered in the first-come, first-served process. If a borrower initially submits an incomplete or inaccurate application, the borrower must provide a completed application to the Secretary or his designee prior to consideration in the selection process. (d) Limitation; Stafford forgiveness recipients. The total amount of loans forgiven is limited to the amount of funds appropriated for the fiscal year for the demonstration program. (e) Borrower eligibility; teaching forgiveness. (1) To qualify for teaching loan forgiveness under this section, a borrower must have taught full-time for a year (as defined by the jurisdiction in which the borrower is employed) in a teacher shortage area as certified by the authorizing official. For purposes of this paragraph a teacher has taught in a teacher shortage area if_ (i) The teacher taught in a school that satisfied the criteria in section 465(a)(2)(A) of the Act for loan cancellation for Perkins loan recipients who teach in those schools; and (ii) The teacher taught mathematics, science, foreign languages, special education, bilingual education or in any other field of expertise where the State educational agency determined there was a shortage of qualified teachers. (2) The borrower, in the time frame provided under paragraph (c) of this section, for the year of service for which forgiveness is requested, must provide to the Secretary or his designee_ (i) A statement by the chief administrative officer of the public elementary or secondary school in which the borrower was teaching_ (A) Certifying the year that the borrower was employed as a full-time teacher; (B) Certifying which subject area listed in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section or designated by the State educational agency the borrower taught; and (C) Verifying that the borrower taught in a school that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. (f) Borrower eligibility; volunteer service forgiveness. (1)(i) To qualify for the volunteer service loan forgiveness under this paragraph, a borrower must have served as a full-time volunteer for at least a year (defined as twelve consecutive months) under_ (A) The Peace Corps Act; or (B) The Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (ACTION programs). (ii) A borrower may also qualify for the volunteer service loan forgiveness if the borrower performed service comparable to service provided under paragraph (f)(1) of this section as a full-time employee of an organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, if the borrower did not receive compensation that exceeds the greater of_ (A) The minimum wage rate described in section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938; or (B) An amount equal to 100 percent of the poverty line for a family of two as defined in section 673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act. (2) To qualify under this paragraph, the borrower must_ (i) Have worked for an organization that provides services to low income persons and their communities to assist them in eliminating poverty and poverty-related human, social, and environmental conditions; and (ii) Not, as part of his or her duties, have given religious instruction, conducted worship services, engaged in religious proselytizing, or engaged in fund-raising to support religious activities. (3) The borrower, in the time frame provided under paragraph (c) of this section, for the year of service for which forgiveness is requested under paragraphs (f)(1), (f)(2), or (f)(3) of this section must provide to the Secretary or his designee a statement from an authorized official of the organization or agency for whom the borrower worked certifying_ (i) That the borrower served in a job that satisfies the requirements of this paragraph; (ii) The date on which the borrower's service began; and
