FR941227-2-00063 FR941227-2-00046 (2) Revise the requirement for audited financial statements to include only holding companies with assets of $500 million or more. (3) Eliminate the requirement to submit nonbank subsidiary financial statements. Incorporate this information into an expanded standardized FR Y&hyph;11 report as discussed below. (4) Eliminate the requirement to submit certified copies of amendments to organizational documents. (5) Eliminate the collection of information on insiders loans. (6) Eliminate the confirmation of changes in investments and activities. 2. Report Title: Combined Financial Statements of Nonbank Subsidiaries of Bank Holding Companies Agency Form Number: FR Y&hyph;11Q OMB Docket Number: 7100&hyph;0244 Frequency: Quarterly Reporters: Bank Holding Companies Annual Reporting Hours: 6,696 Estimated Average Hours per Response: Range from 3.0 to 8.0 hours Number of Respondents: 270 Small businesses are affected. The information collection is mandatory [12 U.S.C. 1844(b) and (c)] and 12 CFR 225.5(b). Confidential treatment is not routinely given to the data in these reports. However, confidential treatment for the report information, in whole or in part, can be requested in accordance with the instructions to the form. The FR Y&hyph;11Q is filed by all bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more, regardless of whether or not the bank holding companies own any nonbank subsidiaries and by all bank holding companies with total assets of $150 million or more but less than $1 billion that meet one or more of the following conditions: (a) the assets of the holding company's nonbank subsidiaries constitute 5 percent or more of the holding company's total consolidated assets; or (b) the net income of the holding company's nonbank subsidiaries make up 5 percent or more of the holding company's total consolidated net income; or (c) the holding company's investment in and/or loans and advances to nonbank subsidiaries exceed 5 percent of the holding company's total consolidated equity capital. The report collects basic financial information on nonbank subsidiaries and consists of a balance sheet, income statement, and a memoranda section. The Federal Reserve proposes the following revisions to the FR Y&hyph;11Q: (1) Expand the report to collect more detailed financial information, comparable to items collected on the FR Y&hyph;9C. The proposed comprehensive financial statements include a balance sheet, off-balance sheet items, a memoranda section, an income statement, and a statement of changes in equity capital. (2) Revise the reporting criteria for bank holding companies with assets of $150 or more to collect information on an individual basis from each nonbank subsidiary viewed as having a significant effect on the condition of the bank holding company. All bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $150 million or more would file a report for each individual nonbank subsidiary with total assets equal to 5 percent or more of the bank holding company's consolidated Tier 1 capital, or where the subsidiary's total operating revenue equals 5 percent or more of the bank holding company's consolidated total operating revenue. 3. Report Title: Annual Report of Selected Financial Data for Nonbank Subsidiaries of Bank Holding Companies Agency Form Number: FR Y&hyph;11I OMB Docket Number: 7100&hyph;0218 Frequency: Annual Reporters: Bank Holding Companies Annual Reporting Hours: 13,216 Estimated Average Hours per Response: Range from .4 to 8.0 hours Number of Respondents: 4130 Small businesses are affected. The information collection is mandatory [12 U.S.C. 1844(b) and (c)] and 12 CFR 225.5(b). Confidential treatment is not routinely given to the data in these reports. However, confidential treatment for the report information, in whole or in part, can be requested in accordance with the instructions to the form.
