FR940128-2-00097 FR940128-2-00063 [ER-FRL&hyph;4707&hyph;9] Environmental Impact Statements and Regulations; Availability of EPA Comments Availability of EPA comments prepared January 10, 1994 Through January 14, 1994 pursuant to the Environmental Review Process (ERP), under section 309 of the Clean Air Act and section 102(2)(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act as amended. Requests for copies of EPA comments can be directed to the Office of Federal Activities at (202) 260&hyph;5076. An explanation of the ratings assigned to draft environmental impact statements (EISs) was published in FR dated April 10, 1993 (58 FR 18392). Draft EISs ERP No. D-AFS-K65153&hyph;00 Rating EC2, Klamath National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan, Implementation, Siskyou Co., CA and Jackson Co., OR. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns for air quality impacts, cumulative impacts (including impacts on non-federal lands), and treatment of old-growth forest stands on nonrestricted lands. EPA urged the Forest Service to provide sufficient opportunity for review of the Plan in relation to the Spotted Owl FSEIS so as to determine the specific management prescriptions for and impacts to the forest. ERP No. D-AFS-K65154&hyph;CA Rating EC2, Mendocine National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan, Implementaton, Colusa, Glenn, Lake, Mendocino, Tehama and Trinity Counties, CA. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns for air quality impacts, cumulative impacts (including impacts on non-federal lands), and treatment of old-growth forest stands on nonrestricted lands. EPA urged the Forest Service to provide sufficient opportunity for review of the Plan in relation to the Spotted Owl FSEIS so as to determine the specific management prescriptions for and impacts to the forest. ERP No. D-AFS-K65155&hyph;CA Rating EC2, Six Rivers National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan, Implementation, Humboldt, Trinity, Del Norte and Siskiyou Counties, CA. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns for air quality impacts, and water quality. EPA urged the Forest Service to provide sufficient opportunity for review of the Plan in relation to the Spotted Owl FSEIS so as to determine the specific management prescriptions for and impacts to the forest. ERP No. D-AFS-K65156&hyph;CA Rating EC2, Shasta-Trinity National Forests Land and Resource Management Plan, Implementation, Humboldt, Modoc, Shasta, and Siskiyou, Tehama and Trinity Counties, CA. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns for air quality impacts, and minerals management. EPA urged the Forest Service to provide sufficient opportunity for review of the Plan in relation to the Spotted Owl FSEIS so as to determine the specific management prescriptions for and impacts to the forest. ERP No. DS-NPS-K61085&hyph;00 Rating EC2, Lake Mead National Recreation Area, General Management Plan, Updated Information on Willow Beach Development Concept Plan Amendment, Implementation, AZ and CA. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding project impacts to water quality. EPA request that additional information be included in the final document on minimization and mitigation of impacts to waters of the US and nonpoint source water pollution control measures. Final EISs ERP No. F-AFS-L60097&hyph;ID, Spruce Creek Timber Sale, Implementation, Boise National Forest, Valley County, ID. Summary: Review of the Final EIS has been completed and the project found to be satisfactory. No formal letter was sent to the preparing agency. ERP No. F-AFS-L65194&hyph;ID, Mid-Skull/Upper Bear Timber Sales, Timber Harvest, Road Construction and Reconstruction, Clearwater National Forest, North Fork Ranger District, Skull Creek, Clearwater County, ID. Summary: Review of the Final EIS has been completed and the project found to be satisfactory. No formal letter was sent to the preparing agency. ERP No. F-BLM-G02001&hyph;NM, Dark Canyon Special Management Area, Oil and Gas Leasing, Permit for Approval to Drill near Carlsbad Caverns National Park, Eddy County, NM. Summary: EPA had determined that the Final EIS adequately assesses potential impacts to cave resources as well as the reasonable foreseeable development of oil and gas resources. EPA had no objection to the selection of the preferred alternative. ERP No. F-BLM-K67017&hyph;NV, Newmont Gold Quarry Open-Pit Mine and Ore Processing Facility Expansion and Operation, Plan of Operation Approval, NPDES and COE Section 404 Permits, Eureka and Elko Counties, NV. Summary: EPA expressed continued environmental concern regarding project impacts to groundwater, streams, springs, wetlands and riparian areas and how these impacts will be sufficiently mitigated and monitored. ERP No. F-DOE-L61195&hyph;AK, Healy 50 Megawatt-Electric Coal Fired Power Plant Construction and Operation, Clean Coal Technologies Demonstration, Funding, NPDES and Section 404 Permits, Borough of Denali, AK. Summary: Review of the Final EIS has been completed and the project found to be satisfactory. No formal letter was sent to the preparing agency. Dated: January 25, 1994. William D. Dickerson, Deputy Director, Office of Federal Activities. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1962 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;U
