FR940419-0-00097 FR940419-0-00019 (g) Contractors who are performing nondiscretionary technical or engineering services, including construction work, may request a waiver from or modification to this clause by submitting a written request to the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer shall make the determination regarding whether to waive or modify the clause on a case-by-case basis. (h) The Contractor agrees to insert in each subcontract or consultant agreement placed hereunder, except for subcontracts or consultant agreements for nondiscretionary technical or engineering services, including treatability studies, well drilling, fence erecting, plumbing, utility hookups, security guard services, or electrical services, provisions which shall conform substantially to the language of this clause, including this paragraph (h) unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor may request in writing that the Contracting Officer exempt from this clause a particular subcontract or consultant agreement for nondiscretionary technical or engineering services not specifically listed above, including laboratory analysis. The Contracting Officer will review and evaluate each request on a case-by-case basis before approving or disapproving the request. (i) If the Contractor seeks an expedited decision regarding its initial future contracting request, the Contractor may submit its request to both the Contracting Officer and the next administrative level within the Contracting Officer's organization. (j) A review process available to the Contractor when an adverse determination is received shall consist of a request for reconsideration to the Contracting Officer or a request for review submitted to the next administrative level within the Contracting Officer's organization. An adverse determination resulting from a request for reconsideration by the Contracting Officer will not preclude the Contractor from requesting a review by the next administrative level. Either a request for review or a request for reconsideration must be submitted to the appropriate level within 30 calendar days after receipt of the initial adverse determination. (End of clause) 11. Section 1552.210&hyph;80 is added to read as follows: ยง1552.210&hyph;80 Annual certification. As prescribed in 1510.011&hyph;80, insert the following clause: Annual Certification (May 1994) The Contractor shall submit an annual conflict of interest certification to the Contracting Officer. In this certification, the Contractor shall certify annually that, to the best of the Contractor's knowledge and belief, all actual or potential organizational conflicts of interest have been reported to EPA. In addition, in this annual certification, the Contractor shall certify that it has informed its personnel who perform work under EPA contracts or relating to EPA contracts of their obligation to report personal and organizational conflicts of interest to the Contractor. Such certification must be signed by a senior executive of the company and submitted in accordance with instructions provided by the Contracting Officer. The initial certification shall cover the one-year period from the date of contract award, and all subsequent certifications shall cover successive annual periods thereafter, until expiration or termination of the contract. The certification must be received by the Contracting Officer no later than 45 days after the close of the certification period covered. (End of clause)
