FR940318-2-00078 FR940318-2-00063 Performance Review Boards for Small Client Agencies Serviced by the General Services Administration, Names of Members Section 4314 (C) (1) through (5) of Title 5 U.S.C., requires each agency to establish, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the office of Personnel Management, one or more Performance Review Boards. The board shall review and evaluate the initial appraisal by the supervisor of a senior executive's performance, along with any recommendations to the appointing authority relative to the performance of the senior executive. The Performance Review Board also shall make recommendations as to whether the career executive should be recertified, conditionally recertified, or not recertified. As provided under Section 601 of the Economy Act of 1932, amended 31 U.S.C. 1525, the General Services Administration through its Customer Service Branch, Personnel Division, provides various personnel management services to a number of diverse Presidential commissions, committees, boards and other agencies through reimbursable administrative support agreements. This notice is processed on behalf of the client agencies, and it supersedes all other notices in the Federal Register on this subject. Because of their small size, a Performance Review Board register has been established in which SES members from the client agencies participate. The Board is composed of SES members from various agencies. From this register of names, the head of each client agency will appoint executives to a specific board to serve a particular client agency. The members whose names appear on the Performance Review Board standing roster to serve client agencies are: Administrative Conference of the U.S. Gary J. Edles, General Counsel Jeffrey S. Lubbers, Research Director Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation Gerald J. Smith, Executive Secretary Board for International Broadcasting Richard McBride, Executive Director Mark C. Pomar, Deputy Executive Director John A. Lindburg, General Counsel Patricia H. Schlueter, Director of Financial and Congressional Affairs Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled Beverly L. Milkman, Executive Director Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board Kenneth M. Pusateri, General Manager Joseph R. Neubeiser, Deputy General Manager Robert M. Anderson, General Counsel Richard A. Azzaro, Deputy General Counsel for Policy and Litigation George W. Cunningham, General Engineer Joyce P. Davis, Chief, Health Physics Branch Wallace R. Kornack, Assistant Director for Engineering Steven L. Krahn, Assistance Director for Weapon Programs Lester A. Ettlinger, Assistant Director for Standards Andrew G. Stadnik, Assistant Director for Material Processing and Environmental Restoration Programs Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation Louis H. Blair, Executive Secretary Japan-United States Friendship Commission Eric J. Gangloff, Executive Director Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Christopher J. Bavasi, Executive Director Michael J. McAlister, Deputy Executive Director Dated: March 8, 1994. Robert A. Miller, Chief, Customer Service Branch. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6299 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;34&hyph;M
