FR941130-0-00101 FR941130-0-00015 (d) Forbearance. (1) Forbearance means the temporary cessation of payments, allowing an extension of time for making payments, or temporarily accepting smaller payments than previously were scheduled. (2) Upon receipt of a written request and supporting documentation, the institution shall grant the borrower forbearance of principal and, unless otherwise indicated by the borrower, interest renewable at intervals of up to 12 months for periods that collectively do not exceed three years. (3) The terms of forbearance must be agreed upon, in writing, by the borrower and the institution. (4) In granting a forbearance under this section, an institution shall grant a temporary cessation of payments, unless the borrower chooses another form of forbearance subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section. (5) An institution shall grant forbearance if_ (i) The amount of the payments the borrower is obligated to make on title IV loans each month (or a proportional share if the payments are due less frequently than monthly) is collectively equal to or greater than 20 percent of the borrower's total monthly gross income; (ii) The institution determines that the borrower should qualify for the forbearance due to poor health or for other acceptable reasons; or (iii) The Secretary authorizes a period of forbearance due to a national military mobilization or other national emergency. (3) Before granting a forbearance to a borrower under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the institution shall require the borrower to submit at least the following documentation: (i) Evidence showing the amount of the most recent total monthly gross income received by the borrower; and (ii) Evidence showing the amount of the monthly payments owed by the borrower for the most recent month for the borrower's title IV loans. (4) Interest accrues during any period of forbearance. (e) Compromise of repayment. (1) An institution may compromise on the repayment of a defaulted loan if_ (i) The institution has fully complied with all due diligence requirements specified in subpart C of this part; and (ii) The student borrower pays in a single lump-sum payment_ (A) 90 percent of the outstanding principal balance on the loan under this part; (B) The interest due on the loan; and (C) Any collection fees due on the loan. (2) The Federal share of the compromise repayment must bear the same relation to the institution's share of the compromise repayment as the Federal capital contribution to the institution's loan Fund under this part bears to the institution's capital contribution to the Fund. * * * * * §§674.34 through 674.39 [Redesignated as §§674.35 through 674.40] 18. Sections 674.34 through 674.39 are redesignated as §§674.35 through 674.40 respectively and a new §674.34 is added to read as follows: §674.34 Deferment of repayment_Federal Perkins loans and Direct loans made on or after July 1, 1993. (a) The borrower may defer making scheduled installment repayment on a Federal Perkins loan or a Direct loan made on or after July 1, 1993, during the periods described in this section. (b)(1) The borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, during a period after the commencement or resumption of the repayment period on a loan, when the borrower is_ (i) Enrolled and in attendance as a regular student in at least a half-time course of study at an eligible institution; (ii) Enrolled and in attendance as a regular student in a course of study that is part of a graduate fellowship program approved by the Secretary; (iii) Engaged in graduate or post-graduate fellowship-supported study (such as a Fulbright grant) outside the United States; or (iv) Enrolled in a course of study that is part of a rehabilitation training program for disabled individuals approved by the Secretary as described in paragraph (g) of this section. (2) No borrower is eligible for a deferment under paragraph (b)(1) of this section while serving in a medical internship or residency program, except for a residency program in dentistry. (3) The institution of higher education at which the borrower is enrolled does not need to be participating in the Federal Perkins Loan program for the borrower to qualify for a deferment. (4) If a borrower is attending an institution of higher education as at least a half-time regular student for a full academic year and intends to enroll as at least a half-time regular student in the next academic year, the borrower is entitled to a deferment for 12 months. (5) If an institution no longer qualifies as an institution of higher education, the borrower's deferment ends on the date the institution ceases to qualify. (c)(1) The borrower of a Federal Perkins loan need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for any period during which the borrower is engaged in service described in §§674.53, 674.54, 674.56, 674.57, 674.58, 674.59, and 674.60. (2) The borrower of a Direct loan need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for any period during which the borrower is engaged in service described in §§674.53, 674.54, 674.56, 674.57, 674.58, and 674.59. (d) The borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for any period not to exceed 3 years during which the borrower is seeking and unable to find full-time employment. (e) The borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for any period not to exceed 3 years during which the borrower is suffering an economic hardship. To qualify for this deferment, the borrower must provide documentation satisfactory to the institution showing that the borrower_ (1) Has been granted an economic hardship deferment under either the FDSL or FFEL programs for the period of time for which the borrower has requested an economic hardship deferment for his or her Federal Perkins loan; (2) Is receiving payment under a federal or state public assistance program, such as Aid to Families with Dependent Children, Supplemental Security Income, Food Stamps, or state general public assistance; (3) Is working full-time and earning a total monthly gross income that does not exceed the greater of_ (i) The monthly earnings of an individual earning the minimum wage described in section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938; or (ii) An amount equal to 100 percent of the poverty line for a family of two, as determined in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community Service Block Grant Act; (4) Is not receiving total monthly gross income that exceeds twice the amount specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section and, after deducting an amount equal to the borrower's monthly payments on federal postsecondary education loans, as determined under paragraph (e)(8) of this section, the remaining amount of that income does not exceed the amount specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; or
