FR940503-0-00010 FR940503-0-00003 Under OTS rules, a conversion offering may involve as many as three phases: A subscription offering, a direct community offering and an underwritten public offering. Only the subscription offering phase, which affords account holders the opportunity to subscribe for stock on a priority basis, is required; if all of the stock is purchased in the subscription phase, any other offering is unnecessary. The conversion regulations protect the status of mutual account holders by establishing a detailed series of subscription priorities for purchases of conversion stock. Currently, ยง563b.3(c)(2) requires that first priority to purchase the stock issued in the conversion, after certain tax-qualified ESOP purchases, discussed below, belongs to eligible account holders, i.e., depositors holding qualifying deposits at the savings association as of a date (eligibility record date) at least ninety days prior to the date of adoption of the plan of conversion by the association's board of directors. 6 The regulations also provide that each eligible account holder must receive, without payment, nontransferable subscription rights in an amount equal to the greater of the maximum purchase limitation established under the converting association's plan of conversion, or certain formulas prescribed under the regulations. 7 6 12 CFR 563b.2(a)(16). 7 12 CFR 563b.3(c)(2). In 1986, amendments to the conversion regulations were adopted to eliminate uncertainty on a variety of issues presented by employee stock benefit plans and to enhance the ability of officers, directors and employees of a savings association to acquire stock when the association converted, through various types of employee stock benefit vehicles. 8 Prior to the 1986 amendments, the first priority to purchase conversion stock had always been with eligible account holders. The 1986 amendments, which granted a first priority purchase right to tax-qualified employee benefit plans, were based on the FHLBB's belief that acquisition of an association's stock by such plans provided a means for officers and employees of converting associations to acquire larger ownership stakes in their associations upon conversion without undermining the basic equities of the conversion process. 9 In addition, and perhaps more significantly, the FHLBB sought to afford undercapitalized mutual savings associations, that feared hostile takeovers as a public company, a measure of anti-takeover protection through the opportunity to place a significant block of conversion stock in friendly hands, and thus, encourage capital raising through conversion. 8 51 FR 40127 (November 5, 1986). 9 Id. Section 563b.3(c)(23) currently provides an explicit top priority for tax-qualified employee stock benefit plans that permits plans to purchase up to 10% of the total conversion stock offering ahead of eligible depositors. This priority also is on a preferred basis; thus, in the event an offering is over-subscribed, the plans' stock purchases will not be affected. Although the OTS believes that it is still appropriate to provide management incentives and to encourage employee stock ownership in the converted association, these interests have been overshadowed by other factors. Because most mutual associations are now healthy, there is a need to balance the interests of management and employees against those of account holders by providing long-term depositors at mutual savings associations the first opportunity to buy conversion stock. The OTS is therefore amending ยง563b.3(c)(23) to revise the stock purchase priorities so as to place eligible account holders before the tax-qualified employee stock benefit plans and to place tax-qualified employee stock benefit plans before supplemental eligible account holders 10 and all other voting members who have subscription rights. Finally, the OTS is amending ยง563b.3 (c)(6)(i), (c)(7), and (d)(4) to conform to these changes. 10 The term ``supplemental eligible account holder'' means any person holding a qualifying deposit, except officers, directors and their associates, as of the last day of the calendar quarter preceding the OTS's approval of the application for conversion. See current 12 CFR 563b.2 (a)(37) and (a)(38).
