FR940930-1-00067 FR940930-1-00020 (c) Arbitration rules in cases of dispute. Agencies may use arbitration requirements found in Appendix IX of the ACH Rules. Use of the arbitration provisions shall be preceded by a written agreement for their use. Funding for any expenses incurred in following the arbitration requirements will be the responsibility of the agency, not the Department of the Treasury or the Service. ยง210.3 Authorizations and revocations of authorizations. (a) Requirements for authorization. The requirements for authorization to originate and receive credit and debit transactions are as follows: (1) Every Government Originator shall obtain prior authorization from the Receiver for ACH transactions originated by the Government. The Government Originator shall exercise due diligence in verifying the identity of any Receiver who presents an authorization to the Government. (2) All Originators sending ACH credits with a value greater than zero to the Government shall enter into an agreement with the Government entity to which the credit is directed prior to transmitting the first credit. Specifications for the agreement can be found in the TFM. (3) A Receiving Depository Financial Institution (RDFI) shall verify the identity of any Receiver who initiates or executes an authorization through the RDFI to receive credits or debits originated by the Government. The RDFI shall exercise due diligence in such identification, at a minimum applying the standards used for negotiation of financial instruments. (4) The title of the account designated to receive a payment shall include the name of the Receiver, except as provided as follows: (i) In the case of discretionary allotments, the allotter may authorize a credit to any other Receiver. The Receiver's agreement is not required for the authorization or revocation; (ii) In the case of a master account/sub-account structure, the accounts need not include the name of the Receiver. However, a clearly traceable audit trail to the payment shall exist in the sub-account, and the Receiver must retain control over the funds. (5) Government benefit payments shall be deposited only into a consumer account except under conditions stated in ยง210.3(a)(4)(ii). The definition of consumer account includes non-participating depository financial institutions that receive Government payments. (6) Unless expressly authorized in writing, Originators and Originating Depository Financial Institutions (ODFIs) shall not initiate, under any circumstances, debit entries to the Government. ODFIs shall be subject to the liabilities in ยง210.6(e)(2) for any unauthorized debits. (b) Terms of Receiver authorizations. By executing an authorization for a Government ACH participant to initiate credits or debits, a Receiver agrees: (1) To the provisions of this part; (2) To provide accurate information; (3) To verify their identity to the satisfaction of the RDFI or Government Originator, whichever has accepted the authorization; (4) That any new authorization pertaining to a credit or debit supersedes any previous authorization pertaining to the same credit or debit; (5) That the Government reserves the right to use reversal entries in the event that it originates duplicate files or makes entries in error; and, (6) That Government benefits shall be sent to a designated RDFI and that the full amount of the Government benefit shall be credited to either a checking or a savings account, but not both. (c) Termination and revocation of authorizations. An ACH authorization shall remain valid until it is terminated or revoked by_ (1) Receipt by the Government Originator of a written request from the Receiver, unless a later effective date is requested by the Receiver; (2) A change in the title of an account which removes or adds the name of a Receiver, or otherwise alters the interest of the Receiver of Government credits, except as provided in ยง210.3(a)(4)(i) & (ii) of this part; (3) The death of a Receiver or the death of a beneficiary on whose behalf the Receiver is accepting credits; (4) Closing of the Receiver's account at the RDFI by the Receiver or by the RDFI. If the RDFI is closing the account, it shall provide 30 days written notice to the Receiver before it takes any action; (5) Inability of the RDFI to process the item correctly or properly because of incorrect transaction instructions; (6) Failure to meet any of the conditions specified in the terms of the authorization; (7) A determination by the Government Originator that the conditions of authorization have changed and accordingly, the authorization is void as of the time of the changed condition; (8) Return by the RDFI of one or more debit entries originated by the Government for reasons of insufficient funds, stop payment orders, or other similar reasons; or,
