FR940429-0-00165 FR940429-0-00015 The Secretary recognizes that the approach to significantly increased gatekeeping activity outlined in the statute for the three members of the triad is a new one. This approach will require leadership in both implementation and evaluation if it is to achieve the effectiveness that Congress intended. The Secretary will take steps to assure that the various responsibilities of the triad members are carried out in a manner that, in fact, results in the identification of institutions that should not participate in the Title IV, HEA programs, on the basis of either the quality of education they offer or their inability to handle program funds. At the same time, the Secretary is committed to carrying out the responsibility for coordinating the activities of the triad members that are inherent in the statute in a manner that causes the least burden to institutions participating in the Title IV, HEA programs. To these ends, the Secretary is committed to effective management of the gatekeeping function. The Secretary will review carefully the applications of accrediting bodies and the standards and operating plans proposed by State Postsecondary Review Entities (SPREs) under the State Postsecondary Review Program to insure that they meet the requirements of the statute and these regulations and will enable these triad agencies to fulfill their statutory purposes. The Secretary will also place a priority on the completion of the ``Postsecondary Education Participation System,'' the Department's new integrated data base, which will contain the information that the Secretary generates in the course of the Secretary's oversight of institutions participating in Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary will use the data base to inform accrediting bodies and SPREs of actions taken by the Secretary so that they may in turn carry out their responsibilities. This expanded data base is also critical to the Secretary's effective selection of institutions for program review. Monitoring the results of the gatekeeping process is a very important key to effective management. The Secretary will evaluate the activities of accrediting agencies, SPREs, and the Department to determine their effectiveness in improving the integrity of institutions participating in Title IV programs and will take such steps as may be indicated to improve the results. Finally, as provided in the statute, the Secretary will seek the advice and counsel of the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity in evaluating the effectiveness of the triad. The Secretary believes that the approach best suited to achieving the objectives of the statute is a complementary one, with each member of the triad focusing its evaluation on its obligations within the context of the HEA. Thus, the focus for accrediting agencies is the quality of education or training provided by the institutions or programs they accredit. States, in addition to providing the legal authority to operate within the state required for participation in the Title IV, HEA programs, will review institutions that meet certain statutory review criteria related to institutional performance in the Title IV, HEA programs. The focus of the Secretary's evaluation of institutions is on the administrative and financial capacity of those institutions to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs. While the functions and responsibilities of each of the triad members are generally different, the statute does require, in some instances, that all members of the triad evaluate similar areas. For the most part, the principle of complementary functions will lead to the members evaluating those same areas from different perspectives for different purposes. For example, all three of the triad members are required to examine the finances of an institution. If each looks at financial strength from a perspective complementary to that of the others, accrediting agencies would focus principally on the capacity of the institution to continue to offer programs at a level of quality sufficient to meet accrediting agency standards and to fulfill the institution's mission over a 5&hyph;10 year period of accreditation. The emphasis of a review by a SPRE would be on whether or not the institution possesses the full range of resources needed to serve students currently attending the institution. The Secretary's responsibilities focus on the institution's finances in light of its ability to provide the services described in its official publications and statements, to provide the administrative resources necessary to comply with its Title IV, HEA program responsibilities, and to meet all of its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, refunds of institutional charges and repayments to the Secretary for liabilities and debts incurred in programs administered by the Secretary. Despite the Secretary's efforts to encourage complementary functions for each of the triad members, it is theoretically possible that, in some instances, an institution could be subject to three different standards regulating the same area of operation. For this reason, where a Title IV standard has been promulgated at the Federal level, the Secretary expects accrediting agencies and States to take this into account in establishing their own standards to insure that varying standards do not pose an unnecessary burden on institutions. It is also important that accrediting agencies and States do not impose any standard that is weaker than comparable Title IV, HEA program standards. The Secretary believes coordination of this is a federal responsibility. In view of the complementary approach to the functions of the triad members, the Secretary believes, for example, that institutions should not have to develop different methodologies to provide data that the three members of the triad may require. The Secretary also believes that, to the extent feasible, any other requests for data about the institution, its students, or its graduates should rely on information already in the institution's possession. To that end, the Secretary expects accrediting agencies and States either to accept student data based on the methodology that will be specified in the regulations governing ``Student Right to Know,'' also mandated by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992, or, where the institution may have other methodologies for calculating data, such as a system designed to provide data to a State higher education commission or other State agency, to accept data in the format already being used by the institution. Similarly, the Secretary expects accrediting agencies and SPREs to use the audited financial statements institutions are now required to provide to the Secretary on an annual basis to the extent those statements are compatible with the nature of the reviews conducted under their respective standards. The Secretary also recognizes that other Federal agencies, such as the Department of Labor and the Veterans Administration, also regulate institutions in some areas that are similar to those included in part H. The suggestion has been made that the Secretary should promulgate Federal standards in the areas of overlap so that institutions would not be subject to varying standards developed by other Federal agencies and the triad members. However, the Secretary interprets part H as permitting States and accrediting agencies to establish their own standards, as opposed to using a Federal standard, and also believes that this is the most effective approach. In addition, it is not clear how the requirements of the different agencies are compatible with the requirements of part H. The purposes of these programs administered by other agencies may be very different. As a result, the Secretary has not pursued this alternative. The Secretary does believe that it would be useful to explore how the varying requirements of other Federal agencies that are similar to those of part H might be coordinated to reduce any burden on institutions and will initiate such exploration. The Secretary believes that, where possible, data developed at the national level should be made available to institutions, as well as to States and accrediting agencies to assist them in carrying out their responsibilities under part H. In particular, data concerning labor markets and compensation for specific fields and information concerning graduation and withdrawal rates at various types of institutions may be helpful to both triad members and institutions. The Secretary will facilitate the development of this type of information and, where possible under the auspices of the Department, will coordinate the development of data that will be helpful to institutions and the triad.
