FR940722-0-00104 FR940722-0-00019 55. Finally, to avoid the consequences of clerical errors and to compensate for unusual circumstances that might delay a bidder's bid preparation or submission on a particular day, Milgrom and Wilson recommend permitting each bidder to request and automatically receive a waiver of the activity rule once every three rounds. We believe that some waiver procedure is a critical element of the Milgrom-Wilson activity rule, since the Commission would not wish to reduce a bidder's eligibility due to an accidental act or circumstances not under the bidder's control. 56. We believe that the Milgrom-Wilson approach will best achieve the Commission's goals of affording bidders flexibility to pursue backup strategies, while at the same time ensuring that simultaneous auctions are concluded within a reasonable period of time. Accordingly, we plan to impose such an activity rule in conjunction with a simultaneous stopping rule to award higher value broadband PCS licenses. We intend, however, to use a simpler waiver procedure than that proposed by Milgrom and Wilson. We will permit bidders one automatic waiver from the activity rule during each stage of an auction. A waiver will permit a bidder to maintain its eligibility at the same level as in the round for which the waiver is submitted. 36 A waiver may be submitted either in the round in which bidding falls below the minimum required level to maintain (for the next round) the same eligibility as in that round, or prior to submitting a bid in the next round. If an activity rule waiver is entered in a round in which no other bidding activity occurs, the auction will remain open. 37 However, an activity rule waiver entered after a round in which no other bidding activity occurs will not reopen the auction. If, as we gain both experimental and actual auction experience, we determine that permitting one automatic waiver per auction stage is insufficient to prevent the inadvertent reduction in eligibility of serious bidders, we may, by public notice prior to a specific broadband auction, increase the number of automatic activity rule waivers, or instead allow one automatic waiver during a specified number of bidding rounds. 36 An activity rule waiver cannot be used to correct an error in the amount bid. 37 If, however, we determine, based on evidence from experimental and actual auctions, that this is likely to excessively delay the close of an auction or result in other adverse strategic manipulation of an auction, we any announce by public notice prior to a specific broadband auction that submission of a waiver will not keep an auction open under any circumstances. 57. Furthermore, if, as we gain experience with auctions, we determine that the Milgrom-Wilson three stage activity rule is too complicated or costly to administer, we may alternatively impose a less complex activity rule. See Second Report and Order at ¶ 144. We will announce by Public Notice before each auction the activity rule that will be employed in that particular auction. V. Procedural, Payment, and Penalty Issues A. Pre-Auction Application Procedures 58. In the Second Report and Order, the Commission established general competitive bidding rules and procedures which we noted may be modified on a service-specific basis. See 47 CFR Part 1, subpart Q. As discussed below, we will generally follow the procedural, payment and penalty rules established in the Second Report and Order with certain minor modifications designed to address the particular characteristics of the broadband PCS service. These rules are structured to ensure that bidders and licensees are qualified and will be able to construct systems quickly and other service to the public. By ensuring that bidders and license winners are serious, qualified applicants, these rules will minimize the need to re-auction licenses and prevent delays in the provision of broadband PCS service to the public. In addition, as we proposed in the Notice at ¶ 129, we adopt general procedural and processing rules based on Part 22 of the Commission's Rules. 59. Section 309(j)(5) provides that no party may participate in an auction ``unless such bidder submits such information and assurances as the Commission may require to demonstrate that such bidder's application is acceptable for filing.'' 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(5). Moreover, ``[n]o license shall be granted to an applicant selected pursuant to this subsection unless the Commission determines that the applicant is qualified pursuant to [Section 309(a)] and Sections 308(b) and 310'' of the Communications Act. id. As the legislative history of Section 309(j) makes clear, the Commission may require that bidders' applications contain all information and documentation sufficient to demonstrate that the application is not in violation of Commission rules, and applications not meeting those requirements may be dismissed prior to the competitive bidding. See H.R. Rep. No. 111, 103d Cong., 1st Sess. 258 (1993) (H.R. Rep. No. 103&hyph;111). 60. In the MPRM, we proposed that all parties interested in participating in an auction for spectrum licenses would be required to file a short-form application (modeled on the Commission's ``Transmittal Sheet for Cellular Applications''), and asked whether applicants should also be required to submit a long-form application prior to the auction, or whether the long-form application should be submitted subsequent to the auction. NPRM at ¶ 97. The comments generally agreed that we should require only a short-form application prior to competitive bidding, and that only winning bidders should be required to submit a long-form license application after the auction. Because we believed that such a procedure would fulfill the statutory requirements and objectives and adequately protect the public interest, we incorporated these requirements into the rules adopted in the Second Report and Order. See 47 CFR §§1.2105 and 1.2107. We will extend the application of these rules to the competitive bidding process for broadband PCS.
