FR940128-2-00027 FR940128-2-00011 Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (Draft Date: October 8, 1993) Announcing the Standard for Open Document Architecture (ODA) Raster Document Application Profile (DAP) Federal Information Processing Standards Publications (FIPS PUBS) are issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology after approval by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to section 111(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 as amended by the Computer Security Act of 1987, Public Law 100&hyph;235. 1. Name of Standard. Open Document Architecture (ODA) Raster Document Application Profile (DAP). 2. Category of Standard. Software Standard, Graphics. 3. Explanation. This Federal Information Processing Standard adopts the International Standard Profile (ISP) FOD112 Open Document Architecture (ODA) Document Application Profile (DAP), ``ODA Raster DAP,'' which specifies the use of a subset of the Open Document Architecture (ODA) and Interchange Format Standard. The ODA standard supports the interchange of compound documents containing up to three types of contents: Character (text), raster graphics, and geometric graphics. Developed by international standards organizations, the ODA standard specifies rules for describing the logical and layout structures of documents as well as rules for specifying character, raster graphics, and geometric graphics content of documents, thus providing for the interchange of complex documents. The ODA standard was developed primarily by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO/IEC JTC1) and the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Telecommunication Standardization Sector (TSS), formerly the Consultative Committee on International Telephone and Telegraph (CCITT). A DAP is a functional subset of the ODA standard and facilitates the interchange of documents among different document systems by specifying the constraints on document structure and content according to the rules of the ODA Standard. The ODA Raster DAP specifies an interchange format suitable for the transfer of structured documents between systems designed for raster graphics applications. The documents supported by this standard are based on a paradigm of an electronic engineering drawing, illustration, or other electronic image. Only raster content in an ODA document is supported by this FIPS. The ODA Raster DAP was initially developed by an ad-hoc Continuous Acquisition and Life-Cycle Support (CALS) Tiling Task Group. CALS, formerly known as the Computer-aided Acquisition and Logistic Support, is a Department of Defense (DoD) initiative. The ODA Raster DAP was further developed by vendors and users of computer networks/systems participating in the Open Systems Environment Implementors' Workshop (OIW), and finally harmonized with the International organizations participating in the Profile Alignment Group for ODA (PAGODA). It has been submitted to ISO/IEC JTC1/Special Group on Functional Standards (SGFS) for processing of an International Standard Profile (ISP). 4. Approving Authority. Secretary of Commerce. 5. Maintenance Agency. U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (Computer Systems Laboratory). 6. Cross Index. a. International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 8613&hyph;1993, Information Processing_Text and Office Systems Open Document Architecture (ODA) and Interchange Format Standard. b. NIST Special Publication 500&hyph;206, Stable Implementation Agreements for Open Systems Interconnection Protocols, Version 6, Edition 1, December 1992, with updates through September 1993. c. Military Specification MIL&hyph;R&hyph;28002B, Requirements for Raster Graphics Representation in Binary Format, 14 December 1992, Appendix A, ODA Raster DAP. 7. Related Documents. Related ISO and ITU documents are listed in the normative reference section of the ODA Raster DAP. Other related documents are: a. ANSI/AIIM MS53&hyph;1993, Standard Recommended Practice_File Format for Storage and Exchange of Images_Bi-Level Image File Format. b. FIPS PUB 149, Telecommunications: Facsimile Coding Schemes and Coding Control Functions for Group 3 Facsimile Apparatus. c. FIPS PUB 150, Telecommunications: Facsimile Coding Schemes and Coding Control Functions for Group 4 Facsimile Apparatus. 8. Objectives. The FIPS for ODA Raster DAP permits Federal departments and agencies to exercise more effective control over the production, management, and use of Government's raster graphics applications. The primary objectives of this standard are: _To promote interchange of structured documents containing raster graphics images between image processing systems of different manufacturers, _To facilitate the use of advanced technology by the Federal Government, _To stimulate the development of commercial products compatible with the ODA Standard and with the GOSIP communications standards, _To contribute to the economic and efficient use of image and document processing system resources, and _To avoid the proliferation of vendor-unique solutions. 9. Applicability. The ODA Raster DAP is available for use by Federal Government agencies when acquiring and developing raster graphics applications. This FIPS applies to systems processing, generating, and receiving raster graphics images. It specifies the structure and parameters for describing and interchanging bi-level compressed images as well as tiled raster images. Each system acquired or developed by Federal agencies shall include appropriate system-to-DAP and DAP-to-system translators, such that incoming data streams are interpreted correctly and that outgoing data streams are generated correctly. Use of the standard is independent of the communications used to transfer documents produced by these applications, that is, this standard may be used within the existing framework of communication protocols. 10. Specifications. This FIPS adopts all provisions of the FOD112 ODA Raster DAP which is affixed. The document and raster layout specifications of ISO 8613 that are essential for raster graphics applications apply to the FIPS for ODA Raster DAP. The specifications for ODA data streams are also defined in ISO 8613 and apply to the FIPS for ODA raster DAP. All implementations claiming conformance to this FIPS must adhere to the specific requirements defined in the ``Conformance'' clause of the ODA Raster DAP and to the general rules below.
