FR940513-1-00003 FR940513-1-00001 Proposed Amendments Under the proposed regulations, a new authority, the Student Educational Employment Program, would replace the following: •Schedule A authority §213.3102(p) graduate students in scientific, professional or analytical positions; •Schedule A authority §213.3102(q), students in scientific, professional and technical positions, GS&hyph;9 and below; •Schedule A authority §213.3102(v), temporary summer aid; •Schedule A authority §213.3102(w), stay-in-school program; •Schedule A authority §213.3102(y), summer employment; •Schedule A authority §213.3102(jj), legal intern positions; •Schedule B authority §213.3202(a) through (c), (e) and (g), cooperative education program; •Schedule B authority §213.3102(d), Harry S. Truman Foundation Scholarship Program; and •Schedule B authority §213.3202(f), Federal Junior Fellowship Program. Using the new program, agencies would appoint students under §213.3202(b) (work study) and §213.3202(c) (temporary). The new schedule B authority would contain both a Work-Study Component, §213.3202(b) and a Temporary Student Component, §213.3202(c). Under the new program, the definition of student is an individual who is enrolled or accepted for enrollment in at least a half-time academic course load in an accredited high school, technical or vocational, associate, baccalaureate, graduate, or professional diploma or certificate program. An individual is still deemed to be a student as long as there are no breaks in course work of more than 5 months and the student shows to the satisfaction of the agency and academic institution that he/she has a bona fide intention of continuing to pursue a course of study or training. An individual who has to complete less than half of an academic course load immediately prior to graduating is still considered a student. Agencies may appoint students on a full-time, part-time or intermittent basis at any time during the year. The student's work schedule should not interfere with his or her academic studies. Work-Study Component The work-study component provides experience that is directly related to the student's educational program. Agencies should appoint students under §213.3202(b) when the job is related to their academic field of study. Programs developed under this component provide for a schedule of periods of attendance at an accredited school combined with periods of career-related work in a Federal agency. Agencies, participating educational institutions, and students should agree on a formally-arranged schedule of school and work to ensure that work responsibilities do not interfere with academic performance. Students appointed under this component will be classified as Student Trainees, to the -99 series of the appropriate occupational group. Students appointed under §213.3202(b) (work study) may be noncompetitively converted to a career or career-conditional appointment under Executive Order 12015 when students have: (1) completed within the preceding 120 days an educational program and course requirements at an accredited school; (2) completed at least 640 hours of career-related work, before completion of or concurrently with, the course requirements (agencies have the option of increasing this requirement for some or all of its occupation fields); (3) been recommended by the employing agency in which the career-related work was performed; and (4) met the qualification standards for the targeted position to which the student is appointed. Conversions will be to an occupation related to the student's academic training and work-study experience. Temporary Student Component This component provides flexibility to agencies to appoint students on a temporary basis to jobs that may/may not be related to the students' academic field of study. The intent of a temporary student component is to provide maximum flexibility and opportunity to agencies and students that will meet both of their needs on a short-term basis. Classification for students appointed under this component is based on the occupational series for which they are hired. Schedule B authority §213.3202(c) would be used for students employed on a not-to-exceed 1 year appointment. Appointments under this authority may be extended in 1-year increments as long as the employee is enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a student in a diplomat or certificate program at an accredited academic institution and is performing at the fully successful or higher performance summary level. Students would not be eligible for conversion to a career or career-conditional appointment under this authority. Movement Between Components Agencies may noncompetitively move students between temporary and work-study components if students meet the requirements for that component. Movement between components will require using the appointing authority for the component that the student is entering.
