FR940516-1-00038 FR940516-1-00001 (o) Material information. This section does not relieve a commodity trading advisor from any obligation under the Act or the regulations thereunder, including the obligation to disclose all material information to existing or prospective clients even if the information is not specifically required by this section. §4.34 Performance disclosures. (a) General principles. (1) The performance of the program offered must be displayed first, calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as specified below or by a method otherwise approved by the Commission, in a table showing at least quarterly the following information. (i) The beginning net asset value for the period, which shall represent the previous period's ending net asset value; (ii) All additions, whether voluntary or involuntary, during the period; (iii) All withdrawals and redemptions, whether voluntary or involuntary, during the period; (iv) The net performance for the period, which shall represent the change in the net asset value net of additions, withdrawals, redemptions, fees and expenses; (v) The ending net asset value for the period, which shall represent the beginning net asset value plus or minus additions, withdrawals and redemptions, and net performance; (vi) The rate of return for the period, computed on a compounded monthly basis, which shall be calculated by dividing the net performance by the beginning net asset value; (2) The performance of all other programs must be presented as set forth in §4.25(a)(1)(ii)(C) through (G) and must be based on the information set forth in §4.34(a)(1), and calculated on a current basis. The commodity trading advisor must maintain all supporting documents necessary to substantiate such calculation in accordance with §1.31. (3) All performance information presented in the disclosure document must be current as of a date not more than three months preceding the date of the document. (4) All required performance information must be presented for the most recent five calendar years and year-to-date or for its entire duration, if less than five years. (5) Unless such presentation would be misleading, the performance of accounts traded pursuant to the same trading program may be presented in a single composite table provided that the trading advisor describes how each composite was calculated. The term trading program means a trading strategy differentiated from others by commodity trading methodology, degree of risk or degree of leverage. (6) The performance of any account in which the commodity trading advisor, any of its principals or any person providing services to the pool owns or controls fifty percent or more of the beneficial interests shall not be included in a disclosure document unless such performance is prominently labeled as proprietary and set forth separately after all required disclosures. (7) Any past performance presentation, whether required or voluntarily provided, must be preceded with the following statement, prominently displayed: PAST PERFORMANCE IS NOT PREDICTIVE OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE. (b) Performance to be disclosed. The commodity trading advisor must disclose the actual performance of all accounts directed by the commodity trading advisor and by each of its trading principals; Provided, however, That if the trading advisor or its trading principals previously have not directed any accounts, the trading advisor must prominently disclose this fact with one of the following statements, as applicable: (1) THIS TRADING ADVISOR PREVIOUSLY HAS NOT DIRECTED ANY ACCOUNTS; or (2) NONE OF THE TRADING PRINCIPALS OF THIS TRADING ADVISOR HAS PREVIOUSLY DIRECTED ANY ACCOUNTS; or (3) NEITHER THIS TRADING ADVISOR NOR ITS TRADING PRINCIPALS HAVE PREVIOUSLY DIRECTED ANY ACCOUNTS. §4.35 Use, amendment and filing of disclosure document. (a) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, all information contained in the disclosure document must be current as of the date of the document; Provided, however, That performance information must be current as of a date not more than three months preceding the date of the document.
