FR940404-2-00148 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Tenth Meeting of the Monitoring Committee on the Action Plan for the Caribbean Environment Program (CEP) and Special Meeting of the Bureau of the Contracting Parties to the Convention for the Protection and Development of the Wider Caribbean Region (Cartagena), United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), Kingston, Jamaica, November 11&hyph;13, 1992 Representative Robert C. Blumberg, Office of Oceans Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Advisers Kevin C. Chu, Office of Oceans Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Pedro Gelabert, Office of International Activities, Environmental Protection Agency Timothy J. Kasten, Office of Water, Environmental Protection Agency Sean D. Murphy, Attorney-Adviser for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Office of the Legal Adviser, Department of State Arthur Patterson, Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Interests, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Rohena Betancourt, Secretary of Environmental Affairs, Government of the Territory of Puerto Rico, San Juan, Puerto Rico Lavern Ragster, University of the Virgin Islands, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands United States Delegation to the Inter-American Conference of Ministers of Labor, Organization of American States (OAS), Guatemala City, Guatemala, November 11&hyph;13, 1992 Representative The Honorable Delbert Spurlock, Deputy Secretary of Labor, Department of Labor Alternate Representatives John Ferch, Ambassador, Director, Office of Foreign Relations, Department of Labor James Michel, Ambassador, Director, Bureau For Latin America and The Caribbean, Agency for International Development Barbara Bowie-Whitman, Economic Counselor, United States Mission to the Organization of American States, Department of State Advisers Peter Accolla, Latin American/Caribbean Advisor, Department of Labor John Beverly, Senior Analyst, Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor Donald R. Knight, Labor Attache, American Embassy, Guatemala City Jorge Perez Lopez, Director, Office of International Economic Affairs, Department of Labor Lester P. Slezak, Regional Labor Adviser, Latin America Region, Department of State Private Sector Advisers William Doherty, Executive Director, American Institute of Free Labor Development, AFL/CIO, Washington, DC Katherine Hagen, Director, Federal Government Affairs, AT&T, Washington, DC David M. Jessup, Director, Human and Trade Union Rights, American Institute of Free Labor Development, AFL/CIO, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the International Rubber Study Group, 34th Assembly, Singapore, November 12&hyph;21, 1992 Representative Daniel L. Holtzman, International Economist, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Alternate Bruce J. Levine, Economic Officer, United States Mission, Singapore Private Sector Advisers Erie P. Bierrie, Chairman, Andrew Weir Commodities, Inc., Jersey City, New Jersey Mark R. Blitstein, Director, Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio Patricia A. Borino, Cargill, Inc., New York, New York Ross Miller, Manager, Uniroyal-Goodrich Tire Company, Akron, Ohio Frank J. Raniolo, President, Alcan Rubber and Chemical, Inc., New York, New York Stanley M. Schultz, Operations Director, Bridgestone/Firestone Inc., Singapore Richard A. Stauffer, Manager, World Rubber Operations, Cargill, Inc., Singapore Peter Tan, Purchasing Director, Goodyear Orient Company, Singapore Kip Tobin, E.P. Lambert, Akron, Ohio Tom Will, Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio Hoyt M. Wells, President and Chief Operating Officer, Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
