FR940406-1-00043 FR940406-1-00011 b. Improved manual transmissions. Projections of percent of fuel economy improvement should include the benefits of increasing mechanical efficiency, using improved transmission lubricants, and other measures (specify). c. Overdrive transmissions. If not covered in ``a'' or ``b'' above, project the percentage of fuel economy improvement attributable to overdrive transmissions (integral or auxiliary gear boxes), two-speed axles, or other similar devices intended to increase the range of available gear ratios. Describe the devices to be used and the application by model, engine, axle ratio, etc. d. Use of engine crankcase lubricants of lower viscosity or with additives to improve friction characteristics or accelerate engine break-in, or otherwise improved lubricants to lower engine friction horsepower. When describing the 1994 baseline, specify the viscosity of and any fuel economy-improving additives used in the factory-fill lubricants. e. Reduction of engine parasitic losses through improvement of engine-driven accessories or accessory drives. Typical engine-driven accessories include water pump, cooling fan, alternator, power steering pump, air conditioning compressor, and vacuum pump. f. Reduction of tire rolling losses, through changes in inflation pressure, use of materials or constructions with less hysteresis, geometry changes (e.g., increased aspect ratio), reduction in sidewall and tread deflection, and other methods. When describing the 1994 baseline, include a description of the tire types used and the percent usage rate of each type. g. Reduction in other driveline losses, including losses in the non-powered wheels, the differential assembly, wheel bearings, universal joints, brake drag losses, use of improved lubricants in the differential and wheel bearing, and optimizing suspension geometry (e.g., to minimize tire scrubbing loss). h. Reduction of aerodynamic drag. i. Turbocharging or supercharging. j. Improvements in the efficiency of 4-cycle spark ignition engines including (1) increased compression ratio; (2) leaner air-to-fuel ratio; (3) revised combustion chamber configuration; (4) fuel injection; (5) electronic fuel metering; (6) interactive electronic control of engine operating parameters (spark advance, exhaust gas recirculation, air-to-fuel ratio); (8) variable valve timing or valve lift; (9) multiple valves per cylinder; (10) friction reduction by means such as low tension piston rings and roller cam followers; (11) higher temperature operation; and (12) other methods (specify). k. Naturally aspirated diesel engines, with direct or indirect fuel injection. l. Turbocharged or supercharged diesel engines with direct or indirect fuel injection. m. Stratified-charge reciprocating or rotary engines, with direct or indirect fuel injection. n. Two cycle spark ignition engines. o. Other technologies for improving fuel economy. 7. For each model of respondent's light truck fleet projected to be manufactured in each of MYs 1998&hyph;2006, describe the methods used to achieve reductions in average test weight. For each specified model year and model, describe the extent to which each of the following methods for reducing vehicle weight will be used. Separate listings are to be used for 4x2 light trucks and 4x4 light trucks. a. Substitution of materials. b. ``Downsizing'' of existing vehicle design to reduce weight while maintaining interior roominess and comfort for passengers, and utility, i.e., the same or approximately the same, payload and cargo volume, using the same basic body configuration and driveline layout as current counterparts. c. Use of new vehicle body configuration concepts which provides reduced weight for approximately the same payload and cargo volume. 8. For each model year 1998&hyph;2006, list all projected light truck model types and provide the information specified in ``a'' through ``k'' below for each model type.
