FR940106-0-00157 FR940106-0-00022 (ii) The break is provided for in the published schedule or the previously established schedule of training issued by the training provider or is indicated in the training program approved for the worker; and, further (iii) The individual resumes participation in the training immediately after the break ends. (2) A scheduled break in training shall include all periods within or between courses, terms, quarters, semesters and academic years of the approved training program. (3) No basic or additional TRA will be paid to an individual for any week which begins and ends within a scheduled break that is 15 days or more. (4) The days within a break in a training program that shall be counted in determining the number of days of the break for the purposes of paragraph (d) of this section shall include all calendar days beginning with the first day of the break and ending with the last day of the break, as provided for in the schedule of the training provider, except that any Saturday, Sunday, or official State or National holiday occurring during the scheduled break in training, on which training would not normally be scheduled in the training program if there were no break in training, shall not be counted in determining the number of days of the break for the purposes of paragraph (d) of this section. (5) When the worker is drawing basic TRA, the maximum amount of TRA payable is not affected by the weeks the worker does not receive TRA while in a break period, but the weeks will count against the 104-week eligibility period. (6) When the worker is drawing additional weeks of TRA to complete training, any weeks for which TRA is not paid will count against the continuous 26-week eligibility period and the number of weeks payable. 10. Section 617.16 is revised to read as follows: ยง617.16 Applicable State law. (a) What law governs. The applicable State law for any individual, for all of the purposes of this part 617, is the State law of the State_ (1) In which the individual is entitled to UI (whether or not the individual has filed a claim therefor) immediately following the individual's first separation (as defined in paragraph (t)(1) of ยง617.3), or (2) If the individual is not so entitled to UI under the State law of any State immediately following such first separation, or is entitled to UI under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act (RRUI), the State law of the State in which such first separation occurred. (b) Change of law. The State law determined under paragraph (a) of this section to be the applicable State law for an individual shall remain the applicable State law for the individual until the individual becomes entitled to UI under the State law of another State (whether or not the individual files a claim therefor). (c) UI entitlement. (1) An individual shall be deemed to be entitled to UI under a State law if the individual satisfies the base period employment and wage qualifying requirements of such State law. (2) In the case of a combined-wage claim (Part 616 of this chapter), UI entitlement shall be determined under the law of the paying State. (3) In case of a Federal UI claim, or a joint State and Federal UI claim (Parts 609 and 614 of this Chapter), UI entitlement shall be determined under the law of the State which is the applicable State for such claims. (d) RRUI claimants. If an individual is entitled to UI under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, the applicable State law for purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section is the law of the State in which the individual's first qualifying separation occurs. (e) Liable State. The State whose State law is determined under this section to be the applicable State law for any individual shall be the liable State for the individual for all purposes of this part 617. Any State other than the liable State shall be an agent State. 11. Section 617.17 is revised to read as follows: ยง617.17 Availability and active search for work. (a) Extended Benefit work test applicable. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an individual shall, as a basic condition of entitlement to basic TRA for a week of unemployment_ (1) be unemployed, as defined in the applicable State law for UI claimants, and (2) be able to work and available for work, as defined in the applicable State law for UI claimants, and
