FR940425-0-00041 FR940425-0-00018 NHTSA received nine comments about the proposed effective date. Blue Bird, Flxible, and Navistar agreed with the proposed effective date of September 1, 1994. Flxible's agreement with the agency's proposed effective date was contingent upon the agency adopting its recommendations in the final rule. Navistar believed that the effective date should be earlier if possible. AAMA, the United States Department of Energy, NGV Systems, Volvo GM, and CNG Pittsburgh did not agree with the effective date proposed by the agency. NGV Systems, Volvo GM, and CNG Pittsburgh stated that the proposed effective date would be difficult to meet but did not recommend a specific date. AAMA and the U.S. Department of Energy recommended an effective date of September 1, 1995. However, AAMA's recommendation was contingent upon its recommendations being incorporated in the final rule. AAMA further stated that an earlier effective date would not be reasonable or practicable. In contrast, the NGVC, the CGA, and CNG container manufacturers have informed the agency that they want a CNG fuel integrity standard to be effective as quickly as possible. In addition, they favor having an opportunity to ``voluntarily certify compliance'' to the standard once the final rule is published. The CNG industry groups believe that it is necessary for a Federal standard to be in place as soon as possible given the expected increased demand for CNG vehicles in light of Federal and State fleet programs for clean fuel vehicles. They also favor quick adoption of a Federal standard to preempt state regulations that otherwise may be promulgated and to ensure that substandard CNG vehicles are not marketed. After reviewing the comments, NHTSA has decided to set an effective date of September 1, 1995. NHTSA is fully aware that the NGVC and CGA, which represent the natural gas industry, favor what amounts to an immediate effective date. Nevertheless, the agency believes that a leadtime of at least one year is necessary given that vehicle manufacturers will be required to certify compliance to an entirely new set of dynamic crash requirements. In the meantime, prior to the standard's effective date, the industry is free to market vehicles as meeting the CNG vehicle standard that takes effect in 1995. Manufacturers have taken this approach with respect to the agency's side impact requirements and air bag requirements. Therefore, to the extent feasible, the agency encourages manufacturers to manufacture their CNG vehicles to meet these new requirements before the date the standard takes effect. V. Rulemaking Analyses A. Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures
