FR940419-1-00005 FR940419-1-00003 NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION 12 CFR Part 704 Corporate Credit Unions AGENCY: National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: Many corporate credit unions are closely tied to credit union leagues or trade associations through interlocking boards of directors or common management. The NCUA Board requests comment on whether to amend its regulations to require that a corporate credit union's board of directors be independently elected by its members, that the board represent primarily the interests of those members that are credit unions, and that management report only to the corporate credit union's board of directors. DATES: Comments must be postmarked by June 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Becky Baker, Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314&hyph;3428. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: D. Michael Riley, Director, Office of Examination and Insurance, (703) 518&hyph;6360, or Robert M. Fenner, General Counsel, (703) 518&hyph;6540, at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Introduction The corporate credit union system today consists of 44 corporate credit unions serving the nation's 13,000 natural person credit unions, with U.S. Central Credit Union in turn serving the corporate credit unions. The corporate credit union system provides liquidity, investment, and payment services to credit unions. As of December 31, 1993, the 44 corporate credit unions held about $41 billion in assets, half of which was reinvested in shares in U.S. Central. Approximately half of the corporate credit unions are closely tied to state credit union leagues, either through interlocking boards, management relationships, or both. In the case of U.S. Central, six of nine board seats are allotted to trade association representatives: three to the Credit Union National Association (CUNA), two to the Association of Credit Union League Executives, and one to the Kansas Credit Union Association. In addition, U.S. Central's CEO reports to the CEO of CUNA. For the reasons discussed below, the NCUA Board is requesting comment on whether a corporate credit union's board of directors should be independently elected by its members, primarily represent the interests of the corporate's member credit unions, and have sole authority over the management of the corporate credit union. These and other corporate credit union issues, including investment powers and capital levels, are currently under review by NCUA as part of a 180-day study of the corporate system, and the Board may propose specific regulatory changes at the completion of the study. B. Background The history of the ties between corporate credit unions and trade associations is a long and, for the most part, successful one. It stems from the credit union movement's long struggle for a national solution to its liquidity problems. A review of these efforts is essential in understanding how the present system, with its unusual combination of private and government entities, was established. The original draft of the 1934 Federal Credit Union Act contained a section for a central bank for credit unions. It was dropped in exchange for a grant of authority for federal credit unions to make deposits in, and to borrow from, federal reserve banks. Opposition from the Federal Reserve System led to the striking of this authority. Federal credit unions were led to believe that, as a compromise, they would be included in the upcoming legislation to create the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). When the legislation was adopted, however, credit unions were not included. During the 1940's, credit unions experienced a number of liquidity problems, especially during the war years of 1941&hyph;1945. In response, the first corporate credit union was organized by credit union leaders in Kansas in 1951. Also in 1951, the credit union movement secured the introduction of a bill for a national central bank and seven regional banks, but Congress failed to address the issue. In the late 1950's, several bills were considered by Congress for the chartering of central credit unions which could accept the deposits of federal credit unions. None of these was adopted. Forced to address liquidity problems on their own, credit union leagues began to establish additional state-chartered corporate credit unions. League officials lent their expertise in helping to start these corporate credit unions and serving on their boards.
