FR940527-2-00202 FR940527-2-00152 b. Funding requirements. The total amount of funds requested for a Comprehensive grant must be within the established ceilings. Grant ceilings for each of the administering offices are indicated in Section I.B.1 of this NOFA. Grant funds requested must be sufficient, either by themselves or in combination with funds from other sources, to complete the project within a reasonable amount of time. If other sources of funds are to be used with respect to a project, the source of those funds must be identified and the level of commitment indicated. 2. Single Purpose Grants a. General. Single Purpose grants are designed to address and resolve a specific community development need. A Single Purpose grant may consist of more than one project. A project may consist of one activity or a set of activities. Each project must address community development needs in one of the following problem areas: _Housing _Public Facilities _Economic Development Each project will be rated against all other projects addressing the same problem area, according to the criteria outlined below. It should be noted that each project within an application will be given a separate impact rating, if each one is clearly designated by the applicant as a separate and distinct project (i.e. separate Needs Description, Community Development Activities, Impact Description and Program Schedule forms have been filled out, indicating project names). In some cases, it may be to the applicant's advantage to designate separate projects for activities that can ``stand on their own'' in terms of meeting the described need, especially where a particular project would tend to weaken the impact rating of the other activities, if they were rated as a whole, as has been the case with some economic development and housing projects. If, however, the projects tend to meet impact criteria to the same extent, or the weaker element is only a small portion of the overall project, there is no discernable benefit in designating separate projects. b. Funding requirements. The total amount of funds requested for a Single Purpose grant must be within the established ceilings. Grant ceilings are discussed in Section I.B.1. of this NOFA. Grant funds requested must be sufficient, either by themselves or in conjunction with funds from other sources, to complete the project within a reasonable period of time. If other sources of funds are to be used with respect to a project, the source of those funds must be identified and the level of commitment indicated. c. Projects with multiple activities. If a project consists of more than one activity, the activity that directly addresses the need must represent at least a majority of the funds requested. Other activities must be incidental to, and in support of the principal activity. d. Applications with multiple projects. If an application contains more than one project, each project will be rated separately for program impact. Applicants should note that regardless of the number of projects, the total grant amount cannot exceed the appropriate grant ceilings identified in Section I.B.1. of this NOFA. 3. Final Selection The total points received by a project for all of the selection factors are added, and the project is ranked against all other projects from all applications, regardless of the problem areas in which the projects were rated. The highest ranked projects will be funded to the extent funds are available. Applicants will receive a single grant in the amount of the project or projects applied for which were ranked high enough to be funded. In the case of ties at the funding line, HUD will use the following criteria in order to break ties: _The project receiving the highest program impact rating will be funded; _If tied projects have the same program impact rating, the project having the highest combined score on the needs factors will be funded;
