FR940412-2-00007 FR940412-2-00003 B. Procurement of labor, goods, and services. One of the intents of the RRHDDP is to stimulate the local economy by encouraging procurement of labor, goods, and services from the local area. FmHA recognizes that defining a local trade area in which to procure the labor, goods, and services to build an apartment complex is difficult in rural America. To be responsive to the application procedures, applicants must procure labor, goods, and services from Level One of this paragraph. If labor, goods, and services are not available in Level One of this paragraph, the applicant may use the trade area defined in Level Two of this paragraph. Documentation as to why the labor, goods, and services are not available in Level One of this paragraph must be included in the case file. The applicant may propose to secure labor, goods, and services from Levels Three or Four of this paragraph; however, documentation as to why same is not available in all of the previous levels must be included in the case file. 1. Level One: Labor, goods, and services must be procured within 15 miles of the proposed site of the apartments. 2. Level Two: Labor, goods, and services must be procured within the County where the proposed apartments will be located. 3. Level Three: Labor, goods, and services must be procured within the lesser of 50 miles from the site of the proposed complex OR the boundaries of any adjacent County (regardless of State boundary). 4. Level Four: Labor, goods, and services must be procured within 100 miles of the proposed site (regardless of State boundary). C. Outreach. Outreach efforts publicizing the availability of loan funds for the eligible RRHDDP States will be aggressively carried out. Each affected State Director will develop an outreach plan which includes such techniques as news releases, community meetings, coordination with other Federal, State, and local government organizations, to promote full utilization of these funds by all qualified applicants regardless of race, color, religion, national origin, marital status, age, and sex. In addition to the above outreach efforts, States with eligible colonias and/or Tribal lands should establish liaison with community groups in order to leverage support and assistance provided to residents of colonias and Tribal lands.
