FR940916-1-00131 FR940916-1-00016 Subpart A_General ยง232.1 Purpose and scope. (a) This part prescribes the minimum Federal safety standards for train brake systems in current use. (b) This part prescribes the minimum Federal safety requirements for the introduction of new railroad train brake system technology. (c) This part prescribes the minimum Federal safety requirements for brake systems on all locomotives except those propelled by steam power. ยง232.3 Applicability. (a) This part applies to all railroads except_ (1) A railroad that exclusively operates freight trains only on track inside an installation which is not part of the general railroad system of transportation, whether or not that installation is insular within the meaning of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. (2) Rapid transit operations in an urban area that are not connected with the general railroad system of transportation. (3) A railroad that operates trains only on track inside an installation that is insular; i.e., if its operations are limited to a separate enclave in such a way that there is no reasonable expectation that the safety of the public_except a business guest, a licensee of the tourist operation or an affiliated entity, or a trespasser_would be affected by the operation. An operation will not be considered insular if one or more of the following exists on its line: (i) A public highway-rail crossing that is in use; (ii) An at-grade rail crossing that is in use; (iii) A bridge over a public road or waters used for commercial navigation; or (iv) A common corridor with a railroad, i.e., its operations are within 30 feet of those of any railroad. (b) In addition to the trains operated by railroads specifically excepted in paragraph (a) of this section, this part does not apply to_ (1) A freight train of four-wheel coal cars. (2) A freight train of eight-wheel standard logging cars if the height of each car from the top of the rail to the center of the coupling is not more than 25 inches. (3) A locomotive used in hauling a train referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section when the locomotive and cars of the train are used only to transport logs. ยง232.5 Definitions. [The final rule may contain a directory of the definitions] Air Flow Indicator means a device used to indicate the flow of air from the locomotive brake valve into the brake pipe. Air Flow Indicator, AFM means a specific air flow indicator required by the air flow method. The AFM Air Flow Indicator is a calibrated air flow measuring device which is clearly visible and legible in daylight and darkness from the engineer's normal operating position. The indicator face displays (1) markings from 10 cubic feet per minute (CFM) to 80 CFM, in increments of 10 CFM or less, and (2) numerals indicating 20, 40, 60, and 80 CFM for continuous monitoring of air flow. The AFM Air Flow Indicator must be used when performing the Air Flow Method of train brake testing. Air Flow Method (AFM) means an alternate method of measuring the leakage of air from a train brake system by use of an AFM air flow indicator. The controlling locomotive on the train must be equipped with 26&hyph;L Freight Locomotive Brake Equipment, or equivalent, and the train equipped with an end-of-train device. Bind means restrict the intended movement of one or more brake system components by reduced clearance, by obstruction, or by increased friction.
