FR940208-0-00119 FR940208-0-00031 Service Response: Population viability analysis is appropriate only at the population level. Therefore, the Service does not evaluate population viability of separate portions of a CHU. Although it requires more intensive management as it is a smaller population, the Upper Virgin River Recovery Unit, as recommended by the Desert Tortoise Recovery Team, is a viable and recoverable population of desert tortoises. The Tribal lands within Utah are considered part of this recovery unit. The Upper Virgin River CHU corresponds to this recovery unit. Issue 50: Several letters stated that the importance of mining and grazing in rural communities was not adequately addressed in the economic analysis. Service Response: The smallest subdivision with standard, meaningful economic data normally is an individual county; thus, economic impacts are based upon county data for regional effects, whereas statewide or nationwide data and effects are addressed only if they become economically relevant. Issue 51: A few people were concerned that inclusion of their private land within critical habitat boundaries would negate Ft. Irwin's desire to purchase their land for future expansion, and they asked if the Service was going to compensate them for their loss of revenue. In addition, some people submitted comments asking the government to compensate them for reductions in land values due to their inclusion within critical habitat boundaries. Service Response: The National Training Center at Ft. Irwin revised its expansion proposal in response to the Service's concerns for desert tortoises prior to the proposal of critical habitat. Therefore, designation of critical habitat would not affect private lands that were in the original proposed expansion area. In the future, the Federal government may pursue acquisition of private lands within the CHUs on a willing seller/willing buyer basis to further the conservation of the desert tortoise. Neither the Act nor any other law administered by the Service authorizes compensation for perceived decreases in land value as suggested by the comments. Consequently, this issue is a matter for other agencies and Congress to consider. Issue 52: Some respondents stated that the Service is underestimating economic impacts by separating impacts from the listing process and the designation of critical habitat. The economic analysis addresses only incremental impacts associated with designation of critical habitat and omits impacts resulting from previous management plans and consultations. Service Response: The Endangered Species Act specifies that the listing of species should be based solely upon the best biological information available. However, the Act specifies that the Service should consider economic and other relevant impacts in the designation of critical habitat. Listing a species provides protection under the jeopardy standard and incidental take; designating critical habitat provides additional protection through the adverse modification standard. These are intended to be separate standards to be addressed through section 7 consultation. The economic analysis clearly distinguishes between the costs and benefits of these independent and incremental actions and is not an effort to underestimate costs. The total cost of conserving the desert tortoise is greater than the cost of designating critical habitat alone, and it includes the costs of prior tortoise protection measures under other laws and costs resulting from listing under the Act, as well as the cost of designating critical habitat. Issue 53: A few respondents stated that the section 7 decisions to restrict grazing are currently under litigation and a stay of these decisions has been issued. Therefore, the economic analysis should be based on current (prelisting) grazing practices. Service Response: The Service based its economic baseline on the biological opinions rendered by the Service and the decisions issued by the BLM on livestock grazing in desert tortoise habitat. The Interior Board of Land Appeals may review land use decisions by Interior Department agencies, but lacks jurisdiction needed to review biological opinions issued by the Service. Therefore, the Interior Board of Land Appeals Judge's stay of these decisions does not alter the economic baseline.
