FR940524-0-00038 FR940524-0-00009 NHTSA notes that without this amendment to permit strobe lamps, school bus manufacturers and users would be violating the laws of several States and local jurisdictions that require strobe lamps. This amendment will allow manufacturers to build and school districts to order school buses that comply with State and local laws that require stop signal arms to be equipped with strobe lamps. The amendment will also alleviate potential compliance problems for manufacturers that would have to modify their stop signal arms to remove a noncomplying strobe lamp. Comments on this notice should address whether the amended language for flash rate is appropriate for strobe lamps. NHTSA finds that the issuance of this notice without prior opportunity for comment is necessary in view of the compliance difficulties that are occurring and would continue to occur if the standard were not amended. The agency also finds for good cause that it is in the public interest to establish an immediate effective date for the amendments made by this notice. In the absence of an immediate effective date, manufacturers would be unable to both certify compliance with Standard No. 131 and meet the requirements of some state laws. The amendments impose no new requirements but instead provide additional flexibility to manufacturers by removing a design restrictive requirement. Regulatory Analyses and Notices A. Executive Order 12866 (Federal Regulation) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This notice was not reviewed under E.O. 12866. NHTSA has analyzed this rulemaking and determined that it is not significant within the meaning of the Department of Transportation regulatory policies and procedures. The agency has determined that the economic effects of the amendment are so minimal that a full regulatory evaluation is not required. Since the amendment imposes no new requirement but simply allows for an alternative design, any cost impacts will be in the nature of slight, nonquantifiable cost savings. Additional cost savings may be realized since the amendment permits manufacturers to avoid civil penalties. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act In accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, NHTSA has evaluated the effects of this rulemaking on small entities. Based on this evaluation, I hereby certify that the amendments will not have significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Few of the school bus manufacturers qualify as small entities. In addition, manufacturers of motor vehicles, small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental units that purchase motor vehicles will not be significantly affected by the amendments. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis has not been performed. C. Federalism Assessment This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612. NHTSA has determined that the rulemaking does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Nevertheless, NHTSA notes that the laws of various local jurisdictions and four States (Alaska, New Mexico, Washington, and West Virginia) require stop signal arms to be equipped with strobe lamps and thus would have been preempted without this amendment. D. Environmental Impacts In accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, NHTSA has considered the environmental impacts of this rule. The agency has determined that this rule will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. E. Civil Justice Reform This final rule does not have any retroactive effect. Under section 103(d) of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 1392(d)), whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard is in effect, a state may not adopt or maintain a safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance which is not identical to the Federal standard. Section 105 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1394) sets forth a procedure for judicial review of final rules establishing, amending or revoking Federal motor vehicle safety standards. That section does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court.
