FR940128-1-00106 FR940128-1-00006 4. Thermal Processing Critical Control Points a. Cooking 1. The Cooking Process. The processor must be able to demonstrate to itself and to FDA that its cooking process ensures the destruction of vegetative cells of microorganisms of public health concern. This may be accomplished by having a cooking process that is at least equivalent to a process established by a process authority. To demonstrate equivalence, a processor should have on file in its Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) records a document that: i. Describes the results of a scientific evaluation, conducted by a process authority, of the adequacy of the cooking process; and ii. Identifies and establishes values for key aspects of the process or of the product that may affect the adequate destruction of microorganisms of public health concern. At a minimum, these values should include cooking times and temperatures. Such a document may consist of, but should not be limited to, a letter from a process authority, articles in scientific journals, or Federal, State, or local government regulations or advisories. Failure to have documentation that the cooking process will achieve its goal will violate 21 CFR 123.8 and will mean that the product produced by the processor will be produced under insanitary conditions whereby it may be rendered injurious to health. 2. Cooking Equipment Design. i. The processor must be able to demonstrate to itself and to FDA that its cooking equipment can deliver the cooking process that ensures the destruction of vegetative cells of microorganisms of public health concern. One way to accomplish this is for the processor to have on file in its HACCP records a document that describes the results of a scientific evaluation, conducted by a process authority, of the design and operation of the type of equipment and the operational procedures used by the processor. The engineering specifications for the equipment used by the processor (e.g., pipe sizes, flow rates, loading configuration, and, whenever a steam process is used, venting parameters) should meet or exceed those for the equipment evaluated by the process authority. Failure to have documentation that the cooking equipment will achieve its goal will violate 21 CFR 123.8 and will mean that the product produced by the processor will be produced under insanitary conditions whereby it may be rendered injurious to health. ii. Cooking equipment should be equipped with both a temperature-indicating device and temperature-recording device. The temperature-indicating device should be the reference instrument for determining conformance to the established process temperatures. 3. Records. Monitoring records made by the processor should record both the actual values that are occurring for those key aspects of the process identified by the process authority in section 4.a.1. of this Appendix and the actual values that are occurring for operational procedures identified by the process authority in section 4.a.2.i. of this Appendix.
