FR941110-0-00083 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Some commenters suggested the use of consumers, ombudsmen, other resident advocates, and providers to evaluate the quality of the survey process. Response: This rule requires each State survey agency to implement programs to enhance consistency. Each State survey agency is encouraged to gather pertinent data and consider varied sources in its data collection. While we agree with this suggestion, we do not want to limit, in regulations, what data each State may consider. Comment: Commenters also suggested that deference be given to the data compiled on survey consistency by ``entities and their associations.'' These commenters believe that these data are valuable and often compiled in a manner which permits ``valid and reliable statistical conclusions about the degree of inconsistency among surveyor results.'' Additionally, these commenters wanted the final regulation to require survey agencies to consult with the regulated entities as part of the effort to reduce inconsistency among survey teams. Response: We assume that the commenters mean ``long- term care facilities'' when they refer to ``entities and their associations.'' Sections 1819(g)(2)(D) and 1919(g)(2)(D) of the Act require that the State (and the Secretary under section 1819) implement programs to improve consistency in the interpretation and application of survey results among surveyors. The intent of the Act is to assign the authority to administer these programs to the States, not to facilities. In fact, the compilation of data to allow statistical conclusions about surveyor consistency may be a part of the programs that the law requires the States and the Secretary to establish. As far as mandating that the State survey agency must consult with facilities in the effort to ensure consistency, we believe it is unnecessary to require this in regulation as it is already inherent within the survey process. Comment: Other commenters wanted the required studies and programs outlined within the final regulation or the State Operations Manual. A few commenters wanted a written quality assurance program approved by HCFA which would outline specific data to be included in the required studies and programs. Response: The only requirements that we are specifying in regulations are that the State survey agencies must consider surveyor accuracy as well as consistency. We believe that it is preferable for individual State survey agencies to develop their own programs. Comment: Some commenters believed increased surveyor training and testing would enhance surveyor consistency.
