FR940314-0-00050 FR940314-0-00011 (3) The actions permitted will not violate any provisions or prohibitions of the Protected Site's Management Plan submitted in compliance with the CCAMLR Conservation Measure describing the Procedures for According Protection to CEMP Sites. (f) Application process. An applicant seeking a CEMP permit from the Assistant Administrator to enter a CEMP Protected Site shall include the following in the application: (1) A detailed justification that the scientific objectives of the applicant cannot be accomplished elsewhere and a description of how said objectives will be accomplished within the terms of the Protected Site's Management Plan; and (2) A statement signed by the applicant that the applicant has read and fully understands the provisions and prohibitions of the Protected Site's Management Plan. Prospective applicants may obtain copies of the relevant Management Plans and the CCAMLR Conservation Measure describing the Procedures for According Protection to CEMP Sites by requesting them from the Assistant Administrator. (g) Conditions. CEMP permits issued under this section will contain special and general conditions including a condition that the permit holder shall submit a report describing the activities conducted under the permit within 30 days of the expiration of the CEMP permit. (h) Duration. Permits issued under this section are valid for a period of 1 year. Applicants requesting a permit to reenter a Protected Site must include the report required by the general condition in the previously issued CEMP permit describing the activities conducted under authority of that permit. (i) Transfer. CEMP permits are not transferable or assignable. A CEMP permit is valid only for the person to whom it is issued. (j) Modification. (1) CEMP permits can be modified by submitting a request to the Assistant Administrator. Such requests shall specify: (i) The action proposed to be taken along with a summary of the reasons therefore; and (ii) The steps that the permit holder may take to demonstrate or achieve compliance with all lawful requirements. If a requested modification is not in compliance within the terms of the Protected Site's Management Plan, the Assistant Administrator will treat the requested modification as an application for a new CEMP permit and so notify the holder. Modifications will be acted upon within 30 days of receipt. The CEMP permit holder must report to the Assistant Administrator any change in previously submitted information within 10 days of the change. (2) Additional conditions and restrictions. The Assistant Administrator may revise the CEMP permit effective upon notification of the permit holder, to impose additional conditions and restrictions as necessary to achieve the purposes of the Convention, the Act and the CEMP Management Plan. The CEMP permit holder must, as soon as possible, notify any and all agents operating under the permit of any and all revisions or modifications to the permit. (k) Revocation or suspension. CEMP permits may be revoked or suspended based upon information received by the Assistant Administrator and such revocation or suspension shall be effective upon notification to the permit holder. (1) A CEMP permit may be revoked or suspended based on a violation of the permit, the Act or this part. (2) Failure to report a change in the information submitted in an CEMP permit application within 10 days of the change is a violation of this part and voids the application or permit, as applicable. 15 CFR part 904 governs permit sanctions under this part. (l) Exceptions. No entry into a Protected Site described in this section shall be unlawful if committed under emergency conditions to prevent the loss of human life, compromise human safety, prevent the loss of vessels or aircraft or to prevent environmental damage. (m) Protected sites. (1) Sites protected by the Antarctic Treaty and regulated by the ACA are listed at 45 CFR part 670 subparts G and H. (2) The following site has been identified as a CEMP Protected Site subject to the regulatory authority of the Act: (i) Seal Islands, South Shetland Islands _The Seal Islands are composed of islands and skerries located approximately 7 km north of the northwest corner of Elephant Island, South Shetland Islands. The Seal Islands CEMP Protected Site includes the entire Seal Islands group, which is defined as Seal Island plus any land or rocks exposed at mean low tide within a distance of 5.5 km of the point of highest elevation on Seal Island. Seal Island is situated at 60 ○59 ’14 ’ ’ S. lat., 055 ○23 ’04 ’ ’ W. long. (ii) [Reserved] [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5847 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
