FR940217-1-00060 FR940217-1-00013 Another threat to the salamander is the degradation of its surface habitat, particularly at Barton Springs Pool and Eliza Pool. Following reports of a fish kill in Barton Springs Pool on September 28, 1992 (Austin American Statesman, October 2, 1992; Daily Texan, October 13, 1992), the salamander's surface range contracted from about a 400 square meter (4,300 square foot) area to about a 5 square meter (50 square foot) area immediately around the outflow of the spring (see discussion in Background). The fish kill has been attributed to the improper application of chlorine used to clean Barton Springs Pool (Chippindale et al. 1993, TPWD 1993). Previous fish kills, although rare events, have also occurred at Barton Springs Pool (Robert Sapronyi, City of Austin Parks and Recreation Department, pers. comm., 1992). Other cleaning procedures and park operations that may have had adverse impacts on the salamander and its surface habitat include lowering the water levels in Barton Springs Pool and Eliza Pool for cleaning, use of high pressure fire hoses in areas where salamanders are found, and removal of aquatic vegetation from Eliza Pool. Runoff from the area above Eliza Pool, which includes a maintenance area and concession stand for the Zilker Eagle train, may also have contributed to the decline in numbers of salamanders found at this location. Following the September 28 fish kill, the City of Austin discontinued the use of chlorine to clean Barton Springs Pool and Eliza Pool. The City of Austin is continuing to revise its pool maintenance practices in order to protect the salamander and its habitat, as well as maintain a safe environment for swimmers (Camille Barnett, City of Austin, in litt., 1993). Cleaning practices at Eliza Pool and other park operations near this pool are also being reevaluated. Another change that has been observed at Barton Springs is the loss of aquatic vascular plants in Barton Springs Pool, where salamanders were reportedly abundant in 1946. The plants disappeared during the late 1980's (Chippindale et al. 1993). The cause of the disappearance is unknown and may be due to changes in water quality originating upstream (such as increased turbidity), certain pool maintenance operations, and/or other factors. Aquatic plants are important because they provide cover where salamanders can hide from predators. Amphipods and other invertebrates that form the diet of salamanders also depend on aquatic vegetation (Hillis and Chippindale 1992). Reduced water levels in the Barton Springs segment could also adversely impact the Barton Springs salamander. The volume of springflow is self-regulated by the level of water in the aquifer. Discharge decreases as water storage in the aquifer drops, which historically has been due primarily to the lack of recharging rains rather than groundwater withdrawal for public consumption (Slade et al. 1986). Reduced aquifer levels may lead to the movement of water with high levels of total dissolved solids from the ``bad water'' zone to the freshwater zone of the Barton Springs segment, including Barton Springs (Slade et al. 1986). The increased concentration of dissolved solids resulting from this encroachment of ``bad water'' could have negative impacts on the plants and animals associated with Barton Springs. Reduced groundwater levels would also increase the concentration of pollutants in the aquifer. The potential for ``bad water'' encroachment is increased with (a) pumpage of the aquifer and (b) extended low recharge or low flow conditions (Slade et al. 1986). Barton Springs lies near the ``bad water'' line. Under low flow conditions, Barton Springs and a well near the ``bad water'' line (YD&hyph;58&hyph;50&hyph;216) show increased dissolved solid concentrations, particularly sodium and chloride, indicating that some encroachment of ``bad water'' has occurred at Barton Springs in the past (Slade et al. 1986). According to the Barton Springs/Edwards Aquifer Conservation District (BS/EACD) (1990), pumpage from the aquifer has increased in recent years, resulting in decreased discharges from Barton Springs. The USGS has stated that groundwater withdrawal in the area is expected to increase because of further urbanization in outlying areas of Austin. Currently, discharge from the Barton Springs segment (withdrawal plus springflow) is roughly equal to recharge. Thus, an increase in groundwater withdrawal is likely to cause a decrease in the quantity of water in the aquifer and discharge from Barton Springs (Slade et al. 1986). Based on the current population projection, water demands could almost double by the year 2000 (from about 470 hectare-meters/year (3,800 acre-feet/year) in 1982 to about 760 hectare-meters/year (6,200 acre-feet/year)) (Slade et al. 1986). B. Overutilization for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes. No threat from overutilization of this species is known to exist at this time. Several citizens have expressed concern over impacts to the salamander from recreational use of Barton Springs Pool for swimming. However, no evidence exists to indicate that swimming in Barton Springs Pool poses a threat to the salamander population. Provided that pool maintenance activities do not adversely impact the salamander and its habitat (see discussion under Factor A), swimming at Barton Springs Pool is not likely to disturb the salamander. C. Disease or predation. Certain naturally occurring populations as well as captive individuals of Eurycea neotenes have shown symptoms of redleg, a bacterial ( Aeromonas sp.) infection (Sweet 1978). The Barton Springs salamander may also be susceptible to this disease, although no diseases or parasites of the Barton Springs salamander have been reported. Primary predators of the Barton Springs salamander are believed to be fish and crayfish; however, no information exists to indicate that predation poses a major threat to this species.
