FR940830-2-00126 FR940830-2-00057 In the United States District Court for the District of Delaware United States of America Plaintiff, v. Electronic Payment Services, Inc., Defendant. Comments on the Proposed Final Judgment, Pursuant to 15 U.S.C. ยง16(b) The following comments on the proposed Final Judgment in the above-captioned action are hereby submitted, pursuant to 15 U.S.C. ยง16(b). The comments are submitted on behalf of a client that does not wish its identity to be disclosed because of its concerns that its competitors might retaliate against it were its identity known. Background There has been a steady shift in the credit card processing industry from processing of card transactions by financial institutions to processing by third party, non-financial institutions. The 1993 Edition of Card Industry Directory: The Blue Book of the Credit and Debit Card Industry of the United States (Faulkner & Gray) (hereinafter, ``the 1993 Card Industry Directory '') reported that the merchant processing business ``has come to be dominated by firms not controlled by banks, a trend that concerns some executives in the banking community.'' (See Exh. A.) The most recently available figures show that non-banks have moved to the top of the credit card processing business, with 3 of the top 10 processors being institutions that are not affiliated with depository institutions. (See Exh. B, the 1994 Edition of Card Industry Directory: The Blue Book of the Credit and Debit Card Industry of the United States (Faulkner & Gray) (hereinafter, ``the 1994 Card Industry Directory ''), ``Top 25 Merchant Acquirers'' list, showing NaBANCO ( # 1), Card Establishment Services ( # 3) and National Data Corp. ( # 7) among the top 10 processors, with the top 10 processors commanding more than 49% of the market.) The same trend is apparent in the point-of-sale (``POS'') debit and ATM processing markets. 1 While those processing markets have traditionally been dominated by financial institutions (with EPS, the owner of MAC, being the largest of the top 5 Electronic Funds Transfer (``EFT'') 2 Processors, by a significant margin), in 1993, 2 non-financial institutions_Deluxe Data Systems and Electronic Data Systems_were included among the top 5 EFT Processors. (See Exh. C, 1994 Edition of the Debit Card Directory: The Complete Guide for the Debit Card Industry in the United States (Faulkner & Gray) (hereinafter, the ``1994 Debit Card Directory '') at p.22.) 1 Cards issued by depository institutions and activated by the holder's entry of a personal identification number (PIN) can be used in ATMs located at financial institutions and in or near retail establishments, as well as in point-of-sale (POS) debit terminals at merchants. When the card is used in an ATM, the cardholder enters his personal identification number. The transaction is then authorized by the financial institution that issued the card, the cardholder receives the authorized amount of cash, and the depository account to which the card is tied is debited by that amount. When the card is used in a POS terminal for a debit transaction, the transaction likewise begins with entry of the cardholder's PIN and an on-line authorization of the transaction from the card-issuing financial institution. Once the transaction is approved, the customer receives the merchandise or services and, in many cases, cash back from the merchant (in rough analogy to paying for groceries with a check for more than the amount of the purchase). A hold is then immediately put on the customer's funds on deposit for subsequent payment to the merchant. 2 EFT (or Electronic Funds Transfer) is the movement of funds from one source to another using electronic transmission over telecommunications networks. Like the market for processing services, the market for ownership of ATMs and other similar devices has expanded well beyond depository institutions. However, the judgment is somewhat ambiguous as to its application to ATMs owned by entities other than depository institutions. It should be clarified to provide that all ATMs, and not just ATMs owned by depository institutions, are included within its scope. Today, six non-depository institutions rank among the top 300 ATM owners, owning more than 3,000 terminals. (See Discussion, infra , under Comment No. 1.) Second, and more significantly, the judgment fails to reach the overlapping and interchangeable POS debit market. (See Discussion, infra , under Comment No. 2.) According to a survey published by Faulkner & Gray in 1993, in the next 7 years significant growth is expected in the EFT market, which encompasses both ATM and POS. Until now, the growth in EFT has primarily been fueled by ATM growth. While ATM growth is expected to continue, it is projected that the most sizeable increases in the EFT market will come from debit POS. Many networks have predicted that POS alone will grow by more than 50% a year and, that by the year 2000, POS transactions will exceed ATM transactions. (See Exh. D, 1994 Debit Card Directory , Chapter 9, Section 1.) If POS grows at such rates, the failure of the proposed judgment to include debit POS could render it less and less effectual as time progresses and the EFT market changes.
