FR941230-0-00007 FR941230-0-00002 5 CFR Part 890 RIN 3206&hyph;AG33 Federal Employees Health Benefits Program: Procedures for Direct Payment of Premiums AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Interim regulations with request for comments. SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is issuing interim regulations to eliminate the requirement for the use of certified mail, return receipt requested, when notifying certain enrollees that their enrollment in the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Program will be terminated due to nonpayment of premiums unless the payment is received within 15 days. The purpose of these interim regulations is to reduce the cost of administering the FEHB enrollments of enrollees who make payments directly rather than through payroll or annuity deductions. DATES: These interim regulations are effective January 30, 1995. Comments must be received on or before February 28, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Lucretia F. Myers, Assistant Director for Insurance Programs, Retirement and Insurance Group, Office of Personnel Management, P.O. Box 57, Washington, DC 20044; or deliver to OPM, Room 4351, 1900 E Street NW., Washington, DC; or FAX to (202) 606&hyph;0633. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Margaret Sears (202) 606&hyph;0191. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Most individuals enrolled under the FEHB Program pay their share of the premiums through withholding from pay or annuity. However, in some cases enrollees may make direct payments. These include: (1) certain annuitants and compensationers (individuals who are entitled to compensation from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs based on a job-related injury or disease) whose annuity or compensation has been waived or suspended; (2) former spouses whose enrollment is based on a qualifying court order under subpart H of 5 CFR part 890 governing FEHB; and (3) former employees, former spouses, and children enrolled under the Temporary Continuation of Coverage (TCC) provisions. The current regulations governing these direct pay situations require that if the employing office does not receive the payment by the due date, it must notify the enrollee by certified mail, return receipt requested, that continuation of coverage rests upon payment being made within 15 days after receipt of the notice. (The regulations affecting former spouses with qualifying court orders and TCC enrollees allow 45 days for enrollees living overseas.) The TCC regulations further provide that, if the return receipt is not received, termination occurs 60 days after the date of the notice (90 days for overseas enrollees). All terminations are retroactive to the last day for which the enrollee made payment. Enrollments terminated for nonpayment of premiums cannot be reinstated unless the enrollee shows that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the payment on time. The purpose of the return receipt was to make certain that the enrollee was aware that the employing office had not received the payment and the consequences of nonpayment. Because of the high cost of certified mail, return receipt requested, ($2.29 per notice) OPM has reevaluated the need for this requirement and has determined that the value of the return receipt does not justify the cost. The absence of subsequent payments during the 60- to 90-day delay before termination of the enrollment makes it clear that the initial failure to make the payment was not a simple oversight or loss of the payment in the mail. We believe that the interim regulations will be much more convenient for enrollees. Under current regulations someone must sign for the notice. If no one is at home when the letter carrier arrives to deliver the return-receipt-requested letter, the enrollee must go to the post office to sign for it. Under the interim regulations, the letter will be left in the enrollee's mailbox and the enrollee will have the necessary information without making a trip to the post office.
