FR940524-1-00081 FR940524-1-00010 ␣ 1Type of chemical cartridge respirator1 1Maximum use concentration, parts per million Ammonia 300 Chlorine 10 Hydrogen chloride 50 Methyl amine 100 Organic vapor 21,000 Sulfur dioxide 50 Vinyl chloride 10 1Not for use against gases or vapors with poor warning properties (except where MSHA or Occupational Safety and Health Administration standards may permit such use for a specific gas or vapor) or those which generate high heats of reaction with sorbent material in the cartridge. 2Maximum use concentrations are lower for organic vapors which produce atmospheres immediately hazardous to life or health at concentrations equal to or lower than this concentration. (b) Chemical cartridge respirators for respiratory protection against gases or vapors, which are not specifically listed with their maximum use concentration, may be approved if the applicant submits a request for such approval, in writing, to the Institute. The Institute shall consider each such application and accept or reject the application after a review of the effects on the wearer's health and safety and in the light of any field experience in use of chemical cartridge respirators as protection against such hazards. §84.191 Chemical cartridge respirators; required components. (a) Each chemical cartridge respirator described in §84.190 shall, where its design requires, contain the following component parts: (1) Facepiece, mouthpiece, and noseclip, hood, or helmet; (2) Cartridge; (3) Cartridge with filter; (4) Harness; (5) Breathing tube; and (6) Attached blower. (b) The components of each chemical cartridge respirator shall meet the minimum construction requirements set forth in subpart G of this part. §84.192 Cartridges in parallel; resistance requirements. Where two or more cartridges are used in parallel, their resistance to airflow shall be essentially equal. §84.193 Cartridges; color and markings; requirements. The color and markings of all cartridges or labels shall conform with the requirements of the American National Standard for Identification of Gas Mask Canisters, K13.1, obtainable from American National Standards Institute, Inc., 1430 Broadway, New York, NY 10018. §84.194 Filters used with chemical cartridges; location; replacement. (a) Particulate matter filters used in conjunction with a chemical cartridge shall be located on the inlet side of the cartridge. (b) Filters shall be incorporated in or firmly attached to the cartridge and each filter assembly shall, where applicable, be designed to permit its easy removal from and replacement on the cartridge. §84.195 Breathing tubes; minimum requirements. Flexible breathing tubes used in conjunction with respirators shall be designed and constructed to prevent: (a) Restriction of free head movement; (b) Disturbance of the fit of facepieces, mouthpieces, hoods, or helmets; (c) Interference with the wearer's activities; and (d) Shutoff of airflow due to kinking, or from chin or arm pressure. §84.196 Harnesses; installation and construction; minimum requirements. (a) Each respirator shall, where necessary, be equipped with a suitable harness designed and constructed to hold the components of the respirator in position against the wearer's body. (b) Harnesses shall be designed and constructed to permit easy removal and replacement of respirator parts and, where applicable, provide for holding a full facepiece in the ready position when not in use. §84.197 Respirator containers; minimum requirements. Respirators shall be equipped with a substantial, durable container bearing markings which show the applicant's name, the type and commercial designation of the respirator it contains and all appropriate approval labels. §84.198 Half-mask facepieces, full facepieces, mouthpieces, hoods, and helmets; fit; minimum requirements. (a) Half-mask facepieces and full facepieces shall be designed and constructed to fit persons with various facial shapes and sizes either: (1) By providing more than one facepiece size; or (2) By providing one facepiece size which will fit varying facial shapes and sizes. (b) Hoods and helmets shall be designed and constructed to fit persons with various head sizes, provide for the optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses, and insure against any restriction of movement by the wearer. (c) Mouthpieces shall be equipped with noseclips which are securely attached to the mouthpiece or respirator and provide an airtight fit. (d) Full facepieces shall provide for optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses which shall not reduce the respiratory protective qualities of the respirator. (e) Facepieces, hoods, and helmets shall be designed to prevent eyepiece fogging. §84.199 Facepieces, hoods, and helmets; eyepieces; minimum requirements. Facepieces, hoods, and helmets shall be designed and constructed to provide adequate vision which is not distorted by the eyepieces. §84.200 Inhalation and exhalation valves; minimum requirements. (a) Inhalation and exhalation valves shall be provided where necessary and protected against distortion. (b) Inhalation valves shall be designed and constructed to prevent excessive exhaled air from entering cartridges or adversely affecting canisters. (c) Exhalation valves shall be: (1) Protected against damage and external influence; and (2) Designed and constructed to prevent inward leakage of contaminated air.
