FR940505-1-00405 FR940505-1-00012 (iii) Standards for volatile organic compounds (VOC). Any owner or operator of a stationary internal combustion engine subject to the requirements of paragraph (m)(3)(i) (C) or (D) of this section shall establish a controlled ppmv VOC emission limit. No owner or operator shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases that contain VOC in excess of the lowest of one of the following limits: (A) 120 percent of the VOC ppmv level established by an initial compliance test in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (m)(7) of this section; or (B) 350 ppmv. The owner or operator shall subsequently comply with the limit once it is established. The ppmv VOC emissions shall be corrected to 15 percent volume stack gas O 2 on a dry basis averaged over a period of 15 consecutive minutes. (4) Exemptions. The requirements of paragraphs (m) (3), (5), (6), and (7) of this section shall not apply to the following, unless otherwise specified: (i) Engines rated at less than 50 brake horsepower. (ii) Engines operated at less than 200 hours per calendar year. Owners or operators that claim an exemption from the standards of paragraph (m)(3) of this section by means of this paragraph shall comply with the monitoring requirements of paragraph (m)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. (iii) Emergency standby engines operated during either an emergency or maintenance operation. Maintenance operation shall be limited to 50 hours per calendar year. (iv) Engines used in a laboratory for the sole purpose of conducting research or teaching. (v) Engines used directly and exclusively for agricultural operations necessary for the growing of crops or the raising of fowl or animals. (vi) Engine test stands used for evaluating engine performance. (vii) Diesel engines used to power cranes necessary for emergency evacuation or safety of personnel. (viii) Diesel engines rated at less than 125 brake horsepower and operated at less than 200,000 horsepower-hours per calendar year. (A) To demonstrate that a unit is operated less than 200,000 horsepower-hours in a calendar year, the owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain in calibration equipment that continuously monitors and records elapsed time of operation. For each year, the owner or operator shall also keep an operating log of start and stop times, type and quantity of fuel used, and cumulative annual hours and horsepower-hours of operation for each unit. Each operating log shall be maintained at the plant at which the unit is located for a period of five years. The operating log shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. (B) The owner or operator of any unit that claims an exemption from the requirements of paragraph (m)(3) of this section under paragraph (m)(4)(viii)(A) of this section shall notify the Administrator within 7 days if the unit is ever operated equal to or greater than 200,000 horsepower-hours in a calendar year. If the unit is ever operated equal to or greater than 200,000 horsepower-hours in a calendar year, the exemption shall be permanently withdrawn and the owner or operator shall be subject to the compliance schedule in paragraph (m)(5)(iv) of this section and the applicable requirements of paragraphs (m) (3), (6), and (7) of this section. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent EPA from bringing enforcement action for violation of paragraph (m)(3) of this section or for failure to demonstrate compliance with this paragraph (m)(3) of this section. (5) Compliance schedule. (i) Any owner or operator of a unit in existence prior to the date of adoption of this section that does not need to retrofit the unit, install new control equipment, or decrease annual operating hours to comply with the requirements of paragraph (m)(3) of this section shall demonstrate compliance with all of the applicable requirements of this section by May 15, 1995. (ii) Any owner or operator of a unit in existence prior to the date of adoption of this section that must retrofit the unit to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (m)(3)(i) (A), (C) or (D), (m)(3)(ii), and (m)(3)(iii) of this section, shall demonstrate compliance in accordance with the applicable schedule specified in paragraph (m)(5)(ii) (A) or (B) of this section. (A) Any owner or operator that chooses to convert the unit to electric power shall demonstrate compliance with all of the applicable requirements of this section by May 15, 1999. Any owner or operator of a unit to which this paragraph is applicable shall meet the following increments of progress: (1 ) By January 1, 1997, apply for all authority-to- construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District for conversion of the unit to electric power, and ( 2 ) By January 1, 1999, commence conversion of the unit to electric power, as approved by the local Air Pollution Control District, to demonstrate compliance by May 15, 1999. (B) Any owner or operator that chooses to retrofit the unit with combustion controls or install new control equipment shall demonstrate compliance with all of the applicable requirements of this section by May 15, 1997. Any owner or operator of a unit to which this paragraph is applicable shall meet the following increments of progress: ( 1 ) By January 1, 1996, apply for all authority-to- construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District for all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, and ( 2 ) By January 1, 1997, commence construction of all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, as approved by the local Air Pollution Control District, to demonstrate compliance by May 15, 1997. (iii) Any owner or operator of a new unit that is constructed on and after the date of adoption of this section shall apply for, and receive approval of, all authority-to- construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District prior to beginning construction of the unit. The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the unit will be operated in compliance with all of the applicable requirements of this section within 60 days after the date of the initial startup of the unit. (iv) On and after the date of adoption of this section, any owner or operator of a diesel engine that claims an exempt from the requirements of paragraph (m)(3) of this section which operates the unit equal to or greater than 200,000 brake horsepower hours in a calendar year shall demonstrate compliance in accordance with the applicable schedule specified in paragraph (m)(5)(iv) (A) or (B) of this section.
