FR941130-2-00058 FR941130-2-00034 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM Federal Open Market Committee; Domestic Policy Directive of September 27, 1994 In accordance with 271.5 of its rules regarding availability of information (12 CFR part 271), there is set forth below the domestic policy directive issued by the Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting held on August 16, 1994. 1 The directive was issued to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as follows: 1 Copies of the Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting of September 27, 1994, which include the domestic policy directive issued at that meeting, are available upon request to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551. The minutes are published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin and in the Board's annual report. The information reviewed at this meeting suggests that the pace of economic expansion, though perhaps moderating slightly in recent months, remains substantial. Nonfarm payroll employment advanced appreciably further in August, and the civilian unemployment rate was unchanged at 6.1 percent. Reflecting strength in motor vehicles, industrial production rose sharply in August after posting sizable gains in other recent months, and capacity utilization moved up further from already high levels. Retail sales were up considerably in August, boosted by a rebound in sales of durable goods, including motor vehicles. Housing starts rose in August but were unchanged from their second-quarter level. Orders for nondefense capital goods point to a continued strong expansion in spending on business equipment; permits for non residential construction remain on a mild uptrend. Inventory accumulation appears to have moderated recently after surging in the second quarter. The nominal deficit on U.S. trade in goods and services widened in July from its second-quarter average. Prices of materials have remained under upward pressure, and increases in broad indexes of consumer and producer prices have been somewhat larger in recent months. On August 16, 1994, the Board of Governors approved an increase in the discount rate from 3-1/2 to 4 percent, and Committee agreed that this increase would be allowed to show through completely to interest rates in reserve markets. Most market interest rates are up somewhat on balance since the August meeting. The trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of the other G-10 currencies depreciated somewhat over the intermeeting period. M2 and M3 declined in August after expanding moderately in July; for the year through August, M2 and M3 grew at rates slightly above the bottom of their ranges for 1994. Total domestic nonfinancial debt has continued to expand at a moderate rate in recent months. The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. In furtherance of these objectives, the Committee at its meeting in July reaffirmed the ranges it had established in February for growth of M2 and M3 of 1 to 5 percent and 0 to 4 percent respectively, measured from the fourth quarter of 1993 to the fourth quarter of 1994. The Committee anticipated that developments contributing to unusual velocity increases could persist during the year and that money growth within these ranges would be consistent with its broad policy objectives. The monitoring range for growth of total domestic nonfinancial debt was maintained at 4 to 8 percent for the year. For 1995, the Committee agreed on tentative ranges for monetary growth, measured from the fourth quarter of 1994 to the fourth quarter of 1995, of 1 to 5 percent for M2 and 0 to 4 percent for M3. The Committee provisionally set the associated monitoring range for growth of domestic nonfinancial debt at 3 to 7 percent for 1995. The behavior of the monetary aggregates will continue to be evaluated in the light of progress toward price level stability, movements in their velocities, and developments in the economy and financial markets. In the implementation of policy for the immediate future, the committee seeks to maintain the existing degree of pressure on reserve positions. In the context of the Committee's long-run objectives for price stability and sustainable economic growth, and giving careful consideration to economic, financial, and monetary developments, somewhat greater reserve restraint would or slightly lesser reserve restraint might be acceptable in the intermeeting period. The contemplated reserve conditions are expected to be consistent with modest growth in M2 and M3 over the balance of the year. By order of the Federal Open Market Committee, November 23, 1994. Donald L. Kohn, Secretary, Federal Open Market Committee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29457 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;F
