FR940505-1-00240 FR940505-1-00012 The numbers in the table above (and the similar numbers contained in the regulations for the other classes of nonroad equipment) reflect usage patterns for nonroad engines as described in EPA's draft Regulatory Support Document for the national nonroad rule. They reflect typical annual hours of use and load for each equipment type and applicable emissions standards. Further information regarding the calculation of these estimates is available in the Docket for this FIP. 117 EPA did not incorporate any seasonal adjustment for nonroad equipment that may only be used in the non-ozone season. EPA invites comment on whether there are any types of equipment affected that are used in FIP areas only under conditions that preclude ozone violations (for example, snow grooming equipment). 117 ``Calculation of Average Emission Rates for Heavy-Duty Onhighway and Nonroad Fleet Averaging Programs,'' EPA memo from Chris Lieske to Joanne Goldhand, February 1994. The table below (``Average NO X Emissions Allowed by Calendar Year for Class I Nonroad Engines'') lists the allowable average NO X emissions for the first class of nonroad equipment during each calendar year for the South Coast and Ventura. The charts for Sacramento (which reflect turnover to 2.5 g/bhp-hr engines rather than to 1.5 g/bhp-hr engines) and those for the other classes of equipment are included in the regulations and are calculated in the same manner. These numbers are derived from the same average activity levels, load factors (as an average percent of rated horsepower), and uncontrolled emission levels described above. In addition, historical fleet turnover rates are incorporated in the fleet averages. Once the average actual emissions is determined for a fleet, it would be compared to the number in this chart corresponding to the appropriate class and year. That number represents the average that would occur if normal turnover of nonroad engines was maintained. These estimates are based on average 50 percent survival rates calculated for the EPA Nonroad Study and the documents associated with the national nonroad program NPRM benefits analysis. 118 Further information regarding the calculation of these numbers may be found in the Docket for this FIP. EPA invites comment on the use of these estimates. 118 ``Calculation of Average Emission Rates for Heavy-Duty Onhighway and Nonroad Fleet Averaging Programs,'' EPA memo from Chris Lieske to Joanne Goldhand, February 1994.
