FR940314-2-00066 FR940314-2-00041 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Food and Drug Administration [Docket No. 94N&hyph;0007] Revision of the Food Chemicals Codex Policy on Arsenic Specifications; Opportunity for Public Comment AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is announcing an opportunity for public comment on the revised Food Chemicals Codex policy on arsenic specifications. This new policy was recently approved by the National Academy of Sciences/Institute of Medicine (NAS/IOM) Committee on Food Chemicals Codex (the committee). This revised policy is intended to be implemented in the fourth edition of the Food Chemicals Codex, scheduled for release in early 1996. DATES: Written comments and information by May 27, 1994. The committee advises that comments not received by this date cannot be considered for the fourth edition but will be considered for a later edition or supplement. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments and information to the NAS/IOM Committee on Food Chemicals Codex, National Academy of Sciences, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Fatima N. Johnson, Committee on Food Chemicals Codex, Food and Nutrition Board, National Academy of Sciences, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, 202&hyph;334&hyph;2580, or Paul M. Kuznesof, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS&hyph;247), Food and Drug Administration, 200 C St. SW., Washington, DC 20204, 202&hyph;254&hyph;9537. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FDA provides research contracts to NAS/IOM to support the preparation of the Food Chemicals Codex, a compendium of specifications for substances used as food ingredients. In the Federal Register of July 15, 1993 (58 FR 38129), FDA announced an opportunity for public comment on the committee's revised policy on lead and heavy metals. FDA now gives notice that the committee is soliciting comments and information on a revised policy on arsenic specifications and its proposed implementation. The revised policy is intended for implementation in the fourth edition of the Food Chemicals Codex, which is scheduled for release in early 1996. FDA emphasizes, however, that it will not consider adopting new Food Chemicals Codex monographs and monograph revisions until the public has had ample opportunity to comment on them. The opportunity for public comment on new and revised monographs will be announced in a notice published in the Federal Register . The committee regards the safety of properly used food chemicals as one of its goals. This means that Food Chemicals Codex specifications will respond to advances in new manufacturing methods, analytical techniques, toxicology, and safety issues. At the same time, where possible, the committee will reduce unnecessary burdens on manufacturers and users of food ingredients. Currently, most monographs for Food Chemicals Codex substances include an arsenic limit that requires testing to ensure compliance. The committee believes that arsenic is no longer a contemporary concern in many Food Chemicals Codex substances for the following reasons: (1) The use of arsenic-containing materials in agriculture and manufacturing has declined sharply and registrations for many arsenic-containing pesticides have been revoked; (2) the heavy metals limit for many Food Chemicals Codex substances has been significantly reduced. Because arsenic is one of the nine elements detected as a heavy metal, the test indirectly provides a safety net in those rare cases where arsenic is present; and (3) arsenic has not been associated with or detected in most Food Chemicals Codex substances with a long history of use. Therefore, the committee believes that the inclusion of arsenic limits in Food Chemicals Codex monographs should not be routine, but that inclusion of such limits should be considered on an ``as needed'' basis. The committee has adopted the following general policy: The general policy for arsenic specifications in Food Chemicals Codex monographs is that an arsenic specification be included in the requirements only when there is specific reason to believe that arsenic constitutes a significant portion of the heavy metals limit. To implement this policy in the fourth edition, the committee proposes deleting the arsenic specification from all current monographs, except for the following substances where the arsenic specification will be retained. 1. The top 25 high-volume usage ingredients, based on the 1987 NAS/NRC Food Additives Survey: Calcium carbonate Calcium oxide Caramel color Citric acid Coconut oil Corn oil Corn syrup Corn syrup solids (glucose syrup, dried) Cottonseed oil Cottonseed oil, partially hydrogenated Dextrose Diatomaceous earth D-sorbitol Food starch, modified High fructose corn syrup Lactose Mono- and diglycerides Sodium bicarbonate Sodium chloride Sodium hydroxide Soybean oil Soybean oil, hydrogenated Sucrose Sucrose, liquid Whey 2. Ingredients that are obtained from natural sources, such as gums and mineral phosphates, including: Acacia gum Agar Alginic acid Ammonium alginate Ammonium phosphate, dibasic Ammonium phosphate, monobasic Calcium alginate Calcium phosphate, monobasic Calcium phosphate, dibasic Calcium phosphate, tribasic Calcium pyrophosphate Carrageenan Gellan gum Ground limestone Guar gum Gum ghatti Kaolin Karaya gum Konjac flour Locust (Carob) bean gum Pectin Perlite Potassium alginate Potassium phosphate, dibasic Potassium phosphate, monobasic Potassium phosphate, tribasic Potassium polymetaphosphate Potassium pyrophosphate Potassium tripolyphosphate Silicon dioxide Sodium alginate Sodium aluminum phosphate, acidic Sodium aluminum phosphate, basic Sodium metaphosphate, insoluble Sodium phosphate, dibasic Sodium phosphate, monobasic Sodium phosphate, tribasic Sodium polyphosphates, glassy Sodium pyrophosphate Sodium trimetaphosphate Sodium tripolyphosphate Talc Titanium dioxide Xanthan gum 3. Ingredients where information and/or data exist to support the inclusion of an arsenic specification. The committee requests data and information from all interested parties suggesting other Food Chemicals Codex monographs that, for safety reasons, should retain the arsenic specification. Two copies of written comments and information regarding this notice are to be submitted to NAS (address above). Comments may also be submitted electronically to the Food Chemicals Codex bulletin board, 202&hyph;334&hyph;1738, or transmitted by facsimile, 202&hyph;334&hyph;2316. Each submission should include the statement that it is in response to this Federal Register notice. NAS will forward a copy of each comment, submitted either electronically or in writing, to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857, to be placed under Docket No. 94N&hyph;0007 for public review. Dated: March 3, 1994. L. Robert Lake, Acting Director, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5824 Filed 3&hyph;14&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
