FR940223-0-00017 FR940223-0-00011 FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 16 CFR Part 244 Industry Guide: Guides for the Greeting Card Industry Relating to Discriminatory Practices AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Final rules; Notice of repeal of industry guide. SUMMARY: The Federal Trade Commission announces the repeal of the guides concerning discriminatory practices in the greeting card industry, hereinafter referred to as the ``Greeting Card Guides'' or the ``Guides.'' The Commission has reviewed the provisions of the Guides, and has concluded that due to substantial duplication by later-adopted statements of policy of general application, the Guides are no longer in the public interest and should be withdrawn. Accordingly, the Greeting Card Guides are rescinded. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 23, 1994. ADDRESSES: Requests for copies of this notice should be sent to the Public Reference Branch, Federal Trade Commission, 6th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Neil W. Averitt, Esq., Office of Policy & Evaluation, Bureau of Competition, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, DC 20580. Telephone: (202) 326&hyph;2885. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The ``Guides for the Greeting Card Industry Relating to Discriminatory Practices'' were published in 1968. They discuss the ways in which the Robinson-Patman Act, 15 U.S.C. 13, will apply to that industry. The primary purpose of the Guides was to describe the principles that the Federal Trade Commission would follow in applying sections 2 (d) and (e) of the Act, which require that promotional allowances and services be made available on nondiscriminatory terms. 1 1 See 15 U.S.C. 13(d), (e). One other portion of the Guides discussed the standards of price discrimination under section 2(a). See 16 CFR 244.1. The discussion of these issues was cast in fairly general terms, however. The same year that the Guides were issued, the Supreme Court decided the case of FTC v. Fred Meyer, Inc., 390 U.S. 341 (1968). In that opinion the Court suggested that the Commission might wish to expand on earlier guidance and issue detailed guidelines to promotional allowances under sections 2 (d) and (e). The Commission accepted this invitation the following year by publishing the so-called ``Fred Meyer Guides.'' See 16 CFR part 240. These set out general standards for promotional allowances, applicable to all industries. The Fred Meyer Guides have since been amended as necessary to keep them current, most recently in 1990. With the Fred Meyer Guides in place, the Commission grew concerned that earlier, industry-specific guidelines had become redundant and a potential source of confusion. In July of 1993 it therefore requested public comment on a proposal to repeal the Greeting Card Guides. Only one comment was received. Analysis The Commission believes that the Greeting Card Guides are duplicated and made redundant by the Fred Meyer Guides. Although the Greeting Card Guides are tailored for the industry (e.g., ```supplier' means any greeting card publisher or distributor,'' 16 CFR 240.0(d)), the legal principles reflected in the Guides are not specific to that industry. The applicable law is set out in the Robinson-Patman Act, as interpreted and applied in Commission and judicial precedent. The same principles are reflected in the Fred Meyer Guides. The retention of the separate Greeting Card Guides therefore serves no purpose. No members of the greeting card industry have requested that the Guides be retained, suggesting that industry members do not perceive a need to continue the Guides. The Commission has received a letter from the Executive Vice President of the Greeting Card Association, reporting that the Association ``has no objection'' to repeal of the Guides, the some retailer members of the Association are already familiar with the Fred Meyer Guides, and that ``it seems superfluous to have two sets of the same guidelines.'' 2 2 Letter from Marianne McDermott, Executive Vice President, Greeting Card Association, to Neil Averitt, Office of Policy & Evaluation, Federal Trade Commission (Sept. 14, 1993). In view of these facts the Commission has concluded that the Greeting Card Guides serve no present function and, therefore, has determined to withdraw those Guides. List of Subjects in 16 CFR Part 244 Greeting card industry, Price discrimination, Promotional allowances, Trade practices, Unfair methods of competition. PART 244_[REMOVED] Accordingly, under the authority of 15 U.S.C. et seq. and 15 U.S.C. 13, title 16, chapter I, of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended by removing part 244. By direction of the Commission. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4039 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
