FR941019-1-00054 FR941019-1-00005 If this is a single purchase certificate, check here and enter: 1. Account number 2. Number of gallons If this is a certificate covering all purchases under a specified account or order number, check here XXXXX and enter: 1. Effective date 2. Expiration date (period not to exceed 1 year after the effective date) 3. Buyer account or order number XXXXXX Buyer will not claim a credit or refund under section 6427(f) of the Internal Revenue Code for any gasoline covered by this certificate. Buyer agrees to provide seller with a new certificate if any information on this certificate changes. Buyer understands that Buyer's registration may be revoked if the gasoline covered by this certificate is resold or is used other than in Buyer's production of the type of gasohol identified above. Buyer will not take the alcohol mixture credit under section 40(b) with respect to the alcohol in the gasohol to which this certificate relates. Buyer understands that the fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Buyer and all parties making any fraudulent use of this certificate to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution. Printed or typed name of person signing Title of person signing Employer identification number Address of Buyer Signature and date signed * * * * * (e) Tax rates _(1) Gasohol production tax rate. The gasohol production tax rate is the applicable rate of tax determined under section 4081(c)(2)(A). (2) Gasohol tax rate. The gasohol tax rate is the applicable alcohol mixture rate determined under section 4081(c)(4)(A). * * * * * (g) * * * (2) Failure to blend _(i) Imposition of tax. Tax is imposed on the entry, removal, or sale of gasoline (including excess liquid described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section) with respect to which tax was imposed at a gasohol production tax rate if_ (A) The gasoline was not blended into gasohol; or (B) The gasoline was blended into gasohol but the gasohol production tax rate applicable to the type of gasohol produced is greater than the rate of tax originally imposed on the gasoline. * * * * * (iii) Rate of tax. The rate of tax imposed on gasoline described in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A) of this section is the difference between the rate of tax applicable to gasoline not described in this section and the rate of tax previously imposed on the gasoline. The rate of tax imposed on gasoline described in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(B) of this section is the difference between the gasohol production tax rate applicable to the type of gasohol produced and the rate of tax previously imposed on the gasoline. (iv) Example. The following example illustrates the rule of this paragraph (g)(2): Example. (i) A registered gasohol blender bought gasoline in connection with a removal described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. Based on the blender's certification (described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) that the blender would produce 10 percent gasohol with the gasoline, tax at the gasohol production tax rate applicable to 10 percent gasohol was imposed on the removal. (ii) The blender then produced a mixture by splash blending in a tank holding approximately 8000 gallons of mixture. The applicable delivery tickets show that the mixture was blended by first pumping 7220 metered gallons of gasoline into the empty tank, and then pumping 780 metered gallons of alcohol into the tank. Because the mixture contains 9.75 percent alcohol (as determined based on the delivery tickets provided to the blender) the entire mixture qualifies as 7.7 percent gasohol, rather than 10 percent gasohol. (iii) Because the 7220 gallons of gasoline were taxed at the gasohol production tax rate applicable to 10 percent gasohol but the gasoline was blended into 7.7 percent gasohol, a failure to blend has occurred with respect to the gasoline. As the person that bought the gasoline in connection with the taxable removal, the blender is liable for the tax imposed under paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section. The amount of tax imposed is the difference between_ (A) 7220 gallons times the gasohol production tax rate applicable to 7.7 percent gasohol; and (B) 7220 gallons times the gasohol production tax rate applicable to 10 percent gasohol. (iv) Because the gasohol does not contain exactly 7.7 percent alcohol, the benefit of the gasohol production tax rate with respect to the alcohol is less than the amount of the alcohol mixture credit under section 40(b) (determined before the application of section 40(c). Accordingly, the blender may be entitled to claim an alcohol mixture credit for the alcohol used in the gasohol. Under section 40(c), however, the amount of the alcohol mixture credit must be reduced to take into account the benefit provided with respect to the alcohol by the gasohol production tax rate. (h) Effective date. This section is effective January 1, 1993. Par. 15. Section 48.4081&hyph;7 is amended as follows: 1. The heading for ยง48.4081&hyph;7 is revised. 2. In paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d), the language ``gasoline'' is removed each place it appears and ``taxable fuel'' is added in its place.
