FR940713-1-00044 FR940713-1-00009 2. Our goal in this proceeding is to enhance the efficiency of our processing of ITFS applications. The Notice asserted that changes in the ITFS service in the last decade have fostered a substantial increase in the rate of applications filed for new ITFS stations or major changes in existing stations, creating a significant backlog. The Notice tentatively concluded that the existing cut-off filing system, which requires each application to be processed twice, significantly exacerbates the backlog. We proposed a window filing procedure for applications for new facilities, applications for major changes in existing facilities, and major amendments to pending applications. We would accept such applications only during specific times, or ``windows.'' This would allow us to eliminate the duplicative processing and control the flow of applications, thereby improving processing efficiency. Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in MM Docket No. 93&hyph;24, 58 FR 12011 (March 2, 1993). 3. While most commenters agree that the current filing system is inefficient and unnecessary, they are divided on the adoption of a window filing procedure. Supporters of the proposal generally agree that a window filing procedure will help eliminate the inefficiencies resulting from the A/B cut-off system that were discussed in the Notice. Under the A/B cut-off system, educators with wireless cable lessees would at times file applications simply to be mutually exclusive with applicants listed on an ``A'' cut-off list. The proposed window filing procedure would eliminate this practice. 4. However, several commenters argue that the adoption of a filing window system without concomitant safeguards against abuse would not increase processing efficiency. According to these parties, a window filing system would encourage some wireless cable entities to persuade educational institutions to submit excessively large and unrealistic numbers of applications, thereby allowing the wireless cable entity to warehouse spectrum. They assert that such wireless cable entities do not intend to construct, but rather seek a profitable bargaining position with allegedly ``legitimate'' wireless cable developers. The commenters add that a wireless cable operator that plans to construct may not be ready during a filing window to associate with schools and prepare its applications. Alternatively, they assert that wireless cable operators that do intend to construct would have to file applications in every market in which they hope eventually to operate, in order to protect themselves from spectrum speculators, diminishing processing efficiency. 5. Some parties argue that a window filing system is inappropriate for educational applicants not associated with a wireless cable lessee, because they require up to 18 months to approve the project and authorize the funds needed for construction. Thus, NIA states that such institutions would not be able to respond in time to a Public Notice of a window. Also, several parties assert that any window filing procedure must account for the annual January grant application deadline of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA). 1 1 NTIA provides grants to educational institutions for the construction of ITFS facilities. 6. Discussion Under the existing cut-off filing system, each application must undergo a substantive engineering analysis upon filing, simply to allow the release of an ``A'' cut-off list. No applications are granted or denied in this stage of processing. Subsequently, each application undergoes a second technical analysis in order to determine whether it is grantable. Because each of these analyses requires significant resources, the elimination of the duplicative step would substantially improve processing efficiency. Moreover, a window filing procedure would deny frequency speculators with no intention to construct the opportunity to file against applications on an ``A'' cut-off list. These benefits would significantly improve the Commission's workflow management. 7. In addition, the record reflects that educators would be able to prepare adequately for each subsequent filing period, due especially but not solely to the significant involvement of wireless cable operators in financing and constructing the facilities. Most of these wireless cable operators have substantial experience in filing for Commission licenses. The record reflects no reason why educators without excess capacity leases will not be able to prepare as before for the financing and construction of an ITFS facility. An ongoing series of filing windows will still ensure an opportunity for such educators to file when they are ready. Indeed, because ``A'' cut-off lists are not announced in advance or released pursuant to a formal schedule, these educators would be in the same position under the window system as they are now. Consequently, educators that do not rely on excess capacity lessees will not be disadvantaged by the change to a window filing system. for the same reason, the consequences are identical as under the existing system for parties simply not prepared to file during a window. 8. Also, in order not to obstruct NTIA grants, we propose allowing each December the tendering of applications that rely upon NTIA funding. We would consider such applications, if filed outside a window period, as having been filed during the immediately following window. 9. Accordingly, we are inclined to adopt the window filing procedure. We also acknowledge the concerns of the commenters that the window filing procedure may not by itself alleviate the problems faced by applicants and the Commission. Thus, as discussed further below, we seek comment on how we can achieve the significant benefits of a window filing system while minimizing filing practices that impede efficient processing. Proposals To Improve the Application Process 10. Financial Qualifications To deter a significant number of ITFS speculators, some commenters advocate requiring applicants or their proposed wireless cable lessees to submit with their applications proof of their financial ability to construct. 2 Moreover, they propose requiring separate financial documentation for each station applied for, and making the wireless cable lessee submit the documentation when it is paying for construction of the facilities. 2 Currently, applicants are required to certify their financial ability. 11. We request comment on this proposal. We believe that its adoption may deter a significant number of speculative applications. However, we recognize that adoption would entail significant costs. Compiling the necessary documentation could impose a significant burden on educational institutions, especially those not leasing their excess capacity. Further, any enhanced efficiency might be eviscerated by our having to allocate substantial staff resources to the analysis of each financial submission. In addition, the requirement could become a basis for the filing of frivolous petitions, further delaying the grant of applications. We seek comment on how to balance these costs and benefits. Moreover, we note that wireless cable lessees are not parties to ITFS applications. Thus, we ask commenters to address whether it would be appropriate to require lessees to routinely submit demonstrations of their financial ability. Commenters should also address whether our existing rules and policies on misrepresentation sufficiently prohibit parties from falsely certifying their financial ability to construct.
