FR940622-1-00032 FR940622-1-00010 These changes represent increases from the current minimum levels of between $20,000 and $225,000, depending on the type of business conducted by the government securities broker or dealer. The Department is proposing fewer levels than the SEC has proposed since the operations of government securities brokers and dealers do not encompass all the activities available to diversified brokers or dealers. The proposed Treasury minimum capital requirements adequately reflect the different levels of custodial risk found in the various types of government securities operations without creating significant barriers to entry into the government securities market. Any increase of capital requirements represents a potential burden on regulated entities and on the market; this potential effect must be weighed against the resulting benefits. Minimum capital levels provide a cushion which is available to ease the liquidation or resolution of troubled government securities brokers and dealers. This is a fundamental element of customer protection. The increases that the Department is proposing are modest relative to the size and complexity of the government securities market and the operations of government securities brokers and dealers. When the SEC first proposed increasing broker's and dealer's minimum capital levels, the SEC received comments opposing the increased requirements. The SEC has also received additional negative comments from introducing firms that would be affected by the outstanding proposal to increase the minimum net capital level of such brokers. However, the Department believes that its proposed increases will have a very small impact on the firms, including introducing brokers, subject to §402.2. An analysis of the government securities brokers and dealers subject to the provisions of §402.2 indicates that, as of June 30, 1993, only seven, out of a total of 39, would not be in compliance with the proposed, fully phased-in minimum capital levels. Four of these firms would not be in compliance with the new requirements for introducing firms, two would be out of compliance with the $100,000 requirement and one would not meet the $250,000 level. The aggregate capital shortfall of these seven firms is less than $200,000, with the largest individual deficit being less than $50,000. To ease the compliance burden and to provide a period for the affected government securities brokers and dealers to adjust, the Department is proposing to add an Appendix E to §402.2 which would phase in the increases over an 18-month time frame from the effective date. This corresponds to the phase in time frames that were adopted and proposed by the SEC. B. Capital Withdrawal Requirements The SEC promulgated final rules regarding the withdrawal of capital by brokers and dealers. 14 These rules require written notification to the SEC and the broker's or dealer's designated examining authority of certain capital withdrawals; add a restriction on the withdrawal of capital based on the ratio of net capital to securities haircuts; provide additional definitions; and permit the SEC, by order, to prohibit the withdrawal of capital in certain described circumstances. The Department is proposing to amend its capital withdrawal provisions 15 to include the notification requirements and certain definitions but has determined not to propose the other two requirements (as explained below). 14 See Supra note 4. 15 17 CFR 202.2(i). The notification provisions would require post-withdrawal notification of certain significant capital withdrawals as well as prior notification for larger withdrawals. Whether the notification would be required prior to the withdrawal 16 would be determined by the aggregate size of total withdrawals relative to the government securities broker's or dealer's excess liquid capital 17 over a 30 calendar day period. Once aggregate withdrawals have exceeded 20 percent of a government securities broker's or dealer's excess liquid capital in a 30 calendar day period, the government securities broker or dealer will have two business days thereafter in which to file notification of the withdrawals. Aggregate withdrawals in excess of 30 percent of excess liquid capital in any 30 calendar day period would require notification two business days prior to such withdrawal. A government securities broker or dealer may use the level of excess liquid capital calculated in its most recent Form G&hyph;405, ``Report on Finances and Operations of Government Securities Brokers and Dealers (FOGS)'' filing, 18 provided the firm assures itself that this amount has not materially changed since that time. A government securities broker or dealer is not required under the proposed rule to provide notice to the Department, but instead notice would be sent to the SEC and to the broker's or dealer's designated examining authority. 16 If prior notification is required, the post-withdrawal notification must also be filed. 17 Excess liquid capital is that amount of liquid capital which exceeds the greater of the amount of capital required under (i) §402.2(a); or §402.2(b) or (c) as applicable. 18 17 CFR 405.2 requires certain government securities brokers and dealers to file monthly and quarterly financial reports. The proposed rule would exclude the reporting of net withdrawals that, in the aggregate, are less than $500,000 in any 30 calendar day period or those that represent securities or commodities transactions between affiliates. The exclusion for securities and commodities transactions requires that the transactions be conducted in the ordinary course of business and settled no later than two business days after the date of the transaction. Discussions with SEC staff have indicated that forward settling transactions between affiliates would not be eligible for this exclusion.
