FR940504-2-00100 FR940504-2-00086 Proposed Budget_Applicants must submit a comprehensive line item budget for which specific details are available in the application packet. The Center does not pay for costs that are not directly related to the specific project being funded (e.g., indirect costs). No support will be given for the purchase or lease of capital equipment (e.g., fax machines, computers), or other related infrastructural costs. Some degree of institutional support should be reflected in the proposed project budget. Salary support must be fully justified by the specific requirements of the projects and should not represent a major portion of total project expense. Salary support should be calculated as a percentage of time spent on research for the duration of the project. It is not permissible to request support in lieu of responsibilities for university course instruction. Review Process: Grants made through the North-South Center External Research Grant Program are awarded through a competitive review process. The Grant Programs Office will acknowledge receipt of all proposals, and the Center's Executive Staff will review every proposal for eligibility, completeness, and competitiveness. Outside reviewers with expertise in a particular subject area may be called upon to provide critique on proposals. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet. All eligible and complete proposals will be submitted to the Center's Grant Review Panel, comprised of a multidisciplinary group of distinguished experts from major university centers for Latin American and Caribbean Studies throughout the United States and two international business members. Review Criteria: Applications which meet the aforementioned technical requirements will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria: 1. Contribution to the field of study: Proposals should demonstrate a distinct theoretical, political, or applied academic significance to the stated subject area. The outcome of the research endeavor should be useful and applicable to the academic, government, and/or the policy-making community. 2. Research cohesiveness and quality: Clearly defined research hypotheses, including the specific questions which will be asked through this investigation, and an explanation of the means of testing and evaluating the research objectives should be provided. A detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive rigor and logistical capacity. Proposed personnel and institutional resources should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the program or project's goals. 3. Clarity and focus: Proposals should illustrate that the research has been sufficiently developed prior to the request for funding, to ensure that its aims are clear and specific. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the applicant will meet the program's objectives and research plan. 4. Concrete and lasting impact of the investigations: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, including maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual linkages. Proposals should provide a plan for continued follow-up activity which insures that the Center's supported programs are not isolated events. Effective dissemination of the project's results should be planned to reach the widest possible and most relevant audience. 5. Potential: Proposals should demonstrate the potential for fostering cooperation and understanding among peoples of the region.
