FR940323-0-00031 FR940323-0-00020 Wednesday March 23, 1994 Part II Corporation for National and Community Service 45 CFR Parts 2510, 2513, et al. Corporation Grant Programs and Support and Investment Activities; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 56␣/␣Wednesday, March 23, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE 45 CFR Parts 2510, 2513, 2515, 2516, 2517, 2518, 2519, 2520, 2521, 2522, 2523, 2524, 2530, 2531, 2532, 2533, and 2540 Corporation Grant Programs and Support and Investment Activities AGENCY: Corporation for National and Community Service. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Corporation for National and Community Service (the Corporation) is issuing this final rule concerning the Corporation's grantmaking programs and various support and investment activities as authorized by the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended by the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 (the Act). The activities and grants described in this rule are designed to help address the Nation s education, public safety, human, and environmental needs through national and community service. This rule describes the different types of national and community service programs the Corporation may support, the funding available for those programs, the processes by which grants will be awarded, the training and technical support services available for program development and applications, and the Corporation's plans to invest in service infrastructure. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 23, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Terry Russell, (202) 606&hyph;4949 (Voice) or (202) 606&hyph;5256 TDD), between the hours of 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. For individuals with disabilities, information will be made available in alternative formats upon request. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Information The Corporation's Mission The Corporation's mission is to engage Americans of all ages and backgrounds in community-based National service. This service will address the Nation s education, public safety, human, and environmental needs to achieve direct and demonstrable results. In doing so, the Corporation will foster civic responsibility, strengthen the ties that bind us together as a people, and provide educational opportunity for those who make a substantial commitment to service. The Purpose of This Rule The purpose of this rule is to establish policies and procedures for the activities that the Corporation will undertake to achieve the goals described above. This rule should serve as a guide to explain the eligibility requirements, application processes, selection criteria, program requirements, and other relevant information for individuals, programs, public and private nonprofits, institutions of higher education, States, Indian tribes, and other entities wishing to participate. Impact of Programs All programs under the National and Community Service Act have in common the goal of achieving three types of impact: ``getting things done'' through direct and demonstrable service, strengthening communities, and developing the leadership and other skills of participants. All programs, whether they involve elementary school children or senior citizens, are equally able to achieve the goal of strengthening communities `` by involving people of different backgrounds together in a common effort, by promoting civic responsibility so that every member of a community feels responsibility for its stewardship, and by breaking down barriers of mistrust and misunderstanding. The other two impacts are weighted differently for different program types based on the age and experience of the participants. At the one extreme, the service-learning programs for school-age youth may indeed help to solve the pressing problems of communities, but their primary impact will be, and should be, on the lives of the participants. They should improve their educational motivation and achievement, citizenship skills, teamwork, and problem solving abilities. At the other extreme, for a professional corps of adults who are highly educated and highly skilled, the primary impact must be on getting things done in communities. Given the higher costs of these programs and the advanced education level of the participants, it is imperative that the work they do be highly valued by communities and the Nation. Programs like youth corps, which lie somewhere in the middle in terms of age and education level of participants, should achieve a balance of impacts by getting things done and meeting the educational or training needs of participants. By keeping this calculus in mind, potential applicants can gauge the appropriate amount of program resources that should be dedicated to participant education, life skills training, and other types of participant support. Proposed Regulations On January 7, 1994, the Corporation for National and Community Service published in the Federal Register (59 FR 1194) a proposed rule implementing the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended. In response to the proposed rule, the Corporation received over 280 comments from, among others, States, Indian tribes, schools, institutions of higher education, community-based organizations, public and private nonprofit organizations, volunteer organizations, and individuals. Summary and Analysis of Public Comment Many comments suggested changes to Corporation policies that were discussed in the preamble to the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking but that were not addressed by the rule itself. Although the Corporation is not required to discuss these comments here, they have been considered carefully and some changes have been made. The most salient of these issues, along with updates to other non-regulatory Corporation policies, are discussed separately in the section on Preamble Issues. The Regulations Issues section summarizes substantive comments received on the regulatory provisions of the Corporation's proposed rule. Each issue that was raised in the comments is identified and discussed, and, where appropriate, any changes to the regulations are noted with regulatory citations. Finally, the Corporation received a significant number of comments that suggested changes to regulatory provisions that reflect statutory requirements. None of these is discussed here. Also not discussed are any technical, non-policy changes that were made either in response to comments or as a result of internal review.
