FR940610-1-00094 FR940610-1-00008 The cost analysis found that the nutrient requirements of NSMP can be met at about the current cost of food in the National School Lunch Program. Because the foods used in the sample menus were drawn from what is currently being served, USDA does not anticipate the need for significant changes in meal preparation practices that would affect the cost to prepare meals. The administrative cost of conducting NSMP should be about the same as current operations once the system is fully implemented in a school. An evaluation of costs in the California nutrient standard demonstration reported that most schools experienced slight cost changes that ranged from 4 percent savings to 1.5 percent increased costs and concluded that most districts can expect to experience very little change in overall food service costs when implementing a nutrient-based system. 18 f. Other Significant Effects The Food and Nutrition Service believes that implementation of nutrient-based menus will require extensive training and technical assistance, especially at the school food authority level. In addition, the acquisition of computers (for schools that do not already have them) or contracting for computer or assistance with the revised menu planning system may involve some local level expenditures during the implementation period. While implementation will require a dedicated effort on the part of our agency, the state agencies and local school food authorities, the ongoing operation and maintenance of nutrient-based menu planning will be indistinguishable from the current meal pattern based system in terms of efforts. To provide for the resources needed for implementation, the regulation proposes a twenty per cent reduction in state monitoring requirements. This reduction will enhance the level of resources available to focus on training and technical assistance efforts. Many school food authorities will no longer have the requirement for specific edit checks to review claims submitted for reimbursable meals. Rather, these school food authorities will have flexibility to develop their own internal controls for such review. This provision is largely intended to streamline program administration, but will also provide some relief from program management burdens. Other Regulatory Changes The regulation proposes to streamline some existing administrative procedures of State agencies and school districts. This will permit States and school districts to implement NSMP and focus on the nutritional needs of children. At the State level the school food authority review cycle will be extended from four to five years, reducing by 20 percent the resources devoted to this effort. While this will extend the time period between formal reviews, most districts are currently visited more frequently than the current four year cycle. The States will continue to have a significant presence at the local level. Although the focus of attention will be on implementing NSMP there should be no perceived reduction in State oversight. 5. Reason for Selection of Proposed Alternative: The overriding purpose behind this rule is to serve more nutritious and healthful meals to school children while maintaining access to the meal programs for needy children and enhancing the flexibility of local schools to administer the programs. The nutrient targets selected are derived from the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs). 19 The Dietary Guidelines for Americans encompass the Federal government policy on nutrition. They are developed in consideration of scientific sources such as The Surgeon General's Report on Nutrition and Health 20 and the National Academy of Sciences reports Diet and Health: Implications for Reducing Chronic Disease Risk 21 and Recommended Dietary Allowances. They are based upon the recommendations of an expert committee, the Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee, specifically appointed to assist in developing Dietary Guidelines for use across Federal government. There are no alternative policy documents with official sanction by the government departments responsible for domestic nutrition which could provide alternative dietary targets for the general population. Other government publications in this area, such as ``Building for the Future: Nutrition Guidance for the Child Nutrition Programs'' 22 are based upon the Dietary Guidelines. 6. Public Comments: The Department also considered extensive oral testimony presented at four public hearings and meetings as well as written comments submitted in response to a notice published in the Federal Register on September 13, 1993. A summary of the comments is included in the preamble to the proposed rule. 7. References:
