FR940817-2-00093 FR940817-2-00043 It is reasonable to anticipate that persons living near major thoroughfares and in inner cities, often among the most economically disadvantaged Americans, will be disproportionately represented among persons with higher manganese exposure. Moreover, there is reason to believe certain subpopulations such as the young, the elderly, and persons with certain preexisting conditions, such as Parkinson's disease, might be more susceptible to any adverse effects of manganese exposure. Certain occupational groups who work in proximity to vehicular emissions such as toll takers, parking garage attendants, traffic policemen, taxi dispatchers, and service station attendants, are represented in the Agency's exposure estimates only to the extent of their prevalence in the general population. These occupational groups would likely experience manganese exposures attributable to MMT use near or even exceeding the highest predicted exposures 84 . I realize that if Ethyl is granted the requested waiver, MMT would not be utilized immediately in all congested urban areas. Some of the urban areas with higher vehicular usage are areas which will be required to begin using a cleaner gasoline referred to as ``reformulated gasoline'' beginning in 1995. If Ethyl were to obtain the waiver under section 211(f)(4) which is the subject of this decision, MMT could not be used in reformulated gasoline unless and until Ethyl obtained an additional waiver under Clean Air Act section 211(k)(2)(D). However, I am nevertheless concerned about the effects of potential MMT use in areas required to utilize reformulated gasoline, both because a waiver under section 211(f)(4) of the Act is a necessary prerequisite to the use of MMT in either conventional or reformulated gasoline and because Ethyl has made it clear that it does not seek the present waiver solely to permit use in conventional gasoline. 84 The Agency realizes that exposures to manganese deemed acceptable in particular industrial or occupational contexts will often significantly exceed the levels considered by EPA to pose acceptable risks for the general population. The establishment of appropriate limits for occupational exposures to manganese is an entirely separate process from the establishment of an RfC for the general population. Nevertheless, I do not believe it would be appropriate to completely disregard the likelihood of substantial incremental additions to manganese exposure for certain categories of working Americans where such increased exposure would be attributable solely to approval of MMT use. I have concluded based on the assessments prepared by EPA scientists that, if I were to approve use of MMT in unleaded gasoline at the specified concentration, a significant number of persons could thereby be exposed to manganese concentrations in the ambient air which approach or exceed the current RfC or the candidate RfCs described in the risk assessment. Although all risk assessments have some degree of uncertainty, in some cases it is reasonable to conclude that the risk of adverse health effects is either very great or very small because estimated exposure levels are either far above or far below a potential health effect level. However, this is not the case with MMT. Although it is not possible based on the present information to conclude whether specific adverse health effects will be associated with manganese exposures in the vicinity of or exceeding the RfC, neither is it possible to conclude that adverse health effects will not be associated with such exposures. Moreover, it is likely that, if adverse effects do occur as a result of MMT usage, such effects will be subtle and difficult to detect. In these circumstances, I am very reluctant to conduct a massive experiment in which the citizens of numerous American cities are subjected to the additional exposures to particulate manganese associated with MMT use. I am aware of the proposal by Ethyl that EPA conditionally grant its waiver application for HiTEC 3000, with conditions which would require Ethyl to develop in a specified period the additional health effects and exposure data necessary to address present uncertainties in the risk assessment, require Ethyl to conduct ambient monitoring of particulate manganese levels in certain cities where unleaded gasoline containing MMT would be sold, and provide for prompt withdrawal of HiTEC 3000 from the market in the event that ambient monitoring were to demonstrate airborne manganese levels exceeding a specified level of concern (e.g. 0.1 μg/m3). However, I believe that the additional information on health effects and exposure necessary to provide greater assurance that manganese emissions from MMT use will not jeopardize public health should be provided before I decide whether to expose Americans to such emissions on even a temporary basis. Moreover, Ethyl's proposal to monitor ambient exposure levels would not assure that personal exposures exceeding the specified threshold do not occur. The EPA risk assessment makes it clear that a substantial portion of the population exposed to airborne manganese as a result of MMT use would be expected to experience personal exposures exceeding measured ambient exposure levels.
