FR941219-0-00030 FR941219-0-00014 The final rule listing the delta smelt as a threatened species was published on March 5, 1993 (58 FR 12854). In the final rule, the Service postponed the decision on critical habitat designation. At that time, the economic analysis necessary to determine critical habitat was still in progress. On March 16, 1993 (58 FR 14199), the Service reopened the public comment period until April 30, 1993, to allow the Service to consider any economic or biological information that previously had not been submitted. Revisions to the October 3, 1991, Critical Habitat Proposal The Service published a revision to the October 3, 1991, proposed rule to designate critical habitat for the delta smelt on January 6, 1994 (59 FR 852). The revision was based primarily on information gathered by the California Department of Fish and Game (Dale Sweetnam, California Department of Fish and Game, pers. comm., 1993) and the University of California, Davis (Lesa Meng, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service pers. comm., 1993). This information showed that in 1993, delta smelt spawned in the Sacramento River, at least as far upstream as the City of Sacramento and in tidally-influenced shallow freshwater sloughs (Dale Sweetnam, pers. comm., 1993). In 1991, when delta smelt had all but disappeared from Suisun Marsh, relatively large numbers of delta smelt were caught in Suisun Slough, as far upstream as Suisun City (Lesa Meng, pers. comm., 1993). The revised rule proposed to expand the geographic extent of critical habitat to include additional areas now known to constitute important spawning habitat. In addition, in an April 23, 1993, letter received during the public comment period, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requested that new scientific information presented in its draft proposed Bay/Delta water quality standards be considered in the Service's designation of critical habitat. The water quality standards were to apply to the surface waters of the Sacramento River, San Joaquin River, and San Francisco Bay and Delta of the State of California (Bay/Delta) pursuant to section 303 of the Clean Water Act (CWA). As a result of EPA's analysis respecting the number of days that low-salinity water was historically located at three locations in the Estuary, the Service refined the description of the constituent elements for the delta smelt. The proposed critical habitat was revised therefore to encompass upstream spawning habitats and to better define constituent elements necessary to protect those areas essential to the recovery of the species. Comment on the revised proposal and its draft economic analysis was solicited. On the same date that the Service published its revised critical habitat rule, the Service proposed the Sacramento splittail ( Pogonichthys macrolepidotus ) as a threatened species and EPA published its proposed rule to establish water quality standards for surface waters of the Sacramento River, San Joaquin River, and San Francisco Bay and Delta pursuant to section 303 of the CWA. Those water quality standards are meant to protect the estuary as a whole, and therefore contain more than the salinity criterion. EPA's water quality proposal also includes salmon smolt survival criteria to protect fish migration and cold freshwater habitat designated uses in the estuary in its January 6, 1994, rule, along with proposed striped bass spawning criteria. Designation of critical habitat at this time is part of a coordinated effort between the Service, EPA, National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), and the Bureau of Reclamation (Bureau) (collectively, ``Club Fed'') to protect and recover the delta smelt and the Estuary ecosystem. Relationship Between Fish and Wildlife Service and EPA Actions The Service and EPA recognized that their proposed regulatory actions (e.g., delta smelt critical habitat and EPA's water quality standards) overlapped biologically and economically. As such, both agencies worked closely to provide a comprehensive, ecosystem-based approach for the protection of the fish and wildlife resources of the Estuary. This coordination has resulted in regulatory actions that are integrated in both substance and timing. Biologically, the critical habitat designation for the delta smelt and the salinity criteria within EPA's water quality standards are directly related. Specifically, salinities of 2 ppt in Suisun Bay were identified as a primary constituent element in the October 3, 1991, critical habitat proposal. Subsequent scientific publications indicate that salinities associated with the distribution of delta smelt may provide the best basis for setting standards for many species that are affected by freshwater discharge from the Estuary (Moyle et al. 1992; San Francisco Estuary Project 1993). Favorable conditions from February through June are important to the abundance and reproductive success of almost all species that live in or migrate through the upper Estuary. Because EPA's water quality standards address the location of 2 ppt salinities from February to June, its standards will address certain critical habitat (water quality) requirements for delta smelt. In the text of the January, 6, 1994, proposed rule to designate critical habitat for the delta smelt, the Service identified specific salinity criteria required to maintain habitat for delta smelt through its entire life cycle. These criteria had been determined in coordination with EPA in preparation of its proposed water quality standards. Subsequent to publication of the critical habitat proposed rule, the Service received many comments objecting to the specificity of the salinity criteria. During numerous discussions with interested parties (and in the following response to comments), Service staff have explained that the detailed discussion within the text of the proposed rule was meant to clearly describe the need for including a water quality criterion specific to salinity as one primary constituent element. The actual regulation that was proposed for publication in the Code of Federal Regulations, however, was much less specific as to allow broad flexibility in implementation of the provisions of the Act. Therefore, to clarify the Service's intent to preserve the flexibility inherent in implementation of the section 7 regulations, the following discussion of the primary constituent elements necessary to define delta smelt critical habitat, is general in scope. However, the Service has coordinated carefully and extensively with EPA to ensure that EPA's final rule promulgating Water Quality Standards for Surface Waters of the Sacramento River, San Joaquin River, and San Francisco Bay and Delta of the State of California affords sufficient protection to further the recovery of the delta smelt. EPA's final rule is published in this same Federal Register , in a separate part. In its proposed rule, EPA requested that specific comments be submitted on several issues, including the possibility of modifying the Sacramento River Index for the purposes of developing the salinity criteria, alternative approaches to the averaging period used in its proposed salinity criteria, and evaluation of the merits of the use of different forms of confidence intervals with the proposed criteria. In developing this final rule, the Service has considered all such comments. These issues also were discussed with EPA in regard to the development of its water quality standards and the Service's section 7 consultation with EPA on promulgation of these standards. Section 7 of the Act requires that all Federal agencies ensure that their actions do not jeopardize the continued existence of listed species or adversely modify designated critical habitat. EPA's action in promulgating water quality standards must comply with the section 7 consultation requirement. Definition of Critical Habitat
