FR940127-2-00134 FR940127-2-00079 [Release No. IC&hyph;20026; 812&hyph;8712] United of Omaha Life Insurance Co., et al.; Application for Exemption January 19, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemptions under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: United of Omaha Life Insurance Company (``United of Omaha''), United of Omaha Separate Account C (the ``Variable Account''), and Mutual of Omaha Investors Services, Inc. (``MOIS''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Applicants seek an order under section 6(c) of the Act granting exemptions from sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to permit them to deduct a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Variable Account, which funds individual flexible payment variable deferred annuity contracts (the ``Policies''). FILING DATE: The application was filed on December 3, 1993. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on February 14, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, United of Omaha Life Insurance Company, Mutual of Omaha Plaza, Omaha, Nebraska 68175. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: C. Christopher Sprague, Senior Staff Attorney, at (202) 504&hyph;2802, or Michael V. Wible, Special Counsel, at (202) 272&hyph;2060, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application; the complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. United of Omaha is a stock life insurance company that was incorporated under the name of United Benefit Life Insurance Company under the Laws of Nebraska on August 9, 1926. In 1981, the company changed its name to United of Omaha Life Insurance Company. United of Omaha is engaged principally in the sale of life insurance, accident and health insurance, and annuity policies, and it is licensed in all states (including the District of Columbia) other than New York. United of Omaha is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company. 2. The Variable Account was established as a separate investment account under the laws of Nebraska on December 1, 1993 pursuant to a resolution of United of Omaha's Board of Directors. Under Nebraska law, the assets of the Variable Account are owned by United of Omaha but are held separately from United of Omaha's other assets and are not chargeable with any liabilities arising out of any other separate investments account or any other business of United of Omaha that has no specific and determinable relation to or dependence upon the Variable Account. The income, gains, or losses, realized or unrealized, from assets allocated to the Variable Account are credited to or charged against the Variable Account without regard to other income, gains, or losses of United of Omaha. 3. The Variable Account will invest in shares of one or more of the investment portfolios of the Variable Insurance Products Fund, the Variable Insurance Products Fund II, the Scudder Variable Life Investment Fund, and such other registered investment companies as United of Omaha may make available under the Policies from time to time (each, a ``Fund''). Each Fund will be a diversified, open-end management investment company, and may have a number of classes or series. 4. MOIS will serve as the distributor and principal underwriter of certain of the Policies. MOIS is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a broker-dealer, and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Broker-dealers other than MOIS may also serve as distributors and principal underwriters of certain of the Policies, to the extent the Policies are sold through alternate distribution channels. Any such other broker-dealer will be registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and will be a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. The requested order would apply to any such other broker-dealer. 5. The Policies may be purchased with an initial purchase payment of $5000 on a non-tax qualified basis or in connection with retirement plans or individual retirement accounts that qualify for favorable federal income tax treatment. A Policy owner may make additional purchase payments of at least $500 each at any time prior to the annuity starting date. A Policy owner can allocate net purchase payments to United of Omaha's Fixed Account and to one or more subaccounts of the Variable Account. The minimum amount that may be allocated is $500. Several annuity payout options are available to Policy owners. In the event that the Policy owner dies prior to the annuity starting date, a death benefit is payable.
