FR940617-1-00040 FR940617-1-00012 In addition, because the principal intended use of these professional use products is the prevention of nosocomial (hospital acquired) infections, the agency believes that these drug products should have demonstrable antimicrobial activity against a microbial spectrum that includes the micro-organisms associated with these infections. As discussed in section I.N., comment 28, the agency is proposing, in §333.470(a)(1)(ii) of the testing requirements, a list of micro-organisms that reflects a spectrum of antimicrobial activity pertinent to the intended use of these drug products and against which the products must be tested. The agency is proposing the following definition of broad spectrum activity in §333.403(b) of this amended tentative final monograph: `` Broad spectrum activity . A properly formulated drug product, containing an ingredient included in the monograph, that possesses in vitro activity against the micro-organisms listed in §333.470(a)(1)(ii), as demonstrated by in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration determinations conducted according to methodology in §333.470(a)(1)(ii).'' This methodology has been developed by the National Committee for Clinical Standards (NCCLS) (Ref. 1). Although micro-organisms in addition to those listed may also be used for testing, the agency will use the test micro-organisms identified in §333.470(a)(1)(ii) for any necessary compliance testing. The agency wants to emphasize that in this amended tentative final monograph the broad-spectrum criterion applies to final-formulated drug products used as an antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash, patient preoperative skin preparation, and surgical hand scrub. Although the Category I active ingredients currently included in this amended tentative final monograph are broad spectrum independent of formulation, some Category III antiseptic ingredients have limited spectra (activity against only gram positive bacteria; for example, chloroxylenol (see section I.G., comment 12) and triclosan (see section I.L., comment 23)), but when properly formulated in a final product the spectrum can be broadened to include additional activity against the test micro-organisms, thereby possibly enabling these ingredients to become Category I. Although the agency agrees with the first comment that the manufacturer may use or not use a broad-spectrum ingredient in a particular health-care antiseptic drug product, the finished product must demonstrate in vitro activity against the specific micro-organisms listed in proposed §333.470(a)(1)(ii). In response to the second comment, that broad spectrum was inconsistently applied in the definitions of the three product classes, the agency has reevaluated the issue and believes that all product classes should be broad spectrum. As stated in the tentative final monograph (43 FR 1210 at 1212), maintaining the balance among species of micro-organisms constituting the normal skin flora is more likely to be threatened by use of antimicrobial products with a limited spectrum. Also much of the data concerning the spread of infections in hospitals indicates that the use of an antimicrobial with broad spectrum activity would help prevent this (see section I.D., comment 9). Based on the reasons mentioned above, the agency is proposing to include ``broad spectrum'' in the definitions of the three product classes included in this tentative final monograph. Reference (1) National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards, ``Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically_2d ed.; Approved Standard,'' NCCLS Document M7&hyph;A2, 10:8, 1990. D. Comments on Labeling 7. Several comments contended that FDA does not have the authority to restrict OTC labeling claims to exact wording, to the exclusion of what the comments described as other ``equally truthful claims for the products.'' One comment pointed out that numerous other meaningful and truthful statements will provide useful information and will enhance the safe and effective use of these products. Several comments maintained that manufacturers have a constitutional right to use any truthful, nonmisleading labeling under the first amendment. To support their position, the comments cited Bigelow v. Virginia , 421 U.S. 809 (1975); Virginia State Board of Pharmacy v. Virginia Citizens Consumer Council, Inc. , 425 U.S. 748 (1976); Linmark Associates, Inc. v. Willingboro , 431 U.S. 85 (1977); Bates v. State Bar of Arizona , 433 U.S. 350 (1977); Federal Trade Commission v. Beneficial Corp. , 542 F.2d 611, 97 S. Ct. 1679 (1977); and Warner-Lambert Co. v. Federal Trade Commission , 562 F.2d 749 at 768 (D.C. Cir. 1977). In the Federal Register of May 1, 1986 (51 FR 16258), the agency published a final rule changing its labeling policy for stating the indications for use of OTC drug products. Under 21 CFR 330.1(c)(2), the label and labeling of OTC drug products are required to contain in a prominent and conspicuous location, either (1) the specific wording on indications for use established under an OTC drug monograph, which may appear within a boxed area designated ``APPROVED USES''; (2) other wording describing such indications for use that meets the statutory prohibitions against false or misleading labeling, which shall neither appear within a boxed area nor be designated ``APPROVED USES''; or (3) the approved monograph language on indications, which may appear within a boxed area designated ``APPROVED USES,'' plus alternative language describing indications for use that is not false or misleading, which shall appear elsewhere in the labeling. All other OTC drug labeling required by a monograph or other regulation (e.g., statement of identity, warnings, and directions) must appear in the specific wording established under the OTC drug monograph or other regulation where exact language has been established and identified by quotation marks, e.g., 21 CFR 201.63 or 330.1(g). In the previous tentative final monograph, supplemental language relating to indications had been proposed and captioned as Other Allowable Statements in §§333.85, 333.87 and 333.97. Under FDA's revised labeling policy (51 FR 16258), such statements are included at the tentative final stage as examples of other truthful and nonmisleading language that would be allowed elsewhere in the labeling. In accordance with the revised labeling policy, such statements would not be included in a final monograph.
