FR941027-2-00143 FR941027-2-00083 (c) Committing funding and staffing for continued implementation of the project; (d) Incorporating the project into the applicant's organizational and program structure; or (e) Establishing and strengthening relationships within the community, region, or State that will support continuation of the project. Selection Criteria The Secretary uses the following selection criteria to evaluate applications for new grants under this competition. The maximum score for all of these criteria is 100 points. The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses. For this competition, the Secretary assigns the 15 points, reserved in 34 CFR 428.20(b), as follows: Program design (34 CFR 428.21(b)). Five points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 25 points. Dissemination plan (34 CFR 428.21(g)). Ten points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 20 points. (a) Need. (15 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the need for the proposed bilingual vocational instructor training project, including_ (i) The need for the project in the specific geographic area or areas to be served by the proposed project; (ii) The training needs of program participants to be served by the proposed project; (iii) How these needs will be met through the proposed project; and (iv) The relationship of the proposed project to other ongoing personnel development programs in the geographic area or areas to be served by the proposed project. (2) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which, upon completion of their training, program participants will work with programs that provide vocational education to limited English proficient individuals. (b) Program design. (25 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the program design and the potential of the project to have a lasting impact on the geographic area or areas to be served by the proposed project, including_ (1) Potential to increase the skill level of program participants, with particular regard to the following areas: (i) Knowledge of the needs of limited English proficient individuals enrolled in vocational education programs, and how those needs should influence teaching strategies and program design. (ii) Understanding of bilingual vocational training methodologies. (iii) Techniques for preparing limited English proficient individuals for employment; and (2) Potential to increase access to vocational education for limited English proficient individuals. (c) Plan of operation. (15 points) The Secretary reviews each application for an effective plan of management that ensures proper and efficient administration of the project, including_ (1) Clearly defined project objectives that relate to the purpose of the Bilingual Vocational Instructor Training Program; (2) For each objective, the specific tasks to be performed in order to achieve the specified project objective; and (3) How the applicant plans to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective. (d) Key personnel. (10 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project, including_ (i) The qualifications of the director and other key personnel to be used in the project; (ii) The appropriateness of the time that each person referred to in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section will commit to the project; and (iii) How the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, will ensure that personnel will be selected without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disability. (2) To determine personnel qualifications under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the Secretary considers_ (i) Experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the project; (ii) Experience and training in project management; and (iii) Any other qualifications that pertain to the quality of the project. (e) Budget and cost effectiveness. (5 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which_ (1) The budget is sufficient to support the proposed project, and that it represents a cost effective use of Bilingual Vocational Instructor Training Program funds; (2) Costs are necessary and reasonable in relation to the objectives of the proposed project; and (3) The facilities that the applicant plans to use are adequate for the proposed project. (f) Evaluation plan. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the project's evaluation plan, including the extent to which the plan_ (1) Is clearly explained and appropriate for the bilingual vocational instructor training project; (2) To the extent possible, is objective and will produce data that are quantifiable; (3) Identifies outcomes of the project in terms of enrollment, completion and after-training work commitments of participants by sex, racial or ethnic group, and by level and kinds of language proficiency; (4) Identifies expected learning and skills outcomes for participants and how those outcomes will be measured; and (5) Includes activities during the formative stages of the project to help guide and improve the project, as well as a summative evaluation that includes recommendations for replicating project activities and results. (g) Dissemination plan. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the effectiveness and efficiency of the plan to disseminate information about the project and demonstrate project activities and results, including_ (1) High quality in its design and procedures for evaluating the effectiveness of the dissemination plan; and (2) A description of the types of materials the applicant plans to develop and make available to help others replicate project activities, and the methods to be used to make the materials available.
