FR941007-2-00021 FR941007-2-00006 Comment 6: Treatment of Chemical Inputs Having Lower Concentration Levels If the Department decides to value plating chemicals as direct materials, respondents request the Department to adjust the surrogate values of those chemicals (which respondents contend represent values for undiluted products) to reflect verified actual concentration levels of chemicals used by the manufacturers. Petitioner argue that no authority exists for the Department to adjust its surrogate value calculations to reflect the concentration levels of chemical inputs used by the manufacturers because the Department would have to make an assumption regarding the purity level of the surrogate value selected. In this case, petitioners contend that there is no information on the record to base the percentage of purity of each of the published values. DOC Position The Department is faced with three options in determining the appropriate purity concentration of the chemical factors in the Indian Import Statistics: assume the value is based on 100 percent purity for all factors; assume it is based on normal commercial strengths for chemical factors, as stipulated in the Condensed Chemical Dictionary; or assume the value is based on verified chemical strengths used by the manufacturers in the plating process. Unlike in Sebacic Acid (which petitioners cite for the prospect that the Department should not make unsubstantiated assumptions about the purity of the Indian import statistics for chemicals, information on the record in this investigation provides us with the basis upon which to infer purity percentages of Indian imports. Therefore, we have applied commercial strengths based on the Condensed Chemical Dictionary as the most reasonable method for valuing purity concentration of these chemical factors for commercial use. Comment 7: Surrogate Country Value for Nickel and Nickel Sulfate Respondents contend that the surrogate values for nickel and nickel sulfate used in the preliminary determination are unreasonable because they represent a price which is approximately four times the international market price of those inputs. Therefore, respondents request the Department to revise its calculations for the final determination to adjust the surrogate values for nickel and nickel sulfate. Petitioners assert that respondents have not standing to criticize the use of the surrogate values since respondents failed to submit any information on publicly available published information in a timely manner, as requested by the Department. Moreover, petitioners contend that in past cases involving the PRC, the Department has maintained that to reject Indian surrogate values simply because respondents allege that those values did not reflect world market prices would be overly subjective on the part of the Department ( HSLW, Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Sulfanilic Acid from the People's Republic of China (57 FR 29705, July 6, 1992)). DOC Position We used a value for non-alloy nickel bar in the preliminary determination based on Indian Import Statistics. After consulting with nickel specialists and conducting independent research, it was discovered that unwrought nickel is the usual input for nickel plating. Accordingly, we have thus use this value for nickel for our final determination. In order not to overstate the value of nickel used in the plating process of paper clips, we have used the basket category for unwrought nickel in the Indian Import Statistics, to calculate the surrogate value of nickel used in the plating process for the final determination. Because we have learned nothing to call into question the surrogate value used for nickel sulfate, the value used for that factor remains unchanged. Comment 8: Response Errors of ZMEC and ZLIP Petitioners note the failure by ZMEC to report relevant sales during the POI and to account for downward adjustments, such as related bank charges and commission fees, to U.S. price. Specifically, petitioner cite unreported bank transaction charges and three unreported sales and their accompanying commission fees discovered during ZMEC's verification. Petitioners request that the Department account for these omissions and draw, when appropriate, adverse inferences from respondents' failure to submit the aforementioned information prior to verification.
