FR940516-1-00110 FR940516-1-00006 In the 19 ozone nonattainment areas studied by EPA in the 1991 Nonroad Study, emissions from all nonroad sources, on average, represented ten percent of total HC emissions and 17 percent of total NO X emissions. Of those contributions, small SI engines contributed an average of 50 percent of total HC from nonroad sources, but only one percent of total NO X . In contrast, nonroad large CI engines, for which EPA has proposed NO X standards, contributed an average of ten percent of total HC from nonroad sources and 75 percent of total NO X . Consequently, EPA's primary focus in developing emission standards for small SI engines is achieving sizeable reductions in HC emission rates. Given the extremely rich operation of small SI engines, EPA does not believe that small engine technology is available to prevent NO X levels from increasing while HC levels decrease substantially within the short lead time period set forth in this proposal. While it may be possible in some isolated cases to employ automotive-type emission control systems relying on closed-loop operation and three-way catalytic converters, the state of development of such technology is not ready for small engine application in the short lead time proposed. Furthermore, the sensitivity of such systems to in-use deterioration and malmaintenance would greatly lessen their in-use effectiveness given the state of the service industry available to these engines. EPA has estimated that by the year 2020, when current equipment turnover is projected, the proposed emission standards would result in approximately a 32 percent reduction in HC emission from current levels, or 356,710 tons per year. Under the same timeframe, in-use NO X emission rates would be expected to increase 1.36-fold, or 34,000 tons per year. Given the magnitude of the relative contribution of these small SI engines to HC and NO X emission inventories in ozone nonattainment areas, EPA believes this projected decrease in HC and increase in NO X levels would be consistent with EPA's statutory mandate that emissions standards reflect the greatest emission reductions achievable. This is especially the case in light of the fact that this rule would increase the national NO X inventory by about one quarter of one percent, while EPA's nonroad large CI engine regulations would reduce the national NO X inventory by about four percent. EPA anticipates that, given the magnitude of the HC reduction proposed, emission rates would be marginally sensitive enough that near-term compliance with separate emission standards at the proposed level of stringency could be difficult in some cases, whereas compliance with a combined standard is expected to be achievable. However, EPA is concerned that establishing a combined standard might be viewed as setting a precedent for future rulemakings. EPA does not intend to establish any such precedent, and is considering a combined standard for Phase 1 only due to the present lack of available data for setting a separate NO X standard, the current lack of technology for achieving NO X reductions simultaneously with HC reductions for the subject engines and vehicles, the need to achieve HC reductions as soon as possible under the Phase 1 rule, and the desire to harmonize with California's standards. EPA requests comment on a combined standard (option 1). EPA also requests comments and data supporting separate numerical standards for HC and NO X (option 2). Based on information currently available to EPA, if it were necessary to develop separate standards, the NO X standard would be approximately 136 percent higher than current new engine levels, while the HC standards would be approximately equal to the difference between those levels and the proposed HC+NO X standards. N. CO Standard for Handheld Engines Over 50 cc EPA is concerned that the CO levels for handheld engines be kept as low as possible. The operators of equipment using these engines are in close proximity to the exhaust pipe. The Class V engines are a large concern. The majority of these engines are used on large commercial chain saws used in logging operations. The high power and high load factors associated with this equipment mean the operator is potentially exposed to a high CO rate from the engine and could experience high CO intake during operation.
