FR940106-0-00110 FR940106-0-00021 (1) Filing of petition for review. The Director or the State desiring review of the decision and order of BALCA may petition the Secretary to review the decision and order. To be effective, such petition shall be received by the Secretary within 30 days of the date of the decision and order. Copies of the petition shall be served on all parties and on BALCA. (2) Form of petition for review. No particular form is prescribed for any petition for Secretary's review permitted by this paragraph (f). However, any such petition shall: (i) Be dated; (ii) Be typewritten or legibly written; (iii) Specify the issue or issues stated in the BALCA decision and order giving rise to such petition; (iv) State the specific reason or reasons why the party petitioning for review believes such decision and order are in error; (v) Be signed by the party filing the petition or by an authorized representative of such party; (vi) Include the address at which such party or authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto; and (vii) Attach copies of BALCA's decision and order, and any other record documents which would assist the Secretary in determining whether review is warranted. (3) Notice of determination to review. Whenever the Secretary determines to review the decision and order of BALCA on an annual State plan, a notice of the Secretary's determination to do so shall be served upon BALCA and upon all parties to the proceeding within 30 days after the Secretary's receipt of the petition for review. (4) Hearing record. Upon receipt of the Secretary's notice, BALCA shall within 15 days forward the complete hearing record to the Secretary. (5) Contents of Secretary's notice. The Secretary's notice shall specify: (i) The issue or issues to be reviewed; (ii) The form in which submissions shall be made by the parties; and (iii) The time within which such submissions shall be made. (6) Filing of documents. All documents submitted to the Secretary pursuant to this paragraph (f) shall be filed with the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, Attention: Executive Director, Office of Administrative Appeals, Room S&hyph;4309. An original and two copies of all documents shall be filed. Documents are not deemed filed with the Secretary until actually received by the Secretary. All documents, including documents filed by mail, shall be received by the Secretary either on or before the due date. (7) Service of documents. Copies of all documents filed with the Secretary pursuant to this paragraph (f) shall be served simultaneously upon all other parties involved in the proceeding. Service upon the Director shall be in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section. (8) Secretary's decision. The Secretary's final decision pursuant to this paragraph (f) shall be issued within 180 days from the date of the notice of intent to review. The Secretary's decision shall be served upon all parties and BALCA. (9) Transmittal of record. Upon issuance of the Secretary's decision under this paragraph (f), the Secretary shall transmit the entire record to the Chief Administrative Law Judge for custody pursuant to ยง XXX .450. ยง XXXX .350 Public access. (a) Public examination at ETA. ETA shall make available for public examination in Washington, DC, a list of facilities which have filed attestations, and such facilities' visa petitions (if any) for H&hyph;1A nurses, and for each such facility, a copy of the facility's attestation and any explanatory statements it has received; the annual State plan (if any) which relates to the facility's attestation; and a copy of each of the facility's H&hyph;1A visa petitions (if any) to INS. A copy of the latter shall be transmitted to ETA by the facility at the same time it is submitted to INS. The facility shall also forward to ETA a copy of the INS visa petition approval notice within 5 days after it is received from INS. (b) Public examination at facility. For the duration of the attestation's validity and thereafter for so long as the facility uses any H&hyph;1 or H&hyph;1A nurse under the attestation, the facility shall maintain a separate file containing the attestation and required documentation, and shall make this file available to any interested parties within 72 hours upon written or oral request. If a party requests a copy of the file, the facility shall provide it and any charge for such copy shall not exceed the cost of reproduction. (c) Notice to public. ETA periodically shall publish a notice in the Federal Register announcing the names and addresses of facilities which have submitted attestations; facilities which have attestations on file; facilities which have submitted attestations which have been rejected for filing; facilities which have had attestations suspended; States which have submitted annual State plans; States which have approved annual State plans; and States which have submitted annual State plans which were disapproved.
