FR940106-0-00134 FR940106-0-00022 While no change is made in the final regulations regarding the requirement of advising all UI claimants of the TAA program, §617.4(e) is modified by eliminating the unnumbered paragraph at the end of this section and by adding the provisions of that paragraph in clause (2). 9. Notice to workers. The Michigan Employment Security Commission (MESC) explained that §617.4(d)(1)(ii)(A) states that notices to workers must include information as to the article(s) produced. The MESC commented that unless the article(s) produced is part of the certification statement, e.g. ``all workers producing shock absorbers,'' referring to it will often confuse rather than clarify worker coverage. For example, if the certification covers ``all workers of XYZ Company,'' to state in the worker notice that the company ``produces shock absorbers,'' will confuse workers of the XYZ Company who may have produced brakes. Unless a specific article is identified in the published certification document, it should not be required information in the notice to workers. Department's response. The Department concurs with the comment. The articles produced are to be specified in a notice to the workers only when there is a specific reference in the published certification document to an article or articles. When all workers in the firm are covered by the certification it is not necessary to identify the article(s) produced. The regulation is modified at §617.4(d)(1)(ii)(A) to reflect this change, and the same change is made in §617.4(d)(2)(ii)(A) regarding newspaper notices. 10. Identifying workers. The New York Department of Labor (NYDL) commented that §617.4(d)(1) expands the intent of the Trade Act by specifying the sources that the State agency should utilize in identifying adversely affected workers. The NYDL stated that it is inappropriate to specify such sources in a regulation and suggested that the Department adhere to the language of the Act. It also suggested the following substitute language: ``The state agency shall provide written notice, through the mail, of benefits available under this chapter to each worker whom the State agency has reason to believe is covered by a certification made under subchapter A of this chapter. The notice must include the following information: *␣*␣*.'' Department's response. The proposed rule merely refers to any other reliable sources of information other than the workers' firm. When a firm closes, information from the firm's records may be difficult to obtain. In this case, as well as others, the State agency should obtain the best information available to it. This level of specificity seems appropriate for the regulations. Similarly, in implementing the provision on the scope of the notice to be given, the Department has concluded that amended Section 225 requires that all workers who can be identified shall receive such notice. Therefore, no change is made in the final regulations. 11. Newspaper notices. The OBES commented that §617.4(d)(2) requires State agencies to publish a notice of each certification issued in its State in a newspaper of general circulation in the areas in which the affected workers reside. OBES further commented that it is not uncommon that prior to the State agency being informed of a certification by the Department of Labor all affected workers have already learned of the certification and have reported to the State agency to file for TAA benefits. Therefore, OBES recommended that the final rule provide for a waiver of the public notice requirement when it can be verified by the State agency that all the affected workers have filed for TAA benefits. The OBES also recommended that the funding source for such newspaper notices be identified formally. The California Employment Development Department (CEDD) provided similar comments on §617.4(d)(2). CEDD pointed out that there is no useful purpose in placing an expensive newspaper ad when all affected workers are notified by letter, or when the ad will very likely not be seen by any of the former workers. Department's response. The Department agrees that a newspaper notice is not needed in some situations because all the workers are identified by the State agency and notified by mail. This situation occurs frequently when the certified worker group is small. Therefore, the Department is amending the final rule at §617.4(d)(2) to authorize State agencies to dispense with the newspaper notice when it can be substantiated and is documented in the agency's records that all adversely affected workers covered by a certification have been identified and have been sent written notice by mail as required by §617.4(d)(1)(i). 12. Notices of waivers. The UAW, commenting on §617.4(e), stated that workers should be provided with a notice of their right to seek a waiver of the training requirement and the procedure for doing so. Department's response. The Department believes that the regulations as proposed establish the right of workers to waivers of the training requirement in appropriate cases, and provide for appeal and review of determinations on such waivers. State agencies will initiate waivers where training is not feasible or appropriate. Information that waivers will be issued to workers when training is not appropriate or feasible must be furnished to the workers or be included in the bulletin or brochure furnished to each worker under paragraph (e)(1) of §617.4. The Department does not believe that more specificity is required in paragraph (e)(1). Therefore, no change is made in the final regulations. 13. Information to workers. The CEDD, commenting on §617.4(e), stated that there is some confusion between this section and §617.67(c)(2). The CEDD commented that it is not clear whether TAA information must be provided to every individual who applies for unemployment insurance, as stated in §617.67(c)(2), or just to those certified as adversely affected as implied by use of the word ``worker'' in §617.4(e). The CEDD recommended, if States are to provide TAA information to all individuals filing for UI, this requirement should be clearly identified in the final rule.
