FR941110-0-00076 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We cannot accept the comment to conduct abbreviated or tailored surveys of facilities that were free of deficiencies in the previous standard survey, because the Act does not include abbreviated standard surveys in the computation of the 15 month interval between standard surveys of a facility or in the computation of the 12 month statewide average for all facilities in a particular State. Abbreviated standard surveys are premised on complaints received, or a change of ownership, management or director of nursing, or other indicators of specific concern and, therefore, could be focused on certain specific requirements, whereas, a standard survey is a periodic inspection to gather information about the quality of service furnished in a facility to determine compliance with the certification requirements for participation. To use an abbreviated standard survey instead of a standard survey in the computation of the 15 month survey interval or the 12 month statewide average would not meet the intent of the Act, nor would it be an accurate assessment of the State's ability to ensure that each facility furnishes quality health care in a safe environment. Sections 1819(g)(2) and 1919(g)(2) of the Act require that each facility must have a standard survey no less frequently than every 15 months. With this constraint, we can accept the comment to conduct a standard survey of facilities with good compliance histories less frequently than every 12 months but not less frequently than every 15 months. Once we have had the benefit of experience under the new survey process, we will consider whether it might be appropriate to approve a demonstration project that would explore whether other survey frequencies would be more effective. Comment: A commenter stated that a State could survey small facilities or facilities near the survey office most often to meet the 12 month average interval requirement. Response: Existing procedures call for HCFA regional office review of State survey agency workload planning. This review will continue and can identify and respond to inadequate survey practices. We do not believe a regulatory requirement is necessary to ensure the use of meaningful criteria for determining survey intervals. Comment: One commenter was confused about how HCFA can determine which facility survey did not meet the 12 month average interval requirement. Response: The regulation specifies that it is the statewide average interval between standard surveys that must not exceed 12 months, rather than the interval between consecutive surveys of specific facilities. Comment: Several commenters suggested alternative language for proposed §488.158(b)(2). These writers recommended that the sentence which reads, ``If the provider is a Medicaid facility, HCFA reduces FFP in accordance with §488.170'' be replaced with ``HCFA will reduce FFP in accordance with §488.170 and may apply corrective action which includes the following:␣*␣*␣*'' or ``HCFA reduces FFP to the State in accordance with §488.170.'' Another commenter recommended that HCFA's corrective action be limited to technical assistance and inservice training during the first year and only include FFP reduction if there is a gross violation.
