FR940524-2-00044 FR940524-2-00027 Notice of Typographical Error in Public Law 102&hyph;515 In Sec. 399I. Planning Grants Regarding Registries. (a)(1), ``section 399B(c)(2)'' should read ``section 399H(c)(2)''. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC for each affected State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should send them to Edwin L. Dixon, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Atlanta, GA 30305. (The receipt date for SPOC comments will be 60 days after the application deadline date.) The Program Announcement Number and Program Title should be referenced on the document. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' the State process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number is 93.283. Other Requirements Program Assurance Recipients of funds for both Part I or Part II must provide as part of their application for such funds assurances that: 1. The recipient will comply with the peer review requirements under Sections 491 and 492 of the Public Health Service Act (Institutional Review Board; Ethics Guidance Program, 42 U.S.C. 289 and Peer Review Requirement 42 U.S.C. 289a). [Sec. 399 H(c)(1)] 2. Recipients of funds under Part I or Part II must provide, as part of their application, assurances they will comply with the requirements listed below (Items ``A'' through ``D''): A. Provide for the establishment and support of a registry in accordance with the requirements of this program announcement. B. Comply with the following standards of completeness, timeliness, and quality of population-based cancer registry data: (1) Data completeness: 95% of unduplicated, expected malignant cases of reportable cancer occurring in State residents in a diagnosis year are reported to the State cancer registry. (2) Data timeliness: cancer cases will be reported to the State registry within six months of diagnosis date. (3) Data quality: comply with standards for data quality including standardized data format as promulgated by the American Association of Central Cancer Registries (AACCR) as stated in ``Standards for Completeness, Quality, Management, and Analysis of Data, Standards for Cancer Registries'', Volume III, (December 1993). C. Within one year of the close of the diagnosis year, (1) Provide for annual reports of cancer data, including a published report, that conforms to standards for completeness and timeliness (as listed under ``Program Assurances''), and (2) Prepare and maintain ``in house'', a corresponding minimal data set that meets uniform data standards recommended by AACCR (Reference AACCR Standards, Volumes II and III). D. Provide for the authorization under State law of the statewide cancer registry, including the promulgation of regulations that:
