FR941128-2-00142 FR941128-2-00079 The Limited Partnership Interests 4. The Limited Partnership Interests consist of a 22.50 percent interest in Sunbelt Commercial Associates (Sunbelt Commercial) and two interests_a 14.15 percent Class A interest and a 14.5 percent Class B interest_in Sunbelt City, Ltd. (Sunbelt Oklahoma). (Sunbelt Commercial and Sunbelt Oklahoma are collectively referred to as the Limited Partnerships). The Prior Plan Accounts acquired the Limited Partnership Interests as a result of a series of purchases occurring between 1981 and 1993, in the case of Sunbelt Commercial, and 1982 and 1984, in the case of Sunbelt Oklahoma. The Prior Plan Accounts made such purchases either directly from the Limited Partnerships or from withdrawing limited partners. The general partners of both Limited Partnerships, as well as the other investors, are unrelated to the Prior Plan Accounts, SEI and its affiliates. The Limited Partnerships were formed for the purpose of investing in real estate through a sale-leaseback arrangement with Cyclops Inc. (Cyclops). In 1982, the Limited Partnerships purchased certain properties in Tulsa and Oklahoma City from Cyclops and leased such properties back to Cyclops for use by its Silo Division for the retail sale of major electrical appliances. The leases are triple net leases for a term of fifteen years with two five-year lessee renewal options. In 1993, Cyclops closed its Silo stores in the Tulsa and Oklahoma City locations but has advised the Limited Partnerships that it intends to honor its lease agreements. The Prior Plan Accounts invested $250,600 in Sunbelt Commercial and $230,089 in Sunbelt Oklahoma with the total Prior Plan Account investment in the two Limited Partnerships amounting to $480,689. As of December 31, 1993, the Prior Plan Accounts had received distributions representing returns of capital totaling $480,689 and income distributions totaling $146,064 for the two Limited Partnerships combined. Sunbelt Commercial and Sunbelt Oklahoma have experienced average compounded rates of return of 10.1 percent and 10.8 percent, respectively. Annual valuations of interests in both partnerships are furnished, on behalf of the general partners, to investors by Churchill Management Corporation (Churchill), the investment adviser to the Limited Partnerships. The applicants represent that Churchill is independent of, and unrelated to, the Prior Plan Accounts, SEI and its affiliates. Based upon the valuation reports from Churchill dated February 14, 1994, the aggregate fair market value of the Limited Partnership Interests for the three Limited Partnership investments was $400,508 as of December 31, 1993. Substantially all of the assets of each Limited Partnership consist of its real estate and its lease contract with Silo. The Limited Partnerships' only other material asset is cash. Therefore, Churchill bases its valuation of the Limited Partnerships on the fair market values of the underlying assets of the Limited Partnership, which are the Tulsa and Oklahoma City properties, plus the Limited Partnerships' available cash. Independent, qualified appraisers annually value these underlying properties. The most recent appraisals, dated January 14, 1994, by Duane J. Blevins, MAI of Tulsa, Oklahoma, taking into account the existing long-term leases on the properties, place primary emphasis on the income approach. Mr. Blevins placed the fair market values on the Tulsa and Oklahoma City properties at $950,000 and $1,250,000, respectively. Mr. Blevins notes that the values of these properties have declined since the closing of the Silo stores because the Limited Partnerships will not be able to renew the lease with Cyclops. As a result, Mr. Blevins further notes, the Limited Partnerships, as owners, will be faced with added expenses such as marketing, leasing commissions, vacancy and possibly up-front renovation costs for a prospective tenant. The applicants represent that the Limited Partnership Interests are highly illiquid investments for which there is a very limited secondary market. 2 On March 14, 1994, an attorney for the Trust contacted Churchill and inquired whether either the general partner or any of the other limited partners would be interested in purchasing the Limited Partnership Interests. On April 6, 1994, Churchill advised the attorney that none of the Limited Partners were interested in purchasing those interests and that the general partner would consider purchasing them at a purchase price equal to one third to one half of their original purchase price. 2 The Department expresses no opinion, in this proposed exemption, on whether plan fiduciaries violated any of the fiduciary responsibility provisions of Part 4 of Title I of the Act in acquiring and holding the Limited Partnership Interests.
