FR940106-1-00123 FR940106-1-00013 Permits may be issued to carry out otherwise prohibited activities involving endangered or threatened wildlife species under certain circumstances. Regulations governing permits are at 50 CFR 17.22 and 17.23. Permits for threatened species are available for scientific purposes, to enhance the propagation or survival of the species, and for incidental take in connection with otherwise lawful activities. In some instances, permits may be issued during a specified period of time to relieve undue economic hardship that would be suffered if such relief were not available. For threatened species, permits are lawful for zoological exhibition, educational purposes, or special functions consistent with the purposes of the Act. Further information regarding regulations and requirements for permits may be obtained from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ecological Services, Permits Branch, 911 NE. 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232&hyph;4181 (503/231&hyph;6241; FAX 503/231&hyph;6243). Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final action resulting from this proposal will be as accurate and as effective as possible. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this proposed rule are hereby solicited. Comments particularly are sought concerning: (1) Biological, commercial trade, or other relevant data concerning any threat (or lack thereof) to this species; (2) The location and status of any additional populations of this species and the reasons why any habitat should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act. Biological information that would be useful in determining whether to designate critical habitat includes descriptions and locations of spawning habitat and life history information on behavior and ecological needs; (3) Additional information concerning the range, distribution, and population size of this species; and (4) Current or planned activities in the subject area and their possible impacts on this species. Any final decision on this proposal will take into consideration the comments and any additional information received by the Service, and such communications may lead to final regulations that differ from this proposal. The Act provides for a public hearing on this proposal, if requested. Requests must be received within 45 days of the date of publication of the proposal. Such requests must be made in writing and addressed to the Acting Field Supervisor, Sacramento Field Office (see ADDRESSES section).
