FR940505-1-00158 FR940505-1-00012 Much less specific information is available concerning the emissions resulting from general aviation activity than is available for commercial and military aircraft operations. The FAA collects some information on general aviation operations at airports with FAA-operated (or contractor-operated) control towers, but these data are not comprehensive, and do not capture operations occurring at non-tower-controlled facilities. In particular, the lack of data specifically addressing general aviation operations by type of aircraft makes an accurate assessment of the emissions from this source more difficult. ( 2 ) Overall Control Strategy. Although general aviation operations represent a small fraction of total emissions in most FIP areas, EPA is proposing to include this source in the FIP control strategy along with commercial and military aircraft operations as part of the broad, comprehensive control scheme for these areas. As described below, developing an effective comprehensive control strategy for this source, and effectively administering it, is an especially challenging task due to the diverse aircraft types and usage, the great number of individual owners/operators, and the large number of airfields in each most FIP areas. Nonetheless, if this source were excluded from the FIP, the potential reductions from this category would have to be achieved from another source. Today's proposal would establish an operations fee to reduce the emissions from general aviation activity during the ozone season in each FIP area. The Agency intends that the proposed approach provide the same level of benefits as the emission cap requirements for stationary sources in each of the FIP areas. (See section III.D.4.e.(2)(a)( 4 ), above, for the specific percentage reductions.) Comments are also requested on three alternative control schemes. EPA has chosen not to apply a comprehensive emission cap to this source because the significant data requirements and level of EPA involvement in such a program make that strategy impractical. In developing the proposed strategy, EPA notes that there appear to be few, if any, regulatory options for innovatively reducing emissions from general aviation aircraft, given the age and emissions performance of the general aviation fleet, and the economic status of the general aviation industry. Unlike many other sources, improving the emissions performance of these aircraft through new, industry-wide emission standards is problematic. Even if cleaner engines could be made available, the general aviation fleet is unlikely to experience significant introduction of cleaner alternatives, since fleet turnover is relatively low (sales of general aviation aircraft in fact have declined in the past several years). This is not to suggest that emission benefits are unavailable through the careful selection of aircraft/engine combinations or the possible limited introduction of new models in the future. Rather, there are no substantially cleaner alternatives to current technology engines for the vast majority of the fleet. Therefore, the strategies that rely on turnover to cleaner technologies are unavailable in this instance. Operational and procedural measures such as reduced-power takeoffs and direct routing from hardstand to runway also would be difficult to implement for general aviation on an area-wide basis, given the widely varying aircraft and facility characteristics found amongst general aviation operations. These measures also offer little opportunity for emission reduction, due to minimal congestion at most general aviation airports, short taxi distances, and relatively low power-range engines. As a result, the only available measures that would provide significant emission benefits appear to involve activity reductions. The diverse and diffuse nature of general aviation operations creates significant obstacles for any emission control program. General aviation aircraft and the facilities at which they operate are controlled by a large and varied group of individuals and organizations. General aviation operations typically occur on a highly variable schedule and many operations can occur at completely uncontrolled airports. Despite these difficulties, EPA believes that an emission reduction program for general aviation could be implemented. The specific proposed control measures and alternatives discussed below reflect varying degrees of direct EPA involvement and participation by the general aviation community, with resultant variation in the certainty of obtaining emissions reductions. The control strategy applies to general aviation aircraft operated at commercial airports as well as those operated at public and private general aviation facilities. It does not apply to civilian general aviation aircraft operations at military bases; these are included in the military control strategy described above. Comments are specifically requested on the need to control emissions from general aviation in each area based on local air quality concerns, given the potential difficulty and likely resource-intensive nature of administering an effective program. ( 3 ) Key Regulatory Elements. The EPA proposes an operations fee program to reduce emissions from general aviation activity. By implementing a fee system, EPA can avoid establishing direct allocation of landing slots for general aviation as discussed later in this section, thereby maintaining the flexibility that is desirable for general aviation operations.
