FR940419-1-00020 FR940419-1-00006 This proposed regulation is authorized by Sections 8(c)(1), 8(g)(2), and 9(b) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (the Act), 29 U.S.C. 657 and 658. Under Section 8(c)(1) ``[e]ach employer shall make, keep and preserve, and make available to the Secretary or the Secretary of Health [and Human Services] *␣*␣*, such records regarding his activities relating to this Act as the Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of Health [and Human Services] *␣*␣*, may prescribe by regulation as necessary or appropriate for the enforcement of this Act or for developing information regarding the causes and prevention of occupational accidents and illnesses.'' Section 8(g)(2) empowers the Secretary of labor to ``prescribe such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary to carry out [his] responsibilities under this Act.'' Moreover, pursuant to Section 8(c)(1), the Secretary has authority to issue regulations requiring employers to keep their employees informed of the employers' responsibilities under the Act. Section 9(b) authorizes the Secretary to promulgate regulations associated with the posting of citations. In addition, the Secretary's responsibilities under the Act are defined largely by its enumerated purposes, which include: Providing for appropriate reporting procedures that will help achieve the objectives of this Act and accurately describe the nature of the occupational safety and health problem [29 U.S.C. 651(b)(12)]; developing innovative methods, techniques, and approaches for dealing with occupational safety and health problems [29 U.S.C. 651(b)(5)]; and providing an effective enforcement program [29 U.S.C. 651(b)(10)]. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Secretary asserts that the proposed regulation is necessary and appropriate to conduct enforcement responsibilities under the Act, to develop information about the prevention of occupational accidents and illnesses, and to inform employees of their protections and obligations under the Act. IV. Comments and Information Requested Comment is requested on all issues involving the proposed regulation. In particular, OSHA requests comment on the following questions: 1. What type of documentary evidence should OSHA require employers to submit as proof of final abatement? Should the type of documentation required to be submitted as proof of final abatement vary according to what is required for abatement, the type of hazard, or the classification of violation (i.e., willful, repeat, serious, other-than-serious, regulatory)? What criteria should OSHA apply in judging either the sufficiency or quality of the documentation? 2. What are the costs (time and money) of complying with this new regulation and the basis for estimating these costs? 3. What will be the effects of the requirement that employers post their abatement documents? 4. How do the proposed abatement verification procedures differ from current or previous practices of informing OSHA that abatement has been accomplished? 5. How much time does each employer currently spend on abatement verification? 6. What is the appropriate level of management to sign the abatement verification? 7. What are employer experiences with verifying abatement of cited conditions for other Federal and State agencies, especially State occupational safety and health agencies? 8. Given the need for evidence of abatement, should an employer be required to submit abatement certification if the employer has actually abated the condition during the OSHA inspection?
