FR940214-1-00013 FR940214-1-00004 (iv) The Cooperating Sponsor must submit to the Controller, CCC, invoices supporting the charges incurred against the advance, or for which reimbursement is claimed, within 60 days from the date the service is received. All charges must be reasonable and foreign currency transactions must be supported by evidence of the specific exchange rate incurred. A delay in receipt, or non-receipt, of supporting documentation by the Controller, CCC, may result in CCC's refusal to release future advances. The Cooperating Sponsor shall promptly refund to CCC all funds advanced, together with all interest earned on such funds, if either not utilized within 180 days after the advance for purposes for which the funds were advanced, or for which documentation supporting the expenditure is not supplied to CCC. (v) All CCC advances must be deposited in an interest bearing account with interest earned on the funds advanced used for the purpose for which the funds were advanced. The Cooperating Sponsor shall submit a monthly Federal Funds Cash Report (SF&hyph;272) and a quarterly financial statement to the Controller, CCC, 10 working days past the end of the month or quarter, respectively, detailing the use and status (including interest earned on funds not yet utilized) of all funds advanced by CCC to Cooperating Sponsor. (4) If the Program Agreement specifies that CCC will finance only the ocean freight differential (``OFD'') on U.S. flag vessels, the Director, Public Law 480&hyph;OD will compute OFD as follows: (i) when non-U.S.-flag vessels are offered, the OFD will be the difference between the weighted average freight rate(s) of non-U.S. flag vessel(s) fixed or offered that could carry the quantity of cargo absent the requirement to use U.S.-flag vessels, and the rate for the U.S. flag vessel(s) fixed; or the rate(s) offered (including any lower rates negotiated) by U.S.-flag vessels(s) which could have carried the required tonnage and represents the lowest land cost (U.S. flag basis). (ii) When non U.S. flag vessels are not offered, or when offered, have specifications which preclude their use, the rate to be used in computing OFD will be determined by using any market data deemed relevant. (iii) When the recipient country employs its own flag vessels or other flag vessels under its control, the non-U.S. flag rate to be used in computing OFD will be determined using any market data deemed relevant. ยง1499.8 Ocean transportation. (a) Cargo Preference. Shipments of commodities donated under the section 416(b) and Food for Progress programs are subject to the requirements of sections 901(b) and 901b of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, regarding carriage on U.S.-flag vessels. CCC will endeavor to meet these requirements separately for each program for each 12-month compliance period. (b) Coordination between CCC and the Cooperating Sponsor. When the Program Agreement specifies that the Cooperating Sponsor will arrange ocean transportation: (1) KCCO will furnish the Cooperating Sponsor with a Notice of Commodity Availability (Form CCC&hyph;512) which will specify the receiving country, commodity, quantity, and date at U.S. port or intermodal delivery point. (2) The Cooperating Sponsor will arrange ocean transportation in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section and shall comply with the instructions of CCC regarding the quantity of commodities that must be carried on U.S. flag vessels. U.S. ports of export will be selected on the basis of the lowest cost to CCC. (3) The Cooperating Sponsor will complete the Form CCC&hyph;512 indicating name of steamship company, vessel name, vessel flag and estimated time of arrival at U.S. port, sign and return the completed form to KCCO, with a copy to the Director, Public Law 480&hyph;OD. For liner cargoes, if CCC has agreed to pay any part of the ocean transportation, the Form CCC&hyph;512 must also contain the ocean freight rate as stated in the Federal Maritime Commission tariff, with tariff identification. (4) KCCO will issue instructions to have the commodity shipped f.a.s. or f.o.b. vessel, U.S. port of export, or to an intermodal delivery point, and consigned to the Cooperating Sponsor specified in the Form CCC&hyph;512.
