FR940323-0-00077 FR940323-0-00020 Subpart A_Requirements Concerning the Distribution and Use of Corporation Assistance Sec. 2540.100␣What restrictions govern the use of Corporation assistance? 2540.110␣Limitation on use of Corporation funds for administrative costs. Subpart B_Requirements Directly Affecting the Selection and Treatment of Participants 2540.200␣Under what circumstances may participants be engaged? 2540.210␣What provisions exist to ensure that Corporation-supported programs do not discriminate in the selection of participants and staff? 2540.220␣Under what circumstances and subject to what conditions are participants in Corporation-assisted projects eligible for family and medical leave? 2540.230␣What grievance procedures must recipients of Corporation assistance establish? Subpart C_Other Requirements for Recipients of Corporation Assistance 2540.300␣What must be included in annual State reports to the Corporation? 2540.310␣Must programs that receive Corporation assistance establish standards of conduct? 2540.320␣How are participant benefits treated? Subpart D_Suspension and Termination of Corporation Assistance 2540.400␣Under what circumstances will the Corporation suspend or terminate a grant or contract? Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. Subpart A_Requirements Concerning the Distribution and Use of Corporation Assistance §2540.100 What restrictions govern the use of Corporation assistance? (a) Supplantation. Corporation assistance may not be used to replace State and local public funds that had been used to support programs of the type eligible to receive Corporation support. For any given program, this condition will be satisfied if the aggregate non-Federal public expenditure for that program in the fiscal year that support is to be provided is not less than the previous fiscal year. (b) Religious use. Corporation assistance may not be used to provide religious instruction, conduct worship services, or engage in any form of proselytization. (c) Political activity. Corporation assistance may not be used by program participants or staff to assist, promote, or deter union organizing; or finance, directly or indirectly, any activity designed to influence the outcome of a Federal, State or local election to public office. (d) Contracts or collective bargaining agreements. Corporation assistance may not be used to impair existing contracts for services or collective bargaining agreements. (e) Nonduplication. Corporation assistance may not be used to duplicate an activity that is already available in the locality of a program. And, unless the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section are met, Corporation assistance will not be provided to a private nonprofit entity to conduct activities that are the same or substantially equivalent to activities provided by a State or local government agency in which such entity resides. (f) Nondisplacement. (1) An employer may not displace an employee or position, including partial displacement such as reduction in hours, wages, or employment benefits, as a result of the use by such employer of a participant in a program receiving Corporation assistance. (2) A service opportunity will not be created under this chapter that will infringe in any manner on the promotional opportunity of an employed individual. (3) A participant in a program receiving Corporation assistance may not perform any services or duties or engage in activities that would otherwise be performed by an employee as part of the assigned duties of such employee. (4) A participant in any program receiving assistance under this chapter may not perform any services or duties, or engage in activities, that_ (i) Will supplant the hiring of employed workers; or (ii) Are services, duties, or activities with respect to which an individual has recall rights pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or applicable personnel procedures. (5) A participant in any program receiving assistance under this chapter may not perform services or duties that have been performed by or were assigned to any_ (i) Presently employed worker; (ii) Employee who recently resigned or was discharged; (iii) Employee who is subject to a reduction in force or who has recall rights pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or applicable personnel procedures; (iv) Employee who is on leave (terminal, temporary, vacation, emergency, or sick); or (v) Employee who is on strike or who is being locked out. §2540.110 Limitation on use of Corporation funds for administrative costs. Not more than five percent of the amount of assistance provided to the original recipient of any grant or any transfer of assistance from the Corporation in any fiscal year may be used to pay for administrative costs incurred by_ (a) The original recipient of assistance; and (b) Any subgrantee of that recipient. Subpart B_Requirements Directly Affecting the Selection and Treatment of Participants §2540.200 Under what circumstances may participants be engaged? A State may not engage a participant to serve in any program that receives Corporation assistance unless and until amounts have been appropriated under section 501 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 12681) for the provision of AmeriCorps educational awards and for the payment of other necessary expenses and costs associated with such participant. §2540.210 What provisions exist to ensure that Corporation-supported programs do not discriminate in the selection of participants and staff?
