FR941110-0-00105 FR941110-0-00016 One commenter wanted to know who validates that nurse staffing waiver information is actually provided to those required to receive it. A couple of commenters asked that the notice to residents about nurse staffing waivers be in the form of a sign and be posted in a prominent place in the facility to ensure that notice is received. Response: Since publishing the proposed rule, we found that disclosure of nurse staffing waivers is addressed in regulations at 42 CFR 483.30. Also, since sections 1819(g)(5)(C) and 1919(g)(5)(C) of the Act are clear as to the individuals and organizations that would have the greatest need for specified survey-related information, we believe that all interests have been adequately represented and that such information is easily accessible to any other interested parties either through their respective professional affiliations, or through the public disclosure mechanism. Therefore, we are eliminating notifications specific to nurse staffing waivers from this final rule. Comment: Some commenters urge that ombudsmen, protection and advocacy systems for the mentally ill and mentally retarded, residents or legal representatives and immediate family members, and the public should be given an opportunity to comment on a proposed nurse staffing waiver before it is granted. Response: This comment is outside of the purview of this regulation. Comment: One commenter suggested that we delete the last sentence of §488.175(h) (redesignated in this final rule as §488.325(g)) relating to enforcement consequences to a facility that fails to satisfy the disclosure requirement timely because it is not necessary. Response: We are not accepting this comment. We believe we must retain this provision since this final rule provides HCFA's and the State's enforcement strategy when facilities do not substantially meet the nursing home participation requirements which are codified at 42 CFR Part 483, Subpart B. The requirement that facilities provide information to the State relative to specified residents so that the State can meet its statutory obligation to notify attending physicians and licensing boards is in addition to the other participation requirements at Part 483, Subpart B, and we believe that consequences for facility noncompliance with this requirement are noteworthy. Comment: Many commenters were opposed to our proposal implementing sections 1819(g)(5)(C)(i) and 1919(g)(5)(C)(i) of the Act regarding notice to physicians when the State finds that a nursing home has provided substandard quality of care. All of these commenters objected to the requirement that the attending physician of each Medicare and Medicaid resident receive notification of the substandard quality of care. Some believed that physicians of all residents in the facility should be notified when such care is found because they contend that all residents are vulnerable to such care and a program relationship should not need to exist before notifications occur. An equal number of commenters argued that this subsection exceeds the statutory requirement that provides for notification of ``*␣*␣* the attending physician of each resident with respect to which such finding is made *␣*␣*''. These commenters suggested that the purpose of the statutory requirement was to ensure that the physician of a resident who has allegedly received substandard quality of care is apprised of the situation in order to ensure appropriate medical interventions, if needed.
