FR940830-0-00010 FR940830-0-00004 7 CFR Part 1210 RIN 0581&hyph;AB21 [FV&hyph;93&hyph;706FR] Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan: Amendments to the Referendum Procedures AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule will amend the rules of practice for referenda on the Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan to provide for referenda to be conducted by mail ballot, to allow watermelon importers to vote in the referendum, to change the eligibility criteria for producers to vote in referenda, and to include the 50 States and the District of Columbia. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sonia N. Jimenez, Research and Promotion Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, USDA, P.O. Box 96456, Room 2535&hyph;S, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456; telephone (202) 720&hyph;9916. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This final rule is issued under the Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan [7 CFR 1210], hereinafter referred as the Plan. The Plan is effective under the Watermelon Research and Promotion Act, as amended by the Watermelon Research and Promotion Improvement Act of 1993, [7 U.S.C. 4901&hyph;4916] hereinafter referred as the Act. This rule has been determined to be not-significant for the purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by OMB. This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. It is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule will not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under §1650 of the Act, a person subject to the Plan may file a petition with the Secretary stating that the Plan or any provision of the Plan, or any obligation imposed in connection with the Plan, is not in accordance with law and requesting a modification of the Plan or an exemption from the Plan. The petitioner is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After such hearing, the Secretary will make a ruling on the petition. The Act provides that the district courts of the United States in any district in which a person who is a petitioner resides or carries on business are vested with jurisdiction to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, if a complaint for that purpose is filed within 20 days after the date of the entry of the ruling. Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this rule on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. There are approximately 750 watermelon handlers and 5,000 watermelon producers in the 50 States of the United States who would be affected by this rule. There are approximately 140 importers of watermelons. Small agricultural service firms are defined by the Small Business Administration [13 CFR 121.601] as those having annual receipts of less than $5 million and small agricultural producers are defined as those having annual receipts of less than $500,000. The majority of watermelon handlers, producers, and importers may be classified as small entities. U.S. production of watermelons is estimated through the use of U.S. shipment statistics. Shipments of U.S.-produced watermelons totaled about 1,895.6 million pounds in 1993, 7 percent less than in 1992. Imports of watermelons in 1993 totalled 343.5 million pounds, an increase of 12 percent. Therefore, domestic production is about six times as great as the volume of imports. The changes to the procedures for conduct of referenda reflect amendments to the Act. The overall economic impact of these changes is not expected to be significant. The change from voting at Extension Service county offices to voting by mail ballot will not cause a change in the burden on voters. Allowing importers to vote in the referendum would add a burden for those importers who choose to vote. However, this burden is offset by the opportunity to vote on whether they are covered by the program. Increasing the exemption level from 5 acres to 10 acres and the change in producers' eligibility to vote will reduce the number of small producers eligible to vote in the program and hence the reduce burden on small producers. Further, voting in the referendum is voluntary. Including the 50 States and the District of Columbia will cause a burden on those producers and handlers in those regions but this burden is offset by the opportunity to participate in the referendum. The research and promotion program is expected to continue to benefit producers, handlers, and importers subject to the Plan by expanding and maintaining new and existing markets. Accordingly, the Administrator of AMS has determined that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Paperwork Reduction Act In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 [40 U.S.C. chapter 35], the information collection requirements contained in the Plan have previously been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB number 0581&hyph;0093. There will be a new reporting burden on importers but the burden has been already approved by the OMB and assigned OMB control number 0581&hyph;0093. This action adds no additional reporting burden. It has been estimated that it will take an average of 10 minutes for each producer, handler, and importer of watermelons to participate in the voluntary referendum balloting. Background Under the Plan, the National Watermelon Promotion Board (Board) administers a nationally coordinated program of research, development, advertising, and promotion designed to strengthen the watermelon's position in the market place and to establish, maintain, and expand markets for domestic watermelons. This program is financed by assessments on producers and handlers of watermelons. The Plan specifies that handlers are responsible for collecting and submitting both the producer and handler assessments to the Board, reporting their handling of watermelons, and maintaining records necessary to verify their reporting. A proposed rule was published in the Federal Register on April 14, 1994 [59 FR 17739]. The rule published in April contained the proposed amendments to the Plan, rules and regulations, rules of practice for petitions, and referendum procedures. The Department has decided to separately make final the referendum procedures because the changes to the referendum procedures must be in place in order to conduct the referendum in November 1994 on two of the amendments. Therefore, this action will put into effect the subpart containing the referendum procedures. The proposed amendments to the Plan, rules and regulations, and rules of practice for petitions are published separately in this issue of the Federal Register . The deadline for comments on all of the proposed amendments published on April 14 was May 16, 1994. Twenty-one comments were received. Three of the comments related to the referendum procedures. Three commentors stated that proof of voter eligibility should be required. They stated that this could be accomplished by requesting voters to provide their business identification number or social security number and/or sales receipts, acreage reports, or bill of lading that reflect their watermelon activity for 1993. The Department agrees with requesting business identification number or social security number on the ballot as proof of voter eligibility. However, it is not necessary to modify the referendum rules in order to collect this information. This collection of information has been approved by OMB under OMB number 0581&hyph;0093 and does not add any burden on voters. The amendments to the Act authorize an assessment on watermelons imported into the United States by importers and the addition of importer members to the Board if approved by watermelon producers, handlers, and importers in a referendum. Therefore, watermelon importers will also be eligible to vote in the referenda. In order to include importers in the referendum procedures, this rule will amend §§1210.200, 1210.201, 1210.202, 1210.203, and 1210.204 of the referendum procedures.
