FR941026-2-00028 FR941026-2-00022 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5097&hyph;1] Proposed Determination To Prohibit or Restrict the Use of Wetlands and Other Waters as Disposal Sites for the Nashua-Hudson Circumferential Highway in Nashua, Hudson, Litchfield, and Merrimack, NH AGENCY: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice of Proposed Section 404(c) Determination and Public Hearing. SUMMARY: Section 404(c) of the Clean Water Act (Act) authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to prohibit or restrict the discharge of dredged or fill material at defined sites in the waters of the United States (including wetlands) whenever it determines, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that use of such sites for disposal would have an unacceptable adverse impact on various resources, including wildlife. EPA-New England proposes under Section 404(c) of the Act to prohibit use of wetlands and other waters by the proposed Nashua-Hudson Circumferential Highway (NHCH) as disposal sites for dredged or fill material. The highway would directly eliminate 40 acres of valuable wetlands and indirectly degrade or threaten extensive additional wetland habitat. EPA-New England believes that filling the wetlands and waters of the site may have an unacceptable adverse effect on wildlife habitat and possibly municipal water supplies, and that less environmentally damaging practicable alternatives may be available. Purpose of Public Notice EPA seeks comment on this proposed determination to prohibit or restrict the disposal of dredged or fill material into wetlands and waters in the greater Nashua area associated with construction of the proposed highway. See Solicitation of Comments, at the end of this public notice, for further details. Public Comment Comments on or requests for additional copies of the proposed determination should be submitted to the designated Record Clerk at the EPA New England Regional Office, Lucy Delvalle, U.S. EPA, JFK Federal Building, WWP, Boston, MA 02203&hyph;2211, (617) 565&hyph;3474. EPA seeks comments concerning the issues enumerated under the Solicitation of Comments at the end of the document. Copies of all comments submitted in response to this notice, as well as the administrative record for the proposed determination, will be available for public inspection during normal working hours (9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.) at the EPA Regional Office. In accordance with EPA regulations at 40 CFR 231.4, the Regional Administrator has decided that a hearing on this proposed 404(c) determination would be in the public interest.
