FR940906-1-00036 FR940906-1-00016 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Notice of 90-Day Finding on Petition to List the Colton Sand Dune Jerusalem Cricket as Endangered agency: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. action: Notice of petition finding. summary: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 90-day petition finding to list the Colton sand dune Jerusalem cricket ( Stenopelmatus sp.) as endangered under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). The Service finds that substantial information has not been presented to indicate that the requested action may be warranted. dates: The finding announced in this notice was made on August 23, 1994. Comments and materials regarding this petition finding may be submitted to the Field Supervisor at the address listed below until further notice. addresses: Information, comments, or questions regarding this petition finding should be submitted to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Carlsbad Field Office, 2730 Loker Avenue West, Carlsbad, California 92008. The petition, the Service's finding, and additional information are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. for further information contact: Marjorie Nelson, biologist, at the above address (telephone 619/431&hyph;9440). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq .), requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information to indicate that the petitioned action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of the receipt of the petition, and the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . On January 11, 1994, the Service received a petition to list the Colton sand dune Jerusalem cricket ( Stenopelmatus sp.) as endangered from Dr. David Weissman of the California Academy of Sciences. The letter from Dr. Weissman, dated January 4, 1994, clearly identified itself as a petition and contained the names, signature, and address of the petitioner. A letter acknowledging receipt of the petition by the Service was sent to the petitioner on January 31, 1994. The petitioner stated that the Colton sand dune Jerusalem cricket merits protection under the Act because of: (1) Threats to its habitat, (2) information indicating that this insect is known from only two sand dune areas in southwestern San Bernardino County, California, and (3) the cricket occurs in the same habitat as the federally listed endangered species Delhi Sands flower-loving fly ( Rhaphiomidas terminatus abdominalis ).
