FR940222-1-00018 FR940222-1-00004 (4) The collateral for the financial assistance includes a lien on the property and an assignment of the lease (including options exercisable by the small business concern) between the passive business and the small business concern, and such lease has a remaining term at least equal to the term of the section 502 or 503 loan; (5) Each person who is a principal as defined in this paragraph (d) must provide a personal guarantee, and ยง120.103&hyph;2(c) of this title (relating to collateral) is applicable to all persons enumerated therein who are associated with either entity; and (6) For purposes of this paragraph (d), a person is a ``principal'' if he or she is the legal or beneficial owner of at least 20 percent of both the passive business and the small business concern to which the passive business intends to lease real or personal property. If the passive business exists in the form of a trust, the trust's grantor or trustee would be a ``principal'' if he or she owns at least 20 percent of the small business concern, and a beneficiary of at least 20 percent of the trust's assets would be a ``principal'' if he or she owns at least 20 percent of the small business concern. If members of the same family (father, mother, son, daughter, wife, husband, brother or sister) meet the 20 percent ownership requirement in both the passive business and the small business concern they would be considered to be the same ``principal'' for SBA purposes. * * * * * PART 120_BUSINESS LOAN POLICY 1. The authority citation for part 120 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 634(b)(6) and 636(a) and (h). 2. Section 120.101&hyph;2 would be amended by revising the introductory text and paragraph (e) to read as follows: ยง120.101&hyph;2 Type of business. Most small concerns are eligible for Financial Assistance. The following types of businesses, however, are not eligible for SBA assistance except where otherwise stated in this section. * * * * * (e) Lending or investment; eligibility of passive business. Concerns which are primarily engaged in the business of lending or investing. However, an applicant business passively engaged in investing in property is eligible for SBA financing or refinancing if it owns and leases or it proposes to own and lease real or personal property to an otherwise eligible small business concern, so long as: (1) The passive business and the small business concern share a common principal, as defined in this paragraph (e); (2) The passive business engages in no activity other than acquiring or owning property which it leases to the small business concern for its exclusive use within a reasonable period of time, and the proceeds of any SBA guaranteed loan shall be used only for this purpose or for working capital by the small business concern;
