FR940627-0-00048 FR940627-0-00009 IV. Where to Submit (1) Upon request by the Commission, submissions should be addressed to: Office of the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 N. Capitol Street NE., Washington, DC 20426. (2) Hand deliveries can be made to: Office of the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Room 3110, 825 N. Capitol Street NE., Washington, DC 20426. General Instructions 1. The notation f(m,n) will be used to denote a numeric string of length ``m'' including a decimal (``.'') with ``n'' digits following the decimal. 2. In preparing the required flat file, the following conventions must be followed: (A) All volumetric data should be stated in MMbtu's (rounded to the nearest MMbtu), except where noted. (B) All rates should be stated in cents per MMbtu fixed decimal numbers, format f(10,2). For example, $1.5264/MMbtu should be stated as 152.64. (C) Negative values should be reported with a ``^'' sign preceding the first nonzero digit reported. (D) Commas must not be included in any numeric field. (E) All dates should be reported as six digit numerics (month, day, year), unless otherwise indicated. 3. The sequence number is the sequential number assigned to a record as it is recorded on a schedule/record. The sequence number is incremented as additional records are added to a schedule/record and will be between 1 and 999,999, inclusive. (Note: the sequence number should be right justified, zero filled.) 4. The reference number is the alphanumeric string formed by concatenation of the Schedule ID, sequence number, and beginning character position of the item footnoted. E.g., a respondent's Company ID reported in the Discounted Transportation (Storage) Transaction Record would have reference number ``D000001008'' formed by joining (concatenating) the schedule ID ``D'', the sequence number ``000001'', and the beginning character position of the item ``008''. 5. Record any footnote relative to any recorded item in the ``Footnotes Record'', schedule ID `F'. Each footnote should be cross referenced to the schedule and record (line) it pertains to by the appropriate reference number (see above). 6. Source of Codes. (A) Pipeline Company ID_Use the code for the pipeline as contained in the Buyer Seller Code List, U.S. Department of Energy's publication DOE/EIA&hyph;0176. A code may be obtained by calling EIA at (202) 254&hyph;5435. (B) Contract ID_The respondent's own designation for the contract or agreement covering the transaction being reported. This identifier will either be assigned by the respondent or the party providing a service to the respondent. 7. A pipeline blanket sales operating unit is any entity operating under a Subpart J of Part 284 blanket sales certificate, and is considered the functional equivalent of a marketing affiliate. 8. Delivery Point ID_The point at which the pipeline company delivers the natural gas to a designated end user, local distribution company, etc. as specified by the transportation service requested. The respondent will provide a unique 20-byte alphanumeric identifier for each delivery point on his pipeline system. This delivery point ID will be the alphanumeric label/name which the respondent uses in conducting his daily business, (or a unique abbreviation thereof if the company identifier is more than 20 characters in length.) 9. Maximum Rate for Transportation Service_The maximum rate contained in the respondent's currently effective tariff for the rate schedule under which the transportation service is being conducted. 10. Discounted Rate for Transportation Service_A rate that is less than the maximum rate on file with the Commission.
