FR941012-1-00046 FR941012-1-00009 Although placing the transponders in the windshield was considered the best solution from an engineering standpoint, some of the locations would have conflicted with §393.60(c). The proposed lower-border transponder location would have been just within the border area permitted under this section. However, the upper-border location would have been in violation. On October 11, 1993, Don C. Kelly, Secretary of Transportation for the Commonwealth of Kentucky and Chairman of the ADVANTAGE I&hyph;75 Policy Committee, wrote to the FHWA, requesting a waiver of §393.60(c) for the purpose of conducting the alpha test of these AVI transponders. On November 15, 1993, the FHWA responded that the agency would not apply, or require the States to apply, §393.60(c) to vehicles, drivers and motor carriers participating in the alpha test from November 15, 1993, to January 21, 1994, or whenever the test ended, whichever was earlier. (The alpha test was originally scheduled to run during this period. Because of poor weather and a number of engineering changes to the transponder and the roadside communications devices, the start of the test was delayed until March 7, 1994, and the agency's enforcement moratorium was extended, first until August 31, 1994, and eventually to March 31, 1995. In granting temporary relief from the requirements of §393.60(c), the FHWA expressly recognized the need for good visibility, but acknowledged that the alpha test was a short-duration trial involving a small number of trucks. The FHWA also noted that participating motor carriers were volunteers that agreed to provide their drivers with thorough orientation and training on the use of the AVI devices, that the drivers had participated in focus groups in preparation for these tests, and that they were made particularly aware of the need for objective evaluations of any problems, including reduced visibility, caused by the placement of the transponders. Because there would have been no way to conduct a real-world evaluation of AVI technology without operating in conflict with §393.60(c), the FHWA decided not to require the enforcement of that provision for the brief period needed to gather data in preparation for the exhaustive beta phase of the test. As a condition of this temporary relief from enforcement of the provisions of §393.60(c), the FHWA required that the AVI transponder be mounted outside the area swept by the vehicle's windshield wipers, or outside the driver's sight lines to the road and highway signs or signals. The following conditions also had to be met: (1) a copy of the letter granting the temporary relief was to be carried in each motor vehicle used in the AVI alpha test program; and (2) a letter from the Commonwealth of Kentucky, on official letterhead, clearly identifying any vehicle involved in the AVI alpha test program, was to be carried in that vehicle. If any of the participating vehicles were stopped for non-compliance with §393.60(c) during the test period, the driver was to present a copy of both letters to the enforcement official involved. Although the test was run on an instrumented segment of I&hyph;75 in Kentucky, the FHWA noted that the participating vehicles would also operate elsewhere. Since the transponders could be damaged by repeatedly removing and re-installing them, participants in the alpha test were allowed to leave the transponders on the windshields, no matter where the vehicles traveled. The alpha test is anticipated to be completed on October 20, 1994. ADVANTAGE I&hyph;75 has informed us that no drivers reported any difficulties with their vision being obscured as a result of the placement of the transponder.
