FR941222-0-00018 FR941222-0-00003 D. A number of commenters raised technical issues related to the thermal analysis of the Standardized NUHOMS and thermal performance of the system under normal, off-normal, and accident conditions. D.1. Comment. Several commenters wanted, in the interest of ALARA principles, the capacity for approximately 24 kW heat removal to be verified by using an artificial heat load. One commenter suggested that the NUHOMS be tested with a full heat load at a testing site such as Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL), and not at each reactor site that may load it with a higher heat generation rate fuel. Another commenter cited the ALARA philosophy of loading the oldest fuel first even though design basis fuel is on site. Several commenters wanted deletion of the requirement (a literal interpretation of draft Certificate of Compliance) to calculate the temperature rise for each HSM loaded with canisters producing less than the design limit of 24 kW for the following reasons: (1) Users are not normally provided the vendor's analytical models for this calculation, (2) The 100 ○F rise calculated for the design basis maximum heat load ensures that all safety limits are met for concrete and fuel, (3) Because 24 kW is the limit, virtually all the HSMs will be affected, which places an undue burden on the user to ``baseline'' the predicted delta-T by calculation considering the inherent safety margins of the system, and (4) Technical Specification 1.3.1 ensures that air flow is not blocked so a false measurement of low temperature rise cannot occur. Response. A licensee is not required by NRC to load the oldest fuel first but, in the interest of ALARA, it may do so. However, each time hotter fuel is loaded up to the maximum allowed in a DSC, the licensee would need to verify the heat removal performance of the system. For fuel producing less heat than the design limits of the system, the heat removal capacity of the system determined by calculation must be verified by temperature measurements. This process must be repeated each time a DSC is loaded with hotter fuel until the maximum-system designed heat load is reached. When loaded with spent fuel producing 24 kW heat, the system may not have an ambient and vent outlet temperature difference of more than 100 ○F for fuel cooled equal to or more than 5 years. This verification process is required to confirm that the as-built system of each licensee is performing as designed. A licensee could use an artificial heat source to test an initial cask at a bounding heat load of 24 kW before loading fuel. However, this test would only verify the spent fuel heat removal capacity of the system. It would not verify as-built performance. Experience has shown that adequate verification testing can be performed at the reactor site. Therefore, performing the verification at a testing site like INEL would not provide additional safety margins. D.2. Comment. Several commenters pointed out possible conflicting statements about temperature measurements in the surveillance requirements. In discussions about the heat removal capacity test, temperatures are determined only during the test period. Daily temperature measurements on each HSM are required to verify thermal performance. Response. These two temperature measurement programs have different objectives. Temperature measurements by licensees to verify the heat capacity calculations need only be done until equilibrium is reached. The daily temperature measurements by licensees are intended to demonstrate continued safe operation within specified limits over the life of the HSM and may not be the same type of measurement done in the initial period to verify heat removal capacity. D.3. Comment. One commenter was concerned about the adequacy of cooling under all atmospheric conditions in the country. The commenter cited conditions such as humidity over 90 percent, temperature over 100 ○F, and no wind. Response. Regulatory requirements for general licensee users of dry storage casks are contained in 10 CFR 72.212(b). Each user must verify that the following conditions are not exceeded at their reactor site for the Standardized NUHOMS: the maximum average yearly temperature with solar incidence is 70 ○F; the average daily temperature is 100 ○F; and the maximum temperature is 125 ○F with incident solar radiation. If the power reactor site high temperature parameters fall within these criteria, the Standardized NUHOMS can be safely used at the site. D.4. Comment. One commenter wants the NRC to establish procedures to measure temperature performance, especially the thermal performance of an individual module and not the combined performance of adjacent modules as stated on page A&hyph;23 of the draft Certificate of Compliance. Response. As required by the regulations, the licensees are required to develop detailed procedures. NRC in its regulatory oversite role has the opportunity to review the adequacy of the procedures. The requirement cited by the commenter is a requirement for the licensee to verify a temperature measurement of the thermal performance for each HSM, not the combined performance of adjacent modules. A cautionary statement is included in the basis of the specification to ensure that licensee measurements of air temperatures reflect only the thermal performance of an individual module and not the combined performance of adjacent modules.
