FR940627-0-00097 FR940627-0-00017 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AB88 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Status for Three Plants From the Waianae Mountains, Island of Oahu, HI AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines endangered status pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act), for three plants: Cyanea grimesiana ssp. obatae (haha), Diellia unisora (no common name (NCN)), and Gouania vitifolia (NCN). These taxa are known primarily from the Waianae Mountain Range, located on the island of Oahu, Hawaii. The three plant taxa and their habitats have been adversely threatened to varying degrees by one or more of the following_habitat degradation and competition for space, light, water, and nutrients by naturalized, alien vegetation; and habitat degradation and potential predation by feral animals. Because of the low number of extant individuals and severely restricted distributions, populations of these taxa are subject to an increased likelihood of extinction and/or reduced reproductive vigor from stochastic events. This final rule implements the Federal protection and recovery provisions provided by the Act. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule becomes effective July 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this final rule is available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours, at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Pacific Islands Office, 300 Ala Moana Boulevard, Room 6307, P.O. Box 50167, Honolulu, Hawaii 96850. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert P. Smith, at the above address (808/541&hyph;2749). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Cyanea grimesiana ssp. obatae and Diellia unisora are endemic to the Waianae Mountain Range on the western side of the island of Oahu, Hawaii. The only known extant population of Gouania vitifolia also occurs in the Waianae Mountains, but the species is also known historically from West Maui and the island of Hawaii. The island of Oahu is formed from the remnants of two large shield volcanoes, the older Waianae Volcano on the west and the younger Koolau Volcano on the east. Because of the loss of their original shield volcano shape as the result of extensive erosion, today these volcanoes are called ``mountains'' or ``ranges,'' and consist of long, narrow ridges. The Waianae Mountains were built by eruptions that took place primarily along three rift zones. The two principal rift zones run in a northwestward and south-southeastward direction from the summit, and a lesser one runs to the northeast. The range is approximately 40 miles (mi) (64 kilometers (km)) long. The caldera lies between the north side of Makaha Valley and the head of Nanakuli Valley (Macdonald et al. 1983). The Waianae Mountains are in the rain shadow of the parallel Koolau Mountains. Except for Mt. Kaala, the highest point on Oahu (4,020 feet (ft)) (1,225 meters(m)), the Waianaes receive much less rainfall (Wagner et al. 1990). The median annual rainfall for the Waianae Mountains varies from 20 to 75 inches (in.) (50 to 190 centimeters (cm)), with only the small summit area of Mt. Kaala receiving the highest amount. The land that supports these three plant taxa is owned by the State of Hawaii, the Federal government, and a private estate. Plants on Federal land are located on portions of Lualualei Naval Reservation, under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Defense . Discussion of the Three Taxa
