FR941220-0-00072 FR941220-0-00012 3. Property, Plant, and Equipment, and Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Although comments from financial analysts were generally opposed to elimination of these schedules, most commenters supported the proposal, citing the cost of their preparation and audit, and their limited usefulness. Financial analysts reported that they sometimes use the schedules to estimate the age, relative age, and average depreciable life of each class of a company's depreciable assets. Other commenters agreed with observations in the proposing release that estimates based on the schedules would not be reliable if the issuer has significant foreign operations (due to the effects of currency translation on depreciation expense), or if a depreciation method other than straight line is used. The Commission believes that adequate quantitative disclosure regarding property, plant and equipment is elicited by Accounting Principle Board Opinion No. 12, (``Omnibus Opinion_1967''), which requires disclosure of total depreciation expense for each period and the balances of major classes of depreciable assets. Where the age of capital assets may be indicative of increasing maintenance and replacement budgets, the registrant would be expected to disclose the material reasonably likely effects on operating trends, capital expenditures and liquidity pursuant to Item 303 of Regulation S&hyph;K. 4. Guarantees of Securities of Other Issuers The Commission has eliminated these schedules as proposed. None of the commenters cited the need to retain this schedule, as similar information is required to be disclosed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, ``Accounting for Contingencies,'' (``SFAS 5''). B. Additional Schedules Eliminated for Both Foreign and Domestic Issuers 1. Short Term Borrowings The adopted amendments eliminate this schedule. However, as proposed, weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding as of each of the dates for which balance sheets are presented will be required to be disclosed in a note to the financial statements. In addition, for investment companies, although the schedule requirement has been eliminated, the information formerly required by ยง210.12&hyph;10 will now be required to be provided in the body of the financial statements or in the footnotes. While two of the financial analysts indicated that the year end rates may not be indicative of the average rate during the period, they did not address the computational problems arising from foreign currency translation and other factors, as discussed in the proposing release. A number of other commenters cited those computational problems and indicated that the information disclosed in the schedule frequently was not meaningful. The Commission concluded that the costs of furnishing the information outweighs its usefulness. 2. Supplementary Income Statement Information The Commission has eliminated this schedule by today's amendments. While the amounts of the items formerly referenced by this schedule (maintenance and repairs; depreciation and amortization of the cost of intangible assets, preoperating costs and similar deferred costs; taxes other than payroll; royalties; and advertising costs) need not be disclosed on an ongoing basis by registrants, discussion of discretionary expenses and other items in the schedule, quantified to the extent practicable, will be required in the company's Management's Discussion and Analysis where necessary to explain material trends and uncertainties that affected operating results, liquidity or financial condition of the registrant, or that may be reasonably likely to affect future results, liquidity or financial condition. 36 36 See Financial Reporting Release 36. IV. Cost-Benefit Analysis Several registrants provided quantified estimates of the cost reductions which would vary from registrant to registrant. All of the registrants and accounting firms that addressed the cost-benefit of the amendments indicated that the cost of preparation and audit of the schedules and other information that have been eliminated today exceeded their benefit. Several financial analysts indicated that they thought that the actual costs of providing this information is small, and that the benefits exceeded such costs. They suggested that the reduced disclosures could lead to an increase in the costs of capital due to an increase in investor uncertainty. For reasons discussed above, the Commission believes that the adoption of these rules will reduce the regulatory burden and costs of the vast majority of the registrants without a loss of information that is necessary for investor protection. V. Availability of Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis A Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act has been prepared with respect to the final amendments. A summary of a corresponding Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis was included in the Proposing Release. Members of the public who wish to obtain a copy of the Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis should contact Wayne E. Carnall, Deputy Chief Accountant, Division of Corporation Finance, Securities and Exchange Commission, Mail Stop 3&hyph;13, 450 5th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549, (202) 942&hyph;2960. VI. Statutory Basis for Rules The Commission's rules and forms are amended pursuant to section 19 of the Securities Act of 1933 and sections 3(b), 4A, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 23 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
