FR941219-0-00036 FR941219-0-00014 EPA's economic analysis evaluated the costs associated with implementing its water quality standards for the Bay/Delta. Since the Service identifies water quality (salinity) as a primary constituent element essential to conserve the delta smelt, an analysis of the water costs associated with implementing the salinity standards is included in this final rule. Though the water costs associated with the water quality standards are attributable to EPA, the Service includes this discussion to make clear the approximate cost of implementing the salinity standards alone. The water costs associated with the salinity standards and fish migration standards are reported in EPA's final RIA (EPA 1994). EPA reports the water costs as the sum of costs associated with the salinity standards and fish migration standards. However, depending on hydrologic conditions, approximately 35% to 73% of the water costs in the EPA economic analysis can be attributed to the salinity criteria alone, apart from the fish migration criteria (EPA 1994). The overall estimated water supply impacts of both the salinity and fish migration water quality standards (change in total exports) over those associated with existing D&hyph;1485 State salinity standards and water quality requirements for winter-run chinook salmon under a NMFS biological opinion are 376 thousand acre-feet (taf) per year on average, and 577 taf during critically dry periods. However, the State's implementation plan for EPA's water quality standards will substantially affect the magnitude and distribution of the costs associated with implementing the water quality standards. A more detailed discussion of the water costs associated with different implementation scenarios appears in the final RIA (EPA 1994). National Economic Costs Actions taken to preserve and recover threatened and endangered species may result in the re-allocation of resources within the regional and national economy. National economic costs, best described as efficiency costs, include changes in the consumer and producer surplus, and related employment impacts. These measures capture the net social gains and losses resulting from the resource allocation. The national economic cost of the five activities evaluated above (sand and gravel extraction, diking wetlands, levee maintenance and bank protection activities, operation of the Montezuma Slough Control Structure, and bridge and marina construction) is minimal since the overall economic cost of those activities in the region is minimal. EPA's economic analysis used the above described measures to estimate the costs and benefits of the water quality standards. Therefore, the results of EPA's economic analysis is identical to an analysis done for national economic costs. Benefits of Critical Habitat Designation Conservation of the delta smelt with designation of its critical habitat will result in a wide range of benefits. Section 2(a)(3) of the Act recognizes that fish, wildlife, and plants are of aesthetic, ecological, educational, historical, recreational, and scientific value to the Nation and its people. EPA (1994) categorizes the benefits of promulgating water quality standards and designating critical habitat as use, nonuse, and other benefits. A more detailed description of these uses are contained in the final RIA (EPA 1994). Several use and nonuse benefits can be attributed to designating critical habitat for the delta smelt, apart from benefits attributable to EPA's water quality standards. Generally, the designation of critical habitat will prevent the further decline of estuarine health. Benefits include: (1) Reduced need in the future to list fish and wildlife species currently in decline; (2) Increased biological production of commercially important species, such as waterfowl and salmon; (3) Increased protection to a wide variety of estuarine species, several of which are unique to the Estuary (e.g., winter-run chinook salmon, Estuary population of longfin smelt, and Sacramento splittail); (4) Curtailed establishment of newly introduced exotic species and deterred explosion of the current population of already established exotic species; (5) Increased recreational fishing and hunting opportunities;
