FR940208-2-00166 FR940208-2-00092 80. If no Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee is filed, the responsible Secretary shall cause to be published in the Canada Gazette and the Federal Register a Notice of Completion of Panel Review, effective (a) on the day on which a panel is terminated pursuant to subrule 73(2); or (b) in any other case, on the 31st day following the date on which the responsible Secretary issues a Notice of Final Panel Action. 81. Except as provided in rule 80, where a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee has been filed, the responsible Secretary shall cause to be published in the Canada Gazette and the Federal Register a Notice of Completion of Panel Review, effective on the day after the day referred to in rule 65 or subrule 66(a) of the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules. 82. Reserved 83. Reserved 84. Reserved 85. Panelists are discharged from their duties on the day on which a Notice of Completion of Panel Review is effective, or on the day on which an Extraordinary Challenge Committee vacates a panel review pursuant to subrule 66(b) of the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules. Schedule Procedural Forms Forms (1) through (7) follow. Form (1) Article 1904 Binational Panel Review pursuant to the United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement In the matter of: (Title of Final Determination) Notice of Intent to Commence Judicial Review Pursuant to Article 1904 of the Canada-United States Free-Trade Agreement, notice is hereby served that (interested person filing notice) intends to commence judicial review in the (name of the court) of the final determination referenced below. The following information is provided pursuant to Rule 33 of the Article 1904 Panel Rules: 1. (The name of the interested person filing this notice) 2. (The name of counsel for the interested person, if any) 3. (The service address, as defined by Rule 3 of the Article 1904 Panel Rules, including facsimile number, if any) 4. (The telephone number of counsel for the interested person or the telephone number of the interested person, if not represented by counsel) 5. (The title of the final determination for which notice of intent to commence judicial review is served) 6. (The investigating authority that issued the final determination) 7. (The file number of the investigating authority) 8. (a) (The citation and date of publication of the final determination in the Federal Register or Canada Gazette ); or (b) (If the final determination was not published, the date notice of the final determination was received by the other Party) Date Signature of Counsel (or interested person, if not represented by counsel)
