FR941227-0-00113 FR941227-0-00020 (C) The likelihood that the public entity or State will continue to receive grant assistance under this part during the proposed repayment period; (D) The public entity's ability to furnish adequate security pursuant to §570.705(b), and (E) The amount of program income the proposed activities are reasonably estimated to contribute toward repayment of the guaranteed loan. (ii) The requested loan amount exceeds any of the limitations specified under §570.705(a). (iii) Funds are not available in the amount requested. (iv) The performance of the public entity, its designated public agency or State under this part is unacceptable. (v) Activities to be undertaken with the guaranteed loan funds are not eligible under §570.703. (vi) Activities to be undertaken with the guaranteed loan funds do not meet the criteria in §570.208 for compliance with one of the national objectives of the Act. (4) HUD will notify the public entity in writing that the loan guarantee request has either been approved, reduced or disapproved. If the request is reduced or disapproved, the public entity shall be informed of the specific reasons for reduction or disapproval. If the request is approved, HUD shall issue an offer of commitment to guarantee debt obligations of the borrower identified in the application subject to compliance with this part, including the requirements under §570.705(b), (d), (g) and (h) for securing and issuing debt obligations, the conditions for release of funds described in paragraph (d) of this section, and such other conditions as HUD may specify in the commitment documents in a particular case. (5) Amendments. If the public entity wishes to carry out an activity not previously described in its application or to substantially change the purpose, scope, location, or beneficiaries of an activity, the amendment must be approved by HUD. Amendments by State-assisted public entities must also be approved by the State. The public entity shall follow the citizen participation requirements for amendments in §570.704(a)(2). (d) Environmental review. The public entity shall comply with HUD environmental review procedures (24 CFR part 58) for the release of funds for each project carried out with loan guarantee assistance. These procedures set forth the regulations, policies, responsibilities and procedures governing the carrying out of environmental review responsibilities of public entities. All public entities, including nonentitlement public entities, shall submit the request for release of funds and related certification for each project to be assisted with guaranteed loan funds to the appropriate HUD Field Office. (e) Displacement, relocation, acquisition, and replacement of housing. The public entity (or the designated public agency) shall comply with the displacement, relocation, acquisition and replacement of low/moderate-income housing requirements in §570.488 or §570.606 in connection with any activity financed in whole or in part with guaranteed loan funds. §570.705 Loan requirements. (a) Limitations on commitments. (1) If loan guarantee commitments have been issued in any fiscal year in an aggregate amount equal to 50 percent of the amount approved in an appropriation act for that fiscal year, HUD may limit the amount of commitments any one public entity may receive during such fiscal year as follows (except that HUD will not decrease commitments already issued): (i) The amount any one entitlement public entity may receive may be limited to $35,000,000. (ii) The amount any one nonentitlement public entity may receive may be limited to $7,000,000. (iii) The amount any one public entity may receive may be limited to such amount as is necessary to allow HUD to give priority to applications containing activities to be carried out in areas designated as empowerment zones/enterprise communities by the Federal Government or by any State. (2) In addition to the limitations specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the following limitations shall apply.
