FR940707-0-00013 FR940707-0-00007 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY 22 CFR Part 514 [Rulemaking No. 103] RIN 3116&hyph;AA05 Insurance Requirements, the Exchange Visitor Program AGENCY: United States Information Agency. ACTION: Interim final rule with request for comments. SUMMARY: The Agency issued a final rule on March 19, 1993 which included a requirement that all exchange visitors and their spouses and dependents on J visas have insurance to cover themselves for sickness and accidents, effective September 1, 1994. In response to concerns raised by the public, the Agency is amending the types of insurance allowed under the Exchange Visitor Program regulations. DATES: This interim final rule is effective July 7, 1994. Written comments will be accepted until August 8, 1994. All written communications received by the Agency on or before the closing date will be considered by the Agency before action on a final rule is undertaken. ADDRESSES: Comments regarding this rule should be addressed as follows: United States Information Agency, Office of the General Counsel, Rulemaking 103, 301 Fourth Street SW., room 700, Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William G. Ohlhausen, Assistant General Counsel, United States Information Agency, 301 Fourth Street SW., Washington, DC 20547; telephone (202) 619&hyph;4979. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Since implementing the final rule on March 19, 1993 (58 FR 15180), USIA has been requested to amend the insurance requirement set forth in 22 CFR 514.14(c). The main concern has been with the requirement that policies be underwritten by an insurance corporation having an A.M. Best rating of ``A^'' or above, an Insurance Solvency International, Ltd. (ISI) rating of ``A^i'' or above, a Standard & Poor's Claims-paying Ability rating of ``A^'' or above, a Weiss Research, Inc. rating of B+ or above, or such other rating as the Agency may from time to time specify. A rating is not presently required when the insurance coverage is backed by the full faith and credit of the government of the exchange visitor's home country or when the sponsor is allowed to self-insure or to accept full financial responsibility. A number of the Agency's constituents have expressed the view that ยง514.14(c) is too restrictive and that compliance could end longstanding and reliable insurance relationships. A number of major insurance plans and almost all health maintenance organizations reportedly do not meet the current regulations. The Agency has been informed that the net effect on exchange visitors and family members could be to actually reduce in some cases the quality of the health care they have been receiving. Approximately 800 of the 1,200 designated sponsors are colleges and universities, many of which provide health insurance for their students and faculty. Other sponsors include major corporations, government agencies, non-profit organizations, and research institutions, many of which also offer insurance for their employees who are exchange visitors. A number of sponsors expressed concern that the current regulations disqualify reliable insurance policies, plans, and contracts that they provide to their exchange visitors. In response to sponsors' comments, the Agency is amending the regulations to broaden the types of insurance permitted under ยง514.14(c). The Agency is proposing two additional ways to satisfy ยง514.14(c). The first is to qualify a policy, plan, or contract which is part of a health benefits program offered on a group basis to employees or enrolled students by a designated sponsor. Here, the sponsor is in a position to consult with insurance professionals, rating services, insurance commissioners, legal counsel, and other experts before determining which coverage to offer to its employees and enrolled students. The second is to qualify a policy, plan, or contract which is underwritten by a federally qualified health maintenance organization (HMO) or an eligible competitive medical plan (CMP) as determined by the Health Care Financing Administration. While these HMO's and CMP's often are not rated by insurance rating services, they are monitored for fiscal soundness on a regular basis by the federal government, in addition to being regulated by one or more states.
