FR941004-1-00086 FR941004-1-00018 Section 1357.15(j)␣Measures of Progress We are proposing in §1357.15 (j) that States and Indian tribes describe in the CFSP how they will measure the results, accomplishments, and annual progress toward meeting the goals and objectives in the CFSP. Depending on the goals, objectives, and outcomes selected, measuring progress should be based, in part, on quantifiable indicator data (e.g., numbers of substantiated child abuse and neglect reports) or on the results of activities such as monitoring mechanisms, quality assurance efforts, other information collection activities, other planning processes, and internal evaluations. SACWIS/AFCARS/NCANDA Three interrelated information systems, currently being established, will assist States in obtaining information to measure the annual progress toward meeting the goals and objectives in the CFSP, to quantify and document the improvements achieved, as well as identify future problem areas. These systems are the Statewide Automated Child Welfare Information System (SACWIS); the Adoption and Foster Care Analysis and Reporting System (AFCARS), a part of the SACWIS; and the National Child Abuse and Neglect Data System (NCANDS). The SACWIS/AFCARS data is expected to be available within the next two to three years during the implementation of the CFSP. Phase I of the NCANDS is operational at the present time. •SACWIS. As a part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, funding is available to States for the planning, design, development, and installation of Statewide automated child welfare information systems. Such systems must be comprehensive in that they must meet the requirements for an Adoption and Foster Care Analysis and Reporting System (AFCARS) required by section 479 (b)(2) of the Social Security Act and implementing regulations. To the extent practicable, these systems must also be capable of interfacing with State child abuse and neglect automated systems and with State automated systems for determining eligibility for title IV&hyph;A assistance. The Department must also determine that the system will be likely to provide more efficient, economical, and effective administration of the programs under title IV&hyph;B and title IV&hyph;E of the Act. Enhanced Federal funding at the 75 percent matching rate is provided for such activities as well as for the cost of hardware components beginning October 1, 1993. This funding rate is eliminated in the statute after September 30, 1996, at which time a Federal matching rate of 50 percent is available. Also effective October 1, 1993, Federal financial participation is available for the operation of such systems at the 50 percent matching rate. •AFCARS. The purpose of AFCARS is to collect information on children in foster care and children adopted through the public child welfare system. This information will be essential for data analysis and reporting, addressing program management issues, and making policy and planning decisions. The AFCARS final rule was published in the Federal Register in December of 1993. The first reporting period is October 1, 1994 to March 31, 1995 for which data must be received in ACF no later than May 15, 1995. •NCANDS. The National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect (NCCAN) is continuing the development and implementation of the National Child Abuse and Neglect Data System (NCANDS). The NCANDS consists of two parts: •The Summary Data Component (SDC), a compilation of key indicators of State child abuse and neglect statistics; and •The Detailed Case Data Component (DCDC), a compilation of detailed case-level data that can be used to examine trends and issues in the field. NCANDS summary data has been collected for the last three years. The most recent information and data regarding the NCANDS is published in a report entitled ``Child Maltreatment 1992: Reports From the States to the National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect.'' This report is available through the Clearinghouse on Child Abuse and Neglect Information (800&hyph;FYI&hyph;3366 or 703&hyph;385&hyph;7565). When this national data base on child abuse and neglect is fully implemented, it will have the flexibility to respond to a wide range of policy and program analysis needs.
