FR940324-1-00058 FR940324-1-00020 (f) Subject to availability of qualified Indian contractors, IRR construction contracts shall be advertised for award to the lowest qualified bidder under the provisions of the Buy Indian Act of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 891). Subject to availability of qualified Indian subcontractors, prime contractors shall be required to give preference to Indian subcontractors on IRR construction contracts. A good faith effort to locate qualified Indian contractors and subcontractors shall be required. Incentives may be provided for training Indian subcontractors. Contracts with tribal governments under Public Law 93&hyph;638 shall be written, negotiated, and monitored to ensure meeting the requirements of 23 U.S.C. (g) On cooperative projects where Federal aid and IRR funds are used, guidelines will be developed to include procedures for the BIA and State to negotiate the use of the Buy Indian Act (36 Stat. 891) based on the percentage of fund contribution for the project. (h) IRR funds can also be used on tribally-owned vocational post-secondary school road construction projects pursuant to section 1032(d) of the ISTEA. For the purpose of this part, roads constructed under section 1032(d) are public roads. (i) The BIA, in cooperation with the FHWA and the states, will develop procedures for implementing management systems for bridge, pavement, and safety on Indian reservation roads (23 U.S.C. 204(a)). ยง170.4 Approval of fund distribution. (a) The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Transportation, shall approve the distribution of IRR construction funds. (b) The Secretary shall approve the distribution of maintenance funds for Indian road needs. This type of approval does not require the concurrence of the Secretary of Transportation. (c) Indian tribal governments shall be consulted concerning the distribution of Indian road construction and maintenance funds. ยง170.5 Federal-aid highways. (a) Federal-aid highways, containing rural major collector or higher functional classification routes, are designated by each State highway department in cooperation with local officials, and are subject to the approval of the Secretary of Transportation. The BIA will assist tribal governments as they participate in the State-Tribal responsibility of designating Federal-aid highways which serve Indian lands. (b) Some public roads on Indian Reservations are eligible for funding from the Federal-aid program through the States and counties. Pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204(c), IRR funds shall be supplementary to, and not in lieu of, the obligation of funds apportioned to an IRR project from the Federal-aid program. The BIA will assist tribal governments as they participate with local governments in the development of programs of construction projects and maintenance of those roads which are on Indian Reservations. ยง170.6 Road Inventory and Needs Study. (a) The BIA shall maintain an inventory of identified Indian Reservation Roads as defined in ยง170.2 of this subpart. The inventory shall be maintained to provide: (1) Appropriate reports required by 23 CFR 460.3(c), 23 CFR 470.107(b) and (c), or by Congressional request.
