FR940204-1-00070 FR940204-1-00013 The California Environmental Quality Act and California Endangered Species Act are the primary environmental legislation passed at the State level that potentially benefits the conservation of the Alameda whipsnake. The animal was listed as a threatened species by the State of California in 1971 (California Department of Fish and Game 1987). Although these State laws provide a measure of protection to the species and have resulted in the formulation of mitigation measures to reduce or offset impacts for projects proposed in certain Alameda whipsnake habitats, these laws are not adequate to protect the species in all cases. Numerous activities do not fall under the purview of this legislation, such as certain projects proposed by the Federal government and projects falling under State statutory exemptions. Where overriding social and economic considerations can be demonstrated, these laws allow project proposals to go forward, even in cases where the continued existence of the species may be jeopardized or where adverse impacts are not mitigated to the point of insignificance. E. Other natural or man-made factors affecting their continued existence . Use of insecticides could be a threat to the two butterfly species. Silverspot butterfly larvae are extremely sensitive to pesticides and even the accumulation of runoff in the soil after spraying has proven lethal to the larvae of members of the genus Speyeria (Mattoon et al. 1971). There is the potential that species in the food chain of the snake would be impacted as well. High levels of grazing by livestock may pose a threat to the extant populations of the two butterfly species. Overgrazing could cause trampling and the ingestion of the larval foodplants and the adult nectar sources. Low levels of grazing could allow other plants to outcompete the species required by the callippe and Behren's silverspot butterflies. Grazing has adversely affected the habitat of the Alameda whipsnake in many areas east of the coast range (McGinnis 1992). Livestock grazing that significantly reduces or eliminates shrub and grass cover is detrimental to this animal. Most snake species, including the Alameda whipsnake, avoid open barren areas because of the increased danger from predators and the lack of prey (McGinnis 1992). Overgrazing has eliminated otherwise suitable Alameda whipsnake habitat in the area between Black Diamond Mines Regional Park and Marsh Creek Road in Contra Costa County and along the west facing slopes of the Altamont Pass region between Vasco Road and Altamont Pass Road in Alameda County. Off-road vehicles and human or horse foot traffic may pose a threat to the colonies of the two butterfly species. These activities could result in harassment, injury, or death of individuals of these two species by trampling or crushing the eggs, larvae, or pupae. Adequate levels of Viola are critical for the long-term survival of populations of the two butterfly species (Mattoon, in litt ., 1989, 1991). However, California's native grassland and coastal prairie have been adversely affected by the introduction and invasion of numerous non-native plants (Heady 1988, Heady et al. 1988). Often these introduced and alien plants, such as iceplant ( Carprobrotus sp.), gum trees ( Eucalyptus spp.), and French broom ( Ulex europaeus ), outcompete and largely supplant the native vegetation. Without control and eradication programs, the introduced and alien taxa will continue to invade and eliminate the remaining native plant communities, including the host plants of the callippe and Behren's silverspot butterflies. Non-native vegetative communities also may eliminate habitat for the Alameda whipsnake.
