FR941012-2-00116 FR941012-2-00078 3. SBSA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Standard Bank Investment Corporation, Ltd. (``SBIC''). SBIC owns 40 percent of the voting stock of Stanbic Merchant Bank of Nigeria, Ltd. and 30 percent of the voting stock of Merchant Bank (Ghana), Ltd. Each Foreign Affiliate is a bank incorporated under the laws of a country other than the United States and is regulated as such by the relevant country's government or an agency thereof. Applicant's Legal Analysis 1. Section 17(f) of the Act provides that a registered investment company may place and maintain its securities and similar assets in the custody of a bank, or banks meeting the requirements of section 26(a) of the Act, a member firm of a national securities exchange, the investment company itself, or a system for the central handling of securities established by a national securities exchange. Section 2(a)(5) of the Act defines ``bank'' to include banking institutions organized under the laws of the United States, member banks of the Federal Reserve System, and certain other banking institutions or trust companies doing business under the laws of any state or of the United States. Neither SBSA nor the Foreign Affiliates falls within the definition of ``bank'' as that term is defined in the Act. 2. Rule 17f&hyph;5 specifies entities located outside the United States that are eligible to serve as custodian for investment company assets. One such entity is a banking institution or trust company incorporated or organized under the laws of a country other than the United States that is regulated as such by the country's government or an agency thereof and that has shareholders' equity in excess of U.S. $200 million. SBSA qualifies as an eligible foreign custodian. The Foreign Affiliates do not qualify as eligible foreign custodians under rule 17f&hyph;5 only because they do not meet the minimum shareholders' equity requirement. Applicant's Conditions SBSA agrees that an order granting the requested relief may be conditioned upon the following: 1. The proposed foreign custody arrangements regarding the Foreign Affiliates satisfy the requirements of rule 17f&hyph;5 in all respects other than the Foreign Affiliates' level of shareholders' equity. 2. SBSA will deposit the Assets with a Foreign Affiliate only in accordance with an agreement (the ``Agreement'') required to remain in effect at all times during which the Foreign Affiliate fails to satisfy the requirements of rule 17f&hyph;5. Each Agreement will be a three-party agreement among SBSA, the Foreign Affiliate and the U.S. investment company (or its custodian). Under the Agreement, SBSA will undertake to provide specified custodial or subcustodial services for a U.S. investment company or its custodian, and will delegate to the Foreign Affiliate such of the duties and obligations of SBSA as will be necessary to permit the Foreign Affiliate to hold in custody the U.S. investment company's Assets in the relevant country. The Agreement will further provide that SBSA will be liable for any loss, damage, cost, expense, liability, or claim arising out of or in connection with the performance by the Foreign Affiliate of its responsibilities under the Agreement to the same extent as if SBSA had been required to provide custody services under such agreement. 3. SBSA currently satisfies and will continue to satisfy the minimum shareholders equity requirement set forth in rule 17f&hyph;5(c)(2)(i) under the Act. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25188 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
