FR941006-2-00112 FR941006-2-00083 A. Contingent Value Rights The Commission believes that the CBOE's proposal to establish listing criteria for CVRs addresses the special concerns raised by these investment products. As with the equity-linked debt securities approved for listing by the NYSE and the Amex, 36 CVRs are not leveraged instruments. Their price, however, will still be derived and based upon the related security. The Commission believes, however, that the CBOE proposal adequately minimizes the Commission's regulatory concerns that arise because the final rate of return of a CVR is derivatively priced, based on the performance of the related security. The proposed quantitative listing standards should ensure that only substantial companies capable of meeting their financial obligations issue CVRs. This is important in light of the contingent financial obligations created by these instruments, and should serve to protect investors and the public interest by ensuring that the companies listing CVRs on the Exchange have sufficient financial means to meet their settlement obligations. Additionally, the proposed suitability, disclosure, and compliance requirements noted above, adequately address the potential public customer concerns that could arise from the hybrid nature of CVRs. In this regard, before any listing occurs, the CBOE would be required to distribute a circular to the membership providing guidance regarding member firm compliance responsibilities (including suitability recommendations and account approval) when handling transactions in CVRs. 36 See Equity-Linked Note Approval Orders, supra note 10. Finally, the Commission notes that the criteria proposed by the Exchange for the listing of CVRs are virtually the same as those previously approved by the Commission for the listing and trading of CVRs by the NYSE and the Amex. 37 37 See Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 28072 (May 30, 1990), 55 FR 23166 (June 6, 1990) (order approving the listing of CVRS by the NYSE); and 27753 (March 1, 1990), 55 FR 8624 (March 8, 1990) (order approving the listing of CVRs by the Amex). B. Equity-Linked Term Notes The Commission believes that the availability of ELNs will permit investors to more closely approximate their desired investment objectives through, for example, shifting some of the opportunity for upside gain in return for additional income. Accordingly, for these reasons, as well as the reasons stated in the Equity-Linked Note Approval Orders, 38 the Commission finds that the CBOE's proposed standards for the listing and trading of ELNs are consistent with the Act and that the listing and trading of ELNs is in the public interest. 38 See Equity-Linked Note Approval Orders, supra note 10.
