FR940216-0-00268 FR940216-0-00010 Sample Size, Based Upon Population Size 1No. in population (N) 1Sample size 66 and larger 29 41&hyph;65 25 26&hyph;40 20 0&hyph;25 N or 19, whichever is smaller. (2) Option 2. Determine the sample size in such a manner that the sample size is equal to that which would result by using the following parameters and standard statistical methodologies: Confidence Level_95% Expected Error Rate_0% Maximum Tolerable Error Rate_10% (3) Option 3. The auditor may use some other form of sample selection and/or some other method to determine the sample size, provided that the resulting sample affords equal or better strength of inference and freedom from bias (as compared with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section), and that the auditor summarizes the substitute methods and clearly demonstrates their equivalence in the final report on the audit. §80.128 Agreed upon procedures for refiners and importers. The following are the minimum attest procedures that shall be carried out for each refinery and importer. Agreed upon procedures may vary from the procedures stated in this section due to the nature of the refiner's or importer's business or records, provided that any refiner or importer desiring to modify procedures obtains prior approval from EPA. (a) Read the refiner's or importer's reports filed with EPA for the previous year as required by §§80.75 and 80.105. (b) Obtain a gasoline inventory reconciliation analysis for the current year from the refiner or importer which includes reformulated gasoline, RBOB, conventional gasoline, and non-finished-gasoline petroleum products. (1) Test the mathematical accuracy of the calculations contained in the analysis. (2) Agree the beginning and ending inventories to the refiner's or importer's perpetual inventory records. (c) Obtain separate listings of all tenders during the current year of reformulated gasoline, RBOB, conventional gasoline, and non-finished-gasoline petroleum products. (1) Test the mathematical accuracy of the calculations contained in the listings. (2) Agree the listings of tenders' volumes to the gasoline inventory reconciliation in paragraph (b) of this section. (3) Agree the listings of tenders' volumes, where applicable, to the EPA reports. (d) Select a representative sample from the listing of reformulated gasoline tenders, and for this sample: (1) Agree the volumes to the product transfer documents; (2) Compare the product transfer documents designation for consistency with the time and place, and compliance model designations for the tender (VOC-controlled or non-VOC-controlled, VOC region for VOC-controlled, OPRG versus non-OPRG, summer or winter gasoline, and simple or complex model certified); and (3) Trace back to the batch or batches in which the gasoline was produced or imported. Obtain the refiner's or importer's internal laboratory analyses for each batch and compare such analyses for consistency with the analyses results reported to EPA and to the time and place designations for the tender's product transfer documents. (e) Select a representative sample from the listing of RBOB tenders, and for this sample: (1) Agree the volumes to the original product transfer documents; (2) Determine that the requisite contract was in place with the downstream blender designating the required blending procedures, or that the refiner or importer accounted for the RBOB using the assumptions in §80.72(a)(9); (3) Review the product transfer documents for the indication of the type and amount of oxygenate required to be added to the RBOB; (4) Trace back to the batch or batches in which the RBOB was produced or imported. Obtain refiner's or importer's internal lab analysis for each batch and agree the consistency of the type and volume of oxygenate required to be added to the RBOB with that indicated in applicable tender's product transfer documents; and (5) Agree the sampling and testing frequency of the refiner's or importer's downstream oxygenated blender quality assurance program with the sampling and testing rates as required in §80.72.
