FR941205-0-00084 FR941205-0-00024 II. Must-Carry Regulations A. Carriage of Local Noncommercial Educational Television Stations 1. Definition of a Qualified Noncommercial Station. 3. Section 615(l)(1) provides that a local noncommercial educational television (``NCE'') station qualifies for must-carry rights if it is licensed by the Commission as an NCE station and if it is owned and operated by a public agency, nonprofit foundation, or corporation or association that is eligible to receive a community service grant from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. 1 An NCE station is also considered qualified if it is owned and operated by a municipality and transmits predominantly noncommercial programs for educational purposes. 2 For purposes of must-carry rights, an NCE station is considered local if its community of license is within 50 miles of, or its signal places a Grade B contour over, the principal headend of the cable system. This definition includes the translator of any NCE station with five watts or higher power serving the franchise area, a full-service station or translator licensed to a channel reserved for noncommercial educational use, and such stations and translators operating on channels not so reserved as the Commission determines are qualified NCE stations. 1 All references to Section 614, Section 615 and Section 325 are references to those sections of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the 1992 Cable Act, Sections 4, 5 and 6. 2 In defining a qualified noncommercial educational television station, §76.55(a)(2) incorrectly refers to §73.612 rather than §73.621. We are revising §76.55(a)(2) to refer to §73.621. 4. The staff has received informal inquiries requesting clarification as to when a translator is ``serving the franchise area'' of the cable system. Because the service area of a translator differs from that of a full power broadcast station, we believe that guidance should be provided to assist interested parties in determining whether a translator serves the franchise area of the cable system. We believe it appropriate to adopt a standard based on coverage and contour, which has been used in the past and which should be easily identifiable. Therefore, for purposes of a translator serving the cable system's franchise area, the coverage area of such translator shall be its predicted protected contour as specified in §74.707 of our rules. 2. Signal Carriage Obligations. 5. In the Report and Order, we indicated that Section 615(b) requires cable systems to carry any qualified local NCE television station requesting carriage. Systems with 12 or fewer activated channels must carry the signal of one qualified local NCE station. Systems with 13 to 36 activated channels must carry at least one qualified local NCE station, but need not carry more than three such stations. Cable systems with more than 36 activated channels are generally required to carry all NCE stations requesting carriage. If a system with fewer than 36 activated channels operates beyond the presence of a qualified local NCE station, it is required to import and carry a qualified NCE station. In addition, cable systems must continue to provide carriage to all qualified local NCE television stations whose signals were carried on their systems as of March 29, 1990, regardless of the proximity of those stations to the system's principal headend.
