FR940104-2-00024 FR940104-2-00016 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Floodplain Statement of Findings for the Proposed Sanitary Sewer System Upgrade Project at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory AGENCY: Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Floodplain statement of findings. SUMMARY: This is a Floodplain Statement of Findings for the proposed sanitary sewer project at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) prepared in accordance with 10 CFR 1022. DOE proposes to upgrade the sanitary sewer system to provide adequate service in the main complex area and outlying regions of the Oak Ridge Reservation. Only certain sections of two subprojects would be located in a 100-year floodplain. The East Area Sewer Main subproject would include installing approximately 2,900 linear feet of new sewer line that would lie within the 100-year floodplain of White Oak Creek located near Oak Ridge, Tennessee. This line would be installed in a trench about 2 feet deep. After installation, the trench would be backfilled and compacted. Finally, the area would be graded to original contour and seeded. The Sewer Main to Outlying Areas subproject would install approximately 8,300 linear feet of new pipeline. The new pipeline would be located in the 100-year floodplain of White Oak Creek only where the pipeline crosses White Oak Creek and an unnamed tributary feeding the creek from the west. At these crossings, the pipeline would be placed on the existing causeways and adjacent to the roadway. After installation, the area would be returned to the original condition. DOE prepared a floodplain and wetlands assessment describing the effects, alternatives, and measures designed to avoid or minimize potential harm to or within the affected floodplain. DOE will endeavor to allow 15 days of public review after publication of the Statement of Findings before implementing the proposed action. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CONTACT: Information on the proposed action (including maps of potentially disturbed floodplain areas) is available from: Mr. Doyle Brown, Waste Management Division (EW&hyph;92), Oak Ridge Operations Office, U.S. Department of Energy, Post Office Box 2001, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831&hyph;8541, or fax comments to (615) 576&hyph;5333. For further information on general DOE floodplain/wetland environmental review requirements, contact: Carol M. Borgstrom, Director, Office of NEPA Oversight (EH&hyph;25), U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;4600 or (800) 472&hyph;2756. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a Floodplain Statement of Findings for the proposed sanitary sewer upgrade project at ORNL. A Notice of Floodplain/Wetlands Involvement was published in the Federal Register on October 4, 1993 (58 FR 51624). DOE proposes to upgrade the sanitary sewer system to provide adequate service in the main complex area and outlying regions of the reservation. These upgrades are needed because of the deterioration in portions of the system, which are approaching 50-years of age; restrictive bends in sections of the piping; excessive surface and subsurface infiltration during heavy rains; infiltration of ground water; high cost and potential environmental damage of collecting, pumping, and hauling sanitary waste from holding tanks in the outlying areas; and lack of reserve capacity during peak periods of use. Of the proposed upgrades, only certain sections of two subprojects would be located in a 100-year floodplain. These subprojects would be the East Area Sewer Main and the Sewer Main to Outlying Areas. The East Area Sewer Main subproject would include the installation of approximately 2,900 linear feet of new sewer line that would lie within the 100-year floodplain of White Oak Creek. This line would be installed in a trench about 2 feet deep. After installation, the trench would be backfilled and compacted. Finally, the area would be graded to original contour and seeded. Currently, facilities in the outlying areas of the plant use either collection tanks or septic systems. The waste in the tanks is routinely pumped into trucks and taken to the main treatment plant. The cost of collection and maintenance of the sanitary facilities in the outlying areas continues to increase. Additionally, this existing system can negatively affect the environment. The objective of the Sewer Main to Outlying Areas subproject is to directly connect, via a pipeline, these facilities to the main sewage treatment plant. Approximately 8,300 linear feet of new pipeline would be installed. The new pipeline would be located in the 100-year floodplain of White Oak Creek only where the pipeline crosses White Oak Creek and an unnamed tributary feeding the creek from the west. At these crossings, the pipeline would be placed on the existing causeways and adjacent to the roadway. After installation, the area would be returned to the original condition. Since the main facilities of ORNL were built along White Oak Creek, some upgrade projects naturally fall within the floodplain. This is the case with the new sewer line in the East Area. The only practical route lies between White Oak Creek and Southside Avenue, an area within the floodplain. The creek also separates the main complex from the outlying areas. Thus, the sewer line to the outlying areas must cross over the existing causeways to avoid the installation of new, separate crossings.
