FR941025-2-00058 FR941025-2-00045 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration for Children and Families Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention and Treatment; Proposed Research and Demonstration Priorities for Fiscal Years 1995 and 1996 AGENCY: National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect (NCCAN), Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF), Administration for Children and Families (ACF), Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). ACTION: Notice of Proposed Fiscal Years 1995 and 1996 Child Abuse and Neglect Research and Demonstration Priorities for the Administration for Children and Families. SUMMARY: The National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect (NCCAN) within the Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF) announces the proposed priorities for research on the causes, prevention, identification, and treatment of child abuse and neglect; on appropriate and effective judicial procedures; and for demonstration or service programs and projects designed to prevent, identify, and treat child abuse and neglect. Comments on the proposed priorities and suggestions for other topics are invited at this time. The actual solicitation of grant applications will be published separately in the Federal Register , at a later date, for each fiscal year, respectively. Solicitations for contracts will be announced, at a later date, in the Commerce Business Daily. Though these priority areas are proposed for Fiscal Years 1995 and 1996, NCCAN recognizes that, pending the reauthorization of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA), these priorities may be supplemented and amended accordingly. Comments and recommendations about the reauthorization, though welcome, are not the focus of this announcement. In addition, no proposals, concept papers, or other forms of applications for funding should be submitted at this time. Section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 1988 (CAPTA), as amended, requires the Department to publish proposed priorities for research and demonstration activities for the purpose of soliciting comments from the public, including individuals knowledgeable in the field of child abuse and neglect prevention and treatment. No acknowledgment will be made of the comments submitted in response to this notice, but all comments received by the deadline will be reviewed and given thoughtful consideration in the preparation of the final funding priorities over the next two years. Copies of the final program announcement will be sent to all persons who comment on these proposed priorities. DATES: In order to be considered, comments must be received no later than December 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to: David W. Lloyd, Director, National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect, Attention: Comments/Proposed Priorities_Research and Demonstration, P.O. Box 1182, Washington, D.C. 20013. Comments may also be submitted via Internet: <comments%acyf.nccan%acf.wdc@ban- gate.acf.dhhs.gov > SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The proposed new research and demonstration priority areas have been developed from recommendations from several sources.
