FR940713-2-00178 FR940713-2-00098 Appendix Application Forms and Instructions Applicants are advised to reproduce and complete the application forms in this Section. Applicants are required to submit an original and two copies of each application as provided in this Section. Frequent Questions 1. Can I Get an Extension of the Due Date? No! On rare occasions the Department of Education may extend a closing date for all applicants. If that occurs, a notice of the revised due date is published in the Federal Register . However, there are no extensions or exceptions to the due date made for individual applicants. 2. What Should be Included in the Application? The application should include a project narrative, vitae of key personnel, and a budget, as well as the Assurances forms included in this package. Vitae of staff or consultants should include the individual's title and role in the proposed project, and other information that is specifically pertinent to this proposed project. The budgets for both the first year and subsequent project years should be included. If collaboration with another organization is involved in the proposed activity, the application should include assurances of participation by the other parties, including written agreements or assurances of cooperation. It is not useful to include general letters of support or endorsement in the application. If the applicant proposes to use unique tests or other measurement instruments that are not widely known in the field, it would be helpful to include the instrument in the application. Many applications contain voluminous appendices that are not helpful and in many cases cannot even be mailed to the reviewers. It is generally not helpful to include such things as brochures, general capability statements of collaborating organizations, maps, copies of publications, or descriptions of other projects completed by the applicant. 3. What Format Should be Used for the Application? NIDRR generally advises applicants that they may organize the application to follow the selection criteria that will be used. The specific review criteria vary according to the specific program, and are contained in this Consolidated Application Package. 4. May I Submit Applications to More Than One NIDRR Program Competition or More Than One Application to a Program? Yes, you may submit applications to any program for which they are responsive to the program requirements. You may submit the same application to as many competitions as you believe appropriate. You may also submit more than one application in any given competition. 5. What is the Allowable Indirect Cost Rate? The limits on indirect costs vary according to the program and the type of application. Applicants in the FIR, and Innovation grants programs should limit indirect charges to the organization's approved rate. If the organization does not have an approved rate, the application should include an estimated actual rate. 6. Can Profitmaking Businesses Apply for Grants? Yes. However, for-profit organizations will not be able to collect a fee or profit on the grant, and in some programs will be required to share in the costs of the project. 7. Can Individuals Apply for Grants? No. Only organizations are eligible to apply for grants under NIDRR programs. 8. Can NIDRR Staff Advise Me Whether My Project Is of Interest to NIDRR or Likely To Be Funded? No. NIDRR staff can advise you of the requirements of the program in which you propose to submit your application. However, staff cannot advise you of whether your subject area or proposed approach is likely to receive approval. 9. How Do I Assure That My Application Will be Referred to the Most Appropriate Panel for Review? Applicants should be sure that their applications are referred to the correct competition by clearly including the competition title and CFDA number, including alphabetical code, on the Standard Form 424, and including the title of the priority to which they are responding. 10. How Soon After Submitting My Application Can I Find Out if It Will be Funded? The time from closing date to grant award date varies from program to program. Generally speaking, NIDRR endeavors to have awards made within five to six months of the closing date. Unsuccessful applicants generally will be notified within that time frame as well. For the purpose of estimating a project start date, the applicant should estimate approximately six months from the closing date, but no later than the following September 30. 11. Can I Call NIDRR to Find Out If My Application is Being Funded? No! When NIDRR is able to release information on the status of grant applications, it will notify applicants by letter. The results of the peer review cannot be released except through this formal notification. 12. If My Application Is Successful, Can I Assume I Will Get the Requested Budget Amount in Subsequent Years? No. Those budget projections are necessary and helpful for planning purposes. However, a complete budget and budget justification must be submitted for each year of the project and there will be negotiations on the budget each year.
