FR941026-0-00027 FR941026-0-00008 After receipt of an application for an EDC, the Secretary of the Military Department will determine whether an EDC is appropriate to spur economic development and job creation and examine whether the terms and conditions proposed are fair and reasonable. The Military Department may also consider information independent of the application, such as views of other Federal agencies, appraisals, caretaker costs and other relevant information. The following criteria and factors will be used, as appropriate, to determine whether a community is eligible for an EDC and to evaluate the proposed terms and conditions of the EDC, including price, time of payment and other relevant methods of compensation to the Federal Government. •Adverse economic impact of closure on the region and potential for economic recovery after an EDC. •Extent of short- and long-term job generation. •Consistency with the overall Redevelopment Plan. •Financial feasibility of the development, including market analysis and the need and extent of proposed infrastructure investment. •Extent of State and local investment and level of risk incurred. •Current local and regional real estate market conditions. •Incorporation of other Federal agency interests and concerns, and applicability of, and conflicts with, other Federal property disposal authorities. •Relationship to the overall Military Department disposal plan for the installation. •Economic benefit to the Federal Government, including protection and maintenance cost savings and anticipated consideration from the transfer. •Compliance with applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations. •What are the guidelines for determining the terms and conditions of consideration? •The individual circumstances of each community and each base mean that the amount and type of consideration may vary from base to base. This amendment gives greater discretion and flexibility to the Military Departments to negotiate with the LRA to arrive at an appropriate arrangement. Due to the circumstances of a particular site, the base's value may be high or low, and the range of the estimated present fair market value may be broad or narrow. Where there is value, the Department of Defense has an obligation under Title XXIX of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 1994 to obtain consideration within the estimated range of present fair market value, or to justify why such consideration was not realized. •Taking into account all information provided in the EDC application and any additional information considered relevant, the Military Department will contract for or prepare an estimate of the fair market value of the property, which may be expressed as a range of values. The Military Department shall consult with the LRA on valuation assumptions, guidelines and on instructions given to the person(s) making the estimation of value. •As stated above, the EDC application must contain a statement that proposes general terms and conditions of the conveyance, as well as the amount and type of the consideration, a payment schedule, and projected date of conveyance. After reviewing the application, the Military Department has the discretion and flexibility to enter into one of two types of agreements: 1. Consideration within the estimated range of present fair market value, as determined by the Secretary of the Military Department. The Military Department can be flexible about the terms and conditions of payment, and can provide financing on the property. The payment can be in cash or in-kind, and can be paid at time of transfer or at a time in the future. The Military Departments will have the discretion and flexibility to enter into agreements that specify the form and amount of consideration and ensures that consideration is within the estimated range of fair market value at the time of application. Such methods of payment could include: participation in the gross or net cash flow, deferred payments, mortgages or other financing arrangements. 2. Consideration below the estimated range of fair market value, where proper justification is provided. If a discount is found by the Secretary of the Military Department to be necessary to foster local economic redevelopment and job creation, the amount of consideration can be below the estimated range of fair market value. Again, the terms and conditions of payment will be negotiated between the Military Department and the LRA. (a). Justification . Proper justification for a discount shall be based upon the findings in the business and development plan contained in the EDC application. Development economics, including absorption schedules and legitimate infrastructure costs, would provide a basis for such justification. The ability to pay at time of conveyance or to obtain financing would not be a proper justification, since payment terms and conditions can be negotiated. •In negotiating the terms and conditions of consideration with the LRA, the Secretary of the Military Department must determine that a fair and reasonable compensation to the Federal Government will be realized from the EDC. Where property is transferred under an EDC at an amount less than the estimated range of fair market value, the Military Department shall prepare a written explanation of why the consideration was less than the estimated range of present fair market value. D. Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that these amendments are a significant regulatory action. The amendments to the rule raise novel policy issues arising out of the President's priorities. E. Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule amendment is not subject to the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ,) because the amendment will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The primary effect of this amendment will be to reduce the burden on local communities of the Government's property disposal process at closing military installations and to accelerate the economic recovery of the relatively small number of communities that will be affected by the closure of nearby military installations. F. Paperwork Reduction Act
