FR940725-0-00143 FR940725-0-00019 Other commenters thought that a definition of ``initial entry'' would clarify the standard (Ex. 6&hyph;21, 6&hyph;22, 6&hyph;23, 6&hyph;28, 6&hyph;33, 6&hyph;34, 6&hyph;37, 6&hyph;38). Four of them recommended that ``initial entry'' refer to the first entry after testing and that additional testing be required for entry on subsequent days to ensure that safe conditions are still present (Ex. 6&hyph;21, 6&hyph;22, 6&hyph;37, 6&hyph;38). Two of them suggested that it refer to the time immediately after the initial opening of a space, when the tests and inspections performed to determine whether or not the space is safe for entry are conducted (Ex. 6&hyph;28, 6&hyph;34). The American Waterways Shipyard Conference (AWSC) maintained that ``initial entry'' should be defined as the first entry by shipyard personnel after the space has been certified by the Marine Chemist (Ex. 6&hyph;23). They explained the reasons for their position as follows: The United States Coast Guard has interpreted the term to mean ``more than 24 hours have elapsed since a tank has been determined safe for entry and/or hot work.'' If that time period has elapsed then the tank must be recertified. However, this interpretation does not take into account the shipyard facility's requirements to maintain conditions. The shipyard facility must commence work on the vessel within 24 hours, after the certificate has been issued or the Marine Chemist certificate becomes invalid. As long as the conditions listed on the certificate are maintained, then the certificate is valid. However, if the conditions, as specified on the certificate change, then the Marine Chemist is recalled to recheck the space. Including the definition for initial entry recommended by AWSC will eliminate confusion within the industry and impose a standard practice around the country. [Ex. 6&hyph;23] OSHA believes that it is important to clarify the term ``initial entry'' so that employers and employees understand clearly what OSHA means by the term. With respect to spaces that require certification by a Marine Chemist, it is OSHA's intent that ``initial entry'' means the first entry into a certificated space after the Marine Chemist's certificate has been posted. The period of time during which the Marine Chemist's certificate is valid is established by the Marine Chemist and is logged on the certificate as posted. OSHA believes that the Marine Chemist performing the tests and inspection of a space to be entered is in the best position to determine the duration of the permit's validity. With respect to spaces that must be tested but need not be certificated by a Marine Chemist, the Agency will interpret the ``initial entry'' to be the very first entry into the space after testing is performed. (No entry is allowed before those tests have been performed.) In addition, the tests must be performed close enough to the time of entry to ensure that they accurately reflect conditions in the spaces. To meet this standard, testing will nearly always be done just prior to entry by employees; seldom will tests be performed prior to an hour before employees are to enter a space. There are also requirements in ยง1915.15 for periodic monitoring and maintaining atmospheric conditions within a space as found by the Marine Chemist, Coast Guard authorized person, or competent person. Tests must be repeated as often as necessary to ensure that the required atmospheric conditions within the space are maintained (paragraphs (c) and (e)). Additionally, when a change occurs that could alter conditions within a tested space, work in the space must stop and employees must exit, and the area must be retested (paragraphs (b), (d), and (f)). OSHA believes it is unnecessary to establish within the regulatory text of ยง1915.12 a specific time limit beyond which the initial entry is not permitted after pre-entry testing. As noted in several comments, periods longer than 24 hours may be appropriate if a confined or enclosed space or other dangerous atmosphere does not contain a hazardous substance, is not connected to a piping or exhaust ventilation system that contains a hazardous substance, and has not been closed except for an air or hydrostatic test (Ex. 6&hyph;3, 6&hyph;6). OSHA has determined that the need for testing is directly related to the potential for change to occur within spaces. The duty to test as conditions warrant is imposed by ยง1915.12 and ยง1915.15, in combination. These two sections require that, in all cases, testing of the space must be conducted before employees enter the space and as often as necessary to monitor conditions within the space as work progresses. Obviously, any change in conditions that could affect the designation of a space as ``Safe for Workers'' require reinspection, retesting, and recertification of the space by the competent person or Marine Chemist. Therefore, for the purposes of this rule, the term ``initial entry'' is interpreted by OSHA to mean the first entry into a space. The time period between pre-entry testing and initial entry may vary. However, the space must be reinspected, retested, and recertified any time conditions in the space might have become unsafe for employees.
