FR940208-1-00065 FR940208-1-00011 (d) The owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart that is also subject to applicable provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subparts K, Ka, Kb, VV, XX, and GGG of this chapter, or 40 CFR part 61, subparts J and V of this chapter, shall comply only with the provisions in each subpart that contain the most stringent control requirements for that facility. §63.421 Definitions. As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act; in subparts A, K, Ka, Kb, VV, XX, and GGG of part 60 of this chapter; in subparts A, J, and V of part 61 of this chapter; or in subpart A of this part. All terms defined in both subpart A of part 60 of this chapter and subpart A of this part shall have the meaning given in subpart A of this part. For purposes of this subpart, definitions in this section supersede definitions in other parts or subparts. Controlled loading rack means a loading rack equipped with vapor collection and processing systems that reduce displaced vapor emissions to no more than 80 milligrams of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded, as measured using the test methods and procedures in §60.503 (a) through (c) of this chapter. Equipment means each valve, pump, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, and flange or other connector in the gasoline liquid transfer and vapor collection systems. This definition also includes the entire vapor processing system except the exhaust port(s) or stack(s). Gasoline tank truck means a delivery tank truck or railcar used at bulk gasoline terminals which is loading gasoline or which has loaded gasoline on the immediately previous load. In gasoline service means that a piece of equipment is used in a system that transfers gasoline or gasoline vapors. In VHAP service or In VOC service means, for the purposes of this subpart, in gasoline service. Operating parameter value means an established value for control equipment or operating condition, which, if achieved by itself or combination with one or more other operating parameter values, determines that and owner or operator has complied with an applicable emission limit or standard. Pipeline breakout station means a facility along a pipeline containing storage vessels used to temporarily store gasoline from the pipeline. Uncontrolled loading rack means a loading rack used to load gasoline tank trucks that is not a controlled loading rack. Vapor-tight gasoline tank truck means a gasoline tank truck which has demonstrated within the 12 preceding months that its product delivery tank will sustain a pressure change of not more than 750 pascals (75 mm of water) within 5 minutes after it is pressurized to 4,500 pascals (450 mm of water) or evacuated to 1,500 pascals (150 mm of water). This capability is to be demonstrated using the pressure and vacuum test procedures specified in 40 CFR part 60 of this chapter, appendix A, Reference Method 27. Volatile organic liquid (VOL) means, for the purposes of this subpart, gasoline. §63.422 Standards: Loading racks. (a) Each owner or operator of loading racks at a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements in §60.502 of 40 CFR part 60, subpart XX, of this chapter except for paragraphs (b) and (c) of that section. For purposes of this section, the term ``affected facility'' used in §60.502 of this chapter means the loading racks that load gasoline tank trucks at the bulk gasoline terminals subject to the provisions of this subpart. (b) Emissions to the atmosphere from the loading racks and the vapor collection and processing system due to the loading of gasoline tank trucks shall not exceed 10 milligrams of total organic compounds per liter of gasoline loaded. Each owner or operator shall comply as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than February 8, 1997 at existing facilities and upon startup for new facilities. (c) Owners or operators of new bulk gasoline terminals shall install a system at the loading racks used to load gasoline tank trucks that will maintain a vacuum in each gasoline tank truck during loading. The system shall satisfy the following requirements: (1) During loading, a continuous vacuum shall be maintained in the vapor collection system as measured no more than 0.3 meter from the interface between the vapor collection system coupler and the gasoline tank truck vapor collection adapter; and (2) An interlock system shall prevent loading from beginning until a vacuum has been achieved, and shall shut down the loading process if the vacuum is lost.
