FR940610-0-00042 FR940610-0-00020 48 CFR Parts 1807 and 1810 RIN 2700&hyph;AB54 Acquisition Regulation; Addition of Coverage to the NASA FAR Supplement on Performance-Based Contracting AGENCY: Office of Procurement, Procurement Policy Division, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule sets forth the policies for using performance-based contracting techniques and addressing this issue as an item in procurement plans. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dave Beck, Telephone: (202) 358&hyph;0482. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulation was developed to implement OMB's request that NASA make greater use of performance-based contracting techniques. It holds requiring activities responsible for stating specifications, purchase descriptions, and statements of work, on the basis of performance, where practical, so that a variety of products or services may apply. The regulation also ensures that contract files include a statement on consideration or use of performance-based contracting techniques. Availability of NASA FAR Supplement The NASA FAR Supplement, of which this regulation will become a part, is codified in 48 CFR, Chapter 18, and is available in its entirety on a subscription basis from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. Cite GPO Subscription Stock Number 933-003&hyph;00000&hyph;1. It is not distributed to the public, whether in whole or in part, directly by NASA. Executive Order 12866 The Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs has determined that this rule is significant under E.O. 12866. This regulation is needed because greater use of performance-based contracting techniques will give contractors more freedom to innovate and economize, and also hold them more accountable for the end results. The regulation meets that need by requiring performance-based specifications, purchase descriptions and statements of work, where feasible, to (i) describe the work in terms of the required output; (ii) place full responsibility for quality performance on contractors with formal, measurable performance standards and surveillance plans used to assess contractor performance; and (iii) avoid relying on cumbersome and intrusive process-oriented inspection and oversight programs to assess contractor performance. The potential costs and benefits of the regulatory action are supported by OFPP Policy Letter 91&hyph;2, Service Contracting. The regulation is NASA's internal implementation of OFPP Policy Letter 91&hyph;2. NASA has benefited using performance-oriented launch service contracts that balance the assignment of positive and negative performance incentives with a meaningful system of financial rewards and penalties. The statements of work are broad in scope and general in nature, focusing on the successful delivery of the undamaged and operational spacecraft to the proper trajectory and orbital conditions without violating mission parameters. Some of these contracts provide for (i) mission success pools that incentivize the contractor to deliver payload safely and into correct orbit and (ii) liquidated damages relative to timely and effective performance.
