FR941230-0-00137 FR941230-0-00021 ยง3402.24 Access to peer review information. After final decisions have been announced, HEP will, upon request, inform the project director of the reasons for its decision on a proposal. Verbatim copies of summary reviews, not including the identity of the reviewers, will be made available to respective project directors upon specific request. ยง3402.25 Documentation of progress on funded projects. (a) A Fellowship Appointment Documentation form (Form CSRS&hyph;707) is included in the application package. Upon request by HEP, project directors awarded grants under the program will be required to complete and submit this form. Follow-up progress reports will focus on assessing continuing progress of Fellows through their graduate programs of study (including activities supported by any special international study or thesis/dissertation research allowance) and on institution adherence to program guidelines. (b) A Graduate Fellow Exit Report (Form CSRS&hyph;709) is included in the application package. This form should be completed and submitted to HEP by the project director for each Fellow supported by a grant as soon as a Fellow either: graduates; is officially terminated from the fellowship or the academic program due to unsatisfactory academic progress; or voluntarily withdraws from the fellowship or the academic program. If a Fellow has not completed all degree requirements at the end of the five-year grant duration, HEP may request a preliminary exit report. In such a case, a final exit report will be required at a later date. When a final exit report for each Fellow supported by a grant has been accepted by USDA, the grantee institution will have satisfied the requirement of a final performance report for the grant. Additional follow-up reports to track the Fellows' career patterns may be requested. (c) A Final Report must be completed and returned within 90 days after the expiration date of the project. The Final Report must be submitted to the program contact person and must contain proper data and information as specified in the ``Special Terms and Conditions'' of the award. Generally, the Final Report should include a summary of: recruitment strategies that were effective; successful mentoring procedures or activities; enrichment activities the fellows were afforded; barriers faced in recruiting and graduating fellows; and the impact of the fellowship grant on the overall quality of the educational programs of the institution. ยง3402.26 Evaluation of program. Grantees should be aware that HEP may, as a part of its own program evaluation activities, carry out in-depth evaluations of assisted activities through independent third parties. Thus, grantees should be prepared to cooperate with evaluators retained by HEP to analyze both the institutional context and the impact of any supported project. Done at Washington, DC, this 23rd day of December 1994. William D. Carlson, Acting Administrator, Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;32209 Filed 12&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;22&hyph;M
