FR940513-2-00038 FR940513-2-00024 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY Acid Rain Division [FRL&hyph;4884&hyph;7] Acid Rain Provisions AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: EPA has prepared guidance to help determine if the Acid Rain Program SO 2 requirements apply to specific steam and electric generating units. This guidance is of particular use to owners and operators of electric generating units who are unsure as to whether their units are affected by the Acid Rain Program SO 2 requirements. ADDRESSES: Copies of the guidance, entitled ``Do the Acid Rain SO 2 Regulations Apply to You?,'' are available upon request by calling the Acid Rain Hotline at (202) 233&hyph;9620 or by writing to: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Acid Rain Division 6204J, Attn: Applicability Guidance, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460 The following groups have copies available to their members: American Public Power Association, contact Larry Mansueti; American Forest Products, contact Rob Kaufmann; Council of Industrial Boiler Owners, contact Bill Marx; Chemical Manufacturers Association, contact Nancy Cookson; Edison Electric Institute, contact John Kinsman; Electric Consumers Resource Council, contact John Hughes; Electric Generation Association, contact Julie Blankenship; Large Public Power Council, contact Stephen Fotis; National Coal Association, contact Jerry Karaganis; National Independent Energy Producers, contact Janet Besser; National Rural Electric Cooperative Assoc., contact Ray Cronmiller. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kathy Barylski, Acid Rain Division, at the above address; telephone (202) 233&hyph;9074. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: EPA's Acid Rain Program was established by Title IV of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (CAAA) to reduce acid rain in the continental United States. The Acid Rain Program will achieve a 50 percent reduction in sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) emissions from utility units. The SO 2 reduction program is a flexible market-based approach to environmental management. As part of this approach, EPA allocates ``allowances'' to affected utility units. Each allowance is a limited authorization to emit up to one ton of SO 2 . At the end of each calendar year, each unit must hold allowances in an amount equal to or greater than its SO 2 emissions for the year. Allowances may be bought, sold, or transferred between utilities and other interested parties. Those utility units whose annual emissions are likely to exceed their allocation of allowances may either install pollution control technologies or switch to cleaner fuels to reduce SO 2 emissions, or buy additional allowances. The Acid Rain Program SO 2 requirements potentially affect any device that combusts fossil fuel and supplies electricity for sale or serves an electrical generating device that supplies electricity for sale. Thus, units owned or operated by industrial or commercial entities may be affected. To ensure adequate notice to all potentially affected units, EPA has chosen to provide this notice of availability of the Acid Rain applicability guidance. The guidance, ``Do the Acid Rain SO 2 Regulations Apply to You?'', provides information regarding what makes a unit potentially affected, what types of units may be exempted from Acid Rain Program requirements, and what types of units are not affected by the Acid Rain Program requirements. The document also outlines how the owner or operator of a unit may request a determination of applicability from EPA. If a unit is affected by the Acid Rain Program SO 2 requirements, the document outlines the requirements and compliance dates. The document does not address the Acid Rain Program (Title IV) NO x requirements or NO x or SO 2 control requirements under other State or Federal programs. Dated: May 6, 1994. Brian J. McLean, Director, Acid Rain Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11693 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
