FR941028-2-00170 FR941028-2-00109 Table 3. Characteristics of an Effective Tuberculosis (TB) Infection-Control Program* I. Assignment of responsibility *A program such as this is appropriate for health-care facilities in which there is a high risk for transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. A. Assign responsibility for the TB infection-control program to qualified person(s). B. Ensure that persons with expertise in infection control, occupational health, and engineering are identified and included. II. Risk assessment, TB infection-control plan, and periodic reassessment A. Initial risk assessments 1. Obtain information concerning TB in the community. 2. Evaluate data concerning TB patients in the facility. 3. Evaluate data concerning purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin skin-test conversions among health-care workers (HCWs) in the facility. 4. Rule out evidence of person-to-person transmission. B. Written TB infection-control program 1. Select initial risk protocol(s). 2. Develop written TB infection-control protocols. C. Repeat risk assessment at appropriate intervals. 1. Review current community and facility surveillance data and PPD-tuberculin skin-test results. 2. Review records of TB patients. 3. Observe HCW infection-control practices. 4. Evaluate maintenance of engineering controls. III. Identification, evaluation, and treatment of patients who have TB A. Screen patients for signs and symptoms of active TB: 1. On initial encounter in emergency department or ambulatory-care setting. 2. Before or at the time of admission. B. Perform radiologic and bacteriologic evaluation of patients who have signs and symptoms suggestive of TB. C. Promptly initiate treatment. IV. Managing outpatients who have possible infectious TB A. Promptly initiate TB precautions. B. Place patients in separate waiting areas or TB isolation rooms. C. Give patients a surgical mask, a box of tissues, and instructions regarding the use of these items. V. Managing inpatients who have possible infectious TB A. Promptly isolate patients who have suspected or known infectious TB. B. Monitor the response to treatment. C. Follow appropriate criteria for discontinuing isolation. VI. Engineering recommendations A. Design local exhaust and general ventilation in collaboration with persons who have expertise in ventilation engineering. B. Use a single-pass air system or air recirculation after high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filtration in areas where infectious TB patients receive care. C. Use additional measures, if needed, in areas where TB patients may receive care. D. Design TB isolation rooms in health-care facilities to achieve "6 air changes per hour (ACH) for existing facilities and "12 ACH for new or renovated facilities. E. Regularly monitor and maintain engineering controls. F. TB isolation rooms that are being used should be monitored daily to ensure they maintain negative pressure relative to the hallway and all surrounding areas. G. Exhaust TB isolation room air to outside or, if absolutely unavoidable, recirculate after HEPA filtration. VII. Respiratory protection A. Respiratory protective devices should meet recommended performance criteria. B. Respiratory protection should be used by persons entering rooms in which patients with known or suspected infectious TB are being isolated, by HCWs when performing cough-inducing or aerosol-generating procedures on such patients, and by persons in other settings where administrative and engineering controls are not likely to protect them from inhaling infectious airborne droplet nuclei. C. A respiratory protection program is required at all facilities in which respiratory protection is used. VIII. Cough-inducing procedures A. Do not perform such procedures on TB patients unless absolutely necessary. B. Perform such procedures in areas that have local exhaust ventilation devices (e.g., booths or special enclosures) or, if this is not feasible, in a room that meets the ventilation requirements for TB isolation. C. After completion of procedures, TB patients should remain in the booth or special enclosure until their coughing subsidies. IX. HCW TB training and education A. All HCWs should receive periodic TB education appropriate for their work responsibilities and duties. B. Training should include the epidemiology of TB in the facility. C. TB education should emphasize concepts of the pathogenesis of and occupational risk for TB. D. Training should describe work practices that reduce the likelihood of transmitting M. tuberculosis. X. HCW counseling and screening A. Counsel all HCWs regarding TB and TB infection. B. Counsel all HCWs about the increased risk to immunocompromised persons for developing active TB. C. Perform PPD skin tests on HCWs at the beginning of their employment, and repeat PPD tests at periodic intervals. D. Evaluate symptomatic HCWs for active TB. XI. Evaluate HCW PPD test conversions and possible nosocomial transmission of M. tuberculosis. XII. Coordinate efforts with public health department(s)
