FR941117-0-00031 FR941117-0-00008 The preamble to the proposed rules recognized that States require collection of support made by absent parents and spouses to be paid directly to the IV&hyph;D agency. Nevertheless, AFDC recipients occasionally receive child or spousal support directly. Because current regulations require that these payments must be turned over to the IV&hyph;D agency, we consider direct payments which are properly turned over to the IV&hyph;D agency to be collections of support for the purposes of this provision. Thus, extended Medicaid coverage will be provided when collections of child or spousal support are received by the eligible assistance unit and are turned over to the IV&hyph;D agency if these payments result (wholly or partly) in the loss of AFDC. The proposed rules indicated that section 406(h) of the Act provides certain individuals with extended Medicaid if they lose AFDC eligibility `` as a result (wholly or partly) of the collection or increased collection of child or spousal support *␣*␣*'' (emphasis added). They separately specified the circumstances under which AFDC ineligibility would be considered to be due ``wholly'' to a collection and when they would be considered to be due ``partly'' to a support collection. They also discussed at length examples of cases in which the child or spousal support collection ``wholly'' or ``partly'' affected the family's AFDC eligibility and made a clear distinction between the ``wholly'' or ``partly'' cases. Our interpretation of Congressional intent as it relates to the term ``wholly'' or ``partly'' limits the Medicaid extension under this provision to cases where ineligibility can be attributed, at least partly, to the initiation of or an increase in the amount of a child or spousal support collection. The proposed and final regulations both reflect our position that the collection of support must actually cause or actively contribute to ineligibility for AFDC, even if there are other factors which also contribute to ineligibility or could simultaneously cause it. The proposed rules provided that extensions of Medicaid eligibility pursuant to expiration of the earnings disregards as set forth in 45 CFR 233.20(a)(14) or pursuant to section 303(a) of the Family Support Act of 1988 (P.L. 100&hyph;485) are not affected by this provision. Thus, if a family is entitled to extended Medicaid as a result of earned income under section 303(a) and is also simultaneously entitled to extended Medicaid as a result of the initiation of or a change in the amount of the child or spousal support collection, the assistance unit would be entitled to the full twelve-month extension of Medicaid available under the section 303(a) transitional provision if it meets the requirements of section 1925 of the Act. However, the periods run concurrently so that one extended period cannot be delayed until the end of the other extended period. Response to Specific Individual Comments We received five comments on the proposed rules. Three were from State government agencies, one was from an advocacy group and one was from a health services organization. A discussion of these comments and our responses follows. Comment: One advocacy group requested that the Department clarify the definition of support collections which would trigger entitlement to extended Medicaid coverage. It recommended that the change must be in the amount of support collected. The advocacy group was concerned that the language in the discussion of the proposed regulations referring to an increase in the ``ongoing support payment'' may be read as referring to an increase in the amount the absent parent has to pay, rather than an increase in the amount which is collected in a given month. Response: We have eliminated any reference to an increase in an ``ongoing support payment.'' We believe this will eliminate any confusion between support ordered and support collected. The amount of support ordered is not material when establishing eligibility for extended benefits. This eligibility is based on the amount of support which is collected. Comment: One State agency recommended a change in the definition of ``collection'' of child or spousal support to cover situations where collections of child or spousal support contribute to a loss of eligibility but no initiation of or increase in collections occurred. Another State agency believed that the proposed definition is more restrictive than the wording of the statute and that there was no legislative history presented to conclude that Congress intended to define the entitlement as narrowly as proposed. Response: As a condition of extended Medicaid coverage, the final regulations continue to require that ineligibility for AFDC must result from a change in support collection; that is, either the new receipt of, or an increase in, the amount of a child or spousal support collection. As we stated in the preamble to the proposed rules, we believe that the Conference Report, H.R. Rep. No. 925, 98th Cong., 2d Sess. (1984), contemplates a change in the amount of the child or spousal support collection. In describing the House bill, the Conference Report states that ``[i]f a family loses AFDC eligibility as the result (wholly or partly) of increased collection of support payments *␣*␣*, the State must continue to provide Medicaid benefits *␣*␣*.'' Id. at 55 (emphasis added). The Conference Agreement followed the House bill, but with an amendment limiting the application of the provision to families who become ineligible for AFDC before October 1, 1988. Similarly, the Report of the Committee on Ways and Means, H.R. Rep. No. 527, 98th Cong., 1st Sess. at pages 11, 23, 52, and 56 refers repeatedly to either an ``increase in child support payments'' or to ``a change in child support levels.'' Comment: Two State agencies believed that the definition of ``collection'' was convoluted, unnecessarily complex, and difficult to administer. One agency believed the definition would make automation more difficult and expensive. Response: We believe that any difficulty in the proposed definition stemmed from our attempt to interpret the law broadly. The interpretation requires States to compare the different possible causes for the loss of AFDC, but was designed to allow continued eligibility under a number of different circumstances.
