FR940304-1-00080 FR940304-1-00014 The Department invites comment on the most appropriate methodology upon which to base the commercial discount rate and the best types and sources of data to use in the calculation of this rate. 3. Social discount rate. In identifying a discount rate that is appropriate for use in calculating benefits to the Nation as a whole, the Department must consider the opportunity costs of devoting more economic resources to the production and purchase of more energy-efficient appliances and fewer national resources to other alternative types of investment. It is not necessary, however, to determine the characteristics of specific classes of consumers or businesses directly impacted by the proposed standard. For these reasons, a broad measure of the average rates of return earned by economic investment throughout the United States is the most useful basis for a social discount rate. Using this approach, the Office of Management and Budget prepared a Background on OMB's Discount Rate Guidance in November of 1992, containing an analysis of the average annual real rate of return earned on investments made since 1960 in nonfinancial corporations, non-corporate farm and non-farm proprietorships, and owner-occupied housing in the United States. The results of this analysis indicated that since 1980, the annual real rate of return for these categories of investments averaged slightly more than 7 percent, ranging from a low of about 4 percent for owner-occupied housing (which represented about 43 percent of total capital assets in 1991 of about $15 trillion) to a high of about 9 percent on non-corporate farm and non-farm capital (which represented about 23 percent of the total). Between 1960 and 1980, the average real rate of return on capital was higher, averaging about 8.5 percent in the 1970's and about 11.2 percent in the 1960's. As a result of this analysis, the Office of Management and Budget chose to designate 7 percent as the social discount rate specified in revisions to Office of Management and Budget Circular A&hyph;94 issued on November 10, 1992 (57 FR 53519). In that revised circular, Office of Management and Budget established, inter alia, discount rate guidance for benefit-cost analyses of regulatory programs that provide benefits and costs to the general public. An alternative method for deriving such social discount rate might be broad measures of the costs of financing capital investments in the United States. One such measure is the Federal Government's cost of borrowing or the interest rate that is payable on long-term Government securities. Another might be the prime interest rate available to major corporate borrowers. In order to derive a real discount rate from either of these measures the relevant interest rate would be adjusted for inflation. With regard to long-term Government securities as an example, the nominal rates during June 1991 on Government securities maturing between the years 2000 and 2015 averaged 8.55 percent. Adjusted by long term forecasts of inflation, the rate would be approximately 4 percent. Because the Government borrowing rate most accurately reflects the direct cost to the Government of added investment, the Office of Management and Budget has used this approach as the basis for discount rates used in evaluating Federal investments which directly affect Federal costs (such as energy efficiency investments in Federal facilities). Using the prime interest rate or some combination of rates to reflect non-Federal financing costs would result in somewhat higher rates. As indicated above, because the cost of financing additional capital investments does not reflect the full opportunity cost of shifting private investment from one area to another, it is not considered to be a good basis for deriving discount rates. For this reason, DOE is now proposing the use of a 7 percent social discount rate in National net present value calculations, although it will also perform sensitivity analyses at 4 percent and 10 percent. The Department seeks comment on appropriate discount rates for the analysis. Life-Cycle Cost Analysis Another consumer issue that drew a considerable number of comments was the suggestion that in its life-cycle cost analyses, the Department include any additional installation and maintenance expenses that may result from conservation standards. (Southern Gas Association, No. 4 at 10; Energen, No. 12 at 2; American Gas Association, No. 23 at 2; Florida Energy Office, No. 42 at 1; Southern Natural Gas Company, No. 46 at 1; Montana-Dakota Utilities Company, No. 54 at 4; Laclede Gas Company, No. 55 at 4; Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, No. 57 at 3; ENTEX, No. 58 at 4&hyph;5; Gas Research Institute, No. 59 at 1; Arkansas Western Gas Company, No. 64 at 7; Piedmont Natural Gas Company, No. 71c at 4; Public Service Company of North Carolina, Inc., No. 74 at 4; Southern California Gas Company, No. 79 at 1; and Louisiana Gas Service Company, No. 81 at 2).
