FR940617-1-00013 FR940617-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Customs Service 19 CFR Part 191 Drawback; Application for Exporter's Summary Procedure; Withdrawal AGENCY: U. S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Proposed rule; withdrawal. SUMMARY: This document withdraws the proposed amendment to the Customs Regulations, which would have permitted drawback claimants to file only one application for use of the exporter's summary procedure, instead of filing separate applications for the use of the procedure for each Customs region or district in which they file drawback claims. Customs has determined that any amendment of the exporter's summary procedure, including any necessary provisions to ensure uniformity in approving or revoking the use of this procedure, would more appropriately be considered in concert with the broad-based review and revision of the drawback regulations necessitated by, and which will shortly be undertaken pursuant to, the Customs modernization portion of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act. DATES: The withdrawal is effective on June 17, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bruce Friedman, Office of Trade Operations, (202&hyph;927&hyph;0260). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Drawback is a refund or remission, in whole or in part, of a Customs duty, internal revenue tax, or fee. There are a number of different kinds of drawback authorized under law. In order to qualify for drawback, there must be an exportation or a destruction under Customs supervision. The statute providing for specific types of drawback is 19 U.S.C. 1313. The Customs Regulations implementing the statute are contained in 19 CFR part 191. The requirements for establishing the exportation of goods subject to drawback are set forth in subpart E of part 191. This subpart authorizes the use of several alternative procedures to establish exportation. One of these is the exporter's summary procedure, which is provided for in ยง191.53. Under the exporter's summary procedure, the claimant is allowed to establish exportation for drawback simply by summarizing his exports in chronological order, along with certain associated data, using a format acceptable to the appropriate regional commissioner or district director. A drawback claimant wishing to use the exporter's summary procedure must first make application with each regional commissioner, or, if applicable, with each district director, in whose region or district drawback will be sought. The regional commissioner or the district director, if applicable, would approve the request, if it is determined that the use of the procedure would contribute to administrative efficiency, and the claimant is not otherwise delinquent or remiss in transactions with Customs. This can result in excessive paperwork. Accordingly, by a document published in the Federal Register on September 10, 1992 (57 FR 41446), Customs proposed to amend paragraph (c) of ยง191.53 so that drawback claimants would not have to file separate applications to use the exporter's summary procedure in each region or district where they file drawback claims. Approval, denial, or revocation of a claimant's use of the procedure in one region or district would govern the claimant's eligibility in all regions and districts. While three commenters responded to the notice of proposed rulemaking, all generally favoring adoption of the proposal, the concern was expressed that there was a lack of uniformity among the various regions and districts in processing applications to use the exporter's summary procedure. This problem was not resolved or addressed by the regulation in question. Withdrawal of Proposal In consideration of the foregoing, and, moreover, in view of the extensive drawback regulation changes necessitated by the Customs modernization portion of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Implementation Act (Pub. L. 103&hyph;182, ยง632), Customs has now determined that any amendment of the exporter's summary procedure, including any necessary provisions to ensure 4 uniformity in approving or revoking the use of this procedure, would more properly be considered in concert with the broad-based review and revision of the drawback regulations which will be shortly undertaken pursuant to the Customs modernization portion of the NAFTA Implementation Act. Drafting Information The principal author of this document was Russell Berger, Regulations Branch, U.S. Customs Service. However, personnel from other offices participated in its development. Approved: June 4, 1994. Samuel H. Banks, Acting Commissioner of Customs. John P. Simpson, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14705 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4820&hyph;02&hyph;P
