FR940418-2-00048 FR940418-2-00021 Mojave informed the Commission that it plans to amend its application after the issuance of this notice. Specific details regarding any changes to the proposed project will be available at the public scoping meetings. The landowners who would be affected by that amendment will receive a copy of this notice. At a minimum Mojave expects the amendment to include: (1) An alternative pipeline alignment between Bakersfield and Lindsay; (2) An extension of its Palo Alto Segment of approximately 30 miles to a location near Hunters Point; (3) An alternative siting of its Famoso Compressor Station near Lindsay; and (4) An alternative pipeline alignment to avoid the Contra Costa Water District's Los Vaqueros Reservoir Project. Several of the customers receiving gas from Mojave as part of this project will need to build pipelines to take the gas delivered to them. Although these facilities are not under the jurisdiction of the FERC, they will be discussed in the EIR/EIS. Land Requirements for Construction Mojave proposes to build its new mainline and pipeline segments in construction rights-of-way ranging from 30 to 75 feet wide. After construction, 0 to 30 feet would be maintained as permanent easement. Specific widths of the rights-of-way vary, depending on the proposed pipeline diameter for specific locations. The proposed loops would be built parallel and adjacent to Mojave's existing pipelines, using as much of the existing rights-of-way as possible for the construction right-of-way. The three new compressor stations would require approximately 20 acres each. Additional temporary work space may be required at major river, road or railroad crossings, or where similar obstacles are encountered. Mojave would purchase the temporary and permanent easements necessary for constructing the project. Construction of the pipelines would normally follow standard pipeline construction methods: right-of-way clearing and grading; trenching; pipe stringing, bending, welding, joint coating, and lowering in; backfilling of the trench; and cleanup and restoration. Mojave proposes to implement erosion control and revegetation measures and to use special construction techniques for wetland and water crossings and for construction in residential areas. These construction procedures and mitigation plans will be discussed further in the Draft EIR/EIS. Pipeline loops in or adjacent to existing rights-of-way would generally require less clearing and grading. Rotary-wheeled ditching machines, backhoes, or rippers would be used to excavate a sufficiently deep trench. For buried pipelines, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) requires a minimum of 30 inches of cover in normal soils and 18 inches in consolidated rock. In populated areas, this increases to 36 and 24 inches of cover, respectively. Blasting would be required when areas of consolidated rock are encountered. Pipeline segments would be designed according to DOT minimum safety standards and specifications (49 CFR part 192) and would be hydrostatically tested before being placed in service. Mojave would be required to obtain appropriate Federal and state discharge permits prior to hydrostatic testing. No chemicals would be used during this testing. The EIR/EIS Process The NEPA requires the Commission to take into account the environmental impacts that could result from a major Federal action whenever it considers the issuance of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity. The California SLC, as a cooperating state agency, is required to consider the same potential impacts within the State of California under the CEQA. The EIR/EIS we are preparing will give both the SLC and the Commission the information we need to do that. NEPA (and CEQA) also requires us to discover and address concerns the public may have about proposals. We call this ``scoping''. The main goal of the scoping process is to focus the analysis in the EIR/EIS on the important environmental issues, and to separate those issues that are insignificant and do not require detailed study. The EIR/EIS will discuss impacts that could occur as a result of the construction and operation of the proposed project. These impacts may include, but are not limited to: Geology and Soils Geological and seismic hazards Erosion control Right-of-way restoration Water Resources Impact on potable water supplies Impact on wetland hydrology Effect of construction in areas with shallow, contaminated groundwater Effect of pipeline crossings on streams and canals Biological Resources Short- and long-term effects of right-of-way clearing and maintenance in wetlands, forests, and riparian areas Effects of habitat alteration Impact on threatened and endangered species Impact on fisheries Cultural Resources Impact on historic and prehistoric sites Native American and tribal concerns Impact on the Los Vaqueros Historic District and the California Historic Landmarks of the Black Diamond Mines and the Desert Training Maneuver Area Socioeconomics Effects of temporary population growth Effects of increased employment and taxes on local economy Air quality Effect of compressor stations emissions on air quality Noise Effect of compressor stations operation on nearby noise-sensitive receptors Reliability and Safety Assessment of hazards associated with natural gas pipelines Land Use Impact on California Desert Conservation District, Black Diamond Mines Regional Preserve, Contra Loma Regional Park and Reservoir, Sycamore Grove Regional Park, Mission Peaks Regional Preserve, Sunol Regional Wilderness, and Levin County Park Impact on commercial crop production Impact on industrial areas Effect of rights-of-way and aboveground facilities on visual aesthetics in residential and scenic areas Impact on Concord Naval Weapons Station, Lemoore Naval Air Station, Edwards Air Force Base Consistency with city and county land use plans Impact on residences Paleontology Impact on significant fossil resources discovered during pipeline construction Alternatives Route variations to avoid sensitive areas Cumulative Impacts Identification of related projects Analysis of cumulative impacts and mitigation measures
