FR940406-2-00020 FR940406-2-00007 We made an adjustment to USP for the consumption tax paid on the comparison sales in Japan. However, in Federal-Mogul Corporation and The Torrington Company v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 CIT (October 7, 1993), the Court of International Trade prohibited us from applying a purely tax neutral margin calculation methodology. Accordingly, we made our tax methodology conform to the instructions of the CIT, and adjusted U.S. price for tax by multiplying the Japanese tax rate by the price of the U.S. merchandise at the point in the chain of commerce of the U.S. merchandise that is analogous to the point in the Japanese chain of commerce at which the Japanese government applies the consumption tax. In this investigation, the tax levied on the subject merchandise in Japan is three percent. We calculated the appropriate tax adjustment to be three percent of the price of the U.S. merchandise net of discounts reflected on the invoice at the time of sale (which, in this case, is the point in the chain of commerce of the U.S. merchandise, that is analogous to the point in the Japanese market chain of commerce at which the Japanese government applies the consumption tax). We then added this amount to the U.S. price. We also calculated the amount of the tax adjustment that was due solely to the inclusion of expenses in the original tax base that are later deducted from the price to calculate USP (i.e., three percent of the sum of any adjustments, expenses and charges that were deducted from the price of the U.S. merchandise). We reduced this tax adjustment to take into account the adjustment to U.S. price for duty drawback (i.e., three percent of the duty drawback amount that was excluded from the tax base). We deducted this amount after all other additions and deductions had been made. By making this additional tax adjustment, we avoid a distortion that would cause the creation of a dumping margin even when pre-tax dumping is zero. Foreign Market Value As described in the ``Fair Value Comparisons/Multinational Corporation Provision'' section of this notice, we had to calculate FMVs in both Germany and Japan in order to make our MNC comparison. We calculated FMVs based on German and Japanese home market sales prices, pursuant to section 773(d) of the Act. Respondent did not provide a revised sales listing for the foreign extended POI sales because of ambiguous language in our deficiency questionnaire regarding the due dates. Therefore, we have not considered the extended U.S. POI sale for purposes of the preliminary determination, but will do so for purposes of the final determination. For German sales, we classified respondent's discounts and rebates to reflect the Department's standard definitions of discounts and rebates (i.e., a discount is a price concession before invoicing, whereas a rebate is a price concession after invoicing). We determined that certain discounts were, in fact, rebates, and were treated accordingly. Additionally, we recalculated credit expenses in Germany using the reported dates of shipment and payment. For Japanese sales, we excluded certain sales of control paper, hobby paper, crystal paper, and softech paper from our analysis because these sales were made outside of the ordinary course of trade due to the nature of the products and were made in insignificant quantities. We omitted error entries and inventory adjustment entries because these entries are not sales of CNPP, nor did respondent directly tie these entries to the pertinent sales in the CNPP database. We also dropped cancelling transactions as respondent stated that it could not identify the original transaction to which a specific cancellation entry applies. Finally, we excluded certain low-priced sales of CNPP in Japan because, despite a specific request to do so, respondent did not adequately explain the nature of, or circumstances surrounding, these low-priced sales. Additionally, for Japanese sales, we made no adjustment for those rebate programs where respondent did not identify in the database which customer actually received the rebate. Additionally, we disallowed any rebate not established before the filing of the petition. For one expense claimed as a rebate, we determined that the expense, although viewed as a direct selling expense to CNPP, was overstated through a misallocation of the costs; consequently, we did not make any adjustment for this expense, but will consider doing so subsequent to verification and further explanation. With regard to one promotional program reported as a direct selling expense, we did not make an adjustment to FMV because respondent failed to report the expense properly. Because respondent failed to report shipment dates, we were unable to recalculate credit expenses; thus, we made no adjustments for credit expenses. We treated all advertising costs as direct selling expenses because respondent reported that all advertising is directed towards the customers' customers. For Japan sales, we recalculated indirect selling expenses incurred in the Japanese home market by reallocating certain rebates and promotional programs as indirect selling expenses rather than as charges or direct selling expenses, respectively, because we found that respondent has misclassified these expenses. We classified product liability expenses as indirect selling expenses because respondent's explanations demonstrate that its liability policy is general in nature and not tied to specific sales. We also reclassified technical expenses as indirect selling expenses because respondent's documentation illustrates that these expenses relate to general long-term assistance, rather than customer- or sales-specific expenses. For both German and Japanese sales, we used the Department's current related party test, which considers differences in the level of trade, to determine whether sales to related customers were made on an arm's-length basis. For purposes of the preliminary determination, we considered a party as related to respondent in Japan whenever there was evidence of substantial ownership in, or contractual agreements constituting business control over, the party. See Appendix II to the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina (58 FR 37077, July 9, 1993) for more information on the Department's related party test. For both German and Japanese sales, we did not include in our analysis any sales to related customers that we determined were not at arm's length. We calculated German and Japanese FMVs based on delivered prices, inclusive of packing. We made deductions for discounts and rebates, where applicable. For purposes of the preliminary determination, we have treated all movement expenses as direct selling expenses. Therefore, in accordance with the decision in Ad Hoc Committee of AZ&hyph;NM&hyph;TX&hyph;FL Producers of Gray Portland Cement v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;1239 (Fed. Cir., January 4, 1994), we made a circumstance-of-sale adjustment for foreign movement expenses. We further deducted from the Japanese FMV the appropriate direct selling expenses, including advertising expenses and warranty expenses. We deducted credit expenses from the German FMV. We deducted German and Japanese indirect selling expenses, including inventory carrying costs, technical services (Japan only), warehousing (Japan only), and product liability premiums (Japan only) from FMV, capped by the sum of U.S. indirect selling expenses and the U.S. commission amount.
