FR940128-1-00016 FR940128-1-00006 B. Alternatives Other Than HACCP Continuous visual inspection of seafood is not a viable alternative. Few hazards associated with seafood are detectable through visual inspection. Moreover, the costs of such a system would likely exceed the nearly half-billion-dollar public outlay now required to operate this kind of system for meat and poultry. Another alternative would be to direct significant additional resources toward greatly increasing the frequency of FDA's inspection of seafood, as well as increasing the agency's sampling, laboratory analysis, and related regulatory activities with respect to seafood. While thousands of samples of domestic and imported seafood products are collected each year for analysis in FDA laboratories, and these samples are scientifically designed to represent a broad range of products, they are generally perceived by the public to represent only a small fraction of the total poundage of seafood consumed in this country. Substantial new expenditures would be needed to increase laboratory analyses to nationally statistically significant levels. Even if the funds for increased inspection and increased sampling and analysis were available (which they are not), this approach alone would likely not be the best way for the agency to spend its money to protect the public health. Reliance on end-product testing involves a certain amount of inefficiency that can require very large sample sizes to overcome. NAS recently observed that ``the statistical uncertainties associated with lot sampling make this an unreliable method for ensuring safety of food products *␣*␣*'' (Ref. 7, p. 283). FDA has traditionally sought to minimize this type of inefficiency by targeting its efforts based on its experiences, but some inefficiency is unavoidable. NAS recommended the HACCP system as an alternative (Ref. 7, p. 283). C. Current Import System Is Not Well-Suited to Seafood Similar considerations apply to imports. FDA does not generally inspect processing facilities in other countries to determine whether seafood products are being prepared, packed, or held there under appropriate conditions. Such inspections are extremely costly and require an invitation from the foreign country. Traditionally, therefore, FDA's primary strategy for seafood imports has involved: (1) Reviewing all customs entries documents to determine which imported products to examine or sample; (2) conducting wharf examinations of selected products based on that review; and (3) sampling and laboratory analyses as appropriate. One concern about this process that has been voiced with some regularity in the media, Congress, and elsewhere is that FDA physically looks at less than 5 percent of all imports. This figure is somewhat misleading because it refers to seafood lots that can vary substantially in size. Also, it does not take into account such factors as the representative nature of the examinations, FDA's automatic detention program for imports that requires importers of products with a history of problems to obtain a laboratory analysis and certification prior to entry, or the fact that imports receiving further processing in the United States become subject to domestic inspection. Nonetheless, it is certainly true that most imported seafood is not physically sampled or examined by a Federal health official. The total number of customs entries for seafood each year is approaching 200,000 (Ref. 27) from about 135 countries (compared to about 33 countries for beef and poultry (Ref. 28)), and huge sums of money would be needed to enable FDA to increase its physical examination and sampling program to nationally, statistically significant levels. Still, many developing countries export seafood products to this country, and their regulatory protections tend to be comparatively weak, if they exist at all. Processing conditions in such countries do not always meet U.S. standards for sanitation. While many importers are conscientious about the safety and quality of the products that they import, others have little understanding of potential hazards. The denial of entry of a violative lot may be regarded as simply a cost of doing business, which is offset in many cases by insurance purchased against just such an eventuality. Such policies are identified as ```FDA rejection' insurance'' and usually the premium is 2 to 3 percent of the value of the shipment (Ref. 29). It is reasonable to assume that this cost is being passed on to the consumer. The insurance also permits importers to buy seafood from foreign processors without first ensuring that it meets FDA requirements, i.e., that it is safe, wholesome, and properly labeled. This system leaves much to be desired. It, too, is a ``snapshot''-type approach that places a significant burden on the Government to uncover problems without fostering or promoting industry responsibility. It lacks the preventive controls that the agency has tentatively concluded are the minimum necessary to ensure safety. Moreover, it has not provided full public confidence in the safety of imported seafood. D. Public Confidence Continuing public concerns about the safety of seafood provide additional evidence that the current regulatory system is not well-suited for seafood. Consumers have become increasingly concerned about the effects of pollution on seafood. Medical wastes washing up on beaches, ocean dumping of toxic wastes, chemical run-off, and multiple oil spills continually dramatize the fact that bodies of water, no matter how large, can be adversely affected by human activity. Media and other public attention on seafood safety and quality, and on the adequacy of the current regulatory program for seafood, has been substantial in recent years, and there is no reason to expect that this attention will decrease. Problems with some seafood products draw attention to, and has tended to raise concerns about, all seafood, a situation that is bad for consumers because seafood is a low fat product, and bad for an industry that can ill afford it.
