FR940920-2-00156 FR940920-2-00089 Should the Federal Government continue to support workplace literacy programs and, if so, in what form? For example, should workplace literacy become a key focus of the Adult Education State Grants program? Or should a separate, reconfigured workplace literacy program be designed? 5. Technical Assistance and Evaluation Section 383 of the Adult Education Act provides assistance to States in evaluating the status and effectiveness of adult education programs and measuring the extent of adult illiteracy in the Nation. Funds support applied research, development, dissemination, evaluation, and technical assistance activities that show promise of contributing to the improvement and expansion of adult education. How should this authorization be structured to provide Federal leadership activities of maximum benefit to practitioners and policy-makers? 6. National Institute for Literacy The National Literacy Act created the National Institute for Literacy to provide leadership and coordination on adult literacy issues; improve and expand the adult literacy service delivery system; and enhance the Nation's ability to achieve the National Goal of adult literacy and lifelong learning. The Institute has worked toward accomplishing this mission by, for instance_(1) Establishing a National Adult Literacy and Learning Disabilities Center; (2) supporting State capacity-building initiatives in the areas of interagency accountability and staff development; and (3) working with providers to design and implement a national literacy information and communications system. Does the current statutory language provide for Institute activities that meet the needs of the literacy field? Are the currently authorized activities still appropriate? How should they relate to the national leadership priorities of the Department (as currently authorized under section 383)? How can the Institute work with the Departments of Education, Labor, and Health and Human Services, which form the interagency group that oversees the Institute, to ensure more effective coordination of literacy-related policy and programs at the Federal level? Format for Comments. This request for comments is designed to elicit the views of interested parties on how the Department's vocational and adult education programs can be structured to meet the objectives of the reauthorization effort as stated in this notice. The Secretary requests that each respondent identify his or her role in education and the perspective from which he or she views the educational system_either as a representative of an association, agency, or school (public or private), or as an individual teacher, student, parent, or private citizen. The Secretary urges each commenter to be specific regarding his or her proposals and to include, if possible, the data requirements, timing, procedures, and actual legislative language that the commenter proposes for the improved or redesigned program. Programs Under Consideration. The following is a complete list of programs under the scope of the reauthorization: Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act •Title I Assistance to the States, Allotment and Allocation, State Organizational and Planning Responsibilities •Title II Basic State Grants, Other State-Administered programs, Secondary, Postsecondary, and Adult Vocational Education •Title III Community-Based Organizations, Consumer and Homemaking Education, Comprehensive Career Guidance and Counseling Programs, Business-Labor-Education Partnership Training, Tech-Prep Education, Supplementary State Grants, Community Education Employment Centers, Vocational Education Lighthouse Schools, Tribally Controlled Postsecondary Vocational Institutions. •Title IV Research and Development, Demonstration Programs, Vocational Education and Occupational Information Data Systems, Bilingual Vocational Training. Adult Education Act •Basic State Grants •State Literacy Resource Centers •National Adult Education Discretionary Program •Workplace Literacy Partnerships (National and State-Administered Programs) •National Workforce Literacy Strategies •Education Programs for Commercial Drivers •National Programs Adult Migrant Farmworker and Immigrant Education Adult Literacy Volunteer Training State Program Analysis Assistance and Policy Studies National Institute for Literacy National Literacy Act of 1991 •Title III Family Literacy Public Broadcasting Program •Title VI Functional Literacy and Life Skills Programs for State and Local Prisoners Dated: September 13, 1994. Augusta Souza Kappner, Assistant Secretary, Office of Vocational and Adult Education. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23246 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
