FR940513-2-00164 FR940513-2-00083 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20284; 812&hyph;7939] New York Life Institutional Funds, Inc., et al.; Application May 9, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: New York Life Institutional Funds, Inc. (the ``Company''), The MainStay Funds (the ``Trust''), and NYLIFE Distributors, Inc. (``Nylife Distributors''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Exemption requested under section 6(c) from sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 18(f)(1), 18(g), 18(i), 22(c), and 22(d) of the Act and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order that would permit the Company and the Trust to (a) issue multiple classes of shares representing interests in the same portfolio of securities and (b) assess and, under certain circumstances, waive a contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') on redemptions of shares. The order will supersede previous orders that permitted the assessment of a CDSC. FILING DATE: The application was filed on June 9, 1992, and amended on August 6, 1992, November 12, 1992, January 27, 1994, and May 5, 1994. Applicants have agreed to file an additional amendment, the substance of which is incorporated herein, during the notice period. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on June 3, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 51 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10010. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Elaine M. Boggs, Staff Attorney, at (202) 272&hyph;3026, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 272&hyph;3030 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Company and the Trust are open-end management investment companies consisting of multiple series. Nylife Distributors serves as distributor for the Company and the Trust. New York Life Insurance Company (``New York Life''), MacKay-Shields Financial Corporation, Monitor Capital Advisors, Inc., and Quorum Capital Management Limited serve as investment advisers to individual series of the Company and the Trust. New York Life serves as administrator to the Company, and Nylife Distributors serves as administrator to the Trust. Nylife Distributors, MacKay-Shields Financial Corporation, Monitor Capital Advisors and Quorum Capital Management are wholly owned subsidiaries of New York Life. 2. Applicants request that relief also extend to all series of the Company or the Trust that may be created in the future and to other registered open-end management investment companies for which Nylife Distributors, or any entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with Nylife Distributors, may serve as investment adviser or distributor (collectively these investment companies, the Company, and the Trust are the ``Funds''). A. The Multiple Class Distribution System 1. Applicants propose to establish a multi-class distribution system to enable each of the Funds to create an unlimited number of classes of shares. Classes could be offered in connection with a 12b&hyph;1 plan (a ``12b&hyph;1 Plan''), a non-rule 12b&hyph;1 administrative services arrangement (``Administrative Services Arrangement''), neither a 12b&hyph;1 Plan nor an Administrative Services Arrangement, or a combination of these options. These classes also could be subject to different sales loads. Classes offered subject to differing types of sales loads would provide investors the option of purchasing shares that would either be subject to a conventional front-end sales load (the ``Front-End Option''), subject to a CDSC (the ``Deferred Option''), subject to a combination of a front-end load and a CDSC (the combination option), any of which could be coupled with a 12b&hyph;1 Plan or an Administrative Services Arrangement, or not subject to any sales charges. 2. Under Administrative Services Arrangements, Funds may enter into agreements (``Administrative Services Agreements'') with organizations to provide services to the clients of the organization, who beneficially own shares of a particular class. Alternatively, a Fund may enter into an Administrative Services Agreement with the Fund's administrator to provide services to class shareholders. With respect to each class of shares, the Fund would pay an organization or the administrator for its services in accordance with its particular Administrative Services Agreement (such payments are ``Administrative Services Payments'') and the expense of such payments would be borne entirely by the beneficial owners of the class of shares to which each such Administrative Services Agreement relates.
