FR941206-0-00196 FR941206-0-00019 (B) Perform a new waste determination whenever changes to the hazardous waste treated by the process are reasonably likely to cause the characteristics of the hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment to change to levels that fail to achieve the applicable conditions specified in ยง265.1083(c)(2) of this subpart. (3) The owner or operator shall designate and record the specific provision in ยง265.1083(c)(2) of this subpart for which the waste determination is being performed. The waste determination for the treated hazardous waste shall be performed using the applicable procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(4) through (b)(10) of this section. (4) Procedure to determine the average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment. (i) The owner or operator shall identify and record the point of waste treatment for the hazardous waste. All waste samples used to determine the average VO concentration of the hazardous waste shall be collected at this point. (ii) The owner or operator shall designate and record the averaging period to be used for determining the average VO concentration for the hazardous waste. The averaging period shall not exceed 1 year. An initial waste determination shall be performed for each averaging period. (iii) The owner or operator shall identify each discrete quantity of the material composing the hazardous waste represented by the averaging period designated in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. (iv) The following procedure shall be used measure the VO concentration for each discrete quantity of material identified in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section: (A) A sufficient number of samples, but no less than four samples, shall be collected to represent the organic composition for the entire discrete quantity of hazardous waste being tested. All of the samples shall be collected within a 1-hour period. Sufficient information shall be prepared and recorded to document the waste quantity represented by the samples and, as applicable, the operating conditions for the process treating the hazardous waste represented by the samples. (B) Each sample shall be collected in accordance with the requirements specified in ``Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,'' EPA Publication No. SW&hyph;846, Third Edition, September 1986, as amended by Update I, November 15, 1992 (incorporated by reference_ refer to ยง260.11 of this chapter). (C) Each collected sample shall be prepared and analyzed in accordance with the requirements of Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. (D) The measured VO concentration for the discrete quantity of hazardous waste shall be determined by using the results for all samples analyzed in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(C) of this section and the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER06DE94.005 where: C = Measured VO concentration of the discrete quantity of hazardous waste, ppmw. i = Individual sample ``i'' of the hazardous waste collected in accordance with the requirements of SW&hyph;846. n = Total number of samples of hazardous waste collected (at least 4) within a 1-hour period. C i = VO concentration measured by Method 25D for sample ``i'', ppmw. (v) The average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment shall be determined using the following procedure: (A) When the facility owner or operator is the generator of the hazardous waste, a sufficient number of VO concentration measurements for the hazardous waste shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section to represent the complete range of hazardous waste organic compositions and quantities treated by the process during the entire averaging period. (B) The average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment shall be calculated by using the results for all VO measurements performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section and the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER06DE94.006 where: C ave = Average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment, ppmw. j = Individual discrete quantity ``j'' of the hazardous waste for which a VO concentration measurement is determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section. m = Total number of VO concentration measurements determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section for the averaging period. Q j = Mass of the discrete quantity of the hazardous waste represented by C j , kg. Q T = Total mass of the hazardous waste for the averaging period, kg. C j = Measured VO concentration of discrete quantity ``j'' for the hazardous waste determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section, ppmw.
