FR940606-0-00017 FR940606-0-00006 (b) In order to preserve the original documents, documents which are available on microfilm or other alternate copy will not be copied by other means as long as a legible copy (electrostatic, photographic, or microfilm) can be made from the microfilm. 25. In §1254.71, paragraphs (a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(i), (d)(3), (d)(6), (f), and (g)(1) are revised to read as follows: §1254.71 Researcher use of the self-service card-operated copiers in the National Archives Building, the Washington National Records Center and the National Archives at College Park. (a) General. Self-service card-operated copiers are located in research rooms in the National Archives Building, the Suitland Research Room in the Washington National Records Center, and the National Archives at College Park. Other copiers set aside for use by reservation are located in designated research areas. Procedures for use are outlined in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section. (b) *␣*␣* (1) Copiers located in research rooms in the National Archives Building, the Suitland Research Room in the Washington National Records Center, and the National Archives at College Park may be used until 15 minutes prior to closing of the research room. There is a five-minute time limit on these copiers when others are waiting to use the copier. Researchers using microfilm reader-printers may be limited to three copies when others are waiting to use the machine. Researchers wishing to copy large quantities of documents should see a staff member in the research room to reserve a copier for an extended time period. (2) *␣*␣* (i) A copier may be reserved for one hour at a time in the textual research room in the National Archives Building and the National Archives at College Park and for one-half hour at a time in the Microfilm Research Room in the National Archives Building and in the Suitland Research Room in the Washington National Records Center. Another appointment may be reserved after completing the scheduled appointment. The appointment may be forfeited if the researcher does not arrive within 10 minutes after the scheduled time. * * * * * (d) * * * (3) Documents larger than the glass copy plate of the copier; * * * * * (6) Documents which, in the judgement of the research room attendant, are in poor physical condition or which may be subject to possible damage if copied. (f) Purchasing debitcards for copiers. Researchers may use cash to purchase a debitcard from a vending machine during the hours that self-service copiers are in operation. Additionally, debitcards may be purchased with cash, check, money order, credit card, or funds from an active deposit account from the Cashier's Office located in room G&hyph;1 of the National Archives Building between the hours of 8:45 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. During the evening and weekend hours, the research room supervisor can make change for $20 or less. The debitcard will, when inserted into the copier, enable the user to make copies, for the appropriate fee, up to the value on the debitcard. Researchers may add value to the debitcard by using the vending machine. The fee for self-service copies is found in §1258.12 of this chapter. (g) *␣*␣* (1) To obtain a refund of any unused amount on a debitcard, a researcher must bring the debitcard to the Cashier's Office in room G&hyph;1 of the National Archives Building. Cash refunds for debitcards are currently limited to $20.00 or less. Refunds due for more than $20.00 are currently paid by U.S. Treasury check in approximately 6&hyph;8 weeks. Refunds due on debitcards obtained using credit cards will be made by issuing a credit of the refund amount to the credit card. Refunds due on debitcards obtained using funds from a deposit account will be made by crediting the refund to the deposit account. * * * * * 26. Section 1254.72 is revised to read as follows: §1254.72 Information about documents. (a) Upon request, overall information pertaining to holdings or about specific documents will be furnished, provided that the time required to furnish the information is not excessive, and provided that the information is not restricted (see subpart C and subpart D).
