FR940413-0-00075 FR940413-0-00026 III. Overview of the Final Rule This section provides a summary of the significant changes made to the designated housing process by this final rule in response to public comment. This section also discusses those provisions of the proposed rule about which substantial comments were received requesting change, and for which the Department declined to adopt the recommended change. Additional Housing Resources Inclusion of Additional Housing Resources for Which PHAs ``Plan To Apply'' The final rule revises §§945.103 and 945.203 which address additional housing resources. As revised, these sections provide that additional housing resources that a PHA may use to meet the housing needs of non-elderly disabled families who would have been housed in a project but for its designation as a project for elderly families include ``housing resources for which the PHA plans to apply during the period covered by the allocation plan and that it has a reasonable expectation of obtaining.'' The commenters on this provision are correct that the statute permits inclusion in the allocation plan of housing resources for which the PHA ``plans to apply.'' The statute also provides that projections contained in the allocation plan must be ``reasonable''. Thus, in including in an allocation plan a description of those housing resources for which the PHA intends to apply, the PHA must have a reasonable expectation of obtaining these housing resources. Additionally, the time period within which the PHA plans to apply for additional housing resources should be limited, and the regulation limits the time period to that period covered by the allocation plan. By ``reasonable expectation of obtaining,'' the Department means that circumstances and factors relevant to the PHA's application for additional housing resources, indicate that the PHA has a reasonable chance to obtain these additional resources. For example, if the Department intends to make 3,000 units available on a competitive basis in a given region, and the PHA applies for 2,500 units, the chance that the PHA will be awarded 2,500 of the 3,000 units to be competitively distributed is not reasonable. Commenters who requested the inclusion of ``planned'' housing resources in the allocation plan noted that these housing resources can be further addressed in the biennial updates of the allocation plan. For example, if a PHA relies upon using housing resources for which it intends to apply, and subsequently fails to apply for the housing resources, or applies but was unsuccessful in obtaining the additional housing resources, the PHA must account for the lack of the additional housing resources in the biennial update of the allocation plan. Depending upon the reasons that the ``planned'' additional housing resources were not obtained, the Department can take appropriate action, including changes in the designation of the project, or require the PHA to take appropriate action at the time of review of the biennial update. Additional Housing Resources Must Be Those Owned or Controlled, or To Be Owned or Controlled by PHAs The Department did not adopt the suggestion of several commenters that the final rule include housing resources owned by other entities that are willing to work in conjunction with the PHA. As noted above, the statute is clear that the housing resources to be addressed in the allocation plan are those that a PHA owns or controls, or will eventually own or control. Section 622 provides that a PHA must have ``a plan for securing sufficient additional resources that the agency owns, controls, or has received preliminary notification that it will obtain, or for which the agency plans to apply *␣*␣*.'' Revision to List of Examples of Additional Housing Resources for Persons With Disabilities The final rule removes the majority of the examples of additional housing resources that a PHA could utilize to provide housing assistance to the non-elderly disabled persons that would have been housed in a project were it not for designation of the project as a project for elderly families. On further consideration, the examples of additional housing resources, which did not constitute an all inclusive list, are more appropriately included in a notice or Handbook. The final rule retains examples of those additional housing resources that will probably be utilized by the majority of PHAs as additional housing resources. For the benefit of commenters who found the list helpful, the possible options for additional housing resources for persons with disabilities include but are not limited to the following: (1) Normal turn-over of units in existing projects; (2) Providing local preferences for a specific number of non-elderly disabled persons for a specific general occupancy project or projects, in accordance with the preference provisions of 24 CFR 960.211; for mixed population projects, as provided in 24 CFR part 960, subpart D; or for section 8 certificates and vouchers. Within the context of the PHA's overall preference system, there must be a demonstration that the preference will result in the desired increase in the number of non-elderly disabled persons housed; (3) Convert a project that currently houses mixed populations to general occupancy project, which provide a more integrated setting; (4) Allocation of a certain number of existing or new public housing units or section 8 certificates or vouchers, which will be accompanied by a supportive services package, which may be achieved by the PHA entering into an agreement with a supportive service provider to make these units or certificates or vouchers available in exchange for the provider delivering supportive services to disabled families. Clients of the service provider delivering the supportive services may not be provided these units or certificates or vouchers before other non-elderly disabled families already in occupancy or on the PHA's waiting list; (5) Use of modernization funds to reconfigure units and buildings to appropriate sizes or uses for non-elderly disabled families; (6) Designation of projects for occupancy only by disabled families (projects designated for occupancy by disabled families must have a supportive service plan in accordance with the requirements of §945.205);
