FR940822-2-00138 FR940822-2-00061 VIII. Application Review Procedures A. Preliminary Inquiries The Institute staff will answer inquiries concerning application procedures. The staff contact will be named in the Institute's letter inviting submission of a formal application. B. Selection Criteria 1. All applications will be rated on the basis of the criteria set forth below. The Institute will accord the greatest weight to the following criteria: a. The soundness of the methodology; b. The appropriateness of the proposed evaluation design; c. The qualifications of the project's staff; d. The applicant's management plan and organizational capabilities; e. The reasonableness of the proposed budget; f. The demonstration of need for the project; g. The products and benefits resulting from the project; h. The demonstration of cooperation and support of other agencies that may be affected by the project; i. The proposed project's relationship to one of the ``Special Interest'' categories set forth in section II.B.; and j. The degree to which the findings, procedures, training, technology, or other results of the project can be transferred to other jurisdictions. 2. ``Single jurisdiction'' applications submitted pursuant to section II.C.1. will also be rated on the proposed project's relation to one of the ``Special Interest'' categories set forth in section II.B. and on the special requirements listed in section II.C.1.b. 3. In determining which applicants to fund, the Institute will also consider whether the applicant is a State court, a national court support or education organization, a non-court unit of government, or other type of entity eligible to receive grants under the Institute's enabling legislation (see 42 U.S.C. 10705(6) (as amended) and Section IV above); the availability of financial assistance from other sources for the project; the amount and nature (cash or in-kind) of the applicant's match; the extent to which the proposed project would also benefit the Federal courts or help the State courts enforce Federal constitutional and legislative requirements; and the level of appropriations available to the Institute in the current year and the amount expected to be available in succeeding fiscal years. C. Review and Approval Process Applications will be reviewed competitively by the Board of Directors. The Institute staff will prepare a narrative summary of each application, and a rating sheet assigning points for each relevant selection criterion. When necessary, applications may also be reviewed by outside experts. Committees of the Board will review applications within assigned program categories and prepare recommendations to the full Board. The full Board of Directors will then decide which applications to approve for a grant. The decision to award a grant is solely that of the Board of Directors. Awards approved by the Board will be signed by the Chairman of the Board on behalf of the Institute. D. Return Policy Unless a specific request is made, unsuccessful applications will not be returned. Applicants are advised that Institute records are subject to the provisions of the Federal Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. E. Notification of Board Decision The Institute will send written notice to applicants concerning all Board decisions to approve or deny their respective applications and the key issues and questions that arose during the review process. A decision by the Board to deny an application may not be appealed, but does not prohibit resubmission of a concept paper based on that application in a subsequent round of funding. The Institute will also notify the designated State contact listed in Appendix I when grants are approved by the Board to support projects that will be conducted by or involve courts in their State. F. Response to Notification of Approval Applicants have 30 days from the date of the letter notifying them that the Board has approved their application to respond to any revisions requested by the Board. If the requested revisions (or a reasonable schedule for submitting such revisions) have not been submitted to the Institute within 30 days after notification, the approval will be automatically rescinded and the application presented to the Board for reconsideration.
