FR940105-2-00051 FR940105-2-00020 Order I For the purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply: A. ``Respondent'' means the Personal Protective Armor Association, its directors, trustees, councils, committees, officers, representatives, delegates, agents, employees, successors, or assigns. B. ``Soft body armor'' means concealable bullet-resistant vests generally worn by civilians and law enforcement personnel. II It is ordered , That Respondent, directly, indirectly, or through any device, in connection with activities in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined by the Federal Trade Commission Act, as amended, cease and desist from: A. Entering into, attempting to enter into, organizing, continuing, or acting in furtherance of any agreement or combination, or carrying out any agreement between or among Respondent's members, either express or implied, that prohibits, restricts, impedes, interferes with, restrains, places limitations on, or advises against: 1. Engaging in comparative advertising, including, but not limited to prohibiting any member from advertising that any type of soft body armor meets or fails to meet any ballistic resistance standard; or 2. Offering or providing products liability insurance, guarantees, or warranties on softly body armor. B. Restricting, regulating, impeding, declaring unethical, interfering with, restraining, or advising against the advertising, publishing, or dissemination by any person of the prices, terms, availability, characteristics, or conditions of sale of soft body armor through any means, including, but not limited to, adopting or maintaining any rule or policy that restricts or prohibits a member from: 1. Engaging in comparative advertising, including, but not limited to prohibiting any member from advertising that any type of soft body armor meets or fails to meet any ballistic resistance standard; or 2. Offering or providing products liability insurance, guarantees, or warranties on soft body armor. Provided , That nothing contained in this Paragraph II shall prohibit Respondent from formulating, adopting, disseminating to its members, and enforcing reasonable ethical guidelines governing the conduct of its members with respect to representations, including unsubstantiated representations, that Respondent reasonably believes would be false or deceptive within the meaning of section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. III It is further ordered , That Respondent: A. Distribute by first-class mail a copy of this Order and the Complaint to each of its members within thirty (30) days after the date this Order become final. B. For a period of five (5) years after the date this Order becomes final, provide each new member who joins PPAA with a copy of the Order and Complaint within thirty (30) days of membership into PPAA. C. File a verified, written report with the Commission within sixty (60) days after the date this Order becomes final, and annually thereafter for five (5) years on the anniversary of the date this Order becomes final, and at such other times as the Commission may, by written notice to PPAA, require, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it has complied and is complying with the Order. D. For a period of five (5) years after the date this Order becomes final, maintain and make available to Commission staff for inspection and copying upon reasonable notice, records adequate to describe in detail any action taken in connection with any activity covered by Part II of this Order. IV It is further ordered , That PPAA shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any change in the corporation such as dissolution, assignment, or sale, resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation, the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries, and any other change that may affect compliance with this order.
