FR940930-0-00169 FR940930-0-00028 In light of the evolving regulatory framework affecting conversions, culminating with today's provisions for CFV conversions, EPA is reconsidering whether it is appropriate for manufacturers of CFV conversions to participate in the Pilot program. This reconsideration is largely due to the fact that manufacturers of CFV conversions under today's rule will be treated like vehicle manufacturers for purposes of compliance with EPA emission regulations. EPA may propose by regulation in the future to include manufacturers of conversions in the Pilot program. EPA will solicit public comment on this issue at that time. ii. Manufacturer sales distribution. Although CAA section 249 clearly indicates that vehicle manufacturers are responsible for meeting sales requirements, it does not cover how the sales requirements are to be allocated among manufacturers. Sales under the California LEV Program are likely to far exceed the sales requirements set forth in the Pilot program and, since the vehicles for the two programs will be identical or at least very similar, the Pilot program requirements will likely be easily satisfied. As a result, any method for allocating sales requirements among manufacturers will have little impact. Two options for determining a manufacturer's individual sales allocation were presented in the NPRM. In both options, an equation was used to calculate a manufacturer's share of required CFV sales based on the share of that manufacturer's vehicle sales in the State of California during the previous model year. Under Option 1, EPA would be responsible for calculating the individual sales responsibilities; in the second option, manufacturers would perform the computation. The primary concern of those commenters who responded was that only California vehicle sales be considered since the Pilot program was to be implemented in California. The proposed regulations were written based on the second option and it is this option that is finalized today. A manufacturer's share of the total CFV sales requirement in any given year (150,000 CFVs annually for 1996&hyph;1997; 300,000 CFVs annually thereafter) will be based on the ratio of the manufacturer's sales to all sales in California according to the following equation: RMS = (MS/TS) × TCPPS where: RMS = a manufacturer's required sales in a given model year. MS = a manufacturer's total LDV and light LDT sales in California two model years earlier than year in question (for MY 1996 and 1997 RMS calculations). = a manufacturer's total LDV and light LDT sales in California two model years earlier than year in question (for MY 1998 and later RMS calculations). TS = total LDV and light LDT sales in California of all manufacturers two model years earlier than the year in question (for MY 1996 and 1997 RMS calculations). Sales of manufacturers which meet the criteria of (d) of this paragraph will not be included. = total LDV and light LDT sales in California of all manufacturers two model years earlier than the year in question (for MY 1998 and later RMS calculations). Sales of manufacturers which meet the criteria of (d) of this paragraph will not be included. TCPPS = Pilot program CFV sales requirement for the year in question (either 150,000 or 300,000). Each manufacturer will use this equation to determine its individual CFV sales requirement. The two factors, MS and TS, will be based on vehicle sales two MYs from the year in question (e.g, for MY 1996, a manufacturer will use sales data from MY 1994). In the NPRM, EPA requested comment as to whether a manufacturer's share of required CFV sales should be calculated based on sales in the previous model year or sales two model years prior. Commenters did not address this issue. EPA believes that using MY sales data that is two years prior, as opposed to only one year, is not likely to reflect the most recent market changes and will also allow new manufacturers a two year delay before they are factored into the equation; however, it will provide manufacturers with sufficient time for planning their CFV production and will also require less administration and oversight on the part of both EPA and manufacturers. EPA believes that the CFV sales distribution that will result among manufacturers will be fair and equitable in light of these advantages. Therefore, EPA is finalizing the requirement that California sales figures from two model years earlier be used by manufacturers to calculate required CFV sales shares. Since heavy LDT standards under the Pilot program are not effective until MY 1998, a manufacturer's share of required sales for MYs 1996 and 1997 will be based on LDV and light LDT sales only. All LDV and LDT sales will be used once the CFV standards for heavy LDTs are in effect beginning with MY 1998.
