FR940916-2-00034 FR940916-2-00027 [Docket No. RP94&hyph;391&hyph;000] Centra Pipelines Minnesota Inc.; Notice of Proposed Changes to FERC Gas Tariff September 12, 1994. Take notice on September 2, 1994, Centra Pipelines Minnesota Inc. (Centra Minnesota_tendered for filing the following tariff sheets to its FERC Gas Tariff, Second Revised Volume No. 2: Original Sheet Nos. 32 through 35 First Revised Sheet No. 35 Original tariff Sheet No. 35 and First Revised Sheet No. 35 both include an ``Index of Shippers'' and are being filed to reflect changes regarding the identify of certain of Central Minnesota's shippers and their respective volumes of gas shipped on the pipeline. The changes with respect to Northern Minnesota Utilities (NMU) and The City of Warroad, Minnesota (Warroad) are to be effective immediately, and are reflected on Original Sheet No. 35. First Revised Sheet No. 35 reflects both the NMU/Warroad change and the changes with respect to shippers Centra Gas Ontario, Inc. (Centra Ontario) and Westcoast Power Inc. (Westcoast Power), to be effective as of December 31, 1994. Centra Minnesota states that the referenced Sheet Nos. 32 through 34 are being filed to reserve these sheets for future use. Tariff Sheet No. 35 is an ``Index of Shippers'' which is being filed to reflect changes in the volumes of natural gas transported by Centra Minnesota on behalf of its shippers. These revised transportation volumes, which correspond to changes in the Department of Energy (DOE) import and/or export authorizations of Centra Minnesota's shippers, are as follows: (1) Reduce the volumes of gas that Centra Minnesota is authorized to transport on behalf of Centra Ontario from up to 10,220 MMcf/year to up to 1,974 MMcf/year; (2) Transport on behalf of Westcoast Power the remainder of the volumes that were previously transported on behalf of Centra Ontario, i.e. 8,246 MMcf/year; (3) Eliminate Warroad as a shipper under Rate Schedule FT; and, (4) Transport on behalf of NMU the volumes that were previously transported on behalf of Warroad. Centra Minnesota states that the DOE has approved the changes listed above in the amounts of gas Centra Minnesota's shippers ( i.e., Westcoast and Centra Ontario) are authorized to import and/or export. Centra Minnesota states that the other change of eliminating Warroad as a shipper is due to the fact that NMU purchased the distribution facilities previously owned by Warroad, and Centra Minnesota will now transport on behalf of NMU volumes previously transported on behalf of Warroad. Centra Minnesota states that DOE also has approved the transfer to NMU of the import authorization granted to Warroad. Centra Minnesota states that the corresponding changes to the volumes transported on behalf of these shippers are fully consistent with Centra Minnesota's flexible transportation authority granted by the Commission. Additionally, Centra Minnesota states that no increase in transportation volumes is sought and no facility construction is required. Pursuant to ยง154.51 of the Commission's regulations, Centra Minnesota respectively requests waiver of the (1) thirty day notice period so that the Warroad/NMU redistribution of volumes will become effective immediately; and (2) requirement that tariffs not be filed more than sixty days prior to their proposed effective date so that the change in volumes between Centra Ontario and Westcoast can be effective as of December 31, 1994. Centra Minnesota states that such waivers will not result in any harm to any shipper since the volume of gas to be transported by Centra Minnesota will not be increased or decreased, but is merely being reallocated. Copies of the filing were served upon Centra Minnesota's jurisdictional customers and interested state commissions. Any person desiring to be heard or to make any protest with reference to said filing should on or before September 19, 1994, file a motion to intervene or protest with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, D.C. 20426, in accordance with the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.214 and 385.211). All protests will be considered by the Commission in determining the appropriate action to be taken, but will not serve to make protestants parties to the proceeding. Any person wishing to become a party to the proceeding must file a motion to intervene. Copies of Centra Minnesota's filing are on file with the Commission and are available for public inspection. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22934 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
