FR940912-0-00015 FR940912-0-00005 However, within this $250,000 to the $1.0 million category, an additional 25 percent of loan volume will be exempted by the new business loan exemption. These additional loans represent a significant proportion of System loan volume and arguably pose significant additional risk for System institutions. Because of this concentration, the FCA has provided additional criteria for the completion of collateral evaluations for such small- and medium-sized business loans by requiring all real estate collateral evaluations in excess of $250,000, not otherwise exempted by ยง614.4260(c), to be completed in conformance with the USPAP. Such collateral evaluations of ``business loans,'' while conforming with USPAP, will not necessitate the use of a State-sanctioned appraiser or compliance with the functional independence requirements. While the regulations allow institutions to use either a State licensed or State certified appraiser for loan transactions under the $1.0 million level, the regulations require appraisals of real estate transactions over $1.0 million to be completed by State certified appraisers. The FCA notes that this requirement is consistent with the requirements of the Financial Institutions Recovery, Reform, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA), 11 which requires the use of a State certified appraiser for a real estate transaction appraisal of $1.0 million or more. 11 See Pub. L. 101&hyph;73, ยง1113, 103 Stat. 183 (1989). C. Additional Collateral The regulations expand the exceptions for the use of State licensed and certified appraisers to include those instances where the real estate is taken as additional collateral or where the loan is supported through conclusive documentation of earnings capacity and repayment ability evidencing that the real estate is not necessary to support the loan decision. Adoption of the additional collateral exception and clarifying the ``abundance of caution'' exception gives System institutions more flexibility in relying on collateral valuations of real property rather than USPAP-based State-sanctioned appraisals. However, the FCA believes that the basic collateral valuation requirements and the institutions' policies and procedures will provide sufficient analysis and detail to address any safety and soundness concerns. D. Limit Periodic Appraisals The regulations amend ยง614.4260(c) to permit the use of collateral valuations of real estate when a subsequent transaction is related to the advancement of additional funds, a servicing action, loan reamortization, etc., provided there has been no obvious and material change in the market conditions or physical aspects of the real estate that would threaten the adequacy of the institution's real estate collateral protection after the transaction. The regulations continue to require the institutions to develop appropriate policies and procedures addressing the circumstances and frequency for the completion of real property appraisals versus collateral valuations, subject to the specific requirements of the regulation. This revision would provide greater flexibility to the System institutions in determining the appropriate collateral evaluation method to employ (valuation vs. appraisal) and the appropriate level of evaluator expertise required in relation to the associated credit risk. This revision would allow institutions to use collateral valuations instead of appraisals when a loan servicing action is required, a loan is being reamortized, or even when additional funds are advanced as long as the collateral risk has not materially increased. This revision would also eliminate the requirement that a new appraisal be completed if additional funds are advanced and an appraisal has not been completed within 2 years, as was previously required by the regulations. These exemptions only address the use of real estate appraisals and are not intended to eliminate the need for a review and update of the value of the collateral through the use of a collateral valuation. The FCA's regulation (ยง614.4260(c)(5)) would require a new evaluation for reamortizations of loans if there has been a material increase in the associated risk in concert with the advancement of new funds. This position is consistent with the requirements of the Federal regulatory agencies for transactions where new funds are advanced and there has been a material increase in the associated risk. However, in addition, the FCA, based on safety and soundness concerns identified in previous System practices, has taken the position that any loan servicing action (including reamortizations, collateral releases, etc.) should be accompanied, at a minimum, by a collateral valuation that is consistent with the requirements of these regulations.
