FR941110-2-00042 FR941110-2-00010 In accordance with Section 773(b) of the Act, we followed our standard methodology to determine whether the home market sales of each product were made at prices below their COP in substantial quantities over an extended period of time, and whether such sales were made at prices that would permit recovery of all costs within a reasonable period of time in the normal course of trade. To satisfy the requirement of 773(b)(1) that below-cost sales be disregarded only if made in substantial quantities, we applied the following methodology. Where we found that over 90 percent of a respondent's sales of a given product were at prices above the COP, we did not disregard any below-cost sales because we determined that respondent's below-cost sales are not made in substantial quantities. If between ten and 90 percent of a respondent's sales of a given product were at prices above the COP, we disregarded only the below-cost sales if made over an extended period of time. Where we found that more than 90 percent of a respondent's sales of a given product were at prices below the COP and were sold over an extended period of time, we disregarded all sales for that model and calculated FMV based on constructed value (CV), in accordance with section 773(b) of the Act. In accordance with section 773(b)(1) of the Act, in order to determine whether below-cost sales had been made over an extended period of time, we compared the number of months in which below-cost sales occurred for each product to the number of months in the POI in which that product was sold. If a product was sold in three or more months of the POI, we did not exclude below-cost sales unless there were below-cost sales in at least three months during the POI. When we found that sales of a product only occurred in one or two months, the number of months in which the sales occurred constituted the extended period of time; i.e., where sales of a product were made in only two months, the extended period of time was two months, where sales of a product were made in only one month, the extended period of time was one month. (See, Preliminary Results and Partial Termination of Antidumping Duty Administrative Reviews: Tapered Roller Bearings, Four Inches or Less in Outside Diameter, and Components Thereof, From Japan (58 FR 69336, 69338, December 10, 1993). Constructed Value (CV) We calculated constructed value based on the sum of the cost of materials, fabrication, general expenses, profit, and U.S. packing cost. In accordance with section 773 (e)(1)(B) of the Act, for general expenses, which include selling and financial expenses (SG&A), we used the greater of the reported general expenses or the statutory minimum of ten percent of the cost of production. For profit, we used the statutory minimum of eight percent of the cost of manufacturing and general expenses, because Aichi's reported profit was less than eight percent of the total of cost of manufacturing and general expenses. Currency Conversion We have made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates, certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the information used in making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of stainless steel angle from Japan, as defined in the ``Scope of Investigation'' section of this notice, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated preliminary dumping margin, as shown below. The suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. ␣ 1Producer/manufacturer/exporter 1Margin percentage Aichi Steel Works, LTD. 14.92 All others 14.92 ITC Notification In accordance with section 733(f) of the Act, we have notified the ITC of our determination. If our final determination is affirmative, the ITC will determine whether these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, the U.S. industry before the later of 120 days after the date of this preliminary determination or 45 days after our final determination. Postponement of Final Determination On November 1, 1994, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.20(b), respondent requested that, in the event of an affirmative preliminary determination by the Department, the Department postpone the final determination due to the complexity of the cost information and problems associated with scheduling verifications with the year-end holidays. We find no compelling reason to deny the request. Accordingly, we are postponing the date of the final determination until not later than 135 days after the date of publication of this notice. Public Comment In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38, case briefs or other written comments in at least ten copies may be submitted by any interested party to the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration no later than February 10, 1995, and rebuttal briefs no later than February 17, 1995. We request that parties in this case provide an executive summary of no more than 2 pages in conjunction with case briefs on the major issues to be addressed. Further, briefs should contain a table of authorities. Citations to Commerce determinations and court decisions should include the page number where cited information appears. In preparing the briefs, please begin each issue on a separate page. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38(b), we will hold a public hearing, if requested, to give interested parties an opportunity to comment on arguments raised in case or rebuttal briefs. Tentatively, the hearing will be held on February 23, 1995, at 9 a.m. at the U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 3708, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, D.C. 20230. Parties should confirm the time, date, and place of the hearing 48 hours before the scheduled time. Interested parties who wish to request a hearing must submit a written request to the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room B&hyph;099, within ten days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Requests should contain: (1) the party's name, address, telephone number; (2) the number of participants; and (3) a list of the issues to be discussed. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38(b), oral presentations will be limited to the issues raised in the briefs. This determination is published pursuant to section 733(f) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1673b(f)) and 19 CFR 353.15(a)(4). Dated: November 4, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27917 Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
