FR940607-1-00020 FR940607-1-00004 I. Discussion of Proposals A. Introduction and Summary Section 12 of the Exchange Act 5 requires all securities listed on a national securities exchange to be registered under the Exchange Act. 6 Registration subjects the securities, whether debt or equity, to a number of regulatory provisions, including restrictions on borrowing, 7 periodic reporting by the issuer, 8 and proxy regulation. 9 In contrast, debt securities traded in the over-the-counter (``OTC'') market are not required to be registered under the Exchange Act, 10 and, therefore, such securities are not subject to the restrictions on borrowing or proxy regulation. These regulatory distinctions may have unnecessarily and unintentionally affected the structure and development of the debt markets. 5 15 U.S.C. 78 l . 6 Section 12(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78 l (a)] prevents any member, broker or dealer from effecting any transaction in any security listed on a national securities exchange unless the security is registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78 l (b)]. 7 Section 8(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78h(a)]. 8 Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78m(a)]. 9 Section 14(a), (b), and (c) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78n(a), (b), and (c)]. 10 See Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78 l (g)], which only requires registration of equity securities. The New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE'') has advised the Commission that the additional regulatory requirements imposed on listed debt securities create significant disincentives for issuers to list their debt on the national securities exchanges and urged that exemptive action be taken to eliminate this disparity. To address this disparate regulatory treatment between listed and OTC-traded debt, the Commission is proposing to exempt listed debt securities from the borrowing restrictions and proxy rules under the Exchange Act. Listed debt securities, however, would remain subject to the registration and reporting requirements. The Commission also is proposing to simplify the registration process by providing for the immediate effectiveness of Form 8&hyph;A registration statements pertaining to the listing of debt securities on a national securities exchange and eliminating the filing fee associated with the form. In addition to these proposals to ease the regulatory obligations resulting from listing debt securities, the Commission also is considering whether additional informational requirements should be imposed on issuers of OTC-traded debt securities. Accordingly, as discussed below, the Commission is requesting comment on the benefits of periodic reporting requirements with respect to issuers of debt securities and on whether it is advisable to extend those requirements to issuers of debt securities that are traded in the OTC market, comparable to the requirements applicable to issuers that list their debt securities on a national securities exchange. B. Exemption From the Borrowing Restrictions of the Exchange Act In the aftermath of the 1929 market crash, Congress enacted the Exchange Act to regulate, among other matters, the extension of credit in the securities markets. 11 Along with margin provisions, 12 Congress placed a restriction on the ability of broker-dealers to borrow, in the ordinary course of business, using exchange-traded securities as collateral. Under Section 8(a) of the Exchange Act, 13 a broker-dealer can pledge a listed security, other than an exempted security, only to certain lenders: a member bank of the Federal Reserve System; a non-member bank that has filed with the Federal Reserve Board an agreement to comply with those provisions of the federal securities and banking laws that apply to member banks; or another broker-dealer if such a loan is permissible under the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board. 14 As noted above, Section 8(a) specifically excludes exempted securities from these restrictions on borrowing. Under Section 3(a)(12) of the Exchange Act, 15 the term ``exempted securities'' includes such securities as the Commission may exempt from the operation of any one or more provisions of the Exchange Act. 11 See, e.g. , 78 Cong. Rec. 8386&hyph;96 (Senate debate rejecting an amendment to prohibit, rather than regulate, margin transactions). 12 In particular, Section 7(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78g] authorized the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (``Federal Reserve Board'') to prescribe rules and regulations with respect to the amount of credit that may be initially extended and subsequently maintained on any security traded on a national securities exchange. 13 15 U.S.C. 78h(a). 14 For example, Regulation T [17 CFR 220.1 et seq. ] authorizes a broker-dealer to clear or finance transactions for a specialist's market functions account. See 12 CFR 220.12(b). 15 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(12). In 1968, when Congress extended many of the margin provisions (i.e., Section 7(a)) to securities traded exclusively in the OTC market, 16 Congress placed no comparable restriction on the ability of broker-dealers to borrow against OTC securities. 17 As a result, a broker-dealer can use bonds that are not listed on an exchange to secure financing from any lender, whether or not that lender falls within the statutorily enumerated categories. 16 1968 Amendments to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Pub. L. No. 90&hyph;437, 82 Stat. 452 (1968). 17 Congress did not amend Section 8(a), as it amended Section 7(a), to extend that provision to securities traded exclusively in the OTC market. Congress, however, did not repeal Section 8(a) for listed securities. Since that time, various market participants have voiced concerns that Section 8(a) is overly restrictive and competitively unfair. 18 According to these participants, broker-dealers' discretion in financing their positions is unduly constrained once a debt security is traded on an exchange. In addition, at least one national securities exchange has been informed by its members that the members may advise an issuer against listing bonds due to the restrictions in Section 8(a). 19 18 See, e.g. , letter from Donald J. Solodar, Executive Vice President, Fixed Income, Options & Administration, New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE''), to Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, and Linda C. Quinn, Director, Division of Corporation Finance, SEC, dated July 19, 1993 (``NYSE letter''); letter from Marc E. Lackritz, President, Securities Industry Association (``SIA''), to William W. Wiles, Secretary, Federal Reserve Board, dated December 23, 1992 (``SIA letter''). 19 See NYSE letter, supra note 18. Given the developments in the OTC market since Congress took action in the 1960s, the current structure of the bond market and the nature of debt financing, the differential treatment of exchange-listed and OTC-traded debt securities does not appear to be warranted. In today's highly competitive market environment, the current regulatory scheme may detract unfairly from broker dealers' ability to finance their positions, and from the national securities exchanges' ability to obtain debt listings. 20 20 The Commission notes that, at this time, most secondary trading in debt securities (including listed debt securities) takes place in the OTC market; exchange trading of corporate bonds currently accounts for a relatively small percentage of the daily trading volume in such securities and is often in ``odd-lot'' size. United States Securities and Exchange Commission, Division of Market Regulation, The Corporate Bond Markets: Structure, Pricing and Trading 1, 13 (January 1992). Although these circumstances may change if the relief proposed herein is granted, the Commission recognizes that it places a competitive burden on exchange markets to subject them to more restrictive regulation than the OTC market, which is, in this case, the primary market for the trading of debt securities.
