FR940104-2-00005 FR940104-2-00002 Management Area A4_Visual Travel Corridor_Maintain or enhance an aesthetically pleasing, natural appearing forest setting surrounding designated roads, trails, and other areas considered important for recreational travel and use. Management Area M2_Riparian Lands_Meet watershed and riparian dependant resource objectives and compatible timber production. Management Area C6_Key Fishery Habitat_Soil and water will be protected in these lands encompassing or adjacent to high value fishery streams. Considered key summer range for elk and moose. This area is designated unsuitable for timber production. The Forest Service will consider a range of alternatives to the proposed action. One of these will be the ``no action'' alternative, in which none of the proposed activities would be implemented. Additional alternatives will examine varying levels and locations for the proposed activities to achieve the proposal's purposes, as well as to respond to the issues and other resource values. The EIS will analyze the direct, indirect, and cumulative environmental effects of the alternatives. Past, present, and projected activities on both private and National Forest lands will be considered. The EIS will disclose the analysis of site-specific mitigation measures and their effectiveness. Public participation is an important part of the project, commencing with the initial scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7), which starts with publication of this notice and continues for the next 45 days. In addition, the public is encouraged to visit with Forest Service officials at any time during the analysis and prior to the decision. The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, and local agencies, the Nez Perce Tribe, and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed action. Public meetings will be scheduled between now and publishing of the Draft EIS. Interested individuals and organizations are encouraged to contact the Powell District Ranger to be added to the project mailing list to receive future newsletters related to this project and notification of public meetings. Comments from the public and other agencies will be used in preparation of the Draft EIS. The scoping process will be used to: 1. Identify potential issues. 2. Identify major issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Eliminate minor issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis, such as the Clearwater Forest Plan EIS. 4. Identify alternatives to the proposed action. 5. Identify potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e., direct, indirect, and cumulative effects). 6. Determine potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. Some public comments have already been received in conjunction with the White Sand IRA. Preliminary issues identified so far have been grouped into seven major categories: Biological Diversity and Ecosystem Management; Recreation, Wilderness, and Roadless Areas; Water Resources and Fisheries; Wildlife; Social and Economic; Heritage Resources; and Scenery. Issues commonly associated with effects of timber harvesting and road construction are grouped into these seven categories. The complete list is available upon request from the Powell District Ranger. This list may be verified, expanded, or modified based on public scoping for this proposal. The Draft EIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and available for public review in September of 1994. At that time, the EPA will publish a Notice of Availability of the Draft EIS in the Federal Register. The comment period on the Draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the EPA's notice of availability appears in the Federal Register. It is very important that those interested in management of the White Sand area participate at that time. To be most helpful, comments on the Draft EIS should be as site-specific as possible. The Final EIS is scheduled to be completed by February, 1995. The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day scoping comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in developing issues and alternatives. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues on the proposed action, comments should be as specific as possible. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. I am the responsible official for this environmental impact statement. My address is Clearwater National Forest, 12730 Highway 12, Orofino, ID 83544. Dated: December 15, 1993. James L. Caswell, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;79 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
