FR940727-2-00048 FR940727-2-00026 Proposed Order Part I of the proposed order prohibits representations that the product component of either of the body building products named in the complaint, or any substantially similar product: (1) causes users to achieve greater or more rapid loss of fat or gain of muscle than non-users of the product; or (2) works for all users. Part II of the proposed order prohibits representations that the product component of any of the three weight loss products named in the complaint, or any substantially similar product: (1) causes users to maintain weight loss longer than non-users; or (2) causes maturing women to lose more weight than non-users. Part III prohibits respondents from representing that scientific evidence establishes that the product component of any of the body building and weight loss products named in the complaint causes users to lose more fat or weight, or gains more muscle, than non-users. Part IV requires the respondents to cease from making a number of representations about any product or program unless they have substantiation consisting of competent and reliable scientific evidence. The claims that are prohibited unless substantiated are as follows: (1) that any product or program causes or assists users to lose fat or weight or to maintain weight loss, or suppresses hunger or appetite; (2) that any product or program causes or assists in muscle gain or development; (3) that any product or program works for all users; (4) that chromium picolinate in any product or used in conjunction with any program builds muscle, reduces fat, or lowers cholesterol; and (5) that any product or program intended for body building, weight loss, or fat loss is more effective than other products or programs intended for similar purposes. Part V of the proposed order requires respondents to have substantiation, which when appropriate must consist of competent and reliable scientific evidence, for believing that endorsements, including ``before'' and ``after'' pictures, represent the typical or ordinary experience of users of any product or program. However, the respondents may use any endorsement if they disclose clearly and prominently in close proximity to the endorsement what the generally expected performance would be in the depicted circumstances, or that consumers should not expect to achieve results similar to those of the endorser. Part VI prohibits the respondents from misrepresenting that any product or program is new or unique, or that any product or program intended for weight loss is easy to use if achieving the advertised results requires a special diet or exercise. Part VII requires the respondents to cease misrepresenting the contents, validity, or results of any study in connection with the marketing or any product or program. Part VIII requires the respondents to pay $1,450,000 to the United States Treasury and provides that none of this amount is deemed to be a fine, penalty, or punitive assessment. The remaining provisions are standard record keeping and reporting provisions designed to ensure that the respondents remain in compliance with the other provisions of the order.
