FR940720-0-00128 FR940720-0-00010 Response: Limited information exists on the relationship between water quality and the decline of the species. A better understanding of this relationship will be developed as a result of recovery efforts. Issue 17: The proposed listing of the Rio Grande silvery minnow is just a part of a much larger problem_the modification of the floodplain. Are activities at Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) affecting the species? Response: The Service agrees. Listing the species will invoke protective provisions of the Act, such as those contained in section 7. The Service has no information that indicates activities at Bosque del Apache NWR impact the species. The Service will work with Federal agencies, including Bosque del Apache NWR, to ensure that their actions do not jeopardize the species through adverse effects on the floodplain. In addition, the Service is involved in several cooperative efforts with Federal, State, and private entities to protect the Rio Grande Bosque and associated floodplain. Issue 18: The facts presented in the status report do not support the conclusion that ``anticipated additional modifications'' would limit prospects of survival for the species in the middle Rio Grande. Response: The facts presented in the status report do support the conclusion that ``anticipated additional modifications'' would limit prospects of survival for the species in the middle Rio Grande. According to the authors of the status report, ``Conservation measures are necessary as continued habitat and flow modifications, introductions of non-native species, and lack of refugia threaten survival of H. amarus. '' The present status of the species is such that any activity that could negatively impact the species may limit prospects for its survival. Issue 19: Only two facts support listing; that the species is presently found in only 5 percent of its historic range, and that other fish native to the middle Rio Grande (Rio Grande bluntnose shiner, phantom shiner, Rio Grande shiner, and speckled chub) have been extirpated from the river. The Service does not have adequate data to support the conclusion that the Rio Grande silvery minnow is endangered and should be listed under the Act. Response: The Service agrees that the above two facts support listing. However, other facts that support listing include the species' decrease in abundance within the area it presently occupies, and its extirpation from the Pecos River after the introduction of the plains minnow into that system. The Service concludes, as detailed in the ``Summary of Factors'' section, that there is sufficient evidence to support listing the species as endangered under the Act. The Service reviewed the best scientific and commercial data available to make this determination.
