FR940610-1-00079 FR940610-1-00008 (6) Processed foods. Unless already included in the National Nutrient Database, the calorie amounts, nutrients and dietary components, in accordance with paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section, of purchased processed foods and menu items used by the school food authority shall be obtained by the school food authority or State agency and incorporated into the database at the local level in accordance with FNS guidance. (7) Substitutions. If the need for serving a substitute food(s) or menu item(s) occurs at least two weeks prior to serving the planned menu, the revised menu shall be reanalyzed based on the changes. If the need for serving a substitute food(s) or menu item(s) occurs two weeks or less prior to serving the planned menu, no reanalysis is required. However, to the extent possible, substitutions should be made using similar foods. (k) Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning. (1) For school food authorities without the capability to conduct Nutrient Standard Menu Planning, as provided in paragraph (j) of this section, menu cycles developed by other sources may be used. Such sources may include but are not limited to the State agency, other school food authorities, consultants, or food service management companies. (2) Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning shall establish menu cycles that have been developed in accordance with paragraphs (j)(1) through (j)(6) of this section as well as local food preferences and local food service operations. These menu cycles shall incorporate the nutrition standards in paragraph (b) of this section and the Minimum Nutrient Levels for School Breakfasts in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. In addition to the menu cycle, recipes, food product specifications and preparation techniques shall also be developed and provided by the entity furnishing Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning to ensure that the menu items and foods offered conform to the nutrient analysis determinations of the menu cycle. (3) If a school food authority requests Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning, the State agency shall determine if it is warranted. At the inception of any approved use of Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning, the State agency shall approve the initial menu cycle, recipes, and other specifications to determine that all required elements for correct nutrient standards and analysis are incorporated. The State agency shall also, upon request, provide assistance with implementation of the chosen system. (4) After the initial service, the nutrient analysis shall be reassessed in accordance with paragraph (j)(2) of this section and appropriate adjustments made. (5) Under Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning, the school food authority retains final responsibility for ensuring that all nutrient standards established in paragraph (b) of this section are met. (l) Compliance with the nutrition standards. If the analysis conducted in accordance with paragraphs (j) and (k) of this section shows that the menus offered are not in compliance with the nutrition standards established in paragraph (b) of this section, actions, including technical assistance and training, shall be taken by the State agency, school food authority, or school, as appropriate, to ensure that the breakfasts offered to children comply with the established nutrition standards. (m) Nutrition disclosure. School food authorities are encouraged to make information available indicating efforts to meet the nutrition standards in paragraph (b) of this section, such as publicizing the results of the nutrient analysis of the school week menu cycle. (n) Implementation of nutrition standards and Nutrient Standard Menu Planning/Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning. (1) At a minimum, the provisions of this section requiring compliance with the nutrition standards in paragraph (b) of this section shall be implemented no later than the beginning of School Year 1998&hyph;99. However, schools and/or school food authorities may begin to implement any or all of the provisions in this section with prior approval of the State agency. (2) Prior to School Year 1998&hyph;99, State agencies shall require school food authorities/schools to implement Nutrient Standard Menu Planning or Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning for the School Breakfast Program at the same time it is implemented for the National School Lunch Program and in accordance with the terms of ยง210.10(o) of this chapter. 5. The section heading of newly redesignated ยง220.8a is revised to read as follows: ยง220.8a Breakfast components and quantities for the meal pattern and for very young children. * * * * *
