FR940217-1-00061 FR940217-1-00013 D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. No existing rules or regulations specifically require protection of the Barton Springs salamander or its habitat. The salamander is not included on the TPWD's list of threatened and endangered species, and thus the species is not afforded protection by that agency. Several individuals who provided comments on the 90-day finding stated that existing state and local regulations are sufficient to mitigate potential water quality threats resulting from development activities in the Barton Springs segment and contributing zone. However, while there are many existing rules and regulations in place that will likely contribute positively to water quality and quantity, there are no assurances that they are adequate to protect the salamander and its habitat. Furthermore, whether the existing rules and regulations can provide long-term protection of the quality and quantity of the waters feeding Barton Springs is unknown. There are few measures in place to prevent the risk of hazardous material spills across the recharge and contributing zones. No regulations prohibit the transportation of hazardous materials across the Barton Springs segment (Tom Word, Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT), pers. comm., 1993), and few existing roads have water quality control structures (such as hazardous materials traps, sediment basins, and filters) to protect against non-point-source pollution and chemical spills (Shyra Darr, Travis County Public Improvements and Transportation Department (PITD), in litt., 1993; Barnett, in litt., 1993; Roland Gamble, TxDOT, in litt., 1993). Travis County and TxDOT have agreed to install water quality devices on new State and county roadway construction projects in the recharge zone (Barnett, in litt., 1993; David Pimentel, PITD, in litt., 1993; Gamble, in litt., 1993). However, no program is currently in place to retrofit these water quality control structures on existing roadways in the Barton Springs segment (Barnett, in litt., 1993). In addition, the effectiveness of these water quality control structures has not yet been determined (Gamble, in litt., 1993). The major regulations affecting water quality in the Barton Springs segment include the Edwards Rules (31 Texas Administrative Code, Chapter 313), which are promulgated and enforced by the TWC, and the City of Austin's water quality protective ordinances (Williamson Creek Ordinance (1980), Barton Creek Watershed Ordinance (1981), Lower Watersheds Ordinance (1981), Comprehensive Watersheds Ordinance (1986), ``Composite Ordinance'' (1991), and the ``Save Our Springs'' (``SOS'') Ordinance (1992)). These ordinances are only implemented within Austin's city limits and five-mile extra-territorial jurisdiction, which is about a third of the entire area affecting Barton Springs. Each ordinance includes impervious cover limitations, development setbacks from water quality zones, erosion control measures, restricted or prohibited development on steep slopes, and other water quality protective measures. However, none of the ordinances include retrofit provisions for existing developments or land use regulations (Barnett, in litt., 1993). Furthermore, the ordinances can be rendered ineffective by variance provisions and exemptions. The SOS Ordinance requires greater impervious cover limitations, further development restrictions in the water quality zones of Barton Creek, and limitations of exemptions from the ordinance provisions, and will attempt to reduce the risk of accidental contamination (Barnett, in litt., 1993). The Edwards Rules regulate construction-related activities on the recharge zone that may ``alter or disturb the topographic, geologic, or existing recharge characteristics of a site'' as well as any other activity ``which may pose a potential for contaminating the Edwards Aquifer,'' including sewage collection systems and hazardous materials storage tanks. The Edwards Rules regulate construction activities through review of Water Pollution Abatement Plans (WPAPs). The WPAPs do not require site-specific water quality performance standards for developments over the recharge zone nor do they address land use, impervious cover limitations, or retrofitting for developments existing prior to the implementation of the Rules. (Travis County was not incorporated into the Rules until March, 1990; Hays County was incorporated in 1984.) The WPAPs also do not regulate development activities in the aquifer's contributing zone. As yet, the Edwards Rules do not include a comprehensive plan to address the effects of cumulative impacts on water quality in the aquifer.
