FR941221-2-00088 FR941221-2-00067 ETA is using about $30 million of the funds to award grants to develop and implement One-Stop Career Center systems in conjunction with local communities. Of these funds, $26.4 million is being used for awards to States, on a competitive basis, for planning/development and for implementation of One-Stop Career Center systems, both of which must be done in conjunction with local communities. Under this solicitation, ETA will award $3.5 million in grants to up to 10 communities with local One-Stop Career Center systems. We anticipate awarding grants in the $250,000 to $500,000 range depending upon each State's proposal and the number of grants to be awarded. These competitively awarded grants are available to local communities that have already developed a local system and would like to serve as ``learning laboratories'' for other States and local communities in developing One-Stop Career Center systems. It is anticipated that these local communities will serve as test sites for new One-Stop approaches and innovations, and undertake a broad range of dissemination and technical assistance activities. A. The One-Stop Career Center System Framework As envisioned, the One-Stop Career Center system will provide universal access to basic high-quality services for at least DOL funded programs. A guiding principle behind the One-Stop concept is that individuals should have access, through One-Stop, to a broad range of employment, training and education services. This implies at least one physical location that provides comprehensive services to any individual seeking such services. Beyond this, States and their local areas have a great deal of flexibility to design the One-Stop system that best serves the community, which may include many variations. For example, the One-Stop Career Center system may be physically located in one comprehensive site, in many sites, through electronic and technological access points, or through a combination of these approaches. Designs may include on-site services for only selected programs in the One-Stop Career Center while linking to other programs. Under this scenario, any individual can receive information on possible eligibility for services which may be accessed through another service center_the so-called ``no wrong door.'' A design may provide full access to every employment, training and education program in a single One-Stop Career Center in the community which is linked with other specialized centers and electronic and technological access points.
