FR940613-2-00074 FR940613-2-00044 The appropriate Assistant Secretary or designee shall, upon receipt of a bureau's ADRP, review and approve the ADRP in consultation with the IDRC. Within 30 days after approval of an ADRP, a bureau shall publish its ADRP in the Federal Register or otherwise make the ADRP accessible to interested persons. D. Monitoring and Evaluation Each BDRS shall monitor the implementation of his or her bureau's dispute resolution initiatives on an ongoing basis, using the criteria developed in their ADRP. Each BDRS shall submit to the IDRC, through the proper Bureau Head and Assistant Secretary, every 180 days, an evaluation of the bureau's progress toward meeting the goals, objectives, and timetables on the basis of the methodology outlined in the ADRP. The evaluation should also discuss any unanticipated issues that each bureau may have encountered and how those issues have been or are being resolved. The BDRSs in conjunction with the IDRC shall, at the conclusion of the two-year interim phase, catalogue and evaluate the bureaus' respective initiatives and experiences under their ADRPs in a report to the Secretary. This evaluation, coordinated by the DRS, as chair of the IDRC, will focus on the categories of dispute and types ADR methods that were most helpful in achieving resolution of disputes. Moreover, because the usefulness of ADR to the Department is dependent on the processes' ability to facilitate rational, fair, efficient, and stable solutions among the Department's bureaus, the regulated community and the public, evaluation of the interim policy should receive the benefit of public public comment and participation. A concluding section of the evaluation should explain how dispute resolution will be integrated on a permanent basis into each bureau's program offices. This process of review, evaluation, and modification will allow each bureau to systematically and regularly improve its ADR programs. E. Development of Final ADR Policy The IDRC in conjunction with the BDRSs, and with the benefit of public comment and participation, will develop a permanent Department ADR policy on the basis of the Department's two-year interim policy experience. The DRS will be responsible for the coordination of the development of the Department's final policy, and shall ensure issuance of that policy no later than 90 days after the conclusion of the interim policy. During the time between conclusion of the interim policy and issuance of the final policy, the interim policy shall remain in effect, as appropriate. F. Negotiated Rulemaking Pursuant to Executive Order 12866 and the Presidential Memorandum on Negotiated Rulemaking, issued September 30, 1993, the Department will use, where appropriate, negotiated rulemaking or other consensus-building techniques to develop rules that are fair, technically accurate, and clear. Each bureau will evaluate, prior to drafting or amending any regulation, whether negotiated rulemaking is appropriate for developing or amending that regulation and will explain, on the Regulatory Alert Form submitted to the ORA, the basis for determining whether or not the regulation will be developed or amended using negotiated rulemaking. In explaining whether negotiated rulemaking should be used for a particular rulemaking, each bureau should address at least the following: (1) Whether there exists a small and identifiable group of constituents (the ``parties'') with significant interests in the rulemaking, so that all reasonably foreseeable significant interests can be represented by individuals in the negotiation; (2) Whether the parties believe it to be in their best interest to enter into a negotiated rulemaking; (3) Whether the parties are willing and able to enter into negotiated rulemaking in good faith;
