FR940830-0-00092 FR940830-0-00013 (7) Other information, as specified by HUD and approved by OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act; and (8) An IHA resolution approving the Annual Submission or any amendments thereto, as set forth in §905.672(d)(7). (f) Additional submissions with Annual Submission. An IHA shall submit with the Annual Submission any amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, as set forth in §905.672(e), and such additional information as may be prescribed by HUD. HUD shall review any proposed amendments to the Comprehensive Plan in accordance with review standards under §905.675(b). (g) HUD review and approval of Annual Submission. (1) General . An Annual Submission accepted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be considered to be approved, unless HUD notifies the IHA in writing, postmarked within 75 calendar days of the date that HUD receives the Annual Submission for review under paragraph (c) of this section, that HUD has disapproved the Annual Submission, indicating the reasons for disapproval, the modifications required to make the Annual Submission approvable, and the date by which such modifications must be received by HUD. HUD may request additional information ( e.g., for eligibility determinations) to facilitate review and approval of the Annual Submission during the 75-day review period. HUD shall not disapprove an Annual Submission on the basis that the Department cannot complete its review under this section within the 75-day deadline; (2) Bases for disapproval for Annual Submission. HUD shall approve the Annual Submission, except where: (i) Plainly inconsistent with Comprehensive Plan. HUD determines that the activities and expenditures proposed in the Annual Submission are plainly inconsistent with the IHA's approved Comprehensive Plan; (ii) Contradiction of IHA resolution. HUD has evidence which tends to challenge, in a substantial manner, the certifications contained in the board resolution, as required by §905.672(d)(7). (h) Amendments to Annual Statement. The IHA shall advise HUD of all changes to the IHA's approved Annual Statement in its Performance and Evaluation Report submitted under §905.684. The IHA shall submit to HUD for prior approval any additional work categories (except for emergency work) which are not within the IHA's approved Five-Year Action Plan. (i) Failure to obligate formula funding and extension of time for performance. (1) Failure to obligate formula funds. If the IHA fails to obligate formula funds within the approved or extended time period, the IHA may be subject to an alternative management strategy which may involve third-party oversight or administration of the modernization function. HUD would only require such action after a corrective action order had been issued under §905.687 and the IHA failed to comply with the order. HUD could then require an alternative management strategy in a corrective action order. An IHA may appeal in writing the corrective action order requiring an alternative management strategy within 30 calendar days of that order. HUD Headquarters shall render a written decision on an IHA's appeal within 30 calendar days of the date of its receipt of the IHA's appeal. (2) Extension of time for performance. An IHA may extend the target dates for fund obligation and expenditure in the approved Annual Statement whenever any delay outside the IHA's control occurs, as specified by HUD, and the extension is made in a timely manner. Such revision is subject to HUD review under §905.687(a)(2) as to the IHA's continuing capacity. HUD shall not review as to an IHA's continuing capacity any revisions to an IHA's Comprehensive Plan and related statements where the basis for the revision is that HUD has not provided the amount of assistance set forth in the Annual Submission, or has not provided such assistance in a timely manner.
