FR941202-2-00020 FR941202-2-00008 Members (in addition to applicant): Florida Fresh Citrus Sales, Inc., Wabasso, Florida; Golden River Fruit Co., Vero Beach, Florida; Leroy E. Smith's Sons, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida; Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida; Seald-Sweet Growers, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida. Florida Fresh Citrus Sales, Inc. seeks a Certificate to cover the following specific Export Trade, Export Markets, and Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operations. Export Trade 1. Products . Fresh, frozen and processed citrus and citrus products. 2. Services . Inspection, quality control, marketing and promotional services. 3. Technology Rights . Proprietary rights to all technology associated with Products or Services, including, but not limited to: patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, and know-how. 4. Export Trade Facilitation Services (as they relate to the export of Products, Services and Technology Rights). All export trade-related facilitation services, including, but not limited to: Consulting and trade strategy; sales and marketing; export brokerage; foreign marketing research; foreign market development; overseas advertising and promotion; product research and design based on foreign buyer and consumer preferences; communication and processing of export orders; inspection and quality control; transportation; freight forwarding and trade documentation; insurance; billing of foreign buyers; collection (letters of credit and other financial instruments); provision of overseas sales and distribution facilities and overseas sales staff; legal, accounting and tax assistance; management information systems development and application; assistance and administration of government export assistance programs, such as the Export Enhancement and Market Promotion programs. Export Markets The Export Markets include all parts of the world except the United States (the fifty states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands). Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation In connection with the promotion and sale of Members' Products into the Export Markets, the FCE and/or one or more of its Members may: 1. Design and execute foreign marketing strategies for its Export Markets; 2. Prepare joint bids, establish export prices for Members' Products and Services and establish terms of sale in the Export Markets; 3. Allocate export sales, international buyers and/or export markets among Members on the basis of each Member's independent commitment of Products, and/or its individual export marketing plan in relation to FCE's corporate plan; 4. Grant sales and distribution rights for the Products, whether or not exclusive, into designated Export Markets to foreign agents or importers (``exclusive'' meaning that the FCE and Members may agree not to sell the Products into the designated Export Markets through any other foreign distributor, and that the foreign distributor may agree to represent only FCE in the Export Markets and none of its competitors); 5. Design, develop and market generic corporate labels; 6. Engage in joint promotional activities directly targeted at developing the Export markets, such as: arranging trade shows and marketing trips; providing advertising services; providing brochures, industry newsletters and other forms of product, service and industry information; conducting international market and product research; procuring international marketing, advertising and promotional services; and sharing the cost of these joint promotional activities among the Members;
