FR940617-0-00029 FR940617-0-00005 Article VI, Equal Employment One commenter remarked that a number of large national employers have made direct arrangements with the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) relating to the procedures to be followed in connection with EEO policies and language should be added to this Article VI to cover separately negotiated arrangements. Response: The language in Article VI, was provided by the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) and cannot be changed by REA. Article VII, Miscellaneous Section 1: One commenter felt the definition of Software should be expanded to clarify that Software means the Software provided to the Owner by the Bidder hereunder and the words ``and similar design level documentation'' should be inserted after the words ``source code'' in this subsection. It was also felt that the definition of Project should be expanded to include remote switching terminal(s). Response: REA feels the definition of the term ``Software'' is appropriate as written and will not be construed to mean any software other than the software furnished for the Contract in question. The words ``and similar design level documentation'' have not been added to the words ``source code.'' Source code is a definable commodity but ``and similar *␣*␣*.'' is overly vague. REA also feels the definition of the word ``Project'' is sufficient. If a remote is to be a separate Project, it must be listed as such in Article 1, section 1. Section 1: One commenter is concerned that the Owner's failure to provide site availability and needed facilities for remotes can unduly hold up Completion of the Project. The commenter proposed adding language to cover that event. Response: REA feels the definition of ``Completion of the Project'' is appropriate. The concerns of ``Site availability or functionality'' not being available in a timely manner is covered under Article II, section 1, Time of Completion of Installation. Section 2: Two commenters remarked on this section. Their comments are summarized below: (i) One commenter remarked that this Section still requires that equipment and software support be provided for five or eight years from discontinuing the manufacture of that Equipment. The commenter feels this time period should commence upon Completion of the Contract. It is felt this provision as drafted would penalize Bidders which enhance and manufacture existing equipment and reward Bidders who discontinue manufacture of equipment and develop new and incompatible equipment. (ii) One commenter wanted to revise the language to change the intent of this paragraph and also add a provision for a one (1) year software warranty. Response: REA previously responded in the Federal Register on March 14, 1991, at 56 FR 10827, that it concludes, based on previous comments, that this new Section strikes a reasonable balance for sellers and buyers. Section 3: One commenter remarked that its only area of concern arises in a two fold fashion. To begin with, the use of the word ``and'' following the word ``substantially'' in the first sentence interferes with the intended meaning of the sentence, and as such, should be deleted. The specific concern arises from the wording of this section 3, Notwithstanding the possibility of authorization by the Administrator, it suggests that such authorization is permissive, not mandatory and that therefore the intent of REA Bulletin 344&hyph;3 is not met. The commenter submits that such authorization be mandatory in the event the valuation conditions of the Bulletin are met. Response: The word ``and'' following ``substantially'' in the first sentence is a typographical error and has been changed to ``all.'' In regard to the Administrator's authorization being permissive, the Administrator's authorization is not required when the conditions of Bulletin 344&hyph;3 are met. It is only required when the conditions of Bulletin 344&hyph;3, paragraph IV.B. or IV.C. are not met. Section 6: One commenter remarked that the proposed draft has added a new sentence to this section which releases the borrower from its obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the Bidder's proprietary information if the Bidder fails to fulfill its continuing support obligations. The commenter believes the proposed remedy for such a problem is overly broad and is punitive to the Bidder. Response: REA feels this section offers sufficient protection for the Bidder and the Owner. The only way the Owner can be released from the confidentiality requirement is by the Bidder's failure to meet the obligations of the Form 525 Contract. Article VI, section 6, as proposed, provides some incentive not to violate the obligations of the Contract. Section 12: One commenter suggested that the Bidder not be required to obtain the consent of its surety for all sub-contractors. It is felt that if the surety makes such a requirement on the Bidder, this language adds nothing to the Bidder's obligation to obtain proper protection. On the other hand, if such a condition is not required by the surety, there should be no need to retain this condition.
