FR940725-1-00074 FR940725-1-00010 (2) The steady gradient of climb must not be less than 0.75 percent at an altitude of 1,500 feet above the takeoff surface, or landing surface, as appropriate, with the_ (i) Critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the minimum drag position; (ii) Remaining engine(s) at not more than maximum continuous power; (iii) Landing gear retracted; (iv) Wing flaps retracted; and (v) Climb speed not less than 1.2 V S1 . (c) For commuter category airplanes, the following apply: (1) Takeoff; landing gear extended. The steady gradient of climb at the altitude of the takeoff surface must be measurably positive for two-engine airplanes, not less than 0.3 percent for three-engine airplanes, or 0.5 percent for four-engine airplanes with_ (i) The critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the position it rapidly and automatically assumes; (ii) The remaining engine(s) at takeoff power; (iii) The landing gear extended, and all landing gear doors open; (iv) The wing flaps in the takeoff position(s); (v) The wings level; and (vi) A climb speed equal to V 2 . (2) Takeoff; landing gear retracted . The steady gradient of climb at an altitude of 400 feet above the takeoff surface must be not less than 2.0 percent for two-engine airplanes, 2.3 percent for three-engine airplanes, and 2.6 percent for four-engine airplanes with_ (i) The critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the position it rapidly and automatically assumes; (ii) The remaining engine(s) at takeoff power; (iii) The landing gear retracted; (iv) The wing flaps in the takeoff position(s); (v) A climb speed equal to V 2 . (3) Enroute . The steady gradient of climb at an altitude of 1,500 feet above the takeoff or landing surface, as appropriate, must be not less than 1.2 percent for two-engine airplanes, 1.5 percent for three-engine airplanes, and 1.7 percent for four-engine airplanes with_ (i) The critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the minimum drag position; (ii) The remaining engine(s) at not more than maximum continuous power; (iii) The landing gear retracted; (iv) The wing flaps retracted; and (v) A climb speed not less than 1.2 V S1 . (4) Discontinued approach . The steady gradient of climb at an altitude of 400 feet above the landing surface must be not less than 2.1 percent for two-engine airplanes, 2.4 percent for three-engine airplanes, and 2.7 percent for four-engine airplanes, with_ (i) The critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the minimum drag position; (ii) The remaining engine(s) at takeoff power; (iii) Landing gear retracted; (iv) Wing flaps in the approach position(s) in which V S1 for these position(s) does not exceed 110 percent of the V S1 for the related all-engines-operating landing position(s); and (v) A climb speed established in connection with normal landing procedures but not exceeding 1.5 V S1 . 18. A new §23.69 is added to read as follows: §23.69 Enroute climb/descent. (a) All engines operating . The steady gradient and rate of climb must be determined at each weight, altitude, and ambient temperature within the operational limits established by the applicant with_ (1) Not more than maximum continuous power on each engine; (2) The landing gear retracted; (3) The wing flaps retracted; and (4) A climb speed not less than 1.3 V S1 . (b) One engine inoperative . The steady gradient and rate of climb/descent must be determined at each weight, altitude, and ambient temperature within the operational limits established by the applicant with_ (1) The critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the minimum drag position; (2) The remaining engine(s) at not more than maximum continuous power; (3) The landing gear retracted; (4) The wing flaps retracted; and (5) A climb speed not less than 1.2 V S1 . 19. A new §23.71 is added to read as follows: §23.71 Glide: Single-engine airplanes. The maximum horizontal distance traveled in still air, in nautical miles, per 1,000 feet of altitude lost in a glide, and the speed necessary to achieve this must be determined with the engine inoperative, its propeller in the minimum drag position, and landing gear and wing flaps in the most favorable available position. 20. A new §23.73 is added to read as follows: §23.73 Reference landing approach speed. (a) For normal, utility, and acrobatic category reciprocating engine-powered airplanes of 6,000 pounds or less maximum weight, the reference landing approach speed, V REF , must not be less than the greater of V MC , determined in §23.149(b) with the wing flaps in the most extended takeoff position, and 1.3 V SO . (b) For normal, utility, and acrobatic category reciprocating engine-powered airplanes of 6,000 pounds maximum weight, and turbine engine-powered airplanes in the normal, utility, and acrobatic category, the reference landing approach speed, V REF , must not be less than the greater of V MC , determined in §23.149(c), and 1.3 V SO .
