FR940404-2-00174 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Study Group Two Telecommunication Standardization Sector (TSS), International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, June 1&hyph;11, 1993 Representative Kathryn A. Martin, Engineer, Bureau of International Communications, and Information Policy, Department of State Private Sector Advisers Stephen Engelman, Senior Staff Member, MCI, Richardson, Texas Fred Gaechter, Member Technical Staff, North American Numbering Plan Administration, Bellcore, Livingston, New Jersey Ben Levitan, Principal Engineer, ARINC, Annapolis, Maryland James Longua, Ameritech Services, Hoffman Estates, Illinois Robert W. Madden, Manager, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, Morristown, New Jersey Gayle Murdock, Manager, U.S. West Communications, Seattle, Washington Mark Neibert, Director, Digital and Protocol Standards, COMSAT, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the North Atlantic Systems Planning Group 29th Meeting (NATSPG/29), International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Paris, June 2&hyph;18, 1993 Representative W. Frank Price, Manager, International Procedures Branch, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Gerald L. Richard, International Procedures Branch, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Advisers Grazen T. Gardilcic, International Procedures Specialist, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Roy Grimes, Aviation Safety Inspector, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation Dale Livingston, Technical Program Manager, FAA Technical Center, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation, Atlantic City, New Jersey Michael Pumphrey, Assistant Manager (Oceanic), Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation, Ronkonkoma, New York Cameron Shackelford, Major, USAF, Future Aviation Concepts, Department of Defense Private Sector Advisers Richard Covell, Director, Oceanic Planning, Aeronautical Radio, Inc., Annapolis, Maryland Raymond J. Hilton, Director, Air Traffic Management, Air Transport Association of America, Washington, DC Valgene E. White, Vice President, Network Management Systems, Annapolis, Maryland United States Delegation to Concurrent Meetings of the Ad Hoc Advisory Group on Strategic Review and Planning and the Working Party of the Plenary Assembly on Restructuring of Study Groups (RSSG), International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, June 3&hyph;10, 1993 Representative Warren G. Richards, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Harold G. Kimball, Deputy Associate Administrator, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce William Luther, Field Operations Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Richard D. Parlow, Associate Administrator, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Ben C. Fisher, Fisher, Waylan, Cooper & Leader, Washington, DC Robert Huang, Radio Frequency Matters, COMSAT, Washington, DC Donald M. Jansky, Jansky/Barmat Telecommunications, Washington, DC Edward E. Reinhart, McLean, Virginia Hans Weiss, COMSAT, Washington, DC
