FR940406-0-00068 FR940406-0-00005 PART 91_REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES_BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE Sec. 91.1␣Purpose. 91.2␣Applicability. 91.3␣Definitions. 91.4␣Policy. 91.5␣Responsibilities. 91.6␣Delegations of authority. 91.7␣Procedures. Appendix A to Part 91_Flow Chart for Base Closure Community Assistance Appendix B to Part 91_Closure and Transition Timeline for a Notional BRAC 1993 Base That Closes on September 30, 1997 Authority: 10 U.S.C. 2687 note. §91.1 Purpose. This part prescribes procedures to implement ``Revitalizing Base Closure Communities'' (Part 90), the President's five-part community reinvestment program, 1 and real and personal property disposal to assist the economic recovery of communities impacted by base closures. The expeditious disposal of real and personal property will help communities get started with reuse early and is therefore critical to timely economic recovery. 1 Document available from the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Economic Security), Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301. §91.2 Applicability. This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Unified Combatant Commands, the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field Activities (hereafter referred to collectively as ``the DoD Components''). §91.3 Definitions. (a) Base Closure Law. The provisions of Title II of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and Realignment Act (Pub. L. 100&hyph;526; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note), or The Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (Part A of Title XXIX of the Pub. L. 101&hyph;510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note). (b) Closure. All missions of the base have ceased or have been relocated. All personnel (military, civilian, and contractor) have either been eliminated or relocated except for personnel required for caretaking and disposal of the base or personnel remaining in authorized enclaves. (c) Consultation. Fully explaining and discussing an issue and carefully considering objections, modifications, and alternatives; but without a requirement to reach agreement. (d) Date of approval. The date on which the authority of Congress to disapprove Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission recommendations for closures or realignments of installations expires under Title XXIX of P.L. 101&hyph;510, as amended. (e) Excess property. Any property under the control of a Military Department that the Secretary concerned determines is not required for the needs of the Department of Defense. Authority to make this determination rests with the Military Departments after screening the property with the other Military Departments. (f) Realignment. Any action that both reduces and relocates functions and DoD civilian personnel positions, but does not include a reduction in force resulting from workload adjustments, reduced personnel or funding levels, skill imbalances, or other similar cause. A realignment may terminate the DoD requirement for the land and facilities on part of an installation. That part of the installation shall be treated as ``closed'' for this document. (g) Redevelopment authority. Any entity, including an entity established by a State or local government, recognized by the Secretary of Defense as the entity responsible for developing the redevelopment plan with respect to the installation and for directing implementation of the plan. (h) Rural. An area outside a Metropolitan Statistical Area. (i) Surplus property. Any excess property not required for the needs and the discharge of the responsibilities of Federal Agencies. Authority to make this determination, after screening with all Federal Agencies, rests with the Military Departments. (j) Vicinity. The county in which the installation is located and the adjacent counties. An incorporated municipality shall be deemed to be a county for this purpose, when, under State law, it is not part of a county. §91.4 Policy.
