FR940921-2-00059 FR940921-2-00053 Geological Survey Interagency Advisory Committee on Water Data; Intergovernmental Task Force on Monitoring Water Quality AGENCY: U.S. Geological Survey, U.S. Department of the Interior. ACTION: Notice of the availability for public review and comment of the draft final report prepared by the Intergovernmental Task Force on Monitoring Water Quality (ITFM). SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given of the opportunity for the public to review and comment on the draft final report of the ITFM. The title of the draft report is ``The Nationwide Strategy for Improving Water-Quality Monitoring.'' The report is available by request to the address below. DATES: The public review and comment period extends through December 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of the report can be obtained by writing the Office of Water Data Coordination, U.S. Geological Survey, 417 National Center, Reston, Virginia 22092, or by telephoning (703) 648&hyph;5023. Review comments should be sent to the Executive Secretary, ITFM, at the same address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Nancy Lopez, Chief, Office of Water Data Coordination, USGS, at the above address or by telephoning (703) 648&hyph;5014. Also, for information about the ITFM and the final draft report, you may contact the chairperson of ITFM Elizabeth Fellows at (202) 260&hyph;7062. Ms. Fellows is the Chief, Monitoring Branch; Office of Wetlands, Oceans, and Watersheds; Office of Water; U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) established in Memorandum No. 92&hyph;01, dated December 10, 1991, the requirements to conduct a nationwide review and evaluation of water-quality monitoring and to recommend needed improvements. The ITFM is a partnership of representatives from Federal, State, Native American, and interstate governmental organizations. Working since January 1992 in consultation with representatives of other public and private organizations, the ITFM is developing an integrated, nationwide, voluntary strategy for water-quality monitoring. The proposed strategy and associated recommendations to improve water-quality monitoring are presented in the draft final report that is now available for review. Water resources considered in the strategy include surface water and ground water, near-coastal waters, associated aquatic communities and habitats, wetlands, and sediments. The five general purposes of water-quality monitoring identified in the report include characterizing status and trends, identifying and ranking in order of priority existing and emerging problems, designing and implementing programs and projects, evaluating program success and project compliance, and responding to emergencies. The scope of the ITFM proposals addresses physical, chemical (including toxicological), and biological (including habitat and ecological) aspects of water-quality monitoring. The monitoring functions considered in the strategy include the full range of activities from identifying monitoring objectives, planning and designing monitoring programs, conducting field sampling and laboratory analysis, interpreting and reporting monitoring results, to evaluating the effectiveness of monitoring efforts. The ITFM will complete the report by January 1995, and will distribute copies to the OMB, Federal agencies in the Executive Branch, Congress, Governors and others as requested or as appropriate. P. Patrick Leahy, Acting Chief Hydrologist. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23283 Filed 9&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;31&hyph;M
