FR940802-2-00103 FR940802-2-00056 Maritime Administration Reginald A. Bourdon, Associate Administrator for Policy, and International Affairs, Maritime Administration Richard E. Bowman, Associate Administrator for Maritime Aids, Maritime Administration Harlan T. Haller, Associate Administrator for Shipbuilding and Ship Operations, Maritime Administration John L. Mann, Jr., Associate Administrator for Administration, Maritime Administration Robert J. Patton, Jr., Deputy Chief Counsel, Maritime Administration Sharon K. Brooks, Director, Office of External Affairs, Maritime Administration Katherine L. Archuleta, Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of the Secretary Jerry A. Hawkins, Director, Office of Personnel and Training, Federal Highway Administration Research and Special Programs Administration Philip S. Coonley, Director, Office of Administration, Volpe National Transportation Systems Center, Research and Special Programs Administration Rose A. McMurray, Associate Administrator for Management and Administration, Research and Special Programs Administration Alan I. Roberts, Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Transportation, Research and Special Programs Administration George W. Tenley, Jr., Associate Administrator for Pipeline Safety, Research and Special Programs Administration Frank F.C. Tung, Deputy Director, Volpe National Transportation Systems Center, Research and Special Programs Administration Katherine E. Collins, Director, Office of Budget, Office of the Secretary Arnold L. Levine, Director, Office of International Transportation and Trade, Office of the Secretary Patricia D. Parrish, Director, Office of Management Planning, Office of the Secretary Regina Sullivan, Director, Office of Congressional Affairs, Office of the Secretary Jane F. Garvey, Deputy Administrator, Federal Highway Administration Sally Hill Cooper, Associate Administrator for Policy, Federal Railroad Administration Philip Olekszyk , Deputy Associate Administrator for Safety, Federal Railroad Administration Office of the Inspector General Irving A. Bassett, Jr., Deputy Inspector General, Department of Labor Katherine A. Brittin, Assistant Inspector General for Inspections, Department of Defense Eileen Boyd, Assistant Inspector General for Civil and Administrative Remedies, Department of Health and Human Services John J. Connors, Deputy Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development Donald Mancuso, Assistant Inspector General for Investigations, Department of Defense Steve A. McNamara, Assistant Inspector General for Audit, Department of Education Everett Mosely, Deputy Assistant Inspector General for Auditing, Department of Agriculture Robert S. Terjesen, Assistant Inspector General for Investigations, Department of State Joseph R. Willever, Deputy Inspector General, Office of Personnel Management Michael Zimmermen, Deputy Inspector General, Department of Commerce. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18691 Filed 8&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;62&hyph;P
