FR940119-2-00074 FR940119-2-00054 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;33456; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;44] January 11, 1994. Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by the American Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Exchange Fee Increases Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on December 23, 1993, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange is increasing its equity regulatory fee and CRD 1 fees, as well as adopting a new options floor brokerage fee. 1 The CRD system is a computer data base that provides current registration information for every registered representative that is associated with a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and/or is licensed in a state that participates in the CRD system. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Exchange is increasing several charges imposed on members and member organizations. The equity regulatory fee charged to clearing firms (based on cleared dollar value) is being raised from $.000045 per side to $.000050 per side, an increase of $.000005 per side. The fee charged to member firms for registering sales personnel through the CRD System is being raised $5.00 in each category as listed below. Both the equity regulatory fee and the CRD fees were last increased in 1991. 2 2 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28794 (January 17, 1991). 56 FR 2964 (January 25, 1991). ␣ 1Category 1Current 1Proposed Initial registration $40 $45 Renewals 20 25 Transfers 25 30 Terminations 15 20 The Exchange is also adopting a new options floor brokerage fee that will be payable by clearing firms of $.015 per contract side for all customer and non-market making member firm principal activity. The Chicago Board Options Exchange and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange both impose similar charges at higher levels. The Exchange is revising the fees it charges to members and member firms as outlined above in order to remain competitive with other equity and options exchanges offering similar services. 2. Statutory Basis The Exchange fee revisions are consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(4) in particular in that they are intended to assure the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees, and other charges among members, issuers, and other persons using the Exchange's facilities. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange fee revisions will impose no burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the Exchange fee revisions. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change establishes or changes a due, fee, or other charge imposed by the Exchange and therefore has become effective pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder. At any time within 60 days of the filing of such proposed rule change, the Commission may summarily abrogate such rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;44 and should be submitted by February 9, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1167 Filed 1&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
