FR940930-1-00063 FR940930-1-00020 Friday September 30, 1994 Part IV Department of the Treasury Fiscal Service 31 CFR Part 210 Federal Government Participation in the Automated Clearing House; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 189␣/␣Friday, September 30, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Fiscal Service 31 CFR Part 210 RIN Number 1510&hyph;AA39 Federal Government Participation in the Automated Clearing House AGENCY: Financial Management Service, Fiscal Service, Treasury. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This document proposes to revise regulations which define the responsibilities and liabilities of the Federal Government (Government), Federal Reserve Banks, financial institutions, Receivers and Originators doing business with the Government through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) system. This revision proposes substantive changes to the existing regulations and supersedes the savings allotment provisions of Part 209 because savings allotment and recurring benefit payments formerly under the terms of Part 209 are made by the ACH method under the terms of Part 210. These revisions are intended to provide a regulatory basis for broader use of the ACH system to meet the future payment, collection, and information flow needs of the Government. These revisions also are intended to bring Government regulations more in line with financial industry rules so as to eliminate, as much as possible, the need for the financial industry to operate under two sets of rules for processing ACH transactions. In general, these revisions accept the private industry ACH Rules as promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA), unless it is determined that, in its role of protecting the public trust, it is not in the best interests of the Government to do so. The exceptions to the ACH Rules are cited in these regulations. The Government already uses ACH Rules transaction formats and applies many ACH Rules to Government entries. These regulations will continue to provide provisions which protect the substantive rights of participants and enumerate their liabilities. The major reasons for the proposed changes are to provide a clearer and broader framework, and greater leeway for the Department of the Treasury, Financial Management Service (the Service), to make ongoing modifications to policies, Government operating instructions, and interpretations of this regulation. This will permit the Service to manage effectively the transition to fully electronic processing, respond more rapidly to changes in commercial rules and operating procedures, and utilize commercial ACH processes or rules, unless it is determined not to be in the best interest of the Government. It also will provide the Service a regulatory basis for working with the financial community to develop or enhance ACH products and services as they become available in the banking industry, if they are consistent with the terms of the regulation described in this part. This requires a complete rewording of Subpart A and Subpart B. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to the Cash Management Policy and Planning Division, Financial Management Service, U.S. Department of the Treasury, Room 511, Liberty Center, 401 14th Street SW., Washington, DC 20227. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John Galligan (202) 874&hyph;6935 (Director, Cash Management Policy and Planning Division); or Margaret Roy (Principal Attorney) (202) 874&hyph;6680.
