FR941213-2-00087 FR941213-2-00054 American Studies _A well-planned proposal for an American cultural content of the program to include field trips, cultural experiences such as festivals, holiday celebrations and/or tourism. Ability to Achieve Program Objectives_ Appropriateness of proposed syllabus to goals and objectives stated herein; proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the stated goals and objectives. Administrative and Managerial Capabilities_ Evidence of strong on-site administrative and managerial capabilities for hosting international visitors with specific discussion of how managerial and logistical arrangements will be undertaken. Institutional Capacity_ Proposed institutional resources should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the program's goals. Proposals should demonstrate potential for program excellence and/or track record of applicant institution. USIS will consider the past performance of prior grantees and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. Brief resumes of key personnel should be included. Institution's Record/Ability_ Proposals should demonstrate an institutional record of successful exchange programs, including responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past USIA/USIS grants. Project Evaluation_ Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the success of the program from beginning to end. USIS recommends that the proposal include a draft survey questionnaire or other technique plus description of a methodology to use to link outcome to original project objectives. Award-receiving organizations/institutions will be expected to submit a detailed evaluation at the conclusion of the program. Cost Effectiveness_ The overhead and administrative components, as well as salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. Notice This RFP incorporates one or more clauses from the Federal Acquisition Regulations by reference with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. ␣ 1Clause No. 1Clause title 1Date 52.222&hyph;21 Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities Apr 84. 52.222&hyph;26 Equal Opportunity Sept 78. 52.223&hyph;5 Certification Regarding a Drug Free Work Place Jul 90. Further, successful Grantee must certify that granted funds will be not used for lobbying or propaganda which is directed at influencing public policy decisions of the Government of the United States or any State or locality thereof. The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute and award commitment on the part of the Government. The needs of the program may require the award to be reduced, revised, or increased. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about February 22, 1995. Awards made will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: November 25, 1994. Carl D. Howard, Country Public Affairs Officer, USIS Brazil. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30526 Filed 12&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
