FR940720-0-00109 FR940720-0-00007 SDAPCB and CARB thought that the definition should exclude ancillary equipment such as electrical generators and air compressors. CARB argued that these machines are not specifically construction machines in that they perform the same functions in other types of applications. While this is true, such equipment may be employed in construction activity; the question then becomes one of primary use, which is discussed in the Application of Definitions, Primary Use Test section. For the reasons discussed above, construction equipment is defined in the final rule as any internal combustion engine-powered machine primarily used in construction and located on commercial construction sites. F. Definition of Locomotive The NPRM defined locomotive as a self-propelled piece of on-track equipment (other than equipment designed for operation both on highways and rails, specialized maintenance equipment, and other similar equipment) designed for moving other equipment or carrying freight or passenger traffic or both. EMA noted a difference between the NPRM definition and the definition given in the Locomotive Inspection Act (LIA) upon which the EPA definition was based, but did not recommend EPA use the LIA definition in the definition EMA provided. The only difference between the EPA definition and the LIA definition is that the LIA definition of locomotive includes a piece of equipment without propelling motors but with one or more control stands. This item was not included by EPA since if it has no propelling motors it will not be of concern for purposes of engine emissions regulations. It is noted that neither the Association of American Railroads (AAR) nor any railroad companies that commented on the NPRM, such as Union Pacific and Southern Pacific, had any specific comments on the definition of locomotive. EMA provided definitions for ``locomotive'' and ``locomotive engine.'' 23 Under this definition, the regulation of any engine mounted on a locomotive (such as an engine driving a crane or winch) would be preempted. The dictionary definition of ``locomotive'' is a ``self-propelled vehicle, usually diesel or electric, that travels on rails and moves railroad cars.'' 24 23 EMA recommended the following definitions: ``Locomotive'' means a self-propelled piece of on-track railroad equipment (other than equipment designed for operation both on-highway and on-track) and ``Locomotive engine'' means an engine included in a locomotive. See Statement of Engine Manufacturers Association, Docket entry IV&hyph;G&hyph;19. 24 Websters II, New Riverside University Dictionary, 1988. EMA's definition of locomotive engine goes beyond the specific purpose of locomotion to include any other engine that might be placed on a locomotive. EPA believes that the term ``locomotive engine'' is limited to the engine used to propel the locomotive and other railroad cars. However, EPA does believe that the term ``engines used in locomotives,'' as found in section 209(e)(1)(B), can be defined to include other engines which are mounted on a locomotive regardless of whether they are used for purposes of self-propulsion. EPA notes that under this definitional framework the ``locomotive'' is only that piece of on-track equipment which is self-propelling and is designed for moving other cars containing equipment, freight, or passengers. ``Engines used in locomotives'' thus includes an engine placed in the locomotive to propel the train and also includes other engines mounted on the locomotive for auxiliary power generation for the train, but does not include engines mounted on the train elsewhere than the locomotive. An engine providing power for a crane or winch, for example, would only be considered preempted from state regulation (if it otherwise met the requirements for ``new'') as ``an engine used in [a] locomotive'' if such engine were mounted on the locomotive. EPA believes these definitions reflect the intent of Congress to reduce the burden on interstate commerce for the railroad industry, and address EMA's concerns regarding auxiliary engines. 25 25 See Letter from Glenn Keller, EMA to Joanne Goldhand, EPA, Docket entry IV&hyph;I&hyph;54. Regulation of auxiliary engines whose primary function are not for propulsion is addressed by EPA in its final regulation for nonroad engines 37 kilowatt (50 hp) and above under section 213 of the Act. 26 26 59 FR 31306, June 17, 1994. EPA has stricken the word ``carrying'' from the definition of locomotive. This was done to avoid implying that any persons or property that were moved by the engine had to be located directly on the locomotive. The word ``moving'' in the definition is all that is needed to give the correct meaning.
