FR940622-1-00047 FR940622-1-00013 The methodology for selecting the high-risk pollutants is documented in the Federal Register notices for the proposed Early Reduction Program rule (56 FR 27338) and the final regulations (as cited above). Additional detailed information on the selection criteria is also available in the Early Reduction Program docket (Docket No. A&hyph;90&hyph;47). In general, certain criteria were established to screen hazardous air pollutants for their potential for high risk of adverse public health effects associated with exposure to small quantities of emissions. The screening analysis considered health effects and potential exposure. Based on EPA's analysis of data available in 1992, acrylic acid was included on the list of high-risk pollutants based in part on the inhalation reference concentration (RfC) for acrylic acid in EPA's Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS). A reference concentration is an estimate (with uncertainty spanning perhaps an order of magnitude or more) of the daily exposure to the human population (including sensitive subpopulations) that is likely to be without deleterious effects during a lifetime. On February 26, 1993, Basic Acrylic Monomer Manufacturers (BAMM) filed a petition for review of the final Early Reductions Program regulation in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, BAMM v. EPA , No. 93&hyph;1179 (D.C. Cir.). On April 13, 1993, BAMM submitted an administrative petition to EPA to revise the RfC for acrylic acid and to delete acrylic acid from the list of high-risk pollutants. BAMM submitted to EPA a new two-generation reproductive study of acrylic acid. A review of the new data led EPA to revise the RfC for acrylic acid. As a result, acrylic acid no longer meets the criteria for inclusion on the high risk list. II. Summary of and Rationale for the Proposed Rule Noncarcinogens meet the criteria for the high risk list if they have a verified RfC less than 0.5 micrograms per cubic meter. The RfC for acrylic acid that was originally verified in August 1990 was 0.33 micrograms per cubic meter, based on lesions of the nasal epithelium in a subchronic mouse inhalation study (Miller et al ., 1981). 1 One of the uncertainty factors applied to the RfC for acrylic acid was a factor of three to account for the lack of a two-generation reproductive study. 1 Miller, R.R., J.A. Ayres, G.C. Jersey and M.J. McKenna. 1981. Inhalation toxicity of acrylic acid. Fund. Appl. Toxicol. 1(3):271&hyph;7. In January, 1994, BAMM submitted additional data to EPA including a new two-generation reproductive study in rats, a developmental study in rabbits, and a bioavailability study in rats and mice. On February 15 and 16, 1994, the IRIS RfC/ RfD Work Group met and considered, among other things, the new two-generation reproductive study (BASF, 1993). 2 The Work Group found that the new study met the criteria for an adequate reproductive study and accordingly increased the RfC for acrylic acid by a factor of three. The increase in the RfC for acrylic acid by a factor of three resulted in a revised RfC of 1 microgram per cubic meter which was made publicly available on IRIS on April 1, 1994. The revised RfC is sufficiently high to exclude acrylic acid from the Early Reductions Program high-risk list. Consequently, today's action proposes to delete acrylic acid from the list of high-risk pollutants. 2 BASF. 1993. Reproduction toxicity study with acrylic acid in rats: continuous administration in the drinking water over 2 generation (1 litter in the first and 1 litter in the second generation). Project No. 71R0114/92011. BASF Aktiengesellschaft, Dept. of Toxicology, Rhein, FRG. III. Administrative Requirements A. Written Comments EPA seeks full public participation in arriving at its final decisions, and strongly encourages comments on all aspects of this proposal from all interested parties. Whenever applicable, full supporting data and detailed analysis should be submitted to allow EPA to make maximum use of the comments. All comments should be directed to the EPA Air Docket, Docket No. A&hyph;94&hyph;29 (see ADDRESSES ). Comments on this notice will be accepted until the date specified in DATES .
