FR941219-1-00014 FR941219-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement 30 CFR Part 901 Alabama Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation Plan AGENCY: Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM), Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule; public comment period and opportunity for public hearing. SUMMARY: OSM is announcing receipt of a proposed amendment to the Alabama abandoned mine land reclamation plan (hereinafter referred to as the ``Alabama plan'') under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA). The proposed amendment consists of revisions and additions to the Alabama plan pertaining to the incorporation of contractor bidder eligibility screening under OSM's Applicant Violator System for the reclamation of coal and noncoal sites; exclusion of certain noncoal sites from reclamation; requirement of submission of Form OSM&hyph;76 upon project completion; and, removal of the fourth priority for noncoal reclamation sites. These changes would be applicable to reclamation of both nonemergency and emergency Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation (AMLR) projects. The amendment is intended to revise the Alabama plan to be consistent with the corresponding Federal regulations. DATES: Written comments must be received by 4:00 p.m., E.S.T. January 18, 1995. If requested, a public hearing on the proposed amendment will be held on January 13, 1995. Requests to speak at the hearing must be received by 4:00 p.m., E.S.T. on January 3, 1995. ADDRESSES: Written comments and requests to speak at the hearing should be mailed or hand delivered to Jesse Jackson, Jr., Director, Birmingham Field Office, at the address listed below. Copies of the Alabama plan, the proposed amendment, a listing of any scheduled public hearings, and all written comments received in response to this document will be available for public review at the addresses listed below during normal business hours, Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. Each requester may receive one free copy of the proposed amendment by contacting OSM's Birmingham Field Office:
