FR941019-2-00147 FR941019-2-00081 Judiciary Center Building, 555 4th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001. October 6, 1994. Kenneth C. Anderson, Esq., Anderson, Aukamp & Gingold, 1201 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Suite 821, Washington, DC 20004 Re: Response to Comments on Proposed Final judgment U.S. v. Pilkington plc and Pilkington Holdings, Inc. Civ 94&hyph;345 TUC WDB (D. Ariz.), filed May 25, 1994 Dear Mr. Anderson: This responds to the Comments of International Technologies Consultants, Inc. Regarding Proposed Final Judgment, Stipulations and Competitive Impact Statement (``Comments'') submitted to the Antitrust Division over your signature on September 1, 1994. The Comments, in addition to making a Preliminary Statement that characterizes the proposed Final Judgment (``Judgment'') and summarizes certain representations by Defendants to the press concerning the effect that they expect it to have on their future conduct, proposes two specific changes to be made before the Judgment is entered. Before addressing your specific proposals for change, we would point out that the text of the proposed Final Judgment (``Judgment''), rather than Pilkington's characterization thereof in its own press releases controls what it will be permitted and required to do. Thus, contrary to Pilkington's public claim, which you quote, that the restraints Pilkington has imposed under the guise of ``protection and licensing of its total float technology, throughout the rest of the world, remain unaffected,'' the Judgment will in fact enjoin Pilkington from anticompetitive practices throughout the world to the extent that those practices are aimed at U.S.-based entities seeking to use float technology anywhere, or are aimed at anyone else seeking to use float technology in North America. That is, Pilkington's specified anticompetitive conduct is enjoined insofar as it is within the jurisdiction of the U.S. antitrust laws. The competitive effect of Pilkington's ability, also referred to in the portion of Pilkington's press release that you quote, to continue ``normal licensing'' of its ``recent float bath technology,'' must be considered in the light of its ready concession to the United States during settlement negotiations that very little significant technology of that kind exists. A good measure of the near-absence of such significant recent technology is that float glass manufacture by those who have not been licensed to use this ``recent technology'' has been quite competitive with Pilkington's and its subsidiaries' production. The standard we have applied in assessing your specific proposals for modification or clarification is whether it is in the public interest to enter that Judgment that has been submitted for entry by stipulation. Entry is in the public interest if the Judgment is adequate to remedy the antitrust violations alleged in the Complaint. United States v. Bechtel Corp., 1979&hyph;1 Trade Cas. (CCH) ¶62,430 (N.D. Cal. 1979), aff'd, 648 F. 2d 660, 665 (9th Cir. 1981), cert. denied, 454 U.S. 1083 (1982). Your first proposed change is to add, at the end of Subparagraph IV.A., a provision enjoining Defendants from entering, enforcing, or implementing any contract having the purpose or effect of preventing, interfering with, or otherwise handicapping efforts by U.S. NON-LICENSEES 1 to enter the float process technology market anywhere in the world. It is the Department's view that, although the conduct proscribed by the proposed amendment would clearly be unlawful, this proposed amendment would be redundant inasmuch as Subparagraph VI.B. adequately protects against such conduct by enjoining Defendants from employing the means it heretofore relied upon to achieve its anticompetitive ends, i.e., making unjustified assertions of intellectual property rights against putative entrants and their customers, financing sources, suppliers, and the like. 1 Capitalized terms have the meanings assigned to them in Paragraph II of the Judgment. Second, your Comments propose different conditions than those contained in Subparagraph IV.B.2. of the Judgment to govern the circumstances under which Defendants can avoid violating that provision's injunction against asserting certain know-how rights vis-a-vis U.S. NON-LICENSEES. The proposed amendment would require this Court, each time such an assertion is made, to appoint a Special Master to determine whether Defendants have proven an adequate basis for the assertion unless the matter is resolved by negotiation. (Your proposal would require ``Pilkington [to] pay all costs should it not prevail'' in such a proceeding, but is silent as to who would pay the Special Master's costs if Defendants do prevail.) Your proposal would thus delete from the Judgment provisions that require defendants to justify in writing to the Department of Justice assertions of the kind that your proposal would submit to Special masters. In the Department's view, requiring this Court to appoint a Special Master whenever such an assertion fails to be resolved by negotiation would not assure, to a sufficiently greater extent than the provisions of the proposed Final Judgment, that Defendants will henceforth desist from claiming know-how rights that are unjustified. For the reasons stated above the Department of Justice does not believe that it would be in the public interest to forego entry of the Judgment for failure to incorporate any of your proposed changes. We nevertheless greatly appreciate your interest in this matter. ␣␣␣Sincerely, K. Craig Wildfang, Special Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division. Kurt Shaffert, Attorney, Antitrust Division.
