FR941206-1-00107 FR941206-1-00008 No other more effective control options for these VOHAP emissions from cleaning activities were found. Use of lower-HAP or lower-vapor-pressure substitutes to minimize evaporative losses may be feasible, although this option depends on the availability of a suitable replacement cleaning material. Capture and control of fugitive emissions from the many transfer, handling, and storage of solvents (and operation wastes) although conceivable, is impractical, making it difficult to invoke any quantifiable standard other than work practice requirements. Associated monitoring and recordkeeping are included for determining compliance. In an attempt to ensure that employees understand and comply with the requirements, the proposed standards also require each source to implement a training program for all involved personnel. C. Selection of the Format of the Proposed Standards 1. Coating Operations Most HAP emissions from coating operations in this industry occur outdoors where the technology for their capture has not been demonstrated. As a result the only available technology for reducing emissions is to require use of coatings with lower volatile content. Virtually all of the HAP and VOC contained in marine coatings are emitted to the atmosphere during the course of application and drying. Thus, an emission standard based on limiting both HAP and VOC content of the coatings, as applied, is appropriate for these operations, particularly because any additional HAP and VOC that may be formed and emitted during the curing process are detected and measured by the reference measurement methodology. As a result, the types of coatings used by the industry were identified and maximum, never-to-be-exceeded HAP limits were selected for each of the several coating categories. To allow additional flexibility, the ability to average limits across categories was also considered. Under an averaging approach, any coating regardless of volatile organic content, can be used as long as the volume weighted average as applied VOHAP content, i.e., as measured by the reference method, of all coatings does not exceed the average calculated from their individual limits. In developing the limits, the Agency considered two types of averages: (1) Separate averages for coating within each of the coating categories and (2) a single average for all coatings used by a facility. The option of establishing limits based on weighted averages of various coatings of different pollution content was abandoned when the industry indicated that time and effort to plan, track, and demonstrate compliance would be too burdensome. As a result, the limits are based on never-to-be-exceeded VOHAP contents for 23 categories of coatings and permits ``averaging'' for purposes of compliance under certain conditions. The proposed coating categories and associated HAP limits are presented in Table 1. 2. Handling, Transfer, and Storage of VOHAP Containing Material The proposed work practice standards require that these operations be carried out in such a manner that minimizes spills. For storage and transport, the proposed standards require use of containers that are normally closed. To provide a measure of enforceability to these standards, each source will be required to indicate how it intends to comply with the standards as part of the initial notification that is required of all sources under the part 63 general provisions. After the Administrator or her designee negotiates and approves these compliance measures as part of the operating permit program, each source will have a specific set of requirements for which compliance can be determined by monitoring, observation and/or inspection. D. Selection of Compliance Dates The proposed rule would require that existing sources comply within 1 year after the effective date of the rule. This provides time for shipyards and coating manufacturers to deplete most existing inventories of contemporary coatings. An existing unaffected area source that increases its emissions (or potential to emit) such that it becomes a major source would be required to comply within 1 year after becoming a major source.
