FR941020-2-00058 FR941020-2-00038 H. The Office of Operations Management and Program Integration (S2K). Establish G. The Office of Public Service and Operations Support (S2N). H. The Office of Telephone Services (S2Q). Section S2.20␣The Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Operations_(Functions) Delete G. The Office of Public and Employee Services (S2J) in its entirety. H. The Office of Operations Management and Program Integration (S2K) in its entirety. Establish G. The Office of Public Service and Operations Support (S2N) provides operations analysis, program support, service to the public and employee services for the Deputy Commissioner, Operations, and conducts studies and analyses. Provides broad operations support to the field offices (FO), teleservice centers (TSC), processing center operations (PCO), the Office of Disability and International Operations (ODIO) and the Office of Central Records Operations (OCRO). OPSOS also integrates operational delivery of public services under the retirement, survivors and disability insurance (RSDI), the supplemental security income (SSI) and health insurance (HI) programs for domestic beneficiaries and delivery of RSDI program services to foreign beneficiaries. Provides broad operations support to the maintenance of the basic earnings data which support the Social Security programs. Conducts activities associated with the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the Deputy Commissioner for Operations (DCO) components. Directs and coordinates internal management support functions to ensure effective position management, workforce utilization and management analysis and planning. Directs the overall DCO budget process. Plans, implements, manages and assesses the interrelated duties of delivering SSA program and related services to the public. H. The Office of Telephone Services (S2Q) plans, implements, operates and evaluates SSA's telephone service to the public delivered by the National 800 Number and SSA FOs. Plans and conducts studies, pilots and analyses of 800 Number and FO telephone operations to assess and improve the service provided. Provides direct support to 37 TSCs and approximately 1,300 FOs, including developing and communicating uniform operating policies and procedures. Maintains close, effective working relationships with SSA policy, program and administrative components, with other Federal agencies and with vendors which have important roles in the delivery and evaluation of SSA's telephone service to the public. Manages SSA's National 800 Number network operation, designs and administers call routing plans, continuously monitors call handling and adjusts routing to handle emergency situations and to maximize call answering effectiveness and efficiency. Delete Subchapter S2J, the Office of Public and Employee Services in its entirety. Delete Subchapter S2K, the Office of Operations and Program Integration in its entirety. Add Subchapter Subchapter S2N Office of Public Service and Operations Support S2N.00␣Mission S2N.10␣Organization S2N20.␣Functions Section S2N.00␣The Office of Public Service and Operations Support_(Mission) The Office of Public Service and Operations Support (OPSOS) provides operations analysis, program support, service to the public and employee services for the DCO, and conducts studies and analysis. Provides broad operations support to the FOs, TCSs, PCOs, ODIO and OCRO. Integrates operational delivery of public services under the RSDI, SSI and HI programs for domestic beneficiaries and delivery of RSDI program services to foreign beneficiaries. Provides broad operations support to the maintenance of the basic earnings data which support the Social Security programs. Conducts activities associated with the overall effectiveness and efficiency of DCO components. Directs and coordinates internal management support functions to ensure effective position management, workforce utilization and management analysis and planning. Directs the overall DCO budget process. Plans, implements, manages and assesses the interrelated duties of delivering SSA program and related services to the public.
