FR940616-2-00093 FR940616-2-00070 [CA&hyph;065&hyph;94&hyph;4333&hyph;04] Rand Mountains_Fremont Valley Management Plan and Environmental Assessment in the California Desert District_Ridgecrest Resource Area Kern County, CA AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of the final approval, availability and implementation of the Rand Mountains_Fremont Valley Management Plan in eastern Kern County, California. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the Rand Mountains_Fremont Valley Management Plan has been approved by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), California Department of Fish and Game (CDFG) and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). This plan covers a 65,020 acre area in eastern Kern County which is important habitat for the federally listed threatened desert tortoise. This plan was necessitated by the requirements of the Endangered Species Act (EPA) to protect a threatened species in an area subject to conflicting uses. The plan has 88 major management decisions which put restrictions on all uses in the area for the purpose of protecting the native desert tortoise population, its habitat and the area's ecosystem. These plan use restrictions include restricting off-highway vehicle (OHV) use to a maximum of 129 miles of designated vehicular routes, restricting overnight camping to designated campsites, prohibiting all competitive OHV events and restricting use of firearms except for the lawful taking of upland game birds within an area identified for such use. The existing West Rand ACEC area will be expanded by 13,120 acres and changed from a Moderate to a Limited Multiple-Use Class under the California Desert Plan. A total of 32,590 acres of the plan area will be withdrawn from mineral entry. The plan designates 44,800 acres as category 1 desert tortoise habitat. USFWS consultations will be required pursuant to section 7 of the ESA when processing any new project proposals allowed under the plan which could impact the desert tortoise. This plan covers all public lands in the Rand Mountains-Fremont Valley Management Area which is generally bounded by the community of Randsburg, CA and U.S. Highway 395 on the east, the Garlock and Randsburg-Red Rock Roads on the north, the western edge of Koehn Dry Lake and the Desert Tortoise Natural Area on the west, and private lands encompassed by the incorporated city limites of California City, CA on the south. ORDER: Notice is hereby given that effective July 18, 1994, the following use restrictions will be in effect on public lands in the Rand Mountains-Fremont Valley Management Area. 1. No person may use, drive or otherwise operate a motorized vehicle except on those designated routes of travel that are identified by open route signs. 2. No person may discharge a firearm at any time except shotguns and then only from September 1 through January 31st for the lawful taking of upland game birds in the upland and mountains portion of the area as identified in the plan. 3. Camping is prohibited except in the eastern portion of the management area at sites identified in the plan. Exemptions to this order include any otherwise authorized activity or as approved by the California Desert District Manager or the Ridgecrest Area Manager. Maps identifying the plan area, plan use restrictions, and the network of designated vehicular routes of travel are available from the Ridgecrest Resource Area office. Authority for these plan restrictions is found in 43 CFR 8364.1. Violation of these restrictions is punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000 and/or 12 months in jail. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The purpose of this plan and use restrictions is to provide increased protection for the desert tortoise populations and its habitat in an important part of its range. The desert tortoise was listed as a threatened species under the ESA in 1989 and is afforded increased protection under terms of the Act and this plan. During the interim while this plan was developed, the Bureau initiated a 14 month temporary closure for the plan area and then reopened the area on November 22, 1990 to restricted use pending approval of the final plan. Since November 22, 1990, Bureau personnel along with a large group of California Off-Road Vehicle Association volunteers have worked to implement the plan decisions on an interim basis as approved through a consultation with the USFWS and January 23, 1991 Federal Register notice. This interim FR notice will expire upon publication of this FR notice. A formal section 7 consultation on this plan was conducted with the USFWS and a non-jeopardy biological opinion was issued on March 10, 1993. This opinion provided additional terms and Conditions which were incorporated into the plan. The opinion determined that this plan would result in management actions that would greatly reduce the existing magnitude of adverse impacts to the desert tortoise and its habitat. A 10 member volunteer Technical Review Team (TRT) was instrumental in the development of this plan. Team members represented all primary interest groups, the CDFG and California City. They met regularly for three years to evaluate available data and made management recommendations for the plan. The TRT is continuing to assist in reviewing procedures for implementing the plan decisions and evaluating the plan effectiveness in protecting the plan areas desert tortoise populations. EFFECTIVE DATE: The decision is effective July 18, 1994. This decision may be appealed to the Interior Board of Land Appeals, Office of the Secretary, in accordance with the regulations contained 43 CFR, part 4. If an appeal is taken, your notice must be filed at the Ridgecreat Resource Area office (address below) within 30 days from receipt of this decision. The appellant has the burden of showing that the decision they have appealed is in error. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Copied of the final Rand Mountains-Fremont Valley Management Plan and Environmental Assessment are available from the Bureau of Land Management, Ridgecrest Resource Area, 300 South Richmond Road, Ridgecrest, CA 93555, 619&hyph;375&hyph;7125. Specific questions concerning this plan should be directed to Staff Chief Steve Smith. Dated: June 2, 1994. Henri R. Bisson, District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14611 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;40&hyph;M
