FR940920-2-00016 FR940920-2-00006 For Rosex LTDA, we also revised the calculation of interest expense to express the expense as a per unit amount. In order to calculate FMV, we made company-specific adjustments as described below: 1. Agrorosas S.A. For CV to purchase price comparisons, we made circumstances of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for credit expenses. For CV to ESP comparisons, we made deductions, where appropriate, for credit expenses and commissions. We also deducted from CV the weighted-average U.S. indirect selling expenses up to the amount of indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). 2. Flores Mocari S.A. For CV to purchase price comparisons, we made circumstance of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for credit expenses. For CV to ESP comparisons, we made deductions, where appropriate, for credit expenses. We also deducted from CV the weighted-average U.S. indirect selling expenses, including inventory carrying costs, up to the amount of the greater of related party commissions or indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). 3. Rosex LTDA For CV to purchase price comparisons, we made circumstance of sale adjustments, where appropriate, for credit expenses. For CV to ESP comparisons, we made deductions, where appropriate, for credit expenses and commissions. We also deducted from CV the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses up to the amount of indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). Currency Conversion Regarding transactions in third country currencies, we made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect during the month of the U.S. sales as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank. Because certified exchange rates for Colombia were unavailable from the Federal Reserve, we made currency conversions for expenses denominated in Colombian pesos based on the official monthly exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as published by the International Monetary Fund. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the information used in making our final determination. Critical Circumstances In the petition, petitioner alleged that ``critical circumstances'' exist with respect to importation of roses. However, we did not initiate a critical circumstances investigation because, since roses are extremely perishable, it is not possible to accumulate an inventory of roses in order to evade a potential antidumping duty order. Therefore, we determined that an allegation that critical circumstances exist is without merit ( See the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum).
