FR941227-2-00085 FR941227-2-00059 B. Compatibility of the Proposed Routine Use The Privacy Act permits us to disclose information about individuals without their consent for a routine use, i.e., when the information will be used for a purpose that is compatible with the purpose for which we collected the information. The proposed routine use, as modified, will be compatible with the purposes for which SSA initially collected the information to be disclosed, since, by the nature of the totalization agreements the social security agency in the other country will be administering a program comparable to the social security program of the U.S.; the totalization agreements will continue to require that the foreign agencies use the information only for compatible, program-related purposes. C. Effect of the Proposed Alteration on the Privacy of Individuals Whenever the U.S. enters into a totalization agreement with a foreign country, SSA always requires the other country's assurance that appropriate laws of that country protect the confidentiality of personal data. SSA always considers how compatible the other country's privacy laws are with those of the U.S. Unless the other country's laws allow disclosure, the information which SSA furnishes to a foreign country's social security agency under a totalization agreement must be kept confidential and, to the extent possible, used exclusively for implementing the agreement (Social Security Ruling 80&hyph;15 and 20 CFR 404.1930). SSA uses information in these four systems for the purposes of determining age and other evidentiary requirements of individuals applying for Social Security benefits or Social Security numbers. We will continue to adhere to all provisions of the Privacy Act, Social Security Act, and other applicable laws in our maintenance and use of the information. Thus, we do not anticipate that any unwarranted effects on the privacy of individuals will result from the routine use alteration proposed in this notice. Dated: December 5, 1994. Shirley S. Chater, Commissioner of Social Security. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31654 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;M
