FR940906-2-00090 FR940906-2-00071 [Release No. 34&hyph;34607; File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;13] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Relating to Depository Eligibility of New Issue Municipal Securities August 26, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on August 17, 1994, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (``MSRB'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by MSRB. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change will amend MSRB Rule G&hyph;34 on CUSIP Numbers and Dissemination of Initial Trade Date Information concerning depository eligibility of new issue municipal securities. MSRB requests that the Commission delay the effectiveness of the proposed rule change until sixty (60) days after Commission approval to allow dealers to adjust their underwriting procedures to obtain compliance. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, MSRB included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The texts of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. MSRB has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change On October 6, 1993, the Commission adopted Rule 15c6&hyph;1 under the Act, which establishes three business days after the trade date (``T+3'') instead of five business days (``T+5'') as the standard settlement timeframe for most broker-dealer transactions. 2 The rule becomes effective June 1, 1995. Although municipal securities were not included within the scope of Rule 15c6&hyph;1, the Commission did request that MSRB provide a plan for implementing T+3 settlement in the municipal securities market. 3 In response, MSRB submitted to the Commission its Report of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board on T+3 Settlement for the Municipal Securities Market (March 17, 1994) (``T+3 Report''). The T+3 Report detailed changes in operational practices and regulatory actions that would be necessary in a T+3 environment for municipal securities. 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33023 (October 6, 1993), 58 FR 52891. 3 Letter from Arthur Levitt, Chairman, SEC, to David Clapp, Chairman, MSRB (October 7, 1993). The T+3 Report discussed the need for changes concerning the use of physical securities certificates to settle interdealer and institutional customer transactions. Because these transactions are settled on a delivery vs. payment or receipt vs. payment (``DVP/RVP'') basis, it is critical that the delivery of securities be made in a timely manner on settlement date. The physical delivery of securities certificates, however, is a relatively time-consuming and inefficient practice as compared to book-entry delivery through a securities depository. A shortened settlement cycle will provide dealers, institutional customers, and their clearing agents with considerably less time to deal with the processing requirements and inevitable problems that arise in connection with transportation, delivery, and acceptance of physical securities certificates. In 1993, MSRB amended MSRB Rules G&hyph;12(f)(ii) and G&hyph;15(d)(iii) to require essentially all interdealer and institutional customer transactions to be settled by book-entry when the securities involved in the transactions are listed as eligible for deposit in a depository. While these rules have assisted the municipal securities industry in moving toward more universal use of book-entry settlement, the rules only apply to transactions in securities that are depository-eligible. The proposed rule change will facilitate book-entry settlement of transactions in municipal securities by requiring, with limited exceptions, dealers acquiring new issue municipal securities to apply for depository eligibility. This requirement will serve to ensure that the great majority of new issue municipal securities are made depository eligible. As a result, the number of interdealer and institutional customer transactions that must be settled by book-entry under MSRB Rules G&hyph;12(f)(ii) and G&hyph;15(d)(iii) will greatly increase. This will facilitate the conversion to T+3 settlement and will enhance the efficiency of clearance and settlement of municipal securities by reducing the number of physical deliveries of interdealer and institutional customer transactions in favor of book-entry settlement. Under the proposed rule change, brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers will be required to apply for depository eligibility within one business day of the date of sale of a new issue municipal security. 4 The proposed rule change will exempt (1) issues not meeting the eligibility criteria of all depositories that accept municipal securities for deposit and (2) issues maturing in sixty days or less. The proposed rule change also will provide an exemption until July 1, 1996, for issues under $1 million in par value. MSRB has adopted the rule change pursuant to Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act, which provides that MSRB has the authority to adopt rules: 4 For competitively sold issues, the date of award from the issuer is considered the date of sale. For negotiated issues, the date of execution of the contract to purchase the securities from the issuer is considered the date of sale. To foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in municipal securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest.***
