FR940328-2-00125 FR940328-2-00068 Natural Environment: T/TA activities to help programs and participants conserve, restore, and sustain natural habitats. In each case, Skills Development Centers are expected to: (a) Develop and/or maintain a network of geographically dispersed expert resource people and organizations around the country and maintain a database of these resources. Providers should identify expert resources from the specific field_organizations and individuals_that the Corporation, state commissions, and programs can access when needed. A database, developed in Foxpro or Oracle software, with pertinent information about these expert resources should be maintained and linked to the National Service Resource Center database (described below) so that capacity building is ensured. The provider should train resource people as needed to make sure that they provide useful assistance; receive regular feedback from T/TA customer's on resource peoples' performance; and work with Resource Center staff to make recommendations on how to ``certify'' trainers and other T/TA providers should the Corporation decide that this is necessary. The provider should also gather information from Corporation staff, state commissions, programs, and other T/TA grantees in order to expand the pool of resources in the database. (b) Provide hands-on support to programs using the network of expert trainers and other resource people. Working with the National Service Resource Center, National Service Skills Development Centers should respond to individual requests for assistance from the Corporation, state commissions, or programs to provide help with project design and implementation, specific project improvement issues, or other forms of training and technical assistance. Applicants should estimate how many person days they expect to devote to this and how many people and/or programs they think they have the capacity to serve. Whenever possible, T/TA providers should use local resource people to carry out these tasks. This way, T/TA efforts will help build capacity and relationships on the local level. (c) Demonstrate an understanding of the central characteristics of successful service programs. T/TA providers are expected to have expertise in the specific fields their T/TA will cover (e.g. crime prevention) so that they can help service programs produce direct and demonstrable results in those areas. Providers must also understand the more generic, common components of successful service programs, regardless of what needs service programs address. For suggestions on how to gain this knowledge, see ``Encouraged approaches'' below. Providers will be expected to collaborate with other Corporation T/TA providers, particularly those working to ``Strengthen the Basics of National Service Programs'' (as described in section below). (d) Gather and provide critical information on at least one of the priority areas. T/TA providers should identify the most important information and resources (including databases) from the specific field(s) addressed. This might include training curricula, standards of best practice, examples of effective practices in service and community work, and in project planning, and participant training and support specific to the needs of that field. Providers should focus their efforts by gathering the 50 or so ``best'' resources. The resource materials should be made available to the National Service Resource Center and should be adapted to meet the needs of Corporation staff, state commissions, and AmeriCorps programs where necessary. (Reproduction and distribution issues will be negotiated in the terms of the grant.) (e) Convene an expert group. With input from the Corporation, regularly convene a sounding board of leading individuals from the priority area field, the service community, and other areas to develop an agenda for T/TA activity in each priority area. (f) Plan for a ``Center of Excellence.'' T/TA providers should lay the groundwork for more established future ``Centers of Excellence,'' focusing on particular priority areas. Providers are encouraged to develop a plan to submit to the Corporation by January, 1995, for a potential ``Center of Excellence'' in a specific area. A maximum of $25,000 may be expended for this planning activity, and there is no guarantee of future funding from the Corporation. (g) Assist in applicant outreach. Providers may be asked to assist the Corporation in reaching out to potential AmeriCorps program applicants in the priority area(s) addressed. Encouraged Approaches While the Corporation will consider any proposal that accomplishes the activities listed above, it encourages the following approaches: _Proposals by a small consortium of organizations that include at least one organization with expertise in each national priority area being addressed, and at least one organization with experience in the operation of service programs. Service programs will help organizations with issue-area expertise better understand issues such as participant recruitment, selection, training and preparation, management, and support; and project issues including project conception and selection, formation of working relationships with service sponsors, orientation of service sponsors, and project management and evaluation. _Proposals in which the organization(s) providing expertise in specific priority area(s) has a partnership with a service program or operates a service program, and where it tests project models and T/TA models directly in the program as it develops them for national use. For example, a proposal in the area of school readiness might include a national center that does program development and assistance in the early childhood area, and which operates its own pre-school program. The center would test certain service projects in its program, and test training for participants who work in the program. These activities would help refine and improve the training and technical assistance it offers to national service programs funded by the Corporation. (II) Application by Concept Paper Proposed activities in this category include: (A) National Service Resource Center (B) Strengthening the Basics of National Service Programs (C) Service and Citizenship (D) Strengthening Program Diversity (E) Peer Exchange Visitation Program (F) Learn and Serve America K&hyph;12_ Resource Publications Training Initiatives on Service-Learning (G) Learn and Serve America Higher Education_ Higher Education Service Resource Center Institutionalizing Service-Learning Infrastructure and Capacity-Building (H) Training and Technical Assistance for State Commissions
