FR940128-2-00217 FR940128-2-00139 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;33501; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;42] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing of Proposed Rule Change by American Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Disciplinary Rules January 21, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on December 23, 1993, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The American Stock Exchange is proposing to amend its disciplinary rules relating to the retention of disciplinary jurisdiction and the settlement of disciplinary actions. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose Retention of disciplinary jurisdiction. Under the Act, the Exchange is required to investigate possible wrongdoing by persons and entities subject to its jurisdiction and, if warranted, initiate appropriate disciplinary action. The Exchange's disciplinary jurisdiction extends to its members, member organizations, and their registered employees. Article V, Section 6 of the Exchange Constitution and Rule 341 permit the Exchange to retain disciplinary jurisdiction even after the termination of a person's or an entity's status as a member, member organization, or registered employee, provided that it gives them written notice that it is retaining jurisdiction within one year immediately following its receipt of written notice of their termination. Member firms are required to file a termination notice with the Exchange whenever a registered employee leaves their employ. In most cases, these reflect voluntary resignations. However, member firms are also required to file amended termination notices, subsequent to the registered employee's departure, if they become aware of customer complaints or other possible wrongdoing by the employee. The Exchange has always taken the position that the one year period to retain jurisdiction under its rules begins to run only after it is notified by the member firm of possible violative conduct by the registered employee. We believe that this is a logical position since the Exchange would have no reason to retain jurisdiction and initiate an investigation unless it had reason to believe a violation may have been committed. Recently, in an appeal to the SEC, a respondent in an Exchange disciplinary proceeding asserted that the Exchange lacked jurisdiction over him because it failed to notify him within one year from the time his former firm filed a termination notice reporting his voluntary resignation. 1 In that case, the Exchange retained jurisdiction within one year of receiving an amended termination notice reporting a customer complaint against the registered representative. The SEC agreed with the respondent, adopting the more narrow, literal reading of our jurisdictional provision, requiring the Exchange to retain jurisdiction within one year of its receipt of a termination notice, regardless of whether such notice contains any indication of actionable conduct. However, the Commission in its decision indicated that it was sensitive to the Exchange's position and would be receptive to the Exchange amending its rules to expressly provide that the one year time period begins upon receipt of the original termination notice or any subsequent amendment of such notice, whichever is later. 1 In re Leavitt, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32441, 1993 Sec Lexis 1427 (June 10, 1993) (Admin. Proc. File No. 3&hyph;7836). By so amending the applicable Constitutional and rule provisions, the Exchange will close an existing gap in its disciplinary process which permits possible wrongdoers to escape investigation by the Exchange into potentially serious misconduct. It should be noted that the CBOE and the NASD have rule provisions relating to retention of discipolinary jurisdiction comparable to the changes we are proposing.
