FR940826-1-00068 FR940826-1-00009 33. Enhanced Installment Payments. As explained previously, small businesses and businesses owned by minorities and women face capital access difficulties not encountered by other firms and, thus, require special measures to ensure their opportunity to participate in narrowband PCS. Accordingly, we propose an ``enhanced'' installment payment plan for these entities. Pursuant to this enhanced installment payment plan, small businesses who win licenses in the proposed entrepreneurs' blocks would be required to pay interest only for the first two years of the license term at the same interest rate as set forth in the general rule. Businesses owned by women and/or minorities would be able to make interest-only payments for three years. Interest would accrue at the Treasury note rate without the additional 2.5 percent. 35 And finally, businesses that are both small and owned by women and/or minorities would be required to pay only interest for five years. Interest would accrue at the Treasury note rate. 35 To be eligible for these ``enhanced'' installment payments, a firm would have to satisfy either of the two alternative definitions of a woman or minority-owned business, as set forth in ¶¶44&hyph;54, infra, as well as the applicable financial caps. 34. These proposed enhanced installment payments are narrowly tailored to the needs of the various designated entities, as reflected in the record in this proceeding. We believe that varying the moratorium on principal in the early years of the loan and varying the interest rate based on these needs would allow small businesses and companies owned by women and/or minorities to bid higher in auctions, thereby increasing their chances for obtaining licenses. In addition, it would allow them to concentrate their resources on infrastructure build-out and, therefore, it would increase the likelihood that they become viable narrowband PCS competitors. We request comment on these proposed enhancements to the installment payment plan. 35. Unjust Enrichment Applicable to Installment Payments. To ensure that large businesses do not become the unintended beneficiaries of measures meant for smaller firms, we propose to retain the unjust enrichment provisions adopted in the Third Report and Order applicable to installment payments. Specifically, if a licensee that was awarded installment payments seeks to assign or transfer control of its license to an entity not meeting the applicable eligibility standards set out above during the term of the license, we would require payment of the remaining principal and any interest accrued through the date of assignment as a condition of the license assignment or transfer. 36 Moreover, if an entity seeks to assign or transfer control of a license to an entity that does not qualify for as favorable an installment payment plan, the installment payment plan, if any, for which the acquiring entity qualifies would become effective immediately upon transfer. Thus, a higher interest rate and earlier payment of principal may begin to be applied. For example, a transfer of a license in the fourth year after license grant from a small minority-owned firm to a small non-minority owned firm would require that the firm begin principal payments and the balance would begin accruing interest at a rate 2.5 percent above the rate that had been in effect. Finally, if an investor subsequently purchases an ``attributable'' interest in the businesses and, as a result, the gross revenues or total assets of the business exceed the applicable financial caps, this unjust enrichment provision would also apply. 37 We seek comment on these proposals. 36 See Third Report and Order at ¶89. 37 See infra ¶¶39&hyph;43, for a discussion of which investor interests would be ``attributable'' for purposes of calculating the gross revenues and total assets thresholds.
