FR941025-2-00019 FR941025-2-00015 Pre-Award Costs _Applicants are hereby notified that if they incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal assurance that an applicant may have received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce to cover pre-award costs. Awards under this program shall be subject to all Federal laws, and Federal and Departmental regulations, policies, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. Outstanding Account Receivable _No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either the delinquent account is paid in full, repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received, or other arrangements satisfactory to the Department of Commerce are made. Name Check Policy _All non-profit and for-profit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. Award Termination _The Department Grants Officer may terminate any grant/cooperative agreement in whole or in part at any time before the date of completion whenever it is determined that the award recipient has failed to comply with the conditions of the grant/cooperative agreement. Examples of some of the conditions which can cause termination are failure to meet cost-sharing requirements; unsatisfactory performance of the MBDC work requirements; and reporting inaccurate or inflated claims of client assistance. Such inaccurate or inflated claims may be deemed illegal and punishable by law. False Statements _A false statement on an application for Federal financial assistance is grounds for denial or termination of funds, and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. Primary Applicant Certifications _All primary applicants must submit a completed Form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying.'' Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension _Prospective participants (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, section 105) are subject to 15 CFR Part 26, ``Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies. Drug Free Workplace _Grantees (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, section 605) are subject to 15 CFR Part 26, Subpart F, ``Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies. Anti-Lobbying _Persons (as defined at 15 CFR part 28, section 105) are subject to the lobbying provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1352, ``Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contacting and financial transactions,'' and the lobbying section of the certification form prescribed above applies to applications/bids for grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for more than $100,000. Anti-Lobbying Disclosures _Any applicant that has paid or will pay for lobbying using any funds must submit an SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,'' as required under 15 CFR part 28, appendix B. Lower Tier Certifications _Recipients shall require applications/bidders for subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other lower tier covered transactions at any tier under the award to submit, if applicable, a completed Form CD&hyph;512, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying'' and disclosure form, SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.'' Form CD&hyph;512 is intended for the use of recipients and should not be transmitted to DOC. SF&hyph;LLL submitted by any tier recipient or subrecipient should be submitted to DOC in accordance with the instructions contained in the award document. Buy American Made Equipment or Products _Applicants are hereby notified that they are encouraged, to the extent feasible, to purchase American-made equipment and products with funding provided under this program in accordance with Congressional intent as set forth in the resolution contained in Public Law 103&hyph;121, Sections 606 (a) and (b). 11.800␣Minority Business Development Center, (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance) Dated: October 20, 1994. Melvin Jackson, Chief of Operations, Minority Business Development Agency. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26452 Filed 10&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;21&hyph;M
