FR940907-2-00068 FR940907-2-00044 If a contractor meets the level of performance required by operational instructions, it meets the requirements of that criterion. Any performance measured below basic operational expectations constitutes a deficiency. The contractor may be required to develop and implement a corrective action plan when performance problems are identified. The contractor will be monitored to assure effective and efficient compliance with the corrective action plan and improved performance where requirements are not met. The results of performance evaluations and assessments under all five criteria will be used for contract management activities and will be published in the contractor's annual performance report. We may initiate administrative actions as a result of the evaluation of contractor performance based on these performance criteria. Under sections 1816 and 1842 of the Act, we consider the results of the evaluation in our determinations on: •Entering into, renewing, or terminating agreements or contracts with contractors. •Decisions concerning other contract actions for intermediaries and carriers (such as deletion of an automatic renewal clause). These decisions are made on a case-by-case basis and depend primarily on the nature and degree of performance. More specifically, they depend on: +␣Relative overall performance compared to other contractors; +␣Number of criteria in which deficient performance occurs; +␣Extent of each deficiency; +␣Relative significance of the requirement for which deficient performance occurs within the overall evaluation program; and +␣Efforts to improve program quality, service, and efficiency. •Decisions concerning the assignment or reassignment of providers and designation of regional or national intermediaries for classes of providers. We make individual contract action decisions after considering these factors in terms of their relative significance and impact on the effective and efficient administration of the Medicare program. In addition, if the cost incurred by the intermediary or carrier to meet its contractual requirements exceeds the amount which the Secretary finds to be reasonable and adequate to meet the cost which must be incurred by an efficiently and economically operated intermediary or carrier, such high costs may also be grounds for adverse action. VIII. Response to Public Comments Because of the large number of items of correspondence we normally receive on Federal Register documents published for comment, we are unable to acknowledge or respond to them individually. We will consider all comments we receive by the date and time specified in the DATES section of this preamble, and, if we proceed with a subsequent document, we will respond to the comments in the preamble of that document. In accordance with Executive Order 12866, this notice has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program No. 93.778, Medical Assistance Program) (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program No. 93.773, Medicare_Hospital Insurance; and Program No. 93.774, Medicare_Supplementary Medical Insurance Program) Dated: August 11, 1994. Bruce C. Vladeck, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21914 Filed 9&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
