FR940428-2-00159 FR940428-2-00072 g. Discharge Temperature and Volume The temperature and volume of the discharge shall not exceed 120 ○F and 3.0 millions gallons per day (MGD). The acceptability of the total or combined non-contact cooling waters from each facility must be determined using the graph on Figure 1. The intersection of the maximum effluent temperature and the dilution ratio shall be in the ``acceptable'' range shown on Figure 1, titled ``Effluent Temperature/Dilution Graph'' for coverage by the General Permit Program. If the intersection falls within the ``non-acceptable'' area, the facility must be covered by the individual NPDES Permit, not the General Permit Program. The effluent temperature is the maximum daily temperature. The dilution factor is the sum of the 7Q10 low stream flow at the facility site and the daily maximum effluent flow divided by the daily maximum effluent flow. For facilities with multiple outfalls, the daily maximum effluent flow shall be the sum of the flow from all outfalls. h. Water Treatment Additives Non-toxic water treatment additives are allowed in non-contact cooling water systems. The State of Maine will review each identified chemical to determine its acceptability. Additives used to control biological growth in such cooling systems are prohibited due to their inherent toxicity to aquatic life. Residual chlorine discharges resulting from the use of potable water supplies will be exempt from this provision. The following water treatment additive biological and chemical data must be supplied in the letter of intent to be covered by this general permit: (1) Name and manufacture of each additive used, (2) Maximum and average daily quantity of each additive used on a monthly basis, and (3) The vendor's reported aquatic toxicity of additive (NOAEL and/or LC 50 in % for typically acceptable aquatic test organisms) All substitutions to the accepted water treatment chemicals must be approved by the State prior to their usage. i. pH Control The pH of the effluent shall be between 6.0 to 8.5 standard units (s.u.) unless the sole cause of excursion below 6.0 s.u. is due to precipitation or the low pH of the influent water. j. Total Residual Chlorine Potable water supply sources used for cooling water supply shall not contain Total Residual Chlorine (TRC) at concentration levels that induce a toxic impact upon aquatic life within the receiving waters. The instream waste concentration of TRC based on the ratio of the effluent flow stream flow to the 7Q10 low flow of the stream shall be less than the appropriate water quality criteria for the receiving waterway. BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN28AP94.000 BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;C
