FR940216-0-00012 FR940216-0-00007 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 74&hyph;09; Notice 34] RIN 2127&hyph;AE80 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Child Restraint Systems AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This document amends labeling and other requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 213, ``Child Restraint Systems,'' for rear-facing infant restraint systems. It requires that warning labels for these systems include a warning against using the restraint in any vehicle seating position equipped with an air bag. It also requires that printed instructions for rear-facing restraints include safety information about air bags. DATES: This rule is effective on August 15, 1994. Petitions for reconsideration of the rule must be received by March 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Petitions for reconsideration should refer to the docket and number of this document and be submitted to: Administrator, room 5220, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. George Mouchahoir, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, National Highway Traffic safety Administration, 400 Seventh St. SW., Washington, DC 20590 (telephone 202&hyph;366&hyph;4919). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This document amends labeling and other requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 213, ``Child Restraint Systems,'' for rear-facing infant restraint systems. The amendments made by this document were proposed in a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) published on April 16, 1993 (58 FR 19792). Rear-facing restraints are currently required by Standard 213 to be labeled with warnings and other information about their proper use (S5.5.1 and S5.52). This rule requires that the warning label for rear-facing restraints include a warning against using the restraint in any vehicle seating position equipped with an air bag. This document also requires that printed instructions for these seats include safety information about air bags. ``Rear-facing infant restraint system,'' as used in this document, refers to an infant restraint system (except a car bed) which is positioned in a vehicle so that the restrained infant faces the rear of the vehicle. In a frontal crash, the crash forces are spread evenly across the infant's back and shoulders, the strongest part of an infant's body. When the rear-facing infant restraint is placed on a vehicle seat, the restraint's seat back projects forward, far in front of the vehicle seat back. If the vehicle seating position is a front passenger one equipped with an air bag, the forward-projecting seat back of the infant restraint may rest on or be located close to the part of the vehicle instrument panel containing the air bag. Placing a rear-facing restraint on such a vehicle seat raises a safety concern of the interaction between those restraints and air bags. An air bag must inflate quickly to create a protective cushion that protects occupants during frontal crashes. The quickly deploying air bag might injure an infant when it strikes the seat back of a rear-facing infant restraint. In the Fall of 1991, the agency evaluated air bag/infant restraint interactions by conducting 30 mph dynamic sled tests with top and mid-mounted air bags. (The data from these tests are available in Docket No. 74&hyph;09, General Reference.) NHTSA's findings from these tests indicate that air bags generally produce substantial increases in the values for the head injury criterion (HIC) and chest acceleration of dummies seated in rear-facing restraints, compared to the values for dummies in rear-facing restraints tested with no air bag.
