FR941121-2-00098 FR941121-2-00081 4. Applicant seeks an order under section 6(c) exempting HSBC, BBME, HKBA, and Investment Companies and their custodians from section 17(f). The order would let HSBC, Investment Companies and their custodians maintain ``foreign securities,'' as defined in rule 17f&hyph;5, cash, and cash equivalents (collectively, ``Assets'') in the custody of BBME or HKBA. If the relief is granted, HSBC intends to maintain such Assets with BBME in any of the locations in which BBME has a branch and with HKBA in Australia. Applicant's Legal Analysis 1. Section 17(f) requires every registered management investment company to place and maintain its securities and similar investments in the custody of certain enumerated entities, including banks having at all times an aggregate capital, surplus, and undivided profits of at least $500,000. As defined in section 2(a)(5), ``bank'' includes (a) a banking institution organized under the laws of the United States, (b) a member bank of the Federal Reserve System, and (c) any other banking institution or trust company doing business under the laws of any state or of the United States, (i) a substantial portion of the business of which consists of receiving deposits or exercising fiduciary powers similar to those permitted to national banks, (ii) which is supervised and examined by state or federal authorities having supervision over banks, and (iii) which is not operated for the purpose of evading the Act. Therefore, the only foreign entities that may serve as custodians for registered management investment companies are the overseas branches of U.S. banks. 2. Rule 17f&hyph;5 expands the group of entities that are permitted to serve as foreign custodians. The rule defines the term ``eligible foreign custodian'' to include a banking institution or trust company incorporated or organized under the laws of a country other than the United States that is regulated as such by that country's government or an agency thereof, and that has shareholders' equity in excess of U.S. $200,000,000. 3. HSBC satisfies the requirements of rule 17f&hyph;5 because it is organized under the laws of Hong Kong, regulated there as a bank by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, and has shareholders' equity well in excess of the Hong Kong dollar equivalent of $200,000,000. 4. BBME and HKBA each satisfy the requirements of rule 17f&hyph;5 except the shareholders' equity requirement. Absent exemptive relief, therefore, BBME and HKBA may not serve as a custodian for Investment Company Assets. 5. Applicant asserts that each of BBME and HKBA is or will be capable and well-qualified to provide custodial and sub-custodial services for Investment Company Assets. HSBC represents that the proposed foreign custody arrangements will afford the Assets of Investment Companies held by BBME or HKBA the same protection afforded by rule 17f&hyph;5 as if the assets were held in the direct custody of HSBC. HSBC will co-sign the agreement described in condition 2 below and will assume liability for BBME's and HKBA's performance. Thus, under the agreement, the delegation to BBME and HKBA of the duties and obligations of HSBC will not result in any reduction in the level of protection afforded the Assets of the Investment Companies. 6. Section 6(c) in relevant part permits the SEC to exempt any person or class of persons from any provision of the Act, or from any rule or regulation thereunder, if and to the extent that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. Applicant submits that its request satisfies this standard. Applicant's Conditions Applicant agrees that any order of the SEC granting the requested relief shall be subject to the following conditions: 1. The foreign custody arrangements proposed regarding BBME and HKBA satisfy the requirements of rule 17f&hyph;5 in all respects other than with regard to BBME and KHBA's level of shareholders' equity. 2. Applicant will deposit Assets with BBME and HKBA only in accordance with an agreement (the ``Agreement'') required to remain in effect at all times during which any of BBME or HKBA fail to satisfy all the requirements of rule 17f&hyph;5. Each Agreement will be a three-party agreement among HSBC and BBME or HKBA, as appropriate, and the Investment Company or the custodian for an Investment Company pursuant to which HSBC will undertake to provide specified custodial or sub-custodial services and will delegate to BBME or HKBA such of the duties and obligations of HSBC as will be necessary to permit BBME or HKBA to hold in custody Assets of the Investment Company or custodian. The Agreement will further provide that the delegation by HSBC to BBME or HKBA will not relieve HSBC of any responsibility to the Investment Company or custodian for an Investment Company for any loss due to such delegation, and that HSBC will be liable for any loss or claim arising out of or in connection with the performance by BBME or HKBA of their responsibilities under the Agreement to the same extent as if HSBC had itself been required to provide custody services under the Agreement. 3. HSBC currently satisfies and will continue to satisfy the minimum shareholders' equity requirement set forth in rule 17f&hyph;5. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. FR Doc. 94&hyph;28679 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
