FR940317-2-00068 FR940317-2-00043 Collaboration The AETCs must operate in collaboration with health professions schools, community hospitals, health departments, PHS funded Area Health Education Centers, ``Ryan White'' CARE ACT funded health services programs, the Hemophilia and Pediatric/Family HIV Health Care Demonstration Programs, Health Care for the Homeless programs, community and migrant health centers, and with substance abuse programs, community-based organizations, and other organizations involved in the provision of care to people with HIV/AIDS related conditions. AETC projects also are encouraged to collaborate with the national network of AIDS Clinical Trial Units (ACTUs) and the Community Programs for Clinical Research on AIDS funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases of the National Institutes of Health, and with other community based clinical trials sponsored by foundations such as the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation or the American Foundation for AIDS Research. It is also suggested that projects collaborate with the NIAID Pediatric Clinical Trials Centers. Degree of Federal Involvement Agreement Substantial involvement will occur in the following areas: •The design or direction of activities to develop a clinically-oriented training delivery model, with special emphasis for minority providers and providers who serve minority populations; •The approval of key AETC project staff with particular emphasis on recruitment of minority faculty; •The review of major contracts and agreements with subcontractors; •The dissemination of state-of-the-art diagnostic and therapeutic clinical guidelines and algorithms, with a particular emphasis on early intervention strategies, which will include antiretroviral therapy, prophylaxis for opportunistic infections, and immunizations for viral and bacterial pathogens. Review Criteria The review criteria stated below, which were established in the Federal Register in FY 1989, dated September 8, 1989, 54 FR 37378, after public comment, will be continued in FY 1994. Applications will be reviewed and rated according to the applicant's ability to meet the following: l. The potential effectiveness of the project in carrying out the purposes of the program; 2. The degree to which the project plan adequately provides for meeting the project requirements; 3. The capability of the applicant to conduct the proposed activities in a cost efficient manner; 4. The soundness of the fiscal plan for assuring effective utilization of funds; and 5. The potential of the project to continue on a self-sustaining basis after the period of support. Final Strategic Directions for AETC Program The AIDS Education Training Centers program was initially designed to provide information on the prevalence of AIDS and identification of groups at increased risk of HIV infection. As the HIV/AIDS epidemic matured, it became apparent that the AETCs had to shift their priorities from HIV/AIDS information transfer to more intensive clinical training. This shift was necessitated by the introduction of new therapeutic interventions, such as antiretroviral therapies, which offered the promise of delaying the onset of opportunistic infections associated with AIDS. The mission of the AETCs is to address the ever increasing issues surfacing because of the changes in the HIV epidemic by constantly adding new priorities to address new issues. The Bureau of Health Professions and the Division of Medicine have developed new strategic directions which will have to be more fully incorporated into the priorities of the AETC program. These strategic directions were published for public comment in the Federal Register on November 18, 1993, 58 FR 60860. No comments were received during the 30-day comment period. These strategic directions will include an emphasis on generalism, a continued emphasis on minorities and the underserved and an emphasis on interdisciplinary training. The AETCs will continue to provide multidisciplinary training for primary health care personnel in the care of people with Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and other conditions related to infection with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). Additional Information Requests for technical or programmatic information should be directed to: Elaine Daniels, M.D.,Ph.D, Chief, Health Professions HIV Education Branch, AIDS Regional Education and Training, Centers Program, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, room 4C&hyph;03, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, Telephone: (301) 443&hyph;6364. This program is listed at 93.145 in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance and is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs (as implemented through 45 CFR part 100). This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Dated: March 11, 1994. Ciro V. Sumaya, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6226 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;P
