FR940505-1-00370 FR940505-1-00012 Motorcycle means any motor vehicle other than a tractor having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider, which is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground and weighs less than 1,500 pounds. Four wheels may be in contact with the ground when two of the wheels are a functional part of a sidecar. Multistage topcoat system means any basecoat/clearcoat topcoat system or any three-stage topcoat system, manufactured as a system, and used as specified by the manufacturer. Passenger car means any motor vehicle designed primarily for transportation of persons and having a design capacity of 12 persons or less. Polyurethane enamel means an enamel coating derived from a thermosetting polymer produced by the condensation reaction of a polyisocyanate and an hydroxyl-containing material. Precoat coating means a coating applied to bare metal primarily to deactivate the metal surface for corrosion resistance to a subsequent water-base primer. Pretreatment coating means a coating which contains no more than 12 percent solids, by weight, and at least 1/2-percent acid, by weight, which is used to provide surface etching and is applied directly to bare metal surfaces to provide corrosion resistance and adhesion. Primer means a coating applied for purposes of corrosion resistance or adhesion of subsequent coatings. Primer sealer means a coating applied prior to the application of a topcoat for the purpose of color uniformity, or to promote the ability of an underlying coating to resist penetration by the topcoat. Primer surfacer means a coating applied for the purpose of corrosion resistance or adhesion, and which promotes a uniform surface by filling in surface imperfections. Rocker panel means the panel area of a motor vehicle which is no more than 10 inches from the bottom of a door, quarter panel, or fender. Rubberized asphaltic underbody coating means a coating applied to wheel wells, the inside of door panels or fenders, the underside of a trunk or hood, or the underside of the motor vehicle itself for the purpose of sound deadening or protection. Specialty coating means any of the following coatings: adhesion promoters, uniform finish blenders, elastomeric materials, anti-glare safety coatings, impact-resistant coatings, rubberized asphaltic underbody coatings, water hold-out coatings, weld-thru coatings, and bright metal trim repair coatings. Spot repairs mean repairs to motor vehicles in which the damaged area to be repaired is limited to only a portion of any given panel so that an entire panel need not be repaired. Stencil coating means an ink or a pigmented coating which is rolled or brushed onto a template or a stamp in order to add identifying letters, symbols, and/or numbers to motor vehicles, mobile equipment, or their parts and components. Three-stage topcoat system means a topcoat system composed of a basecoat portion, a midcoat portion and a transparent clearcoat portion. The VOC content of a three-stage topcoat system shall be calculated according to the following formula: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.099 Where: VOCms=the composite VOC content, less water and less exempt compounds to be used for compliance determination under the multistage topcoat system coating category. VOCbc=the VOC content, less water and less exempt compounds as applied, of any given basecoat. VOVmc=the VOC content, less water and less exempt compounds as applied, of any given midcoat. 2 VOCcc=two times the VOC content, less water and less exempt compounds as applied, of any given clearcoat. Topcoat means a coating applied over any coating, for the purpose of appearance, identification, or protection. Touch-up coating means a coating applied by brush or non-refillable aerosol can to cover minor surface damage and dispensed in containers of no more than 8 ounces. Truck means a motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the transportation of property. (1) Large-sized truck means a truck having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of more than 8,600 pounds. (2) Medium-sized truck means a truck having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight of 6,001 to 8,600 pounds. (3) Small-sized truck means any motor vehicle having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating at 6,000 pounds or less and which is designed primarily for the purposes of transportation of property or is a derivative of such vehicle, or is available with special features enabling on-street or off-highway operation and use. Uniform finish blenders mean coatings which are applied in spot repairs for the purpose of blending a paint overspray area of a repaired topcoat to match the appearance of an adjacent existing topcoat. Van means a closed truck for carrying property or persons. (1) Medium-sized van means a van having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of 6,001 to 8,600 pounds. (2) Small-sized van means a van having a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating at 6,000 pounds or less and which is designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property and/or persons. Vehicle means a device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved, or drawn upon a highway, excepting a device moved exclusively by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
