FR941121-0-00039 FR941121-0-00001 2. Reference to date of publication. An advertisement may refer to the annual percentage yield as being accurate as of the date of publication, if the date is on the publication itself. For instance, an advertisement in a periodical may state that a rate is ``current through the date of this issue,'' if the periodical shows the date. (c)(5) Effect of Fees 1. Scope. This requirement applies only to maintenance or activity fees as described in paragraph 8(a). (c)(6) Features of Term Share Accounts (c)(6)(i) Time Requirements 1. Club accounts. If a club account has a maturity date, but the term may vary depending on when the account is opened, credit unions may use a phrase such as: ``The maturity date of this club account is November 15; its term varies depending on when the account is opened.'' (c)(6)(ii) Early Withdrawal Penalties 1. Discretionary penalties. Credit unions imposing early withdrawal penalties on a case-by-case basis may disclose that they ``may'' (rather than ``will'') impose a penalty if that accurately describes the account terms. (d) Bonuses 1. General reference to ``bonus.'' General statements such as ``bonus checking'' or ``get a bonus when you open a checking account'' do not trigger the bonus disclosures. (e) Exemption for Certain Advertisements (e)(1) Certain Media (e)(1)(i) 1. ATM messages. Messages provided on ATM or computer screens are eligible for this exemption. (e)(1)(iii) 1. Tiered-rate accounts. Solicitations for tiered-rate accounts made through telephone response machines must provide all annual percentage yields and the balance requirements applicable to each tier. (e)(2) Indoor Signs (e)(2)(i) 1. General. Indoor signs include advertisements displayed on computer screens, banners, preprinted posters, and chalk or peg boards. Any advertisement inside the premises that can be retained by a member (such as a brochure or a printout from a computer) is not an indoor sign. 2. Members outside the premises. Advertisements may be ``indoor signs'' even though they may be viewed by members from outside. An example is a banner in a credit union's glass-enclosed branch office, that is located behind a teller facing members but is readable by passersby. (e)(3) Newsletters 1. General. The partial exemption applies to all credit union newsletters, whether instituted before or after the compliance date of part 707. Nor must a newsletter be of any particular circulation frequency (e.g., weekly, monthly, quarterly, biannually, annually, or irregularly) or of any certain format (e.g. magazine, bulletin, broadside, circular, mimeograph, letter, or pamphlet) in order to be eligible for the partial advertising exemption. 2. Permissible Distribution. In order for newsletters to retain the partial advertising exemption, newsletters can be sent to existing credit union members only. Any distribution reasonably calculated to reach only members is also acceptable, such as: i. Mailing newsletters to existing members. ii. Distributing newsletters at a function reasonably limited to members, such as an annual meeting or member picnic.
