FR940916-1-00133 FR940916-1-00016 Brake, Track means a friction block that acts upon the rail to provide a retarding force. The block may be either magnetically actuated or forced by an air cylinder. It is usually used only in emergency. Brake Valve, Automatic means a manually operated device positioned by the engineer (1) to control the flow of air into the equalizing reservoir and brake pipe for charging and releasing a brake application and (2) to provide a reduction of pressures in the equalizing reservoir and brake pipe at either a service or an emergency rate of brake application. Braking, Drag means a continuous application of the train brakes to balance the effects of gravity on a descending grade. Braking, Feed Valve/Regulating Valve means controlling brake pipe pressure reductions and increases by manually adjusting the feed or regulating valve. Braking, Stop means an application of the train brakes to stop the train. Car, Freight means a vehicle designed to carry freight, or railroad personnel, by rail. Car, Passenger means a rail vehicle designed and used to transport passengers. Change the Configuration of a Train means performing any operation that involves uncoupling an element of a train or that involves breaking the continuity of the train brake pipe or brake actuation communication line of the train. Class 1 Train Brake System Test means a test and inspection (as further specified in this part) by visual observation of each component of the air brake system on each car in a train to ensure the air brake system is 100 percent effective. Class 2 Train Brake System Test means a test (as further specified in this part) of brake pipe integrity and continuity from controlling locomotive to rear car, after the brake pipe has been extended or divided by adding or removing cars or locomotives at an intermediate terminal. Cold Weather Operation means operation of trains when the ambient temperature drops below 10 degrees Fahrenheit (F) (^12.2 degrees Celsius (C)). Control Valve means that part of the air brake equipment on each car or locomotive that controls the charging, application, and release of the air brakes. Disc Brake Rotor means a rotating disc attached to a wheel or axle which absorbs friction braking energy. Effective Brake Shoe/Pad Limits means a condemning thickness of on-tread brake shoes of 3/8 inch for cast metal and 1/4 inch for composition shoes/pads. Emergency Application means a brake application resulting in the maximum retarding force available from the train brake system. End-of-Train Device, One-way means a telemetry device that fully complies with Federal regulations and that transmits rear-of-train brake pipe pressure to a display unit visible to the engineer in the cab of the controlling locomotive. End-of-Train Device, Two-way means a device having front-of-train and rear-of-train elements that fully comply with Federal regulations and that are capable of transmitting specific information or commands to each other. The rear unit transmits the rear-of-train brake pipe pressure to a front-of-train display and initiates braking from the rear of the train upon receipt of an appropriate command from the front element. The front element shall be capable of receiving and displaying rear-of-train brake pipe pressure from the rear element and transmitting an emergency brake command to the rear device. Equalizing Reservoir means a small reservoir containing a small volume of air whose pressure is controlled by the automatic brake valve and which, in turn, pilots the pressure to the brake pipe. Emergency Reduction means a depletion of brake-pipe pressure at a rate sufficiently rapid to move the operating valve to emergency position. Foul means restrict the intended movement of one or more brake system components because it snagged, entangled, or twisted. Full Service Application means a brake application which results from one or more brake-pipe reductions sufficient in amount to cause a full service reduction. Full Service Reduction means a service reduction sufficient in amount to cause equalization of pressure in brake cylinder with pressure in the reservoir from which compressed air is supplied to the brake cylinder. High Speed Service means revenue service provided by trains that operate at a maximum speed of greater than 79 mph but less than or equal to 125 mph. High Utilization Equipment means railroad equipment that meets one or more of the following criteria: (1) Is highway equipment adapted to ride on rails. (2) Travels 90,000 miles or more per year in train movements. Initial Terminal means a point where a Class 1 test of a train brake system is required. An initial terminal point includes any one of the following: (1) The point of origin of a train, the point where a train is initially made up (assembled). (2) A point where a Class 1 brake system test is required on cars added to the train. (3) A point where a train is required to have a new Class 1 brake system test because that train has travelled the maximum permissible distance since its last Class 1 train brake system test. (4) A point where cars that have not been connected to a supply of compressed air (that have been ``off air'') for more than four hours are added to a train. Locomotive means a piece of on-track equipment other than hi-rail, specialized maintenance, or other similar equipment_ (1) With one or more propelling motors designed for moving equipment; (2) With one or more propelling motors designed to carry freight or passenger traffic or both; or (3) Without propelling motors but with one or more control stands. Locomotive Cab means compartment or space aboard a locomotive where the control stand is located and is normally occupied by the engineer when the locomotive is being operated. Locomotive, Control Cab means a locomotive without propelling motors but with one or more control stands. Locomotive, Controlling means the locomotive from which the engineer exercises control over the train. Locomotive, Road means a locomotive used to power trains over main track. Mountain Grade Territory means a section of track of distance, D, with an average grade of 1.5 percent or more over that distance which satisfies the relationship described in Appendix C of this part.
