FR940325-0-00083 FR940325-0-00016 One commenter questioned the Department's statement in the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice that consideration of the factors set forth in proposed §11.83(a)(3) would ensure that trustee officials do not select inappropriate restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternatives. This commenter observed that proposed §11.83(a)(3) addresses selection of cost estimating and valuation methodologies rather than selection of a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative. A number of other commenters opposed the creation of an exception for grossly disproportionate restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs. Some of these commenters urged the Department to use caution if such an exception were adopted. One commenter requested that the Department bear in mind the special spiritual and cultural significance of natural resources to Indian tribes when developing any such exception. Other commenters urged the Department to base any such exception on a comparison of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs to the total value of the resources in question rather than the values of the resources lost as a result of the injuries. Response: The Department believes it is not necessary to create an exclusion from the basic measure of damages when restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs are grossly disproportionate to the lost value of the injured resources. The Department agrees that when trustee officials evaluate a particular restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative, they should consider the relationship between the costs of implementing that alternative and the lost value of the resource. However, if the costs of implementing a particular alternative do greatly exceed the lost value of the resource, trustee officials need not eliminate restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources as a basis for damages but should instead select a less costly method of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. Therefore, §11.83(a)(3) provides a number of factors for trustee officials to consider when selecting a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative. These factors, when considered together, protect against the selection of an alternative that poses grossly disproportionate costs. As noted in the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice, the Department does not agree that CERCLA, Ohio v. Interior, or Puerto Rico v. SS Zoe Colocotroni mandate an exclusion from the basic measure of damages when restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs are grossly disproportionate to the lost value of the injured resources. CERCLA and Ohio v. Interior grant the Department the discretion to develop exceptions to the basic measure of damages but do not require such exceptions. Puerto Rico v. SS Zoe Colocotroni arose under a Puerto Rican statute, and although the case does contain dicta concerning CWA, it did not establish any standards for damages under either CWA or CERCLA. Furthermore, Puerto Rico v. SS Zoe Colocotroni focused on whether damages should be based on the costs of implementing a plan to dig up and replant an oiled mangrove forest instead of relying upon natural recovery. The court rejected the plan as ``impractical, inordinately expensive, and unjustifiably dangerous to the healthy mangroves and marine animals still present in the area to be restored.'' 628 F.2d at 676. This rule neither requires nor authorizes trustee officials to pursue intensive activities to restore or rehabilitate an injured resource if such activities would be impractical, inordinately expensive, and unjustifiably dangerous. Under the rule, trustee officials evaluate a range of alternatives, including an alternative based on natural recovery, under a set of factors, including technical feasibility, cost-benefit considerations, cost-effectiveness, and potential for additional injury. The rule allows trustee officials to rely upon natural recovery when appropriate. If trustee officials decide to rely on natural recovery, they will still incur restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs because they will take some sort of action, such as restricting public access or monitoring, to ensure that natural recovery is not impeded. In the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice, the Department inadvertently stated that consideration of the factors set forth in proposed §11.83(a)(3) would ensure that trustee officials do not select a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative that poses grossly disproportionate costs. Section 11.83(a)(3) of the rule addresses selection of cost estimating and valuation methodologies rather than selection of a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative. The Department meant to reference the factors set forth in §11.82(d).
