FR940429-0-00227 FR940429-0-00015 Changes: None. Section 668.26␣End of an Institution's Participation Comments: Several commenters believed that if an institution's participation ends, it would be less disruptive to currently enrolled students who are receiving Title IV, HEA program assistance to allow the students to continue to be enrolled and receive Title IV, HEA program assistance until they complete their educational program. The commenters suggested that immediate termination of all funds under the Title IV, HEA programs would likely cause closure of the institution and costs to the government resulting from forgiveness of the students' loans. A few commenters argued that if an institution's participation has ended, it would be unrealistic to require the institution to inform immediately the State in which the institution is located of its loss of participation in the NEISP or SSIG Program, because there would be no one to make the notification. The commenters suggested that it would be more appropriate for the Secretary to make the notification in this case. Discussion: Commenters misunderstood that immediate termination of Title IV, HEA program funds occurs for students at an institution whose participation ends but that does not close. The availability of those funds continues through the end of the payment period or period of enrollment in which the participation ends for enrolled students who have received a commitment for those funds. To provide funds beyond that point, however, would oblige the Secretary in effect to continue an institution's participation after the institution no longer qualifies for that participation. With regard to the commenters' objections to notifying a State upon the loss of an institution's participation in the NEISP or SSIG Program, it is no more unreasonable to expect an institution to notify the State than to expect the institution to notify the Secretary of the loss of participation in any other program. Institutions have been complying with this requirement for 20 years. Changes: None. Comments: Many commenters contended that if the Secretary receives a notice from a SPRE that the institution's participation should be withdrawn, the institution's participation should not end until the institution has had the opportunity to appeal to the Secretary or appropriate authority. Many commenters believed that an institution's participation should not end if the institution's program participation agreement expires due to the Secretary's failure to approve the application for a renewal of participation in a timely manner. One commenter suggested that, if an institution's participation is terminated as a result of misuse of funds under the Title IV, HEA programs, the Secretary prohibit the institution from crediting to a student's account or delivering to the student the proceeds of a second or subsequent disbursement of a Federal Stafford or Federal SLS loan after the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs ends. The commenter believes it would be inappropriate to allow an institution that had previously misused funds under the Title IV, HEA program to disburse additional funds. One commenter disagreed with the requirement that, if an institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program ends, the institution must submit a letter of engagement for an audit of all funds received under that program within 45 days. The commenter stated that engagement letters are not required under generally accepted auditing standards or Government auditing standards. Discussion: Under the State Postsecondary Review Program, a SPRE does not inform the Secretary that an institution's participation should be terminated until the SPRE has afforded the institution its full appeal rights. A further discussion of this process is found in the preamble to the regulations for the State Postsecondary Review Program. The Secretary agrees with those commenters who were concerned about the expiration of an institution's participation if the review of a properly completed application, submitted in a timely manner, has not been completed before the expiration of participation. An explanation of the changes made to accommodate this circumstance is found in the section of the Analysis of Comments and Changes that addresses certification procedures (§668.13).
