FR940713-1-00050 FR940713-1-00010 The agency proposes to simplify the language of S4.1 and to reword it to eliminate the possibility of similar oversights in the future. The proposed regulatory language in this notice combines the requirements of current S4.1.1 and S4.1.2 into one section. Further, it makes clear that anchorages for either a Type 1 or a Type 2 seat belt assembly are required whenever Standard No. 208 requires either a Type 1 or a Type 2 seat belt assembly. This change will eliminate the need for further amendment of Standard No. 210 if the seat belt requirements of Standard No. 208 are amended in the future. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This rulemaking document was not reviewed under E.O. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review.'' NHTSA has considered the impact of this rulemaking action under the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures and determined that the action is not ``significant'' under those policies and procedures. While these anchorages are not currently required to comply with Standard No. 210, NHTSA believes that manufacturers do design these anchorages to comply with these requirements. Thus, NHTSA does not expect any impact from this proposed rule. Therefore, preparation of a full regulatory evaluation is not warranted. Regulatory Flexibility Act NHTSA has also considered the impacts of this notice under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. I hereby certify that this proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. As explained above, NHTSA does not anticipate any impact from this proposed rule. Paperwork Reduction Act In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (P.L. 96&hyph;511), there are no requirements for information collection associated with this proposed rule. National Environmental Policy Act NHTSA has also analyzed this proposed rule under the National Environmental Policy Act and determined that it would not have a significant impact on the human environment. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) NHTSA has analyzed this proposal in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in E.O. 12612, and has determined that this proposed rule would not have significant federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Civil Justice Reform This proposed rule would not have any retroactive effect. Under 49 U.S.C. 30103, whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard is in effect, a State may not adopt or maintain a safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance which is not identical to the Federal standard, except to the extent that the state requirement imposes a higher level of performance and applies only to vehicles procured for the State's use. 49 U.S.C. 30161 sets forth a procedure for judicial review of final rules establishing, amending or revoking Federal motor vehicle safety standards. This section does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. Submission of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments on the proposal. It is requested but not required that 10 copies be submitted. All comments must not exceed 15 pages in length. (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in a concise fashion. If a commenter wishes to submit certain information under a claim of confidentiality, three copies of the complete submission, including purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the street address given above, and seven copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in the agency's confidential business information regulation. 49 CFR Part 512.
