FR940513-0-00165 FR940513-0-00034 Because of the changes the Commission has made to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements, and taking into account the fact that many of these records are maintained in the normal course of business, the Commission has determined not to revise its burden estimate. While the initial effort involved in developing a report may, for some companies, take more than the original estimate of five hours per manufacturer, the Commission believes that the time involved in complying with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements, as those requirements have been modified, will nonetheless result in an average of five hours per manufacturer. In light of the revised information collection requirements in the final rules, OMB approved the Commission's request for clearance of the requirements under OMB Control Number 3084&hyph;0092. 275 275 Notice of Office of Management and Budget Action dated April 1, 1994. VII. Regulatory Review In accordance with the Commission's ongoing regulatory review program, the Commission sought comments about the impact of the proposed requirements for manufacturers and other sellers of lamp products, and their costs and benefits. Based on the comments and discussion in Parts V and VI, above, the Commission concludes that the amended rule will not have a significant economic impact on parties covered by the labeling rules. The Commission has drafted the final labeling rules to minimize burdens imposed on all covered industry members. VIII. Metric Measurement In accordance with the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act (OTCA), 15 U.S.C. 205, the Commission must consider metric measurements in addition to inch-pound measurements in measurement sensitive regulations. 276 Although the Commission sought comments from the public on this issue in the NPR, none was received. The Commission has concluded that the units of measurement the Commission is requiring in the labeling rules for lamp products comply with the requirements of the Metric Conversion Act. First, lumens, watts, and volts are metric derived units. Second, the metric terms (lumens, watts, and volts) that the Commission is requiring be disclosed should already be familiar to the consumers because they currently are used on packaging of lamp products. 276 See also Executive Order 12770 (``Metric Usage in Federal Government Programs''). IX. Discussion of Lamp Labeling Amendments Being Adopted Each amendment the Commission is adopting today is described below. A. Section 305.2_Definitions This section contains definitions of twenty-two terms used in both EPCA and the Rule. The Commission is amending it to add (as twelve new subsections) eleven definitions of terms that EPCA uses for the three categories of lamp products that EPA 92 added to EPCA and a new definition for a term (``consumer product'') that the amended Rule uses when requiring disclosure of energy consumption data in lamp labeling. The Commission is also revising two existing definitions (``consumer appliance product'' and ``covered product'') to clarify how the Rule's disclosure requirements apply to lamps. Lastly, the Commission is amending this section to group together all the definitions that are pertinent to lamps and placing them immediately following the two existing definitions relating to fluorescent lamp ballasts. The three definitions relating to plumbing products disclosures that had previously been designated (r) and (u)&hyph;(v) are now designated (dd) through (ff). B. Section 305.3_Description of Covered Products To Which This Part Applies This section lists the fourteen categories of appliances now covered by EPCA and the Rule. The Commission is amending it to add (as three new subsections) the descriptions taken from section 321(30) of EPCA, as amended by EPA 92, 42 U.S.C.A. 6291(30) (West Supp. 1993), for the three categories of lamps ( i.e. , fluorescent lamps, medium base compact fluorescent lamps, and incandescent lamps) that EPA 92 added to EPCA. C. Section 305.4_Prohibited Acts This section makes it unlawful to distribute in commerce any covered product not marked and/or labeled and advertised as prescribed by the Rule. Failing to maintain and make available certain records and product samples as prescribed by the Rule is also prohibited. The Commission is amending subsection (e), which identifies the various effective dates of the Rule for the different categories of covered products, to establish the effective date of the Rule for covered lamp products. EPA 92 directed the Commission to prescribe, by April 25, 1994, labeling rules for lamp products and provided that such rules shall apply to those covered lamp products manufactured after the 12-month period beginning on the date of publication of the rules in final form. The effective date for these lamp labeling rule amendments is therefore twelve months following publication of this Notice.
