FR940826-0-00078 FR940826-0-00016 (iii) Certify that the personal net worth of the applicant (if an individual), each affiliate and each person that hold an interest in the applicant is less than $40 million. (d) Audits. Applicants and licensees claiming eligibility under this section shall be subject to random audits by the Commission. (e) Definitions. The terms affiliate, business owned by members of minority groups and women, consortium of small businesses, control group, gross revenues, members of minority groups, passive equity, personal net worth, and small business used in this section are defined in §24.320. (f) Unjust Enrichment. Designated entities using installment payments, bidding credits or tax certificates to obtain a narrowband PCS license will be subject to the following unjust enrichment provisions: (1) If a small business paying for a narrowband PCS license in installment payments seeks to transfer a license to a non-small business entity during the term of the license, the remaining principal balance must be repaid as a condition of the license transfer. (2) If a licensee that utilizes installment financing under this section seeks to make any change in ownership structure that would result in the licensee losing eligibility for installment payments, the licensees shall first seek Commission approval and must make full payment of the remaining unpaid principal and any unpaid interest accrued through the date of the change as a condition of approval. Increases in gross revenues that result from equity investments that are not attributable to the licensee under §24.320(b)(2)(iv), revenues from operations, business development or expanded service shall not be considered changes in ownership structure under this paragraph. 7. Section 24.320 is added to subpart F to read as follows: §24.320 Definitions. (a) Scope. The definitions in this section apply to §§24.309&hyph;24.315 of this subpart, unless otherwise specified in those sections. (b) Small Business; Consortium of Small Businesses. (1) A small business is an entity that: (i) Together with its affiliates has average annual gross revenues that are not more than $40 million for the preceding three calendar years; (ii) Has no attributable investor or affiliate that has a personal net worth of $40 million or more; (iii) Has a control group all of whose members and affiliates are considered in determining whether the entity meets the $40 million annual gross revenues and personal net worth standards; and (iv) Such control group holds 50.1 percent of the entity's voting interest, if a corporation, and at least 25 percent of the entity's equity on a fully diluted basis, except that a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) may also qualify as a small business if a control group that is 100 percent composed of members of minority groups and/or women holds 50.1 percent of the entity's voting interests, if a corporation, and 50.1 percent of the entity's total equity on a fully diluted basis and no single other investor holds more than 49.9 percent of passive equity in the entity. (2) Attribution and Aggregation of Gross Revenues and Personal Net Worth. (i) Except as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) (iii) and (iv), the gross revenues of the applicant (or licensee) and its affiliates, and other persons that hold interests in the applicant (or licensee) and their affiliates shall be considered on a cumulative basis and aggregated for purposes of determining whether the applicant (or licensee) is a small business. (ii) The personal net worth of individual applicants (or licensees) and other persons that hold interests in the applicant (or licensee), and their affiliates, if less than $40 million, shall not be considered for purposes of determining whether the applicant (or licensee) is eligible to bid as a small business. (iii) Where an applicant (or licensee) is a consortium of small businesses, the gross revenues of each small business shall not be aggregated. (iv) The gross revenues and personal net worth of a person that holds an interest in the applicant (or licensee) shall not be considered so long as: (A) Such person holds no more than 25 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) passive equity and is not a member of the applicant's or control group; and (B) The applicant has a control group that owns at least 25 percent of the applicant's total equity and, if a corporation, holds at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's voting interests. (v) The gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth of a person that holds an interest in the applicant shall not be considered so long as: (A) Such person holds no more than 49.9 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) passive equity and is not a member of the applicant's control group; and
