FR940822-1-00010 FR940822-1-00002 V. Economic Impact Because the use of NCPs is optional, manufacturers have the flexibility and will likely choose whether or not to use NCPs based on their ability to comply with emissions standards. If no HDE manufacturer elects to use NCPs, these manufacturers and the users of their products will not incur any additional costs related to NCPs. NCPs remedy the potential problem of having a manufacturer forced out of the marketplace due to that manufacturer's inability to conform to new, strict emission standards in a timely manner. Without NCPs, a manufacturer which has difficulty certifying HDEs in conformance with emission standards or whose engines fail a SEA has only two alternatives: fix the nonconforming engines, perhaps at a prohibitive cost, or prevent their introduction into commerce. The availability of NCPs provides manufacturers with a third alternative: continue production and introduce into commerce upon payment of a penalty for an engine that exceeds the standard until an emission conformance technique is developed. Therefore, NCPs represent a regulatory mechanism that allows affected manufacturers to have increased flexibility. A decision to use NCPs may be a manufacturer's only way to continue to introduce HDEs into commerce. Hence, NCPs may be considered to have no adverse economic impact. VI. Environmental Impact When evaluating the environmental impact of this proposed rule, one must keep in mind that, under the Act, NCPs are a consequence of enacting new, more stringent emissions requirements for heavy duty engines. Emission standards are set at a level that most, but not necessarily all, manufacturers can achieve by the model year in which the standard becomes effective. Following International Harvester v. Ruckelshaus , 478 F.2d 615 (D.C. Cir. 1973), Congress realized the dilemma that technology-forcing standards were likely to cause, and allowed manufacturers of heavy-duty engines to certify nonconforming vehicles/engines upon the payment of an NCP, under certain conditions. This mechanism would allow manufacturer(s) who cannot meet technology-forcing standards immediately to continue to manufacture these nonconforming engines while they tackle the technological problems associated with meeting new emission standard(s). Thus, as part of the statutory structure to force technological improvements without driving manufacturers out of the market, NCPs provide flexibility that fosters long-term emissions improvement through the setting of lower emission standards at an earlier date than could otherwise be possible. By design, NCPs encourage the technological laggard that is using NCPs to reduce emission levels to the more stringent standard as quickly as possible. VII. Compliance With Regulatory Flexibility Act Under section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Administrator certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. None of the affected manufacturers could be classified as small. Moreover, as already discussed, the NCP program can be expected to benefit manufacturers. Some small entities do exist as manufacturers' contractors for the testing of engines for Production Compliance Audits (PCAs). It is EPA's practice to conduct PCA scheduling (namely, tests per day limitations) in such a way as to consider the staff and manpower capabilities of such contractors and avoid any problems. The result is that these entities are not adversely affected. Thus, I certify that this proposed rule will not have any adverse economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. VIII. Information Collection Requirements This proposed rule requires that manufacturers perform certain record keeping and submit certain reports to EPA. The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 USC 3501, et seq. , provides that reporting and record keeping requirements be approved by OMB before they can be enforced by EPA. The information collection requirements in this proposed rule have been addressed in previous rulemaking and approved by OMB (OMB control no. 2060&hyph;0132). At the time of the final rulemaking the Agency will submit an Inventory Correction Worksheet to OMB amending the approved burden hours to reflect the additional reports required by this rulemaking. However, any person wishing to comment on these requirements is invited to do so. Comments on these requirements should be submitted to Chief, Information Policy Branch, 2136, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460 and to OMB, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 726 Jackson Place, NW, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.'' The final rule will respond to any OMB or public comments on the information collection requirements.
