FR940513-2-00049 FR940513-2-00031 (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice or the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such records by the Department of Justice or the use of such records in the proceeding is deemed by the agency to be relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that in each case, the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice or the disclosure of such records in the proceeding is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. (6) In the event that information in this record system is needed in the course of presenting evidence to a court, magistrate, or administrative tribunal, the relevant records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate person to use as evidence. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: storage: Records are maintained in file folders. Retrievability: Records are maintained alphabetically by name. Safeguards: Records are kept in a locked cabinet except when being used by authorized personnel who are instructed as to their confidentiality and permitted use. Retention and disposal: In accordance with National Archives and Records Administration General Records Schedule requirements for employee reports of financial interests and employment. System manager(s) and addresses: Designated Agency Ethics Official, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Notification procedure: All inquiries about this system of records shall be addressed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Record access procedures: Requests for access to a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.3. Contesting record procedures: Requests for amendments of a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.7. Record source categories: Information in this system of records either comes from the employee to whom it applies or comes from information supplied by agency officials. FCSIC&hyph;3 System name: Employee attendance, leave, personnel actions, and payroll records_FCSIC. System location: These records are located at the Farm Credit Administration with copies at the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Corporation employees. Categories of records in the system: Records consist of paper, electronic, and microfiche files containing payroll-related information for Corporation employees reported on a biweekly, year-to-date, and, in some cases, an annual basis. The records contain payroll and leave data for each employee including rate and amount of pay, personnel actions during payroll periods, hours worked, tax and retirement deductions, life insurance and health insurance deductions, savings allotments, savings bond and charity deductions, other financial deductions, mailing addresses, and home addresses. Records produced electronically utilize software provided by the National Finance Center's United States Department of Agriculture Personnel Payroll System. Authority for maintenance of the system: 12 U.S.C. 2277a&hyph;7, 2277a&hyph;8. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information in this record system may be used to prepare payroll and to meet Government payroll record keeping and reporting requirements, and for retrieving and supplying payroll and leave information as required for agency needs. In addition, information in this record system is used to furnish certain information (name, permanent or temporary status, most recent position, grade, or salary) to other Government agencies, commercial or credit organizations, or verification of employment to prospective employers. (1) Information in this record system may be disclosed as a routine use to Federal, State, and local taxing authorities concerning compensation to employees or contractors for personal services; to the Office of Personnel Management, Department of the Treasury, Department of Labor, and other Federal agencies concerning pay, benefits, and retirement of employees; to Federal employees health benefits carriers concerning health insurance of employees; to financial organizations concerning employee savings account allotments and net pay to checking accounts; to State human resource offices administering unemployment compensation programs; to educational and training organizations concerning employee qualifications and identity for specific courses; and to heirs, executors, and legal representatives of beneficiaries. (2) In the event that information in this record system indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal, or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule, or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, local, or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant thereto. (3) Information in this record system may be disclosed as a routine use to a Federal, State, or local agency maintaining civil, criminal, or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to a decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a grant or other benefit.
