FR940429-0-00031 FR940429-0-00009 State agency means the State or an agency or instrumentality of the State. Temporarily disabled means having an impairment that is expected to be of no more than 6 months duration; and that impedes the ability of the individual to live independently unless the individual receives congregate services. Unit of general local Government means any city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State; and includes a unit of general government acting as an applicant for assistance under this section in cooperation with a nonprofit housing sponsor, and a nonprofit housing sponsor acting as an applicant for assistance under this section in cooperation with a unit of general local government. ยง XXX .200 Announcement of Fund Availability and Selection Criteria. (a) Notice of funding availability. A Notice of Funding Availability will be published periodically in the Federal Register by the Secretary concerned containing the amounts of funds available, allocation or distribution of funds available among eligible applicant groups, where to obtain and submit applications, the deadline for submissions, and further explanation of the selection criteria. The Secretary concerned will designate the maximum allowable size for grants. (b) Selection criteria. The criteria for selection shall include: (1) The types and priorities of the basic services proposed to be provided, the appropriateness of the targeting of services, the methods of providing for deinstitutionalized older individuals and individuals with disabilities, and the relationship of the proposal to the needs and characteristics of the eligible residents of the projects where the services are to be provided; (2) The schedule for establishment of services following approval of the application; (3) The degree to which local social services are adequate for the purpose of assisting eligible project residents to maintain independent living and avoid unnecessary institutionalization; (4) The professional qualifications of the members of the professional assessment committee (PAC); (5) The reasonableness and application of fees schedules established for congregate services; (6) The adequacy and accuracy of the proposed budgets; and (7) The extent to which the owner will provide funds from other services in excess of that required under the CHSP. ยง XXX .205 Grant Agreement. (a) General. HUD will enter into grant agreements with states, units of general local government, Indian tribes, PHAs, IHAs and local nonprofit housing sponsors, utilizing amounts appropriated under NAHA for the purpose of providing congregate services for program participants for eligible housing for the elderly to promote and encourage maximum independence within a home environment for such residents capable of self-care, with appropriate supportive services. (b) Term of grant agreement. A grant will be for a term of five years, and will be renewable at the expiration of the term, subject to the availability of funds and in conformance with these regulations except as otherwise provided in ยง XXX .500. (c) Reservation of amount. The Secretary concerned shall reserve a sum equal to the total approved grant amount for each grantee. (d) Eligible grant recipients. The Secretary concerned will provide assistance, and enter into grant agreements with grant recipients cited under paragraph (a) of this section. (e) Grant Officer. The Grant Officer for the Secretary concerned will enter into the supportive services grant agreement on behalf of HUD or FmHA. The Secretary concerned will hold the grantee responsible for the administration of the Congregate Housing Services Program. (f) Grantee requirements. The grant agreement will require that the grantee: (1) Operate the congregate services program in accordance with applicable program regulations, laws, or other requirements of the Secretary concerned; (2) Assure the effective provision of supportive services to the program participants; (3) Conduct an ongoing assessment of the housing assistance and supportive services required by the program participants; and (4) Comply with such other terms and conditions, required by NAHA or its implementing regulations, including monitoring, if required, data and record keeping requirements and submission of reports (which must include racial and ethnic data on participants) that the Secretary concerned establishes for the purposes of carrying out an effective Congregate Housing Services Program. The Department concerned will enforce the obligations of the grantee under the agreement through such action as may be necessary, including the termination and recapture of supportive services funds awarded under CHSP. ยง XXX .210 Eligible activities.
