FR941206-2-00111 FR941206-2-00075 The Exchange also is proposing to amend NYSE Rule 104.13 to make it clear that the rule applies to transactions effected for the benefit of trust accounts, including so-called ``blind'' trust accounts, of any person specified in the rule. NYSE Rule 104.13 would be further amended to provide that transactions in a broad-based fund, which may from time to time invest in a specialty stock in the course of investing in numerous stocks, would not be subject to the rule. The Exchange also is proposing to amended the Guidelines to Rule 98 to reflect the amendments to NYSE Rule 104.13 noted above. 2. Statutory Basis The basis for the proposed rule change is the requirement under Section 6(b)(5) of the Act that an Exchange have rules that are designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to, and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and, in general to protect investors and the public interest. The proposed amendments are consistent with these objectives in that they ensure that the restrictions contained in Rule 104.13 are appropriately applied to accounts that benefit the persons subject to its provisions. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in futherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received written comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interests persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;38 and should be submitted by December 27, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29934 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
