FR941216-1-00042 FR941216-1-00010 (D) Special rule for contingent payments substantially similar to options. A right to a contingent payment that is substantially similar to an option or combination of options, and that is not otherwise a quotable contingent payment, is treated as a quotable contingent payment if spot price quotations for the option or options are readily available. The projected amount of the contingent payment is the spot price of the option or options on the issue date compounded at the applicable Federal rate for the debt instrument (within the meaning of ยง1.1274&hyph;4(b)) from the issue date to the date the payment is due. (E) Reasonable determination of projected amounts. The projected amounts of quotable contingent payments may be determined based on either the bid, ask, or midpoint price quotes of the substantially similar property rights, provided the determination is reasonable and is made on a consistent basis. If price quotations vary among different quotation sources, any reasonable quotation may be used. If a right to a contingent payment is substantially similar to more than one combination of property rights for which forward price quotes are readily available (or options for which spot prices are readily available), any reasonable combination may be used. (ii) Quotes not readily available. If a debt instrument provides for one or more contingent payments that are not described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section (nonquotable contingent payments), the projected amount of each contingent payment on the debt instrument is determined as follows. First, determine the projected amount of each quotable contingent payment under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section. Second, determine the projected yield of the debt instrument. The projected yield is a reasonable rate for the debt instrument. A reasonable rate is a rate that, as of the issue date, reflects general market conditions, the credit quality of the issuer, and the terms and conditions of the debt instrument (e.g., the existence of collateral securing the debt instrument or the uncertainty inherent in the contingent payments). A reasonable rate is never less than, and may substantially exceed, the applicable Federal rate for the debt instrument (within the meaning of ยง1.1274&hyph;4(b)), and may not be less than the yield on the debt instrument based on the projected payment schedule set without regard to the nonquotable contingent payments. Third, select a projected amount for each nonquotable contingent payment so that the projected payment schedule results in the projected yield and reasonably reflects the relative expected values of the nonquotable contingent payments.
