FR940706-0-00026 FR940706-0-00001 (6) If the ALJ denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final notice of determination for purposes of judicial review and shall become effective 30 days after service unless review by the Judicial Officer is sought in accordance with §283.20. (7) If the ALJ issues a revised initial decision, that decision shall constitute the final notice of determination for purposes of judicial review and shall become effective 30 days after service unless review by the Judicial Officer is sought in accordance with §283.20. §283.18 Motions and requests. (a) Filing. All motions and requests shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk, and served upon all the parties by the moving or requesting party, except motions and requests made on the record during the oral hearing. The ALJ assigned to the appeal or the Chief Judge shall rule upon all motions and requests filed or made prior to seeking review of the ALJ's initial decision pursuant to §283.20, except motions directly relating to such review. Thereafter, the Judicial Officer shall rule on any motions and requests as well as the motions directly relating to the review of the ALJ's initial decision. (b) Time for filing. Any motion or request may be filed at any time, except that: (1) Motions to dismiss pursuant to §283.5 must be filed within the time allowed for filing an answer; and (2) Motions for reconsideration must be filed within 30 days of service of the ALJ's initial decision pursuant to §283.17(d). (c) Contents. All written motions and requests shall state the particular order, ruling, or action desired and the grounds therefor. (d) Response to motions and requests. Within 10 days after service of any written motion or request or within such shorter or longer period as may be fixed by the ALJ or Judicial Officer, an opposing party may file a response to the motion or request. The moving party shall have no right to reply to the response; however, the ALJ or Judicial Officer may order that a reply be filed. (e) Certification to the Judicial Officer. The submission or certification of any motion, request, objection, or other question to the Judicial Officer prior to the seeking of review pursuant to §283.20 shall be made by and in the discretion of the ALJ. The ALJ may either rule upon or certify the motion, request, objection, or other question to the Judicial Officer, but not both. §283.19 ALJs. (a) Assignment. No ALJ shall be assigned to serve in any appeal who: (1) Has any pecuniary interest in any matter or business involved in the appeal, (2) Is related by blood or marriage to any party in the appeal, or (3) Has any conflict of interest which might impair the ALJ's objectivity in the appeal. (b) Disqualification of ALJ. (1) Any party to the appeal may, by motion, request that the ALJ withdraw from the appeal on one or more of the grounds set out in paragraph (a) of this section. Such motion shall set forth with particularity the alleged grounds for disqualification. The ALJ may then either rule upon or certify the motion to the Judicial Officer, but not both. (2) The ALJ may withdraw from any appeal for any reason deemed by the ALJ to be disqualifying. (c) Powers. (1) Subject to review as provided elsewhere in this part, the ALJ, in any assigned appeal, shall have the power to: (i) Rule upon motions and requests; (ii) Set the time and place of a pre-hearing conference and the time of the hearing, adjourn the hearing from time to time, and change the time of the hearing; (iii) Administer oaths and affirmations; (iv) Regulate the scope and timing of discovery; (v) Issue and enforce subpoenas as authorized under 7 U.S.C. 2023(a) and these rules; (vi) Summon and examine witnesses and receive evidence at the hearing;
