FR940127-2-00076 FR940127-2-00058 AMENDED LAW . Subparagraph (c)(1) of section 250 provides that the Secretary of Labor, within 30 days after receiving from the Governor a petition for NAFTA&hyph;TAA, shall determine whether the petition meets the group eligibility requirement for certification. Upon a determination that the petition meets such criteria, the Secretary shall issue to workers covered by the petition a certification of eligibility to apply for assistance under NAFTA&hyph;TAA. ADMINISTRATION . The OTAA will review the State's preliminary finding on all NAFTA&hyph;TAA petitions. If an affirmative preliminary finding from the State, based on a shift in production to, or imports from, Mexico or Canada, is confirmed through an independent review by the OTAA, the Secretary will issue a certification of eligibility to apply for assistance. This determination will be published in the Federal Register . If the affirmative preliminary finding from the State is not based on a shift in production to Mexico or Canada by the subject firm or on company imports from Mexico or Canada, OTAA will initiate a customer survey to determine whether the increase in aggregate imports contributed importantly to the workers' separations and to the decline in sales or production at the subject firm. The OTAA will complete the customer survey, and the Secretary will issue a final determination within 30 days of the receipt of the State's preliminary finding. The Secretary's determination to grant or deny certification will be sent by FAX to the State and appropriate regional office. This determination will also be published in the Federal Register . A.7. Denial of Certification . AMENDED LAW . Paragraph (c)(2) of section 250 provides that upon denial of certification with respect to a petition under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall review the petition in accordance with the requirements of the regular TAA program under subchapter A of chapter 2 of title II the Trade Act to determine if the workers may be certified under such subchapter. ADMINISTRATION . When a determination is made by the Secretary of Labor that the petition does not meet the eligibility requirements for NAFTA&hyph;TAA, the petition will immediately be reviewed by the OTAA under subchapter A of the Trade Act. The 60-day time period under section 223 of Chapter 2 of Title II of the Trade Act for completing the review of a petition under subchapter A will begin on the date the denial of the NAFTA&hyph;TAA petition is issued. A.8. Comprehensive Assistance . AMENDED LAW . Subsection (d) of section 250 provides that workers covered by a certification for NAFTA&hyph;TAA shall be provided, in the same manner and to the same extent as workers covered under a certification for regular TAA, the following: 1. Employment services described in section 235 of the Trade Act. 2. Training described in section 236 of the Trade Act, except that notwithstanding the provisions of section 236(a)(2)(A), the total amount of payments for any fiscal year shall not exceed $30 million. 3. Trade readjustment allowances (TRA) described in sections 211 through 234 of the Trade Act, except that_ A. The provisions of sections 231(a)(5)(C) and 231(c) of the Trade Act, authorizing the payment of TRA upon a finding that it is not feasible or appropriate to approve a training program for a worker, shall not be applicable to payment of such allowance under subchapter D; and B. Notwithstanding the provision of section 233(b) of the Trade Act, in order for a worker to qualify for TRA under the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program, the worker shall be enrolled in a training program approved by the Secretary under section 236(a) by the later of_ (i) the last day of the 16th week of such worker's initial unemployment compensation period, or (ii) the last day of the 6th week after the week in which the Secretary of Labor issues a certification covering such worker. In cases of extenuating circumstances related to enrollment in a training program, the Secretary may extend the time for enrollment for a period not to exceed 30 days. 4. Job search allowances described in section 237. 5. Relocation allowances described in section 238.
