FR941021-0-00074 FR941021-0-00011 II. Removal of MDI From the High-Risk List III. Administrative Requirements I. Significant Comments and Summary of the Final Rule Based on comments received during the comment period, the EPA is deleting acrylic acid (CAS. No. 79107) from the list of high-risk pollutants, as proposed. Three commenters submitted letters supporting EPA's proposal, with all commenters agreeing that acrylic acid does not meet the EPA's criteria for listing acrylic acid as a high-risk pollutant under the Early Reductions Program. As the commenters appropriately pointed out, the EPA did not propose to revise the criteria for including a pollutant on the high-risk list. Therefore, the recent revision of the inhalation reference concentration (RfC) for acrylic acid (April 1, 1994) is sufficient grounds to delete acrylic acid from the list. One commenter addressed issues pertinent to EPA's use of the Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS). With respect to acrylic acid, the commenter commended the EPA for considering additional data that was not previously available when the RfC for acrylic acid was first included in the IRIS data base. The commenter's specific comments however, dealt with the EPA's use of IRIS values for cresol isomers in the context of two other proposed rulemakings. Because this issue is not pertinent to this action, these comments are not addressed here. The commenter has also submitted them to EPA in response to a request for public comment on two other proposed rulemakings that deal with cresol isomers and the EPA will consider and respond to them at the time those proposals are finalized. II. Removal of MDI From the High-Risk List On July 19, 1994, the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated EPA's designation of MDI as a high-risk pollutant for purposes of the Early Reductions Program [Chemical Manufacturers Association (CMA) v. EPA, No. 93&hyph;1178 (D.C. Cir.)]. The court found that EPA was arbitrary and capricious in not adequately addressing CMA's contentions that MDI was substantially different than the characteristics of the model pollutant used in the generic modeling exercise to screen the 189 hazardous air pollutants for inclusion on the high-risk list. In addition, the court found that it was arbitrary for EPA to include MDI on the list of high risk pollutants without identifying any serious health effect with which it had ever been associated. Therefore, this final rule deletes MDI from the list of high-risk pollutants for the purposes of the Early Reductions Program in accordance with the court's decision. III. Administrative Requirements A. Docket The docket is an organized and complete file of all the information submitted to or otherwise considered by EPA in the development of this rulemaking. The principal purposes of the docket are: (1) To allow interested parties to readily identify and locate documents so they can intelligently and effectively participate in the rulemaking process; and (2) to serve as the record in case of judicial review (except for interagency review materials [section 307(d)(7)(A)]). B. Paperwork Reduction Act There are no information collection requirements associated with this proposed rule. Therefore, an Information Collection Request document has not been prepared. C. Executive Order 12866 Review Under Executive Order 12866 (FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)), EPA must determine whether a regulation is ``significant'' and therefore subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and the requirements of the Executive Order. The order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual affect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency;
