FR940610-1-00088 FR940610-1-00008 USDA Commodities USDA for a number of years has made adjustments to improve the nutritional content of commodities provided, however, the basic types and quantities of foods offered to schools have not changed significantly. The analysis conducted indicates that schools can provide meals that meet the dietary guidelines without significant changes in the types of food provided and the Department can continue to make improvements to the commodities provided without diminishing agricultural market support to farmers. In total, USDA commodities account for less than one-sixth of all foods used by schools; the overall average is 16.4 percent. Although there is some variation among schools in the amount of USDA commodities they receive, USDA commodities make up between 10 and 25 percent of the food used for the vast majority (96 percent) of the school food authorities. The market analysis for scenario one and the sample menus developed for the NSMP food cost analysis reflect an expected shift toward increased use of vegetables, fruits and grains. Such a shift is consistent with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the Food Guide Pyramid. 4 This shift can occur without causing significant impacts in overall food markets, however, or in the amounts and types of food USDA provides to schools, with the exception of butter. USDA continues to make improvements that reduce the proportion of calories from fat in donated commodities: Reducing fat levels in ground beef; acquiring lower-fat cheeses and salad dressings; and providing foods in lower-fat forms (chicken vs. chicken nuggets). Because USDA provides a significant proportion of a small number of foods schools use (cheese_45 percent; beef_30 percent; turkey_70 percent; chicken_29 percent) efforts to lower the percentage of calories from fat for these commodities can have a substantial impact on the overall nutrient profile of foods used in the program. Even if there are some shifts in the types of foods that schools serve, there is likely to be little change in the overall amount of USDA acquisitions of cheese, beef and poultry because the Department's purchasing power would provide the best leverage for securing lower-fat versions of these products at the lowest price. c. Benefits No near-term cost savings due to health improvement from the nutritional update are projected. However, longer term savings in health care costs and years of life may result. The Continuing Survey of Food Intake by Individuals, 1989&hyph;91 found that school-age children have average daily intakes of 33.7 to 34.7 percent of calories from fat, and 12.6 to 13.3 percent of calories from saturated fat, depending upon the age-sex group. The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends limiting total fat intake to not more than 30 percent of total calories, and limiting saturated fat intake to less than 10 percent of total calories. The School Nutrition Dietary Assessment Study (SNDA) found the average daily consumption by NSLP participants on school days to be 35 percent of calories from fat and 13 percent of calories from saturated fat, compared to 33 percent of calories from fat and 12 percent of calories from saturated fat for non-participants. 5 SNDA also found that students consume fat and saturated fat from school meals at about the same levels as those offered to them. SNDA found schools offering NSLP meals which averaged 38 percent of calories from fat and 15 percent of calories from saturated fat, and participants consumed NSLP meals with 37 percent of calories from fat and 14 percent of calories from saturated fat. Implementation of the proposed rule would reduce the fat levels at school meals to the Dietary Guidelines levels. Using these figures along with the average percent of school-age children receiving a USDA meal (51%) and the average number of school days per year (182), we estimate that, on average, the proposed rule will achieve about 12 percent of the change needed to reach the Dietary Guidelines levels for percent of calories from fat and saturated fat for all U.S. children ages 5 to 18 years. Since school meal participation rates are higher for low-income children than for higher income children, the health benefits will be concentrated in the population at greatest risk of nutrition-related chronic diseases_those with low income. Healthy People 2000: The National Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Objectives reports that low income is a special risk factor for both heart disease and cancer. 6
