FR940725-0-00162 FR940725-0-00019 OSHA has taken reasonable measures of increasing the awareness of the dangers of sealed or confined spaces by providing guidelines and situations which could create hazardous atmospheres in the discussion presented in Appendix A of the Proposed Rule. This information, together with the knowledge that the Marine Chemist has of the previous cargoes and his judgment, when passed on to the Competent Person via instructions on his Marine Chemist Certificate, should be adequate to define testing frequency under specific conditions. Pacific Marine Testing (Ex. 6&hyph;33) stated, Frequency of testing atmosphere is determined by the specific situation encountered. There are many variables which must be taken into account before frequency of testing may be prescribed. Finally, the Marine Chemist Association, whose members set the frequency of retesting, (Ex. 6&hyph;34) commented, The frequency of testing cannot be specified. There are too many variables that may govern the frequency of testing. Please note Appendix A Subpart B to the standard. The term `frequency' should not be used and `as often as necessary' should be substituted. OSHA agrees with those commenters who suggested that OSHA use the performance language ``as often as necessary'' rather than cite a specific frequency for retesting. As the majority of commenters suggest, spaces vary and conditions within a space are subject to change at different time intervals. Therefore, a specific schedule for retesting all spaces could lead to unnecessary testing in some instances and inadequate testing that may not identify hazardous conditions as they arise in others. OSHA has concluded that those individuals who test an atmosphere must have the flexibility to determine the precise frequency of testing. However, OSHA is specifying that the testing be done ``as often as necessary,'' in order to ensure that changes in conditions are detected for each atmosphere. It is imperative that the atmosphere be checked often enough to ensure that it is safe for workers. To that end, Appendix A provides supplementary information to assist employers and employees in determining the frequency with which a tank must be monitored in order to ensure atmospheric conditions are being maintained. OSHA's decision to use performance language such as ``as often as necessary'' is also consistent with the Agency's continuing position to use performance-based standards where practicable. Therefore, OSHA has amended the language of those requirements in this section that previously required ``frequent'' testing to require the testing of atmospheres ``as often as necessary'' in order to provide flexibility to Marine Chemists and competent persons who test spaces to determine the time and need for testing of atmospheres based on the conditions in each dangerous atmospheres. OSHA sought public comment on whether the shipyard competent person should be required to conduct a physical examination of the tank and pipelines when making a follow-up inspection. The majority of comments on this issue discussed it in terms of retesting to maintain safe conditions within all types of work spaces. However, because OSHA believes that a visual inspection is an integral part of any testing the reasoning in this discussion also pertains to initial testing required in ยง1915.12, Precautions before entering. Most commenters (e.g., Exs. 6&hyph;3, 6&hyph;4, 6&hyph;10, 6&hyph;14, 6&hyph;18, 6&hyph;31) indicated it would be appropriate for competent persons to conduct physical inspections of spaces they are checking during periodic retesting of atmospheres. Some of them and others (Exs. 6&hyph;10, 6&hyph;18, 6&hyph;31, 6&hyph;33, and 6&hyph;34) also indicated that it is currently industry practice for well trained individuals who conduct follow-up testing to physically inspect spaces during these follow-up inspections. NIOSH (Ex. 6&hyph;14) commented, The shipyard `competent person' should be required to conduct a physical examination of the tank and pipelines during follow-up inspections. Original conditions and intended purposes of tanks and pipelines change continually in ship construction and repair. These new uses can only be detected by physically examining them during follow-up inspections. The U.S. Coast Guard MIONY (Ex. 6&hyph;4) states, Shipyard competent persons should be required to make physical examination of each space retested. During ship repair, vessels are often listed or trimmed for various reasons. This can cause flammable, toxic, and corrosive residues to leak out of pipelines. In practice these are rarely blanked and the isolation valves may have been opened or leak. These residues may ignite during hot work, harm workers on contact, or produce a hazardous atmosphere if there is a temperature increase.
