FR940728-2-00003 FR940728-2-00002 Forest Service Sensitive Plant Program; Eldorado National Forest, CA AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Eldorado National Forest proposes to refine existing sensitive plant direction in order to provide greater specificity, promote program effectiveness, and improve the efficiency in which Eldorado National Forest programs and activities are reviewed through the biological evaluation process as required under FSM ยง2670.32. The Forest Service will prepare an environment impact statement (EIS) to consider the ramifications of implementing species-specific standards and guidelines for the sensitive plant species found on the Eldorado National Forest. The decision may include the following: an amendment to the Eldorado National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan and/or the delisting of one or more species as sensitive. The agency invites written comments and suggestions on the scope of the analysis. The agency also gives notice of the full environmental analysis and decision-making process that will occur on the proposal so that interested ad affected people are aware of how they may participate and contribute to the final decision. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis must be received by September 1, 1994. The public is invited to provide information concerning the scope of the analysis at a meeting to be held on August 24, 1994, beginning at 1 p.m. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments and suggestions concerning the scope of the analysis to John Phipps, Forest Supervisor, 100 Forni Road, Placerville, CA 95667. The meeting will be held at the Eldorado National Forest Supervisor's Office located at 100 Forni Road, Placerville, CA 95667. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions about the proposed action and EIS should be directed to Mike Foster, Forest Botanist, 100 Forni Road, Placerville, CA 95667. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: USDA regulations (9500&hyph;4), Forest Service policy, and the Eldorado National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (1989) require that the Eldorado National Forest maintain the viability of sensitive plant species. Direction is provided (FSM 2670.22) to ``develop and implement management practices to ensure that species do not become threatened or endangered because of Forest Service actions.'' Additional policy includes (FSM 2670.32): Establish management objectives in cooperation with the States when projects on National Forest System lands may have significant effect on sensitive species population numbers or distributions. Establish objectives for Federal Candidate species, in cooperation with FWS or NMFS and the States. When the Eldorado National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan was approved, little was known about the habitat requirements of the ten sensitive plant species thought to occur on the Forest. General Direction in the Eldorado National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan was limited to the following (p.4&hyph;91): Provide for protection and habitat needs of sensitive plants so that Forest activities will not jeopardize the continued existence of such species. One Standard/Guideline applies: Participate in the implementation of approved species recovery plans and Species Management Guides as specified for the Eldorado. Since that time, a considerable amount of information has been gathered about the habitat requirements of the eight species documented to occur on the Forest. The Forest now has sufficient information on the range, distribution, and status of six of these species to enable the development of species-specific conservation strategies. The species to be considered are: Calochortus clavatus var. avius (Pleasant Valley mariposa lily), Draba asterophora var. macrocarpa (Cup Lake draba), Lewisia longipetala (long-petaled lewisia), Lewisia serrata (saw-toothed lewisia), Navarretia prolifera ssp. lutea (yellow-bur navarretia), Phacelia stebbinsii (Stebbins' phacelia), Silene invisa (short-petaled campion), and Arctostaphylos nissenana (Nissenan manzanita). There are no known permits or licenses required to implement the proposed action. Preliminary issues identified during internal scoping include: 1. How will current and future habitat options for sensitive plant species be managed to address Forest Service requirements (CFR 219.19) to maintain viability? 2. What will be the economic consequences of implementing mitigation measures for sensitive plant species? 3. Should plants species that are managed under the provisions of conservation agreements and/or standards and guidelines still be listed as sensitive? 4. How will fuel conditions that have a high probability of contributing to catastrophic fire behavior be affected by sensitive plant management practices? 5. Will other land uses be constrained or altered?
