FR940207-1-00016 FR940207-1-00002 Part II. Annual Percentage Yield Earned for Periodic Statements Comment app. A.II.A&hyph;1 clarifies when institutions should or should not include accrued but uncredited interest in the balances used to calculate the annual percentage yield earned. The Board believes that it would be misleading to include accrued interest in the balance figure when statements are sent less frequently than interest is credited. When periodic statements are issued more frequently than interest is credited, accrued interest would be included in the balance figure in succeeding statements. This is necessary so that the beginning balance can properly reflect the principal on which interest will accrue for the succeeding statement period. The Board solicits comment on these calculation principles. Comment app. A.II.A.&hyph;2 clarifies rounding rules for calculating interest earned and the annual percentage yield earned. The Board believes flexibility in rounding is appropriate when statements are sent more frequently than interest is compounded and credited, since the interest earned figure does not reflect the amount which will actually be paid by an institution. B. Special Formula for Use Where Periodic Statements Are Sent More Often Than the Period for Which Interest Is Compounded Comment app. A.II.B.&hyph;1 provides guidance to institutions that issue quarterly periodic statements but are required by Regulation E to send a monthly statement during the quarter. (See proposed comment 230.6(a)&hyph;2, which discusses an institution's option to comply with the disclosure requirements for such monthly statements.) The comment clarifies that institutions complying with ยง230.6 for monthly statements triggered by Regulation E must use the special formula in part II.B. of this appendix. Institutions could use this formula for a quarterly statement whether or not a monthly statement is triggered by Regulation E during the quarter. The Board believes such a rule would significantly reduce compliance burdens for institutions. However, in some cases, the use of the special formula may result in an understated annual percentage yield earned. The Board solicits comment on whether the purposes of the act are best served by this approach. Comment app. A.II.B.&hyph;2 clarifies that the special formula requires institutions to use the actual number of days in the compounding period in calculating the annual percentage yield earned. In the supplementary material that accompanied the March 19, 1993 amendments to the regulation (58 FR 15077), the calculation used average numbers of days in the compounding period to calculate the annual percentage yield earned for a statement period. The Board believes that using actual days in a compounding period is more appropriate and corresponds to the annual percentage yield earned for a specific consumer's account. The Board solicits comment on the proposed comment. (3) Form of Comment Letters Comment letters should refer to Docket No. R&hyph;0824, and, when possible, should use a standard typeface with a type size of 10 or 12 characters per inch. This will enable the Board to convert the text into machine-readable form through electronic scanning, and will facilitate automated retrieval of comments for review. Comments may also be submitted on 31/2 inch or 51/4 inch computer diskettes in any IBM-compatible DOS-based format, if accompanied by an original document in paper form. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 230 Advertising, Banks, Banking, Consumer protection, Deposit accounts, Interest, Interest rates, Truth in savings. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Board proposes to amend 12 CFR part 230 as follows: PART 230_TRUTH IN SAVINGS (REGULATION DD) 1. The authority citation for part 230 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 4301 et seq. 2. Part 230 would be amended by adding a new Supplement I at the end of the appendixes to the Part to read as follows: Supplement I to Part 230_Official Staff Interpretations INTRODUCTION 1. Official status. This commentary is the vehicle by which the staff of the Division of Consumer and Community Affairs of the Federal Reserve Board issues official staff interpretations of Regulation DD. Good faith compliance with this commentary affords protection from liability under section 271(f) of the Truth in Savings Act.
