FR940831-2-00002 FR940831-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Grazing Strategies for Dinkey Creek Allotment; Kings River Ranger District, Sierra National Forest AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) for the development of an allotment management plan and authorization of continued grazing on the Dinkey Allotment. SUMMARY: The action to be evaluated by this EIS is the development of an allotment management plan and authorization for cattle grazing on the Dinkey Creek Allotment (Sierra National Forest, Clovis, CA) that will be consistent with the standard and guidleines in the Forest Land and Resource Management Plan. ADDRESSES: All comments should be addressed to the Forest Supervisor, Sierra National Forest, Supervisor's Office, 1600 Tollhouse Road, Clovis, CA 93611&hyph;0532. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Terry Elliott, Assistant Land Management Planner, Sierra National Forest, 1600 Tollhouse Road, Clovis, CA 93611&hyph;0532. Phone (209) 297&hyph;0706 extension 4881. FAX (209) 294&hyph;4809. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This EIS will evaluate various grazing strategies of which one will be selected as the direction contained in the Allotment Management Plan. A Term Grazing Permit must be issued by the Forest Service before implementation of the proposed action. Development of the various alternatives will be in conjunction with the local community, cattle permittees, special interest groups, State Fish and Game Department, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and other interested publics. The EIS will also address the socioeconomic effects of the different strategies on the current permittee. As required by NEPA, the Forest will also anlayze the ``no action'' alternative as a baseline for estimating the impacts of the various other alternatives. The following information including tentative issues and alternatives have been identified through internal (FS) scoping. 1. Proposed Action Statement The Forest Service proposed to develop an Allotment Management Plan (AMP) and authorize continued grazing on the Dinkey Creek Allotment. The AMP will guide livestock management for approximately a 10-year period. 2. Purpose and Need The purpose and need is to develop a management plan and provide authorization for cattle grazing on the Dinkey Creek Allotment that will be consistent with the standards and guidelines in the Sierra Forest Plan. The management plan and permit authorization will help in achieving the goals and future conditions prescribed for the area in the Forest Plan. 3. Issues Identified by FS Interdisciplinary Team a. What are the effects of riparian damage and streambank destruction by livestock on water quality and the aquatic environment, and how can those effects be addressed by alternative grazing strategies? Localized riparian damage and destruction of streambanks by livestock may impair water quality through increased sedimentation (embedded gravel) and higher water temperatures. This could affect aquatic insects, fish, amphibian and reptile productivity. b. What are the effects of livestock grazing mitigations on the economic feasibilty of the permittee's operation, and how can those effects be addressed by alternative grazing strategies? Costs of mitigating environmental concerns related to various resources such as water quality, aquatic habitat, deer habitat, sensitive species habitat, riparian habitat and historic/cultural sites, etc. may cause the permittee's operation to no longer be economically feasible. c. What are the effects of livestock grazing on key deer habitat, and how can those effects be addressed by alternative grazing strategies? Deer/livestock conflicts, including inadequate amount of meadow-edge fawn hiding cover in deer summer range and deer forage needs. d. What are effects of livestock grazing on key willow flycatcher habitat, and how can those effects be addressed by alternative grazing strategies? Willow flycatcher may be impacted by livestock due to nest destruction and heavy browsing of willows. e. What are the effects of livestock grazing on the historic, cultural and archaeological resources of the area, and how can grazing management either protect and/or enhance those resources? Social conflict between historical way of life of the cowboy, including preservation and maintenance of historical facilities, and the protection of cultural sites from livestock damage such as trampling and trailing through sites. f. What are the effects of livestock grazing on Bolander's clover and Invesia unguiculata and how can those effects be addressed by alternative grazing strategies? Bolander's clover may occur in the allotment and cattle grazing may impact the species. Ivesia unguiculata is present in some meadows and may occur in other meadows with the allotment and could be impacted by livestock grazing. g. What are the effects of livestock grazing on the recreational experience (hiking, OHV routes, campsites, etc.), and how can those effects be addressed by alternative grazing strategies? Localized recreation conflicts may occur on hiking trails, OHV routes, meadow-edge shade areas, and campsites due to interaction of people and livestock (cattle excrement_cowpies, flies, ticks and aesthetics). 4. Tentative Alternatives No action_grazing would continue at current levels.
