FR940214-2-00078 FR940214-2-00047 C. For the purpose of minimizing the impact on plant operators, clarification of ERDS data will be pursued through the NRC. VI. Implementation KDHE, KDEP, and the NRC agree to work in concert to assure that the following communications and information exchange protocol regarding the NRC ERDS are followed. A. KDHE, KDEP, and the NRC agree in good faith to make available to each other information within the intent and scope of this Agreement. B. NRC, KDHE and KDEP agree to meet as necessary to exchange information on matters of common concern pertinent to this Agreement. Unless otherwise agreed, such meetings will be held in the NRC Operations Center. The affected utilities will be kept informed of pertinent information covered by this Agreement. C. To preclude the premature public release of sensitive information, NRC, KDHE and KDEP will protect sensitive information to the extent permitted by the Federal Freedom of Information Act, the State Freedom of Information Act, 10 CFR 2.790, and other applicable authority. D. NRC will conduct periodic tests of licensee ERDS data links. A copy of the test schedule will be provided to KDHE by the NRC. KDHE may test its ability to access ERDS data during these scheduled tests, or may schedule independent tests of the State link with the NRC. E. NRC will provide access to ERDS for emergency exercises with reactor units capable of transmitting exercise data to ERDS. For exercises in which the NRC is not participating, KDHE will coordinate with NRC in advance to ensure ERDS availability. NRC reserves the right to preempt ERDS use for any exercise in progress in the event of an actual event at any licensed nuclear power plant. VII. Contacts A. The principal senior management contacts for this Agreement will be the Director, Division of Operational Assessment, Office for Analysis and Evaluation of Operational Data, and the Chief, Environmental Radiation and Emergency Preparedness Section, Bureau of Air and Radiation and the Technological Hazards Administrator, Technological Hazards Program, Kansas Division of Emergency Preparedness, Adjutant General's Department. These individuals may designate appropriate staff representatives for the purpose of administering this Agreement. B. Identification of these contacts is not intended to restrict communication between NRC, KDHE and KDEP staff members on technical and other day-to-day activities. VIII. Resolution of Disagreements A. If disagreements arise about matters within the scope of this Agreement, NRC, KDHE and KDEP will work together to resolve these differences. B. Resolution of differences between the State and NRC staff over issues arising out of this Agreement will be the initial responsibility of the NRC Division of Operational Assessment management. C. Differences which cannot be resolved in accordance with Sections VIII.A and VIII.B will be reviewed and resolved by the Director, Office for Analysis and Evaluation of Operational Data. D. The NRC's General Counsel has the final authority to provide legal interpretation of the Commission's regulations. IX. Effective Date This Agreement will take effect after it has been signed by both parties. X. Duration A formal review, not less than 1 year after the effective date, will be performed by the NRC to evaluate implementation of the Agreement and resolve any problems identified. This Agreement will be subject to periodic reviews and may be amended or modified upon written agreement by both parties, and may be terminated upon 30 days written notice by either party. XI. Separability If any provision(s) of this Agreement, or the application of any provision(s) to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement and the application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances will not be affected. For the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Dated: December 29, 1993. James M. Taylor, Executive Director for Operations. For the State of Kansas, Dated: January 19, 1994. Harold L. Spiker, Chief, Environmental Radiation & Emergency, Preparedness Section, KDHE. Dated: January 20, 1994. Frank Moussa, Technical Hazards Administrator, Kansas Division of Emergency Preparedness. Dated: January 24, 1994. Robert C. Harder, Secretary, KDHE. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3375 Filed 2&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
