FR940513-0-00004 FR940513-0-00002 9 CFR Part 92 [Docket No. 93&hyph;110&hyph;1] Importation of Horses; Quarantine Requirements AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Interim rule and request for comments. SUMMARY: We are amending the regulations concerning the importation of horses by adding Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Finland, Guinea-Bissau, the Member States of the European Union, Slovenia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and the nonrecognized areas of the former Yugoslavia (Montenegro and Serbia) to the list of countries where contagious equine metritis (CEM) exists. We are also adding Oman, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates to the list of countries considered to be affected with African horse sickness (AHS). Outbreaks of CEM, a highly transmissible venereal disease, have been reported in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Finland, Guinea-Bissau, Slovenia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and the nonrecognized areas of the former Yugoslavia (Montenegro and Serbia). The Member States of the European Union either are affected with CEM or trade horses freely with other Member States that are affected with CEM, without testing the horses for the disease. Oman, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates trade horses freely with other countries where AHS, a fatal viral disease, exists. This action will prohibit or restrict the importation into the United States of horses that have been in these countries. This action is necessary to protect horses in the United States from CEM and AHS. Neither disease is known to exist in the United States. DATES: Interim rule effective May 13, 1994. Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before July 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 93&hyph;110&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Joyce Bowling, Staff Veterinarian, Import-Export Animals Staff, National Center for Import-Export, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 766, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;8170. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations concerning the importation of horses (contained in 9 CFR 92.300 through 92.326 and referred to below as the regulations) are designed to protect against the introduction into the United States of various equine diseases such as contagious equine metritis (CEM) and African horse sickness (AHS). Neither CEM, a highly transmissible venereal disease, nor AHS, a fatal viral disease, is known to exist in the United States. Contagious Equine Metritis Section 92.301(c)(1) of the regulations prohibits or restricts the importation into the United States of all horses from Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Federal Republic of Germany, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom (England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and the Isle of Man) because of the existence of CEM in those countries. This section also prohibits or restricts the importation into the United States of all horses that have been in these countries within the 12 months immediately preceding their export to the United States. We have received information from the Governments of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Finland, Guinea-Bissau, Slovenia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and the nonrecognized areas of the former Yugoslavia (Montenegro and Serbia) that there have been outbreaks of CEM in these countries. In response, we are amending ยง92.301(c)(1) to add these countries to the list of countries where CEM exists. We are also adding a note to this section to explain the status of Montenegro and Serbia. The note states that Montenegro and Serbia have asserted the formation of a joint independent State entitled ``The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia,'' but this entity has not been formally recognized as a State by the United States. Currently, 12 European countries comprise the Member States of the European Union (EU). These countries include Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, Italy, Federal Republic of Germany, France, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom are already listed in ยง92.301(c)(1) as countries where CEM exists. However, Greece, Luxembourg, Portugal, and Spain, which are considered to be free of CEM, trade freely within the EU. The Member States of the EU move horses freely without testing for CEM. Further, many countries that are affected with CEM have applied for membership in the EU. Therefore, horses imported from Member States of the EU that have been considered to be free of CEM present an unacceptable risk that CEM could be introduced into the United States.
