FR940616-2-00143 FR940616-2-00094 2. Reasonable, Feasible, and Flexible Objectives Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program's objectives and plan. 3. Multiplier Effect/Impact Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, to include maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual linkages. A program is also considered to have a strong ``multiplier effect'' if it affects a significant number of persons in addition to the actual program participants. For example, a group of high school students may have extensive interaction with community groups. 4. Value to U.S._Partner Country Relations Assessments by USIA's geographic area desk, and overseas officers of the need, potential, impact, and significance in the partner country(ies). 5. Cost Effectiveness The overhead and administrative components of grants, as well as salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. Proposals which utilize grant funds for program rather than administrative costs will, in general, be more favorably reviewed. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. Proposals should to the extent possible maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as institutional direct funding contributions. Other things being equal, a proposal with a low cost per participant and/or a low cost per participant program day will have an advantage. 6. Institutional Capacity Proposed personnel and institutional resources should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the program or project's goals. 7. Institution's Track Record/Ability Proposals should demonstrate potential for program excellence and/or the track record of applicant institution. The Agency will consider the past performance of prior grantees and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. A documented record of successful exchange programs, whether USIA financed or not, is one way in which an applicant may demonstrate strength in this area. 8. Follow-on Activities Proposals should provide a plan for continued follow-on activity (without USIA support) which insures that USIA supported programs are not isolated events. 9. Evaluation Plan Proposals should provide a plan for evaluation of the program by the grantee institution. 10. Participant Diversity Programs should strive for a diversity among participants and include members of underrepresented groups; e.g., racial and ethnic minorities and persons with disabilities. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process by February, 1995. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: June 8, 1994. John P. Loiello, Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14512 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
