FR941125-0-00017 FR941125-0-00007 The commenter disagreed with the Attorney General's certification pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, arguing that imprisoned people may own small businesses in whole or in part. As noted in its response to comment in the April 5, 1994 proposed rule, the Attorney General's certification pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;12, is appropriate in this case. Inmates and their families in general do not satisfy the definition of a ``small entity'' under the Act. Furthermore, any inmate who owns a small business in whole or in part is separately enjoined by Bureau regulations from conducting such business while incarcerated. The commenter objected to the provision treating revocation of parole or supervised release as a separate period of incarceration for which a fee may be imposed. As previously noted in its response to comment in the April 5, 1994 proposed rule, the Department believes this interpretation is reasonable because, in each instance, the offender's conduct results in a distinct incarceration period and an additional expense to the Attorney General for the cost of the confinement. The commenter expressed concern over the determination of the exact cost of imprisonment, citing higher figures allegedly mentioned in news stories. The Department notes that the determination of each year's fee through computation of the formula contained in ยง0.96c(b) is designed to prevent any confusion over what is the cost of incarceration in the federal system. This rule is a matter of internal department management. It will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This rule was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to Executive Order 12866. List of Subjects in 28 CFR Part O Authority delegations (Government agencies), Government employees, Organization and functions (Government agencies), Whistleblowing. Accordingly, by virtue of the authority vested in the Attorney General by law, including 5 U.S.C. 301 and 28 U.S.C. 509&hyph;510, part O of title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART O_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for 28 CFR part O continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, 515&hyph;519. 2. In subpart Q, a new ยง0.96c is added to read as follows: ยง0.96c Cost of incarceration. (a) The Attorney General is required to establish and collect a fee to cover the cost of one year of incarceration. These provisions apply to any person who is convicted in a United States District Court and committed to the custody of the Attorney General, and who begins service of sentence on or after December 27, 1994. For the purposes of this subpart, revocation of parole or supervised release shall be treated as a separate period of incarceration for which a fee may be imposed. (b) The fee to cover the costs of incarceration shall be calculated by dividing the number representing the obligation encountered in Bureau of Prisons facilities (excluding activation costs) by the number of inmate-days incurred for the year, and by then multiplying the quotient by 365. The resulting figure represents the average cost to the Bureau for confining an inmate for one year. (c) The Director of the Bureau of Prisons is delegated the authority to collect the fee to cover the cost of incarceration from inmates committed to the custody of the Attorney General and to promulgate all regulations concerning the collection of the fee. (d) The Director shall review and determine the amount of the fee not less than annually in accordance with the formula set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. The Director shall publish each year's fee as a Notice in the Federal Register . Dated November 15, 1994. Janet Reno, Attorney General. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29029 Filed 11&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
