FR940428-1-00021 FR940428-1-00008 Proposed Revisions of Existing Terms The following terms in the current rule are proposed to be revised: 1. The definition of allotment management plan would be limited to defining allotment management plans and removes regulatory text that is inappropriately included as part of the definition in the current rule. While under proposed ยง222.3 the agency is proposing to eliminate allotment management plans, the term is needed to address authorization of grazing within the transitional procedures established in this section of the proposed rule. 2. The definition of base property would be slightly reworded for clarity with no change in meaning. 3. The definition of grazing permit would be revised for clarity. 4. The term 16 contiguous Western States would be reworded for clarity and brevity. 5. The definition of livestock would be clarified by specifying that the term means foraging animals and by adding that the animals are raised for livestock production. 6. The definition of National Forest System lands would be revised to conform to the statutory definition found in 16 U.S.C. 1609. 7. The definition of other lands under Forest Service control would be shortened and clarified by substituting the words ``other means'' for ``otherwise.'' 8. The definition of permitted livestock would be expanded to include those livestock grazed under a permit during the preceding season, including offspring retained for herd replacement. This change reflects the current practice of recognizing these animals as permitted livestock when approving waivers of permits based on the sale of permitted livestock. 9. The definition of range betterment fund is shortened and makes clear that the funds are available for range rehabilitation, protection, and improvement. 10. The definition of transportation livestock would be expanded to include other lands under Forest Service control. Terms Proposed To Be Removed The following terms found in the current rule are not included in the proposed rule: 1. The term livestock use permit would be removed since this type of use would be covered through a temporary permit as described in ยง222.6. 2. The definitions of the terms temporary grazing permit, term permits, on-and-off grazing permits, and private land grazing permits would be removed since they can be defined and better understood in the context of the rule. 3. The definitions of cancel, modify, on-the-ground expenditure, suspend, and term period would be removed since the meanings of these terms are easily understood from common usage and in the context of the regulation. 4. The definitions of person, land subject to commercial livestock grazing, and range betterment would be removed as these terms would no longer be used in the regulatory text with special meanings. Proposed Section 222.3_Framework for Rangeland Planning and Decisions This section of the proposed rule provides the context in which plans and decisions regarding rangeland management on National Forest System lands are made. This includes the decision to authorize grazing. This section would adopt the two-tiered planning and decisionmaking framework established by the Chief of the Forest Service through two key administrative appeal decisions (Panhandle LRMP Appeal # 2130, August 15, 1988, p. 7 and Flathead LRMP Appeals # 1467 and # 1513, August 31, 1988, p. 8) and subsequently endorsed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in Idaho Conservation League vs. Mumma , 956 F.2d 1508 (9th Cir. 1992). Specifically, proposed paragraph (a) would recognize that rangeland planning and decisions occur through the land and resource management planning process set out in 36 CFR part 219 and that forest plans, establish the programmatic direction for rangeland management on the forest which includes goals, objectives, standards, guidelines, and an identification of lands suitable for livestock grazing. Finally, proposed paragraph (a) makes clear that a determination in the forest plan that lands are suitable for grazing is not a decision to authorize grazing. This latter declaration is included in the rule to eliminate recurring permittee and public confusion over the distinction between a grazing suitability determination and a grazing authorization decision. The first determination_the suitability of lands for grazing_must be made before a decision to authorize grazing can be made, but a grazing suitability determination does not necessarily lead to a decision to graze those lands. Even though lands may be suitable for grazing, other resource objectives may take precedence over grazing livestock; for example, protection needs of wildlife habitat might have a higher priority in a given area and thus grazing use would be incompatible with that objective.
