FR940628-2-00005 FR940628-2-00003 The agency record of decision is set forth below. Record of Decision for United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), Animal Damage Control (ADC), Gull Hazard Reduction Program, John F. Kennedy International Airport; Final Environmental Impact Statement, Introduction This decision concludes a complex evaluation process that explores alternatives which reduce or eliminate the hazard to aviation and human safety at John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFKIA) posed by the presence and activities of gulls, especially laughing gulls. The EIS identifies the severity and nature of the hazards created by gull-aircraft collisions at JFKIA. Until approximately the mid-1980s the hazards posed by gulls could, for the most part, be effectively controlled by conventional bird management activities on JFKIA: insect, water, vegetation, and sanitation management programs, and conduct of the Port Authority's bird Control Unit (BCU). Throughout the late 1980s, the hazard to aviation grew as the presence of laughing gulls increased substantially concurrent with the growth of the laughing gull nesting colony in Jamaica Bay. In 1991, an experimental on-airport shooting program was initiated to augment the conventional control methods already in place at JFKIA. The shooting program was also conducted in 1992 and 1993. Although an annual shooting program is quite effective in reducing gull-aircraft strikes, especially when it is conducted in combination with on-airport non-lethal approaches, its desirability as a long-term solution may be limited due to the large number of gulls killed. Accordingly, the EIS process was commenced in 1992 for the purpose of exploring alternatives to dealing effectively with the gull hazard situation at JFKIA in a way that takes into account all interests. The Council on Environmental Quality's (CEQ) regulations implementing the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) tell the decision maker what information must be included in records of decision. Section 1505.2 of the CEQ Regulations provides that records of decision contain: _A statement of the decision; _The identification of all alternatives considered by the agency, including the environmentally preferable alternative(s); _A discussion of all factors_economic, technical, and mission-related as well as considerations of national policy balanced in the decision making process and how each factor weighs in the decision; and _An explanation of whether the decision is designed to avoid or minimize environmental harm and, if not, why not. Alternatives Considered The EIS explores a wide variety of alternative approaches, that would occur both on JFK and off JFK property, including: the No Action alternative, On-Airport Shooting, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey's (Port Authority) On-Airport Program, and other alternatives that are either lethal or nonlethal. The Integrated Management Program (IMP) includes the following components: 1. Continued Development of JFK's On-Airport Program 2. Reduction of Off-Airport Attractants 3. On-Airport Shooting of Gulls 4. Laughing Gull Nest/Egg Destruction in Jamaica Bay 5. On-Colony Shooting of Adult Laughing Gulls 6. Display of Gull Models to Harass Gulls A total of 29 separate alternative methods are described and analyzed. Alternatives include those that would occur on JFK, on the Gateway National Recreation Area (GNRA), and at other off-airport sites. Both lethal and nonlethal methods of gull hazard control are contained in those alternatives. Major categories of alternatives are as follows: nesting habitat modifications, discouraging use of the nesting colony site through harassment, reduction of off-airport attractants, expansion of JFKIA's on-airport bird control program, airport operational strategies, aircraft engineering, laughing gull population reduction, and on-airport gull shooting and harassment. Roles and Responsibilities Decisions regarding the selection and conduct of alternatives are complicated by the fact that the cooperating Federal and New York State agencies have very different roles and responsibilities. In the past, APHIS, the Federal lead agency, has provided services (gull hazard control) to the Port Authority upon their request. APHIS' jurisdiction (and its choice among alternatives) is limited to deciding what wildlife control activities, if any, it should conduct when requested to assist public and private entities. On-airport gull control activities would be done at the request of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The on-airport gull shooting program, a component of the IMP, would require the acquisition of permits from the USFWS and the DEC. The reduction of off-airport attractants would require the approval of the entities controlling those sites. On-colony activities would require the approval of NPS. The EIS considers all feasible alternatives, and among those alternatives, indicates which are the environmentally preferable alternatives. However, ADC does not alone have the jurisdiction to select or implement any of those alternatives. The USFWS has permitting authorities regarding the taking of Federally-protected migratory birds, and identifies conditions under which permits may be issued. The USFWS would evaluate permit applications for the following components of the IMP: on-airport shooting of gulls, on-colony shooting of adult laughing gulls, and laughing gull egg/nest destruction. The USFWS may identify conditions under which permits are issued. The National Park Service (NPS) is responsible for managing GNRA pursuant to applicable laws, policies, and regulations. The NPS has decision-making authority regarding conduct of IMP components that would occur on NPS lands in Jamaica Bay. Those components of the IMP that would require authorizations from the NPS are: laughing gull nest/egg destruction, on-colony shooting of adult laughing gulls, and display of gull models to harass gulls. The DEC has permitting authority for the taking of migratory birds pursuant to New York State law. The DEC has decision-making authority regarding permitting of IMP components that would include taking of gulls: on-airport shooting of gulls, laughing gulls nest/egg destruction, and on-colony shooting of adult laughing gulls.
