FR941007-2-00052 FR941007-2-00027 (6) Demonstrations that identify and implement the solution to power quality problems, and by doing so, effectively increases total system efficiency and productivity. Specifically, projects addressing the impact of power quality on motor drives and other motor system components which quantify the true cost/benefits of power quality enhancement with respect to total motor system efficiency, reliability and productivity. (7) Implementation and retrofit of efficient motor and drive systems on industrial heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment or motor-driven industrial process heating or cooling systems. These systems should be integrated creatively and cost-effectively within an entire, or a portion of, an industrial facility or process to yield improved energy efficiency, reduced life-cycle cost in an environmentally-acceptable manner. [HVAC for industrial or manufacturing facilities are only of interest, not HVAC for space conditioning of an office or commercial facility]. Projects could involve a single unit of equipment, a unit operation, a series of replicable equipment, an entire process, or an entire facility. In general, proposals are desired which could lead to demonstrably higher U.S. industrial productivity, energy efficiency, environmental enhancement, and improved competitiveness once the application is replicated on a widespread basis throughout the United States. This listing is meant to be illustrative, not exclusive. Final Proposal Technical Evaluation Criteria and Review Process The final proposers will be encouraged to develop a fuller, engineered/technical proposal. The final proposals then submitted will reflect more detailed engineering, energy, environmental, and economic assessment. While there is no set format for the final proposals as yet, emphasis will be upon: (1) The technical soundness and concise explanation of the proposal and its benefits; (2) A clear commitment from the proposing team to provide resources for the project; (3) The techniques and methodologies envisioned to measure and validate the demonstration's performance; (4) The quality of the management plan to reach and achieve the stated goals of the project; (5) The potential impact of the project to reduce market barriers and accelerate the deployment of efficient electric motor systems. The recommendations of the technical merit review will be provided by Oak Ridge National Laboratory and the Experts Review Panel to representatives of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Industrial Technologies. Final selection will be made by the Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. Issued in Washington, DC on October 3, 1994. Robert L. San Martin, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Utility Technologies. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24923 Filed 10&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
