FR940405-1-00027 FR940405-1-00010 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms 27 CFR Part 4 [Notice No. 793; Ref. Notice Nos. 581 and 749] RIN 1512&hyph;AB08 Gamay Beaujolais Wine Designation (92F&hyph;042P) AGENCY: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF), Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms is proposing to amend regulations to clarify use of the designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' on a wine label. In response to comments from consumers and wine industry members, ATF is proposing that a wine which has been designated with a varietal type designation in accordance with 27 CFR 4.23a, and which derives not less than 75 percent of its volume from Pinot noir grapes or Napa Gamay grapes, may be further designated with the optional term ``Gamay Beaujolais.'' When the optional designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' appears on the brand label, it shall be in direct conjunction with the required varietal type designation (Pinot noir or Napa Gamay) and appellation of origin, in lettering of substantially the same size and kind. ATF believes that this clarification of the label designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' will be informative to consumers and industry in the marketing and purchasing of such wines. DATES: Written comments must be received by July 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to: Chief, Wine and Beer Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, P.O. Box 50221, Washington, DC 20091&hyph;0221, Attention Notice No. 793. Copies of written comments received in response to this notice will be available for inspection and copying during normal business hours at: ATF Reading Room, Office of Public Affairs and Disclosure, 650 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20226. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Charles N. Bacon or James A. Hunt, Wine and Beer Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 650 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20226, Telephone: 202&hyph;927&hyph;8230. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Alcohol Administration Act Section 105(e) of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (FAA Act), 27 U.S.C. 205(e), vests broad authority in the Director, ATF, as a delegate of the Secretary of the Treasury, to prescribe regulations intended to prevent deception of the consumer, and to provide the consumer with adequate information as to the identity and quality of the product. Regulations which implement the provisions of section 105(e) as they relate to wine are set forth in title 27, Code of Federal Regulations, part 4 (27 CFR part 4). Section 4.23a provides that the name of a single grape variety may be used as the type designation of a grape wine if the wine is labeled with an appellation of origin, and if not less than 75 percent of the wine is derived from grapes of that variety, the entire 75 percent of which was grown in the labeled appellation of origin area. Section 4.34(b)(1) provides that an appellation of origin disclosing the true origin of the wine shall appear in direct conjunction with and in lettering substantially as conspicuous as the class and type designation if a grape type (varietal) designation is used under the provisions of section 4.23a. History of Gamay Beaujolais Name For many years ATF has permitted the use of ``Gamay Beaujolais'' on wine labels as a varietal designation. This resulted from the identification in the 1940's, of a grape grown in Napa County, California as the Gamay grape native to the Beaujolais region of France. In the late 1960's, the University of California at Davis (UCD) determined that the grape known as Napa Gamay was the true French Gamay and that the Gamay Beaujolais vine was actually a clone of Pinot noir. Since then, ATF has permitted wine produced from both the Napa Gamay and Pinot noir grape varieties to be labeled as ``Gamay Beaujolais.'' The Foundation Plant Material Service (FPMS) at UCD (a service operated in cooperation with UCD which makes virus free, true type plant material available to the industry) also identified the Gamay Beaujolais vine as a clonal selection of the Pinot noir variety. More recently, UCD determined that the grape known as Napa Gamay is not the Gamay grape of France. Napa Gamay has been positively identified by the FPMS as Valdiguie, although it is not widely known by this name. Winegrape Varietal Names Advisory Committee In 1982, ATF established the Winegrape Varietal Names Advisory Committee (referred to as the ``Committee'') to conduct an examination of the hundreds of grape variety names and synonyms in use [47 FR 13623, March 31, 1982]. According to its charter, the Committee was to advise the Director of the grape varieties and subvarieties which are used in the production of wine, to recommend appropriate label designations for these varieties, and to recommend guidelines for approval of names suggested for new grape varieties. Their recommendations were restricted to grape names used in producing American wines. The Committee's final report, presented to the Director in September 1984, contained the Committee's findings regarding use of the most appropriate names for domestic winegrape varieties. One finding which appeared in the l984 final report of the Winegrape Varietal Names Advisory Committee was that the name ``Gamay Beaujolais'' is not the name of any grape variety. However, the report did recommend that the term be permitted for use during a five year phase out period, for wine made either from the grape called Napa Gamay, or from the Gamay Beaujolais clone of Pinot noir.
