FR941025-2-00059 FR941025-2-00045 •The National Research Council (NRC), Commission on Behavioral and Social Sciences and Education (CBASSE), Panel on Research on Child Abuse and Neglect report, Understanding Child Abuse and Neglect (hereafter referenced as the NRC report) was produced by CBASSE in response to a request from the Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF) in the Administration for Children and Families (ACF) to undertake a comprehensive review and synthesis of research on child abuse and neglect and to recommend research needs and priorities for the remainder of the decade; •The American Psychological Society (APS) report on the field in Human Capital Initiative: Report of the National Behavioral Science Research Agenda Committee (APS Observer, February 1992); •The Child Welfare League of America (CWLA) report on the field, A Research Agenda for Child Welfare: A Special Issue of Child Welfare , LXXIII, No. 5 (September-October, 1994); •Reviews of current literature on child abuse and neglect; •Findings from recently completed studies; •Suggestions received from the field; •Hearings and reports of the Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect; •Meetings held by the Inter-Agency Task Force on Child Abuse and Neglect and its Research Committee; and •Other Departmental organizations and professional associations. These recommendations have been considered in light of the vision and values of the Administration for Children and Families. The priorities described below especially embody the vision of building partnerships between the Federal government and individuals, families, front-line service providers, communities, American Indian tribes and Native communities, States and Congress to seek solutions that transcend traditional agency boundaries. More responsive services can be designed when gaps across services are bridged: when practitioners and researchers work together to ask and answer questions that will empower individuals to achieve active, healthy, productive lives in strong, supportive communities. Prevention efforts, especially, will have a positive impact on the quality of life and the development of children. Since 1975, NCCAN has funded hundreds of research and demonstration projects addressing prevention, intervention, and treatment issues in child abuse and neglect. The topics over these 19 years have spanned the many and diverse interests of the field, the needs of public social service agencies, and the private sector, providing seed money for some efforts and platforms for others. Descriptions of these discretionary activities are available from The Clearinghouse on Child Abuse and Neglect Information, P.O. Box 1182, Washington, D.C. 20013 (1&hyph;800&hyph;394&hyph;3366), hereafter referred to as the NCCAN Clearinghouse, in the following volumes: Compendium of Discretionary Grants: Fiscal Years 1975&hyph;1991 (April 1992); NCCAN Discretionary Grants: Profiles for Fiscal Year 1992 (June 1993); Profiles of Research and Demonstration Grants Addressing Issues of Child Neglect (June 1993); Profiles of Research Grants Funded by NCCAN: Fiscal Years 1988&hyph;1992 (March 1993); and Emergency Child Abuse and Neglect Prevention Services Program (Fiscal Year 1991) (Revised April 1993).
