FR941006-2-00051 FR941006-2-00036 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM Consumer Advisory Council; Notice of Meeting of Consumer Advisory Council The Consumer Advisory Council will meet on Thursday, November 3, 1994. The meeting, which will be open to public observation, will take place in the Board Room of the Eccles Building. The meeting is expected to begin at 9 a.m. and to continue until 4 p.m., with a lunch break from 1 until 2 p.m. The Eccles Building is located on C Street, Northwest, between 20th and 21st Streets in Washington, DC. The Council's function is to advise the Board on the exercise of the Board's responsibilities under the Consumer Credit Protection Act and on other matters on which the Board seeks its advice. Time permitting, the Council will discuss the following topics: Community Reinvestment Act Reform . Discussion led by the Bank Regulation Committee of issues related to the September 1994 interagency proposal to amend regulations implementing the Community Reinvestment Act. Fair Lending Matters . Discussion led by the Community Affairs and Housing Committee on fair lending matters, including: (1) Whether further guidance from the Inter-agency Task Force on Fair Lending would be helpful to lenders, and on what issues; (2) Agreements entered into by government agencies with industry groups and lending institutions, and the implications for other lenders; and (3) whether special initiatives of some lenders (such as affordable mortgage products, second-review programs, and use of mystery shoppers) are having the desired effect. Waiver of Consumers' Right of Rescission for Certain Loans . Discussion led by the Consumer Credit Committee on the merits of making it easier for consumers to waive their right of rescission in connection with refinancings and other transactions that do not involve added debt. Mandatory Arbitration Clauses . Briefing by two Council members on creditors' use of arbitration clauses in consumer contracts that require consumers and creditors, in the event of a dispute, to abide by the decision of an arbiter. Governor's Report . Report by Federal Reserve Board Member Lawrence B. Lindsey on economic conditions, recent Board initiatives, and issues of concern, with an opportunity for questions from Council members. Members Forum . Presentation of individual Council members' views on the economic conditions present within their industries or local economies (including whether there is a strong focus on lending in the inner cities). Committee Reports . Reports from Council committees on their work. Other matters previously considered by the Council or initiated by Council members also may be discussed. Persons wishing to submit to the Council their views regarding any of the above topics may do so by sending written statements to Ann Marie Bray, Secretary, Consumer Advisory Council, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. Comments must be received no later than close of business Monday, October 31, and must be of a quality suitable for reproduction. Information with regard to this meeting may be obtained from Bedelia Calhoun, Staff Specialist, Consumer Advisory Council, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551, 202-452-6470. Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD) users may contact Dorothea Thompson, 202-452-3544. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, September 30, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Deputy Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94-24736 Filed 10-5-94; 8:45am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
