FR940207-2-00048 FR940207-2-00028 Department of Energy Deputy Secretary In the matter of: Western Area Power Administration, Rate Adjustments for Phoenix Area Office, Parker-Davis Project. [Rate Order No. WAPA&hyph;55] order confirming, approving, and placing the Parker-Davis Project; rates for firm power and firm and nonfirm transmission service into effect on an interim basis. January 6, 1994. Pursuant to section 302(a) of the Department of Energy (DOE) Organization Act, 42 U.S.C. ยง7152(a) et seq., the power marketing functions of the Secretary of the Interior and the Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation) under the Reclamation Act of 1902, 43 U.S.C. ยง371 et seq., as amended and supplemented by subsequent enactments, particularly section 9(c) of the Reclamation Project Act of 1939, 43 U.S.C. ยง485h(c), and other acts specifically applicable to the projects involved, were transferred to and vested in the Secretary of Energy (Secretary). By Amendment No. 3 to Delegation Order No. 0204&hyph;108, published on November 10, 1993 (58 FR 59716), the Secretary delegated: (1) The authority to develop long-term power and transmission rates on a nonexclusive basis to the Administrator of the Western Area Power Administration (Western); (2) the authority to confirm, approve, and place such rates into effect on an interim basis to the Deputy Secretary; and (3) the authority to confirm, approve, and place into effect on a final basis, to remand, or to disapprove such rates to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Existing DOE procedures for public participation in power rate adjustments (10 CFR Part 903) became effective on September 18, 1985 (50 FR 37835). Acronyms and Definitions As used in this rate order, the following acronyms and definitions apply: AC Intertie: Pacific Northwest/Pacific Southwest Intertie Project. Additions: A unit of property constructed or acquired which enhances or improves a project or system and which is properly allocated to power or the joint features allocated to power. Apportionment of Cost Study: A study that apportions costs to users in proportion to benefits received from the respective P&hyph;DP power and transmission system. Composite Rate: Combination of an energy and a capacity component. Cost Evaluation Period (CEP): The first 5 future years in the PRS. Normally consistent with the budget period. CRSP: Colorado River Storage Project. CSRS: Civil Service Retirement System. Current PRS: The PRS included in this rate, which was used to test adequacy of the P&hyph;DP existing rates. Customer Brochure: A document prepared for public distribution explaining the background of the rate proposal contained in this rate order. Deputy Secretary: The approval authority to confirm, approve, and place rates into effect on an interim basis. DOE: Department of Energy. DOE Act: Department of Energy Organization Act, August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq. ). DOE Order No. RA 6120.2: An order dealing with power marketing administration financial reporting. EIS: Environmental impact statement. Energy Rate: Expressed in mills per kWh. Applied to each kWh made available to each contractor. Engineering Ten-Year Construction and Replacement Plan: A planning document prepared by Western for transmission system construction for a 10-year period. Also referred to as the ``Engineering Ten-Year Plan.'' FERC: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. FDR: Facilities development report. A planning document prepared by Western for specific transmission system construction. FY: Fiscal year. IDC: Interest during construction. Interior: U.S. Department of the Interior. kW: Kilowatt. kW/month: The greater of (1) the highest 30-minute demand measured during the month, not to exceed the contract obligation, or (2) the contract rate of delivery (kilowatt per month). $/kW/month: Monthly charge for capacity (usage_$ per kilowatt per month). $/kW/season: 6-month charge for capacity (usage_$ per kilowatt per season). kWh: Kilowatthour. MAF: Million acre-feet. mills/kWh: Mills per kilowatthour.
