FR941110-1-00107 FR941110-1-00011 (E) The amount of Article 5 allowances being transferred; (F) The control period(s) for which the Article 5 allowances are being transferred; and (G) The amount of unexpended Article 5 allowances for the control period being transferred that the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA. (H) The amount of the one-percent offset applied to the unweighted amount traded that will be deducted from the transferor's balance. (ii) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA, taking into account any previous transfers and any production of controlled substances reported by the transferor, indicate that the transferor possesses, as of the date the transfer claim is processed, unexpended Article 5 allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the transferor and transferee as follows: (A) If EPA's records show that the transferor has sufficient unexpended Article 5 allowances to cover the transfer claim the Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer and will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended Article 5 allowances by the amount to be transferred. When EPA issues a no objection notice, the transferor and the transferee may proceed with the transfer. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended Article 5 allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer. (B) If EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended Article 5 allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination, the Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer. Within 10 working days after receipt of notification, either party may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day. (iii) In the event that the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the transferor and transferee may proceed with the transfer. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended Article 5 allowances by the amount to be transferred. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer. (3) Effective January 1, 1996, any person (``transferor'') may transfer to any other person (``transferee'') any amount of the transferor's destruction credits or transformation credits. The type of credit received by the transferee in a transfer are the same type of credits transferred by the transferor. The transfer proceeds as follows: (i) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim setting forth the following: (A) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee; (B) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee; (C) The type of credits being transferred, including the names of the controlled substances for which credits are to be transferred; (D) The group of controlled substances to which the credits being transferred pertains; (E) The amount of destruction credits or transformation credits being transferred; (F) The control period(s) for which the destruction credits or transformation credits are being transferred; (G) The amount of unexpended destruction credits or transformation credits for the control period being transferred that the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA; and (H) The amount of the one-percent offset applied to the unweighted amount traded that will be deducted from the transferor's balance.
