FR941207-2-00104 FR941207-2-00072 (2) By strengthening the economic feasibility of the projects financed with Section 108 funds (and thereby increasing the probability that the project will generate enough cash to repay the guaranteed loan); (3) By enabling a speedy repayment of the Section 108 loan guarantee notes; or (4) Through a combination of these risk mitigation techniques. HUD envisions that the following project structures could be typical: Funding reserves_ The cash flow generated by an economic development project may be expected to be relatively ``thin'' in the early stages of the project. The EDI grant can make it possible for debt service or operating reserves to be established in a way that does not jeopardize the economic feasibility of the project. An example is a supermarket or neighborhood shopping center that is designed to provide basic services and jobs for residents in the distressed neighborhood. The public entity must be prepared for the Section 108 loan repayments required during the time period after completion of construction and during the lease-up phase when the shopping center is not fully leased and generating sufficient revenues to support the Section 108 loan repayments. It may therefore require the developer to establish with a trustee a reserve account (or accounts) that would be available to cover operating expenses and/or debt service during this lease-up period. While such reserves are commonplace, their cost may be so high as to make an already risky neighborhood shopping center project economically infeasible. The increased cost resulting from establishing such reserves may be defrayed by the EDI grant. As with the letter of credit example below, such reserves protect the CDBG program against the risk that CDBG funds will have to be used to cover shortfalls in the intended source for repayment of the Section 108 loan. Over-collateralizing the Section 108 loan_ The use of EDI grant funds may be structured in appropriate cases so as to improve the chances that cash flow will be sufficient to cover debt service on the Section 108 loan and directly enhance the guaranteed loan. One technique for accomplishing this approach is over-collateralization of the Section 108 loan. An example is the creation of a loan pool made up of equal amounts of Section 108 and EDI grant funds. The community would make loans to various businesses at an interest rate equal to or greater than the rate on the Section 108 loan. The total loan portfolio would be pledged to the repayment of the Section 108 loan. If the total loan repayments from the loan fund were twice the amount of the debt service on the Section 108 loan, the community could accumulate a loan loss reserve that would mitigate virtually any risk to future CDBG funds. Direct enhancement of the security of the Section 108 loan _The EDI grant can be used to cover the cost of providing enhanced security. An example of how the EDI grant can be used for this purpose is by using the grant funds to cover the cost of a standby letter of credit, issued in favor of HUD. This letter of credit will be available to fund amounts due on the Section 108 loan if other sources fail to materialize and will, thus, serve to protect the public entity's future CDBG funds. Provision of financing to for-profit businesses at a below market interest rate _While the rates on loans guaranteed under Section 108 are only slightly above the rates on comparable U.S. Treasury obligations, they may nonetheless be higher than can be afforded by businesses in severely, economically distressed neighborhoods. The EDI grant can be used to make Section 108 financing affordable. For example, a community's strategic plan to stabilize the economic viability of a severely distressed neighborhood may provide financial loan assistance to both new and existing businesses at very low interest rates for some period of time until each business has reached a stabilized and profitable level of operation. EDI grant funds would serve to ``buy down'' the interest rate up front, or make full or partial interest payments, allowing the businesses to be financially viable in the early start-up period not otherwise possible with Section 108 alone.
