FR940328-2-00124 FR940328-2-00068 _Assist Corporation evaluation and T/TA staff in providing other training or technical assistance, as requested. Encouraged Approaches While the Corporation will consider any proposal that accomplishes the activities listed above, it encourages the following approaches: (a) A proposal that includes a partnership among providers who together can offer training and technical assistance in the areas listed above and who together have a presence across the country that enables them to provide training and assistance regionally. Such a proposal must clearly describe the specific responsibilities of each partner, the amount of funds to be allocated to each, the amount of staff time dedicated by each, and the mechanisms for cooperation and coordination among partners and the Corporation. (b) A proposal that includes a partnership of which at least one member has experience providing training and technical assistance in complying with federal requirements for administering federal funds. (C) National Priority Skills Development Centers _Proposals due June 1, 1994. _Preference will be given to applicants that can begin delivering assistance by August 1994. Summary National Priority Skills Development Centers will help meet the short-term, immediate training and technical assistance needs of the Corporation, states, and AmeriCorps programs in their efforts to make direct and demonstrable impacts in the areas of need the Corporation has identified as ``national priorities.'' The Centers will provide information and hands-on support, create networks and expert groups, and carry out other activities as needed. National Priority Skills Development Centers also provide an opportunity to begin developing resources to serve the service field over the long-run. Based on the lessons learned and foundations laid by the Skills Development Centers, grantees may begin to develop ``Centers of Excellence.'' Centers of Excellence will serve as more permanent resources for the service field and as such, will receive a much more significant investment of funds from the Corporation. These Centers will be much larger than the Skills Development Centers. Over time, they will develop more extensive expertise in the practices that make for high-quality, effective service programs in various priority area fields. At present, funding is only available for the Skills Development Centers. The Corporation encourages providers to devote some of their resources to developing plans to expand their Skills Development Center(s) into more comprehensive and permanent Center(s) of Excellence. Need AmeriCorps programs must achieve direct and demonstrable results in the areas of education, public safety, health, human needs, and the environment. Programs funded through the AmeriCorps direct competition must achieve the results in more specific national priority areas. The national priority areas are as follows: In Education: _School Readiness: furthering early childhood development. _ School Success: improving the educational achievement of school-age children and adults who lack basic academic skills. In Public Safety: _ Crime Control: improving criminal justice services, law enforcement, and victim services. _ Crime Prevention: reducing the incidence of violence. In Human Needs: _ Health: providing independent living assistance and home- and community-based health care. _ Home: rebuilding neighborhoods and helping people who are homeless or hungry. In Environment: _ Neighborhood Environment: reducing community environmental hazards. _ Natural Environment: conserving, restoring, and sustaining natural habitats. The Corporation will fund Skills Development Centers to help programs and participants achieve demonstrable results in these areas by providing them with training, information, technical support, and other resources. T/TA providers will be expected to work closely with service programs so that providers' expertise in how to make impacts in certain needs areas is complemented by an understanding of service programs, regardless of the area of need addressed. The ``Principles of High Quality National Service Programs'' document mentioned in the Background section more extensively describes the Corporation's current thinking in these areas. Applicants should have the expertise to expand the Corporation's thinking and the ability to help make programs working in each area more effective. Amount and Duration of Funding The Corporation will make available approximately $1,500,000 for all activities. Up to eight Skills Development Centers may be funded to provide the T/TA activities described below. Grants will range from $50,000 to approximately $300,000, with most awards between $100,000 and $150,000. Up to $25,000 of each award can be used in planning for a future ``Center of Excellence'' in the priority area addressed. Grants or cooperative agreements will be for up to one year, with the possibility of renewal or of an award to implement a ``Center of Excellence,'' subject to performance, need, and availability of funds. There is no guarantee of renewal or implementation award. Description of T/TA Activity Desired The Corporation will fund Skills Development Centers to help programs and participants meet needs in the areas listed below. Applicants may propose to provide T/TA in one or more areas. Applicants may also combine areas rather than running two distinct Centers, for example, as long as the applicant's proposal provides an explanation of the manner in which the needs of each area can be addressed when combined with others. Skills Development Centers will be developed in the following areas: Crime Control: T/TA activities to help programs improve criminal justice services, enforcement, and victim services. Crime Prevention: T/TA activities to help programs and participants reduce the incidence of violence. Early Childhood Development: (including the Corporation's School Success priority) T/TA activities to help programs and participants further early childhood development. School Success: T/TA activities to help programs and participants improve educational achievement. Comprehensive Services: (including the Corporation's Home and Neighborhood Environment priorities) T/TA activities to help programs and participants link community resources together to provide for disadvantaged residents' basic needs. Preventive Health Care: T/TA activities to help programs and participants successfully carry out health outreach, education, and prevention campaigns. Independent Living: T/TA activities to help programs and participants provide independent living assistance and home-based health care.
