FR940706-2-00098 FR940706-2-00053 (3) Qualifications: (30 points) Do the qualifications of the project personnel, as evidenced by training, experience, and publications, demonstrate that they have the knowledge of subject matter and skills required to competently carry out the research and to produce a final report that is comprehensible and usable? Is the staffing pattern appropriate for the proposed research, linking responsibilities clearly to project tasks? (4) Organization and Budget: (15 points) Are the resources needed to conduct the project specified, including personnel, time, funds, and facilities? Are any collaborative efforts with other organizations clearly identified and written assurances referenced? Is all budget information provided, including a description by category (personnel, travel, etc.) of the total of the Federal funds required? Where appropriate, are justifications and explanations of costs provided? Are the project's costs reasonable in view of the level of effort and anticipated outcome? Does the applicant's organization have adequate facilities and resources to plan, conduct, and complete the project? Please Note: For-profit organizations may not use grant funds to purchase equipment under the grant. Equipment means tangible, non-expendable, personal property having a useful life of more than 1 year and an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit. 7. Closing Date for Receipt of Applications The closing date for receipt of grant applications for Federal funds in response to this announcement is September 6, 1994. Applications may be mailed or sent by commercial carrier or personally delivered to: Grants Management Staff; Division of Contract and Grant Operations; Office of Acquisition and Grants; Social Security Administration; 1&hyph;E&hyph;4 Gwynn Oak Building; 1710 Gwynn Oak Avenue; Baltimore, MD 21207. Hand-delivered applications are accepted during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. An application will be considered as meeting the deadline if it is either: (a) Received on or before the deadline date at the above address; or (b) Mailed through the U.S. Postal Service or sent by commercial carrier on or before the deadline date and received in time to be considered during the competitive review and evaluation process. Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier as evidence of timely mailing. Private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing. Applications which do not meet the above criteria are considered late applications. SSA will notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered. Note : Facsimile copies will not be accepted. Notice Procedures Paperwork Reduction Act This notice contains reporting requirements in the ``Application Process'' section. However, the information is collected using form SSA&hyph;96&hyph;BK, Federal Assistance, which has Office of Management and Budget clearance No. 0960&hyph;0184. Executive Orders 12372 and 12416_Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs This program is not covered by the requirements of Executive Order 12372, as amended by Executive Order 12416, relating to Federal agencies providing opportunities for consultation with State and local elected officials on proposed Federal financial assistance or direct Federal development. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance: Program No. 93.812, Social Security-Research and Demonstration) Dated: June 22, 1994. Shirley S. Chater, Commissioner of Social Security. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16284 Filed 7&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;P
