FR941220-0-00097 FR941220-0-00014 m. Labor condition application (LCA) withdrawal and subsequent Attorney General notification (See § XXXX .750(b).) The Interim Final Rule contains a provision at § XXXX .750(b)(3) (57 FR 1332) whereby ETA will promptly notify the Attorney General (AG) of the withdrawal of an employer's certified labor condition application, unless reasonable cause had been found to commence an investigation. The purpose of this provision is to alert the AG and the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) that the employer's certified LCA is no longer valid and can not be used to petition for an H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant. Based on interagency discussions between the Department and INS, it has been determined that such notification does not provide a practical means for INS to adjudicate (and disapprove) any petitions an employer might file based on a certified but subsequently withdrawn LCA. While such action by an employer ( i.e. , filing a petition based on a withdrawn LCA) may be subject to civil or criminal sanction initiated by the INS, the Department considers it to be essential that the labor protections afforded by the H&hyph;1B LCA provisions not be frustrated by such action. Therefore, only for the purpose of assuring the labor standards protections afforded under the H&hyph;1B program, this Final Rule establishes that where an employer files a petition with INS under the H&hyph;1B classification pursuant to a certified LCA that had been withdrawn by the employer, such petition filing will bind the employer to all the obligations under the withdrawn LCA effective immediately upon receipt of such petition by INS. This revised procedure will reduce the paperwork burden on the Department and INS and the Department believes this change will maintain the worker protections afforded under the H&hyph;1B program. Of course, the employer may always file a new LCA. n. Regularizing the hearing process (See § XXXX .820(d) and § XXXX .840(a).) The statute requires that the Secretary provide interested parties an opportunity for a hearing on investigative determinations regarding alleged violations. Such proceedings are provided in § XXXX .820 through § XXXX .840. Through program experience, the Department has recognized the need for greater specificity in the regulation regarding the participation of interested parties who did not file the initial request for hearing but, nonetheless, desire to participate. While remaining consistent with Congressional intent regarding timely hearings for interested parties, the Department seeks to better assure orderly and fair proceedings by providing in the Final Rule that, once the deadline for requesting a hearing has expired, an interested party may participate in an administrative law judge proceeding only with the approval of the judge. In addition, to ensure that the regulation comports with the Administrative Procedures Act and the most recent decision of the Supreme Court in Darby v. Cisneros , 113 S.Ct. 2539, 2547 (1993), § XXXX .840 of the rule has been amended to provide that a party may not seek judicial review of an administrative law judge's decision until such party has exhausted all administrative remedies, and that the decision of the ALJ is inoperative while such remedies are being pursued. o. Retaliation (See § XXXX .800(d).) In enforcement proceedings the Department has encountered some confusion as to whether an employer's retaliation against an H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant (for accepting back wages, for example) is prohibited activity under the anti-discrimination provision of the regulation (§ XXXX .800(d) Employer Cooperation) , which was promulgated as an inherent and essential part of the enforcement process mandated by Congress. The regulatory restriction assures that employers will not take actions against workers to frustrate the Department's enforcement. This provision of the Interim Final Rule puts employers on notice that the employer cannot intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, or in any manner discriminate against any person because such person filed a complaint, etc. ; however, the specific word ``retaliate'' does not appear in the regulation. To alleviate any confusion the Final Rule is clarified by inserting the word ``retaliation.'' p. TN nonimmigrant classification (See § XXXX .700(c)(2).) The Interim Final Rule at 58 FR 69226 implemented the provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) pertaining to the employment of Mexican citizens as professionals. NAFTA established that the employment of these Mexican citizens is currently subject to the provisions of the H&hyph;1B regulations. Currently Mexican professionals entering under this classification are limited to 5,500 annually. This limit can be increased by mutual agreement between the U.S. and Mexico and the numerical limitation will be lifted in 10 years, unless the two countries decide to eliminate it earlier. The regulations are clarified to show that the nonimmigrant classification for these individuals (subject to all of the LCA requirements and enforcement) is ``TN.'' As in the case of nonimmigrants granted the H&hyph;1B classification, the INS makes all determinations about the occupational sufficiency for the classification. IV. Executive Order 12866 The Department believes that this Final Rule is not an ``economically significant regulatory action'' within the meaning of Executive Order 12866, in that it will not have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities. However, the Department has treated this action as ``significant'' under the President's priorities within the meaning of the principles set forth in E.O. 12866. This rule follows six previous rulemaking initiatives published in the Federal Register on the matter (an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on March 20, 1991; a Proposed Rule on August 5, 1991; an Interim Final Rule on October 22, 1991; an Interim Final Rule on January 13, 1992; a Proposed Rule published on October 6, 1993; and an Interim Final Rule on December 30, 1993). V. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Department of Labor previously notified the Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, and made the certification pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act at 5 U.S.C. 605(b), that the rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number This program is not listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance.
