FR940617-0-00230 FR940617-0-00026 (c) EPA approval for final admission of a nonroad engine under this section is presumed not to have been granted if any requirement of this subpart has not been met. (d) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, EPA approval for final admission of a nonroad engine under this section is presumed to have been granted if the ICI does not receive oral or written notice from EPA to the contrary within 15 working days of the date that the Manufacturers Operations Division of EPA receives the ICI's application under paragraph (b) of this section. Such EPA notice of nonapproval may be made to any employee of the ICI. It is the responsibility of the ICI to ensure that the Manufacturers Operations Division of EPA receives the application and to confirm the date of receipt. During this 15 working day hold period, the nonroad engine is stored at a location where the Administrator has reasonable access to the nonroad engine for the Administrator's inspection. The storage is to be within 50 miles of the ICI's testing facility to allow the Administrator reasonable access for inspection and/or testing. A storage facility not meeting this criterion must be approved in writing by the Administrator prior to the submittal of the ICI's application under paragraph (b) of this section. (e) EPA list of ICIs ineligible to import nonroad engines for modification/test. EPA maintains a current list of ICIs who have been determined to be ineligible to import nonroad engines under this section. The determination of ineligibility is made in accordance with the criteria and procedures in §89.612&hyph;96(e) of this subpart. (f) Inspections. Prior to final admission, a nonroad engine imported under this section is subject to special inspections as described in §89.606&hyph;96 with these additional provisions: (1) If, in the judgment of the Administrator, a significant number of nonroad engines imported by an ICI fail to comply with emission requirements upon inspection or retest or if the ICI fails to comply with a provision of these regulations that pertain to nonroad engines imported pursuant to §89.609&hyph;96, the ICI may be placed on the EPA list of ICIs ineligible to import nonroad engines under this section as specified in paragraph (e) of this section and §89.612&hyph;96(e). (2) An individual nonroad engine which fails a retest or inspection is to be repaired and retested, as applicable, to demonstrate compliance with emission requirements before final admission is granted by EPA. (3) Unless otherwise specified by EPA, the ICI bears the costs of all retesting under this subsection, including transportation. (g) In-use inspection and testing. A nonroad engine imported under this section may be tested or inspected by EPA at any time during the recall period specified in §89.104&hyph;96(b), in accordance with §89.608&hyph;96(a). If, in the judgment of the Administrator, a significant number of properly maintained and used nonroad engines imported by the ICI pursuant to this section fail to meet emission requirements, the name of the ICI may be placed on the EPA list of ICIs ineligible to import nonroad engines under the modification/test provision as specified in paragraph (e) of this section and §89.612&hyph;96(e). §89.610&hyph;96 Maintenance instructions, warranties, emission labeling. The provisions of this section are applicable to all nonroad engines imported under the provisions of §89.605&hyph;96 or §89.609&hyph;96. (a) Maintenance Instructions. (1) The Independent Commercial Importer (ICI) must furnish to the purchaser, or to the owner of each nonroad engine imported under §89.605&hyph;96 or §89.609&hyph;96 of this subpart, written instructions for the maintenance and use of the nonroad engine by the purchaser or owner. Each application for final admission of a nonroad engine is to provide an attestation that such instructions have been or will be (if the ultimate purchaser is unknown) furnished to the purchaser or owner of such nonroad engine at the time of sale or delivery. The ICI must maintain a record of having furnished such instructions.
