FR940214-0-00011 FR940214-0-00004 Environmental Impact Statement This document has been reviewed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1940, Subpart G, ``Environmental Program.'' It is the determination of FmHA that this action does not constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1949, Public Law 91&hyph;90, an Environmental Impact Statement is not required. Intergovernmental Consultation For the reasons set forth in the Final Rule related Notice(s) to 7 CFR part 2015, subpart V, programs 10.415 Rural Rental Housing Loans and 10.427_Rural Rental Assistance Payments are subject to Executive Order 12372 which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements contained in these regulations have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB control numbers 0575&hyph;0042 and 0575&hyph;0033 in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3507). The information collection contained in 0575&hyph;0047 will not become effective until approved by OMB. Please send written comments to the Office of Information Regulatory Affairs, OMB, Attention: Desk Officer for USDA, Washington, DC 20503. Please send a copy of your comments to Jack Holston, Agency Clearance Officer, USDA, FmHA, AG Box 0743, Washington, DC 20250. Programs Affected These programs/activities are listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under Numbers 10.415, Rural Rental Housing Loans and 10.427, Rural Rental Assistance Payments. Background During its audits of FmHA's identity of interest construction cost certification process, the Office of Inspector General found many instances where borrowers were taking advantage of loopholes in FmHA regulations. This resulted in the loss of Government funds through excess profit being paid to paper contractors, failure of the borrowers to reveal identities of interest with related parties, failure on the part of CPA's to adequately perform cost certifications, and numerous other discrepancies of varying severity, all of which have had detrimental effects on the program. OIG reviewed the proposed changes to the regulations and voiced its support for the proposed changes as a mean for reducing fraud, waste, and abuse in the 515 program. Discussion of Comments The proposed rule, published in the Federal Register (57 FR 27379&hyph;27394) on June 19, 1992, provided for a 60-day comment period ending August 18, 1992. One hundred and twenty-one comments were received during the comment period from the public and from FmHA field employees. Comments Implementation Proposal FmHA has stated that all preapplications and applications on hand will be subject to the final rule with the exception of applications whose plans and specifications have been finalized. Several persons agreed that preapplications and applications not be ``grandfathered'' except for those which have received an AD&hyph;622 and which are within the District's 150 percent loan approval authority. Other persons objected to not ``grandfathering'' because of the expense already incurred in developing an application. Since applicants have already invested substantial sums of money in the development of building plans, FmHA has reconsidered this position. Building plans included with preapplications which have been issued an AD&hyph;622 inviting a formal application will not be affected; all other material associated with preapplications will be subject to the provisions of the final rule. FmHA Instruction 1924&hyph;A 1. Section 1924.10 (c)(2)(i) Comment: Comments were received concerning the requirement that all transfers of funds between line items would require the approval of the servicing official using Form FmHA 1924&hyph;7. The general feeling is that estimates are merely estimates and will fluctuate during the construction period. To require the servicing official to approve change orders for every line item change would cause a major paperwork burden on both the contractor and FmHA. FmHA response: The Agency recognizes the volume of paperwork and delay involved with this requirement. FmHA will, instead, implement a means to flag significant variances in line item costs. Increases or decreases at or above a 15 percent threshold will require documentation from the borrower to justify the differences. The State Director will also have the authority to require documentary justification for less than 15 percent variances if he/she deems it necessary. The documentation will be required at the time the project is cost certified so that construction will not be delayed. 2. Section 1924.13(a)(3) Comment: Most persons agreed that architectural fees should be reduced when less than full architectural services are provided. It was suggested that it would be appropriate to establish a range of fees covering a range of similar services. It was also pointed out that an acceptable design in one place can involve a redraw in others due to local code interpretations. FmHA response: The intent of this requirement is for those instances where the applicant uses a set of plans that has previously been used. Even if a new site requires some modification to adapt the building to the site, it will not require a complete redraw of the building. While there can be no hard and fast rules set by Washington as to the degree of revision needed to qualify the architect for full services, this can be determined at the State level. Compensation is expected to reasonably represent the value of the architect's services to the owner.
