FR940407-1-00034 FR940407-1-00011 §2400.61 Renewal of awards. (a) Provided that Fellows have submitted all required documentation, it is the intent of the Foundation to renew junior fellowship awards annually for a period not to exceed two calendar years and senior fellowships for a period not to exceed five calendar years (except when those periods have been altered because of changes in Fellows' programs of studies as provided for in §2400.65), or until a Fellow has completed all requirements for a master's degree, whichever comes first. In no case, however, will the Foundation continue payments under a fellowship to a Fellow who has reached the maximum payments under a fellowship as indicated in §2400.50, or completed the minimum number of credits required for the degree. Although Fellows are encouraged to take courses in addition to those required for the degree or required to maintain full-time status, the Foundation will not in such cases pay for those additional courses unless they are credited to the minimum number of credits required for the degree. (b) Fellowship renewal will be subject to an annual review by the Foundation and certification by an authorized official of the university at which a Fellow is registered that: The Fellow is making satisfactory progress toward the degree and is in good academic standing according to the standards of each university. (c) As a condition of renewal of awards, each Fellow must submit an annual activity report to the Foundation by July 15th. That report must indicate, through submission of a copy of the Fellow's transcript, courses taken and grades achieved; courses planned for the coming year; changes in academic or professional plans or situations; any awards, recognitions, or special achievements in the Fellow's academic study or school employment; and such other information as may relate to the fellowship and its holder. Fellows must also submit a final report to the Foundation following completion of their fellowships. §2400.62 Postponement of awards. Upon application to the Foundation, a Fellow may seek postponement of his or her fellowship because of ill health or other mitigating circumstances, such as military duty, temporary disability, necessary care of an immediate family member, or unemployment as a teacher. Substantiation of the reasons for the requested postponement of study will be required. §2400.63 Evidence of master's degree. At the conclusion of the fellowship term, each Fellow must provide evidence that he or she has secured an approved master's degree as set forth in the Fellow's original plan of study/or approved modifications thereto. §2400.64 Excluded graduate study. (a) James Madison Fellowships do not provide support for study toward doctoral degrees, for the degree of master of arts in public affairs or public administration, or toward the award of teaching certificates. Nor do fellowships support practice teaching required for professional certification or other courses related to teaching unless those courses are required for the degree. In those cases, however, the Foundation will provide reimbursement only toward those courses related to teaching that fall within the minimum number of courses required for the degree, not in addition to that minimum.
