FR941207-0-00032 FR941207-0-00003 i. The netting is accomplished under a written netting contract that creates a single legal obligation, covering all included individual contracts, with the effect that the bank would have a claim to receive, or obligation to pay, only the net amount of the sum of the positive and negative mark-to-market values on included individual contracts in the event that a counterparty, or a counterparty to whom the contract has been validly assigned, fails to perform due to any of the following events: Default, insolvency, liquidation, or similar circumstances. ii. The bank obtains a written and reasoned legal opinion(s) representing that in the event of a legal challenge_including one resulting from default, insolvency, liquidation, or similar circumstances_the relevant court and administrative authorities would find the bank's exposure to be such a net amount under: 1. The law of the jurisdiction in which the counterparty is chartered or the equivalent location in the case of noncorporate entities, and if a branch of the counterparty is involved, then also under the law of the jurisdiction in which the branch is located; 2. The law that governs the individual contracts covered by the netting contract; and 3. The law that governs the netting contract. iii. The bank establishes and maintains procedures to ensure that the legal characteristics of netting contracts are kept under review in the light of possible changes in relevant law. iv. The bank maintains in its files documentation adequate to support the netting of rate contracts, including a copy of the bilateral netting contract and necessary legal opinions. b. A contract containing a walkaway clause is not eligible for netting for purposes of calculating the credit equivalent amount. 50 50 A walkaway clause is a provision in a netting contract that permits a non-defaulting counterparty to make lower payments than it would make otherwise under the contract, or no payment at all, to a defaulter or to the estate of a defaulter, even if the defaulter or the estate of the defaulter is a net creditor under the contract. c. By netting individual contracts for the purpose of calculating its credit equivalent amount, a bank represents that it has met the requirements of this appendix A and all the appropriate documents are in the bank's files and available for inspection by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve may determine that a bank's files are inadequate or that a netting contract, or any of its underlying individual contracts, may not be legally enforceable under any one of the bodies of law described in paragraph 5.a.ii. 1 . through 5.a.ii. 3 . of section III of this appendix A. If such a determination is made, the netting contract may be disqualified from recognition for risk-based capital purposes or underlying individual contracts may be treated as though they are not subject to the netting contract. d. The credit equivalent amount of rate contracts that are subject to a qualifying bilateral netting contract is calculated by adding (i) the current exposure of the netting contract, and (ii) the sum of the estimates of the potential future credit exposures on all individual contracts subject to the netting contract, estimated in accordance with section III.E.2. of this appendix A. 51 51 For purposes of calculating potential future credit exposure to a netting counterparty for foreign exchange contracts and other similar contracts in which notional principal is equivalent to cash flows, total notional principal is defined as the net receipts falling due on each value date in each currency. The reason for this is that offsetting contracts in the same currency maturing on the same date will have lower potential future exposure as well as lower current exposure. e. The current exposure of the netting contract is determined by summing all positive and negative mark-to-market values of the individual contracts included in the netting contract. If the net sum of the mark-to-market values is positive, then the current exposure of the netting contract is equal to that sum. If the net sum of the mark-to-market values is zero or negative, then the current exposure of the netting contract is zero. The Federal Reserve may determine that a netting contract qualifies for risk-based capital netting treatment even though certain individual contracts may not qualify. In such instances, the nonqualifying contracts should be treated as individual contracts that are not subject to the netting contract. f. In the event a netting contract covers contracts that are normally excluded from the risk-based ratio calculation_for example, exchange rate contracts with an original maturity of fourteen calendar days or less, or instruments traded on exchanges that require daily payment of variation margin_an institution may elect to consistently either include or exclude all mark-to-market values of such contracts when determining net current exposure. g. An example of the calculation of the credit equivalent amount for rate contracts subject to a qualifying netting contract is contained in Attachment V of this appendix A.
