FR940712-1-00024 FR940712-1-00007 New information provided by Jasper National Park personnel in Canada indicates at least one Rocky Mountain capshell population still exists within the Park and there is the likelihood a second population (N. Manners, Jasper National Park, in litt., 1993). A few specimens were also found under a bridge in another area outside the Park in 1991 (Paul and Clifford, 1991). Thus, Alberta appears to harbor at least two, and possibly three, Rocky Mountain capshell populations. A previously unreported Rocky Mountain capshell population appears to occur at Purden Lake, British Columbia (Clarke 1992b). However, the Service has been unable to obtain any information on its population status. The three populations previously reported to occur in Quebec and the two in Ontario apparently still exist, but the status of each population is not known. With the discovery of 4 new populations in Colorado, 1 in Alberta, and 1 in British Columbia, and the possibility of 1 or 2 populations still existing in Jasper National Park, the number of reported Rocky Mountain capshell populations has increased from 7 to at least 14 in less than 1 year. Summary of Factors Affecting the Species The following information is a summary and discussion of the five factors or listing criteria as set forth in section 4(a)(1) of the Act and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act and their applicability to the current status of the Rocky Mountain capshell. A. The Present or Threatened Destruction, Modification, or Curtailment of Its Habitat or Range The Peterson Lake, Colorado, population may be nearly extirpated and a survey in June found only three live specimens and one empty shell after 12 hours of intensive searching (Clarke 1992a). Subsequent surveys found a few more individuals, some were at deeper depths than found previously (Pioneer Environmental Services 1993; G. Hopkins, Pioneer Environmental Services, in litt., 1993). Activities which might have caused the decline of the population in Peterson Lake include road maintenance (salting/sanding and grading), ski resort activities (water depletion and treated waste water discharge into the lake), landscaping, mining, lake drawdowns, and dam raising which resulted in the subsequent flooding of the enlarged lake basin. Since the present management of Eldora Mountain Resort took over operation of the ski area in 1991, the water quality of the lake has improved. Present information indicates that the species may again be increasing due to an improvement in the water quality of the lake. Future surveys will be necessary to verify this. Aside from the population at Peterson Lake, none of the other 13 remaining populations are thought to be significantly impacted by the present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of habitat. B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Some of the lakes inhabited by the Rocky Mountain capshell receive fishing, camping, and swimming activities, but this factor is not thought to be a threat to the continued existence of the Rocky Mountain capshell. C. Disease or Predation The introduction of trout may have been one of the factors that contributed to the decline of the Rocky Mountain capshell in Peterson Lake. Aside from this population, disease or predation is presently not a threat to any of the other 13 Rocky Mountain capshell populations.
