FR941102-1-00036 FR941102-1-00006 (2) Stay the district manager's decision pending the outcome of the appeal to the administrator; (3) Obtain a copy of the administrative record and the district manager's decision from the appropriate district manager; and (4) Notify the certified person that within 15 days of receipt of the letter that he or she may request a meeting with the administrator. (c) Within 30 calendar days after receiving the administrative record and district manager's decision, or after holding a meeting with the certified person if one is requested, the administrator shall_ (1) Issue a written decision based on the record compiled by the district manager and any new information received; or (2) Refer the matter back to the district manager for reconsideration based on the receipt of new information. (d) The administrator's decision shall contain a statement of the factual basis for the decision, including specific references to the evidence that was considered in arriving at the decision. (e) The administrator's decision shall be sent to the person by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall be effective 30 days after receipt, except as provided in §42.8(e). §42.8 Hearing before an administrative law judge. (a) A person whose temporary or permanent decertification has been affirmed by the administrator may request a de novo hearing before the Office of Administrative Law Judges, U.S. Department of Labor. (1) The request shall be filed with the administrator within 30 calendar days after receipt of the administrator's decision. (2) The request shall include a concise summary of the certified person's position on the issues of fact or law desired to be raised, including specific objections to the administrator's decision. (b) Within 10 calendar days of receipt of a request for hearing, the administrator shall refer to the Chief Administrative Law Judge the district manager's decision, the administrator's decision, and the certified person's request for a hearing. (c) To the extent possible, any hearing shall be expedited by the administrative law judge, and the final decision of the administrative law judge shall be issued within 45 days after the close of the record. (d) Hearings before an administrative law judge shall be governed by the rules of procedure under 29 CFR Part 18_Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges. (e) A request for a stay shall be filed within 30 calendar days after receipt of the administrator's decision. Any request for a stay filed with the administrative law judge will automatically stay the administrator's decision until the administrative law judge rules on the stay request. (f) In determining whether to grant a stay of the administrator's decision, the administrative law judge shall consider the certified person's likelihood of success on the merits, and the potential harm to mine safety and health if the certified person remains certified during the pendency of the appeal. The administrative law judge shall state how such factors were weighed in any order granting or denying such a stay. (g) Any party may appeal the final decision of the administrative law judge to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit or the circuit where the miner resides. §42.9 Notice of decertification. If a person is temporarily or permanently decertified, MSHA shall send a copy of the final decision to the operator of any mine affected by the person's activities. §42.10 Recertification. (a) To obtain recertification, a person who has been temporarily decertified under the procedures of this part shall_ (1) Reapply for certification after a period established by the district manager in the initial decision, or by the administrator or administrative law judge on subsequent appeal; and (2) Satisfy the applicable certification requirements under chapter I of this title; and (3) Provide any required documentation that additional requirements for recertification imposed by the district manager, administrator or administrative law judge have been fulfilled. (b) Applications for recertification shall be submitted to the Chief, Technical Compliance and Investigation Division, Mine Safety and Health Administration, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, VA 22203. PART 48_[AMENDED] 2. The authority citation for part 48 continues to read as follows: Authority: 30 U.S.C. 811 and 825. 3. Section 48.3 is amending by revising the section heading and paragraph (i) to read as follows: §48.3 Training plans; time of submission; where filed; information required; time for approval; method for disapproval; commencement of training; approval of instructors; decertification of instructors. * * * * * (i) Instructors may have their approval revoked by MSHA for good cause which may include not teaching a course at least once every 24 months. Any person approved as a training instructor shall be subject to the decertification procedures under part 42 of this chapter. * * * * *
