FR940404-1-00026 FR940404-1-00013 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary 32 CFR Part 77 [DoD Instruction 1332.CC] Program To Encourage Public and Community Service Employment AGENCY: Department of Defense. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: Currently, separating Military Service members and their spouses, and Department of Defense (DoD) civilian employees, have the option to register for potential employment opportunities with employers in the private sector through the Defense Outplacement Referral System. This program was implemented by DoD Directive 1332.35, ``Transition Assistance For Military Personnel,'' (32 CFR part 88). The proposed rule would establish guidelines for the registration of public and community service organizations and a listing of separating DoD personnel and their spouses to be maintained by the DoD. The purpose of the public and community service organizational registry is to provide an avenue for public and community service organizations to recruit highly skilled and experienced separating DoD personnel and their spouses. The proposed rule is required to implement the encouragement of continuing public and community service for separating Military Service members, as well as to implement the temporary early retirement authority as established in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (hereinafter, ``the Act''). This registry would be maintained indefinitely to encourage separating Service members to enter into public and community service job vacancies, such as in education, conservation, environmental protection, law enforcement, and public health care after separation from active duty. This action is intended to provide the necessary interim guidelines to determine how separating Military Service members, DoD civilian personnel leaving the Government, and their spouses register for public and community service employment, which organizations qualify for registration, and procedures qualifying organizations must take to be placed on the registry. A final rule will be issued after a thorough review of all comments is completed. DATES: Comments must be received by June 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments concerning the proposed rule should be addressed to: Directorate of Transition Support and Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness), 4000 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;4000. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lt. Col. David F. Witkowski (703) 695&hyph;1636. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Objective This proposed rule addresses the issue of which public and community service organizations qualify for a registry required by section 4462, Public Law 102&hyph;484, 106 Stat. 2738 (10 U.S.C. 1143a(c)). The proposed rule resolves the issue by using the definition for ``public and community service organization'' provided by the Act together with input from congressional staff and representatives of federal and nonprofit agencies. The guidelines in 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) and 501(c)(4) for nonprofit organizations are incorporated by reference and are limited to private nonproft organizations. Consultation Section 4462, Public Law 102&hyph;484, Stat. (10 U.S.C. 1143a(e)) required that DoD consult closely with the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Education, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, appropriate representatives of State and local governments, and appropriate representatives of business and nonprofit organizations in the private sector. DoD has consulted with those Federal agencies. DoD obtained additional advice from representatives of the Departments of Justice, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Office of National Service, the Commission on National and Community Service, and the Points of Light Foundation.This invitation to the public to comment on this proposed rule is intended to satisfy the requirement of consulting with appropriate representatives of State and local governments, and appropriate representatives of business and nonprofit organizations in the private sector. It has been certified that this proposed rule, if issued, would not be a significant rule. The rule would: (a) Not have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a section of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (b) Not create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (c) Not materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or, (d) Not raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. (e) Not become subject to the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601) because it is not likely to have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The primary effect on grantees administering the proposed rule will be a reduction in administrative costs and other burdens resulting from the simplification and clarification of certain policies and the elimination of policy differences among the federal agencies promulgating this final rule. (f) Impose a reporting requirement under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;3250). The Office of Management and Budget approved the reporting requirement and assigned control number 0704&hyph;0324. List of Subjects in 32 CFR Part 77 Employment, Military personnel, civilian personnel.
