FR941026-2-00017 FR941026-2-00013 Further information on BPA's Geothermal Pilot Project Program was published prior to the solicitation in an article in a geothermal industry trade journal, the Geothermal Resources Council BULLETIN (December 1990). The article specified that the projects had to be in three different resource areas, preferably involving different resource developers. This article was provided to developers and others who inquired about the RFP or the Geothermal Pilot Project Program. Proposals Received Seven proposals were received. Two of them clearly did not meet program objectives, and a third was withdrawn by the sponsor during the evaluation period. One of the projects not meeting program objectives was located in Canada. Although projects located outside the United States were not excluded in the RFP, a foreign project would not have met the program goal of testing ability to overcome (U.S.) institutional barriers to development. Furthermore, a Canadian project would not be subject to a Bureau of Land Management (BLM) environmental process. A project was proposed at Raft River, Idaho, employing a power cycle (the ``Kalina'' cycle) considered to be precommercial. Testing new power plant technologies was not a goal of the program, and previously developed sites were specifically excluded by the RFP. In the early 1980s, Raft River was the site of a demonstration plant developed by the U.S. Department of Energy. Sponsors of the Canadian and Raft River projects were notified on October 30, 1991, that their proposals had been eliminated from consideration. Four proposals received detailed evaluation. They were: •A proposal by the California Energy Company (CEC) and the Eugene Water & Electric Board (EWEB) for a 30&hyph;MW project at Newberry Volcano, Oregon. •A proposal by Vulcan Power Company (Vulcan) for a 30&hyph;MW project at Newberry Volcano, Oregon. •A proposal by Trans-Pacific Geothermal Corporation for a 30&hyph;MW project at Vale, Oregon. •A proposal by Unocal Corporation for a 14&hyph;MW project at Glass Mountain, California. Evaluation Process Proposals were evaluated by a project team composed of BPA staff. Two sets of criteria were used. The first set, considered ``threshold'' criteria, were the criteria stated in the RFP. Proposals were eliminated from further consideration if they failed to meet any of these criteria except the utility cost sharing requirement. Threshold criteria included: •Resource area considered capable of producing at least 100 MW . Since BPA required the sites to be undeveloped, there was no way to know reservoir size with much certainty for the proposed sites. If better data were not available, a resource estimate by the U.S. Geological Survey or some other authoritative source was considered sufficient basis for meeting this criterion. • Suitable for operation as a unit . For the purpose of conserving the resource, Federal geothermal leasing regulations allow geothermal leaseholders to unite with each other in the development or operation of any geothermal resource area. The leases affected by such a cooperative arrangement are called a unit, and one of the leaseholders is designated the unit operator. 43 CFR 3243. BPA wanted to encourage coordinated development and avoid resource depletion problems experienced elsewhere, and therefore included suitability for unitization as a selection criteria. The lease block had to be unitized or suitable for unit operation with the developer as operator. If the area was not already unitized, the developer had to control a large and reasonably contiguous lease block. Bureau of Land Management staff were consulted regarding the suitability of proposed sites for unitization. It should be noted that unitization in itself was not the objective of this requirement. The objective was to encourage coordinated development and conservation of the resource. • Resource area not previously developed for electric power production . A program goal was to develop new resources. If a power project had already been developed at a site, the site did not meet this criterion. • Output contract proposed . BPA was willing to purchase output only, not finance projects. • Amenable to BPA receiving an option on future power from the lease block . Since the cost of power from the first project was expected to exceed the cost of other resources available to BPA, BPA required a right of first refusal on up to 100 MW of additional development at each site. Subsequent plants would benefit from established infrastructure and lower risks, and the cost of power from them would likely be more cost-effective. • Cost sharing by another utility . Initiating development of Northwest resources would have regionwide benefit. A cooperative effort that included cost sharing seemed appropriate. It was recognized that developers might have difficulty enlisting another utility before BPA identified candidate projects, so failure to meet this criterion did not disqualify a proposal during the evaluation period. Developers were notified of this. • Project allows BPA to be a cooperating agency in a BLM environmental process . Staffing constraints would not allow BPA to be the lead agency in the NEPA review. This criterion effectively limited projects to Federal or Tribal land. The second set of criteria addressed the developer s ability to complete the project successfully. These are standard criteria used by BPA in previous and subsequent solicitations, and included: • Development team experience . How qualified was the project team? Had they worked together on previous successful projects? A salaried staff currently involved in project development or in operating projects tended to be rated more highly than a listing of consultants that would be hired for a proposed project. A salaried staff was thought to indicate greater stability and commitment by the developer to maintaining a long term presence in the geothermal industry. There was also no guarantee that the listed consultants would ever work on a proposed project. • Ability to finance the project . Proven ability to finance projects was desired. Was the developer experienced in obtaining construction and long term project financing? Was the financing plan realistic? Audited financial reports were requested from each developer, and Dun and Bradstreet financial information reports were obtained, if available.
