FR940712-0-00013 FR940712-0-00006 For similar reasons, we revised §195.1(b)(3) to include the substance of the proposed definition of ``navigable waterway.'' Section 195.412(b) uses this term, but we intended the proposed definition to clarify only the proposed applicability of part 195 to low-stress pipelines. H. Definition of Highly Volatile Liquid Section 195.2 defines a ``highly volatile liquid'' as a hazardous liquid that will form a vapor cloud when released to the atmosphere and that has a vapor pressure exceeding 276 kPa (40 psia) at 37.8 ○C (100 ○F). A ``hazardous liquid'' is defined as petroleum, petroleum products, or anhydrous ammonia. One commenter thought RSPA should amend the current definition of ``highly volatile liquid'' to exclude gas saturated petroleum/water mixtures if the liquid remaining after release of the gas has a vapor pressure of 40 psia or less at 100 ○F. However, the definition does not cover such mixtures. The deciding factors in the definition are (1) the vapor pressure of the hazardous liquid in transportation; and (2) whether that liquid will evaporate into a vapor cloud upon release to the atmosphere. In the commenter's example, the gas in the mixture is not relevant in determining the vapor pressure of the hazardous liquid in transportation. Since the mixture without the gas has a vapor pressure of 40 psia or less, it is not a highly volatile liquid. I. Hydrostatic Testing The NPRM proposed to require that operators hydrostatically test new low-stress pipelines and existing low-stress pipelines that are replaced, relocated, or otherwise changed. In addition, the NPRM proposed that within 1 year after publication of the final rule, existing low-stress pipelines transporting HVL must have been hydrostatically tested under subpart E of part 195 or not operate above 80 percent of a previous qualified test or operating pressure (proposed §195.302(c)). API suggested that RSPA allow 2 years instead of 1 year to complete the testing of existing HVL low-stress pipelines. Considering the total effort companies will need to meet parts 195 and 199, RSPA agrees that 2 years is more reasonable than 1 year to prepare for compliance. As stated above, final §195.1(c) provides a 2-year compliance time for existing low-stress pipelines. This compliance time applies to testing existing HVL low-stress pipelines under subpart E of part 195. Therefore, a compliance time is not separately stated in final §195.302(c). Except for low-stress pipelines that are replaced, relocated, or otherwise changed, the NPRM did not propose to require operators to hydrostatically test existing non-HVL low-stress pipelines. Furthermore, the NPRM explained that non-HVL low-stress pipelines were not subject to the hydrostatic testing proposal in Docket PS&hyph;121 (56 FR 23538), which affected many older existing hazardous liquid pipelines. However, under proposed §195.406(a)(6), any non-HVL low-stress pipeline not tested to subpart E standards could not be operated at more than ``80 percent of the test pressure or 100 percent of the highest operating pressure to which the pipeline was subjected for four or more continuous hours that can be demonstrated by recording charts or logs made at the time the test or operations were conducted.'' One operator suggested that proposed §195.406(a)(6) would have the effect of requiring hydrostatic testing of existing non-HVL low-stress pipelines. Testing could be necessary if the requisite documentation were not available, or planned operations were not consistent with prior documented test or operating pressures. RSPA did not intend this result. In fact, we proposed §195.406(a)(6) to assure that non-HVL low-stress pipelines could continue to operate without hydrostatic testing under subpart E. Upon further consideration, RSPA believes proposed §195.406(a)(6) is unnecessary for that purpose, since §195.302 clearly states which pipelines are subject to testing. So we have not adopted proposed §195.406(a)(6) in the final rule. Also, §195.406(a)(5) covers the substance of proposed §195.406(a)(7), concerning the operating pressure of HVL low-stress pipelines not tested to subpart E. Therefore, we have not adopted proposed §195.406(a)(7) in the final rule. One operator thought the proposed rules did not clearly state the proposed exclusion of existing non-HVL low-stress pipelines from hydrostatic testing requirements. RSPA agrees that subpart E should clearly state the applicability of testing requirements to low-stress pipelines. Thus, we revised existing §195.302, General requirements, to clarify the exception of non-HVL low-stress pipelines from testing under subpart E. J. Pneumatic Testing The NPRM requested comment on whether pneumatic testing should be allowed as an alternative to hydrostatic testing. API and a state agency favored pneumatic testing as an alternative. Three operators and a state agency encouraged RSPA to allow pneumatic testing as an alternative to hydrostatic testing. They pointed out that pneumatic testing is permissible for low-stress pipelines in petroleum service under the ASME B31.4 Code (section 437.4.3; 1989 edition). Two of these operators also favored pneumatic testing because it would eliminate the need to collect and treat test water. One operator saw little advantage in pneumatically testing new low-stress pipelines, because the cost of waste water disposal is not high for new lines. Two operators thought pneumatic testing would be hazardous for existing low-stress pipelines because of the potential to mix hydrocarbons and air inside the pipeline. Part 195 now permits pneumatic testing as an alternative to hydrostatic testing (§195.306(c)) for carbon dioxide pipelines. Also, RSPA's gas pipeline safety standards allow pneumatic testing as an alternative to hydrostatic testing (49 CFR 192.503). In view of these standards, the environmental advantages of pneumatic testing, and the acceptability of pneumatic testing under the ASME B31.4 code, we believe subpart E of part 195 should allow operators the option of pneumatically testing low-stress pipelines. Therefore, the final rule amends §195.306 to allow pneumatic testing as an alternative to hydrostatic testing on low-stress pipelines. RSPA recognizes that a mixture of air and residual hydrocarbons could create a potential hazard if operators pneumatically test an existing low-stress pipeline with air instead of inert gas. However, this risk has not been a significant safety problem for gas pipelines under 49 CFR part 192. It is common practice for operators to use proper precautions if air is the test medium. K. Environmentally Sensitive Areas
