FR940811-2-00089 FR940811-2-00056 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3804; FR&hyph;3758&hyph;N&hyph;01] Mortgagee Review Board Administrative Actions AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, HUD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with Section 202(c) of the National Housing Act, notice is hereby given of the cause and description of administrative actions taken by HUD's Mortgagee Review Board against HUD-approved mortgagees. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William Heyman, Director, Office of Lender Activities and Land Sales registration, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20410, telephone (202) 708&hyph;1824. The Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD) number is (202) 708&hyph;4594. (These are not toll-free numbers). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 202(c)(5) of the National Housing Act (added by Section 142 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;235, approved December 15, 1989) requires that HUD ``publish in the Federal Register a description of and the cause for administrative action against a HUD-approved mortgagee'' by the Department's Mortgagee Review Board. In compliance with the requirements of Section 202(c)(5), notice is hereby given of administrative actions that have been taken by the Mortgagee Review Board from April 1, 1994 through June 30, 1994. l. Georgia Bankers Bank, Atlanta, Georgia Action: Settlement Agreement that includes payment to the Department the amount of $252,000 and compliance with HUD&hyph;FHA loan origination requirements. Cause: Failure to properly underwrite 17 single family mortgages in accordance with HUD&hyph;FHA requirements. The violations of the Department's requirements included: failure to properly underwrite large investor loans; failure to obtain borrower's tax returns and year-to-date profit and loss statements; failure to adequately establish borrower's income; failure to use diligence and prudent lending practices in verifying borrower documentation to support income; and failure to adequately establish borrower's Social Security Number. 2. Kadilac Mortgage Bankers, Ltd., Great Neck, New York Action: Settlement Agreement that includes payment to the Department the amount of $300,000, compliance with HUD&hyph;FHA requirements, and a review of the company's HUD&hyph;FHA loan origination procedures within 120 days of the date of the Agreement. Cause: A HUD&hyph;FHA monitoring review that cited violations of HUD&hyph;FHA single family program requirements that included: failure to conduct a face-to-face interview with prospective borrowers; use of inaccurate documentation to approve mortgagors; failure to resolve conflicting documentation; failure to secure required documentation for a HUD&hyph;FHA loan; closing loans that exceeded HUD&hyph;FHA maximum mortgage amounts; failure to reflect all charges to the buyers and sellers on the HUD&hyph;-1 Settlement Statement; failure to properly verify the source and/or adequacy of the funds to close and the mortgagor's credit history; failure to include recurring obligations when underwriting a loan; exceeding HUD&hyph;FHA guidelines without documenting significant compensating factors; and failure to document the commitment fees charged to mortgagors. 3. Keyrose Mortgage Company, Glendale, California Action: Proposed Settlement Agreement that includes a civil money penalty in the amount of $1,000, and corrective action to assure compliance with HUD&hyph;FHA requirements. Cause: A HUD monitoring review that disclosed violations of HUD&hyph;FHA program requirements that included: improper use of mortgage brokers to originate HUD&hyph;FHA insured mortgages; improper payments to mortgage brokers; failure to implement a Quality Control Plan for the origination of HUD&hyph;FHA insured mortgages; failure to meet the principal activity requirement of a HUD&hyph;FHA approved loan correspondent; failure to conduct face-to-face interviews with borrowers; and failure to maintain complete loan files. 4. Centennial Mortgage, Inc., South Bend, Indiana
