FR940317-1-00078 FR940317-1-00013 (c) Payments in excess of $2,500 under the FTCA (§536.78). Claims paid in excess of $2,500 under the FTCA will be submitted to the GAO with the same documentation as indicated in (a) above but with the following exceptions: (1) Standard Form 1145 will be signed by the settlement authority on the lower left side only. The space on the right side for the authorized certifying officer will not be signed. (i) Where a minor is payee, the full legal name of the individual should be listed on the voucher; for example, ``John Doe, Sr., as guardian of John Doe, Jr.'' Descriptive words such as ``Mrs. John Doe and her three minor children'' should not be used. (ii) The accounting classification will not be placed on the voucher. This is accomplished by the GAO as the payment is made from Treasury funds. (2) The letter of transmittal to the GAO will include a statement that the individual whose signature appears on the voucher as certifying authority is the person having authority to act under the provisions of the FTCA and §536.80. (3) The Attorney General will approve payments in excess of $25,000 in lieu of action of the approval or settlement authority. (d) Advance payment. When it has been determined that an advance payment will be made, the approval or settlement authority will transmit to the appropriate disbursing officer_ (1) SF 1034 (in triplicate) with a request that one copy be returned with voucher number and date of payment. (2) The original copy and one copy of the action by the approval or settlement authority authorizing advance payment and the Advance Payment Acceptance Agreement. (See §536.47) (e) Payment involving minors. Payment will be made to the individual who executed the settlement agreement on behalf of the minor. (f) Lost, stolen, forged, destroyed, or undeliverable Government checks. Army disbursing officers have the authority to issue substitute checks for checks that have been issued by the Army and that are subsequently lost, destroyed, or rendered undeliverable. (See AR 37103, chap. 4, secs. VII through X.) Some Federal agencies do not yet have this authority. Inquiries from payee or endorsees of Army-issued checks should be referred to an Army comptroller; inquiries regarding other agencies should be referred to the specific agency involved. For claims paid by the GAO, if the Treasury check is lost or stolen, the payee or endorsee should be referred to the Check Forgery Insurance Fund, Department of the Treasury (31 U.S.C 3343, 31 CFR 235.1 through 235.6). The Fund can reimburse such losses provided the specific requirements of the Statute are met. The Fund is administered by the Commissioner, Financial Management Service, Department of the Treasury, 3700 East-West Highway, Hyattsville, MD 20782. §536.36 Effect of payment. Acceptance of an award by the claimant, except for advance payment, constitutes for the United States, military personnel, or civilian employee whose act or omission gave rise to the claim, a release from all liability to the claimant, based on the act or omission. However, on tort claims only one payment may be made for all damages a claimant sustains from an incident. Therefore, a signed unconditional settlement agreement is needed to ensure that the claimant understands the finality of accepting payment. §536.37 Notification as to denial of claims. (a) General. The nature and extent of the written notification to the claimant as to the denial of his or her claim should be based on whether the claimant has a judicial remedy following denial or an administrative recourse to appeal. (b) Final actions under subpart D. If the settlement authority has information that could be a persuasive factor for the claimant as to whether to resort to litigation, such information may be orally transmitted to the claimant and, in appropriate cases, released under normal procedures in accordance with AR 340&hyph;17 or AR 340&hyph;21. However, the written notification of the denial should be general in nature; for example, denial on the weaker ground of contributory negligence should be avoided and the inclination should be to deny on the basis that the claimant was solely responsible for the incident. The claimant will be informed in writing of his or her right to bring an action in the appropriate U.S. District Court not later than 6 months after the date of mailing of the notification. See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, figures 5&hyph;8 and 5&hyph;9. (c) Final actions under subparts C, F and J. Final agency actions under subparts C, F or J are subject to appeal and the claimant will be so informed. Also, the notice of final action will be sufficiently detailed to provide the claimant with an opportunity to know and attempt to overcome the basis for denial. The claimant should not be afforded a valid basis for claiming surprise when an issue adverse to him or her is asserted as a basis for denying the appeal (see DA Pam 27&hyph;162, figs 5&hyph;8 and 5&hyph;9). (d) Denials on jurisdictional grounds. Regardless of the nature of the claim or the statute under which it may be considered, claims denied on jurisdictional grounds that are valid, certain, and not easily overcome (and for this reason no detailed investigation as to the merits of the claim is conducted) should contain in the denial letter a statement that the denial on such grounds is not to be construed as an expression of opinion on the merits of the claim or an admission of liability. If sufficient factual information is available to make a tentative ruling on the merits of the claim, liability may be expressly denied. (e) Claims that may be considered under more than one chapter. In doubtful cases as to whether subparts C, D and F are the appropriate chapters to consider the claim, the claimant will be advised of the alternatives; for example, the right to sue or the right to appeal. Similarly, a claimant may be advised of his or her alternative remedies when the claimant is a military member and the issue of ``incident to service'' is not clear. (f) Denial after litigation. On those claims cognizable under the FTCA in which the claimant files suit after six months without agency action, a formal denial will be sent to the claimant unless the Assistant United States Attorney responsible for the litigation of the suit expressly directs otherwise. The denial will be on the basis that the claim is no longer amenable to administrative settlement. Other reasons for denial may also be given. Small Claims §536.38 General.
