FR940204-1-00004 FR940204-1-00001 (iii) The need of the Nation to conserve all forms of energy, and the relative scarcity and value to the Nation of all fuel used to generate electricity; and (iv) The specific driving patterns of electric vehicles as compared with those of petroleum-fueled vehicles. Section 503(a)(3) also provides for revision of such values if necessary. Due to continued technology development and a strong interest in the corporate average fuel economy of electric vehicles from industry, DOE is proposing an updated method of calculating the petroleum equivalency factor. Unlike the current version of 10 CFR part 474 which required annual updating of the petroleum equivalency factor, the updated methodology yields a fixed value valid through the year 2004. B. Test Procedures DOE is proposing to revise ยง474.3 to provide that the test procedure to be used in determining equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy shall be based on the Society of Automotive Engineers Electric Vehicle Energy Consumption and Range Test Procedure J1634, effective May 1993. In accordance with 1 CFR part 51, the DOE will incorporate by reference this test procedure for the final rulemaking. Copies of the material to be incorporated by reference are available at the location indicated in the ``ADDRESSES'' section of this notice. The Society of Automotive Engineers Test Procedure J1634 provides standard tests for determining the energy consumption and range of electric vehicles based on the same highway and urban cycles used for gasoline- powered vehicles. The tests address electric vehicles only, and judge performance on the total vehicle system and the battery. The current version of 10 CFR part 474 attempted to duplicate the Environmental Protection Agency urban driving cycle. The Environmental Protection Agency urban driving cycle was based heavily on stop-and-go as opposed to highway vehicle usage. Roughly 91 percent of this cycle was dedicated to stop-and-go testing and nine percent to freeway testing. The Society of Automotive Engineers J227a driving pattern closely duplicated the Environmental Protection Agency urban driving cycle and was used for electric vehicle testing in both the stop-and-go and freeway driving patterns. DOE is today proposing that Society of Automotive Engineers Test Procedure J1634 replace Society of Automotive Engineers Test Procedure J227a to determine equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy. The current version of 10 CFR part 474 was based on the premise that electric vehicles would only be appropriate for urban use, and therefore excluded use of a separate highway test cycle when testing the electric vehicle. The resultant measurements were typical of stop- and-go driving with minimal freeway vehicle usage. In addition, the Society of Automotive Engineers Test Procedure J227a has a shorter, repetitive test cycle compared to the Society of Automotive Engineers Test Procedure J1634. This shorter, repetitive test cycle of Test Procedure J227a does not represent driving conditions for a gasoline-powered vehicle as well as the test cycle proposed in Society of Automotive Engineers Test Procedure J1634. C. Calculation Procedures Section 474.4 describes the steps necessary to calculate the equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy of an electric vehicle. The rule itself specifies a series of arithmetic steps one of which requires the inclusion of a Petroleum Equivalency Factor. The Petroleum Equivalency Factor is a single value incorporating the factors ii&hyph;iv specified by Congress in the Act. While the determination of the energy efficiency of an electric vehicle as specified in section 503(a)(3)(A)(i) is a straightforward task based on physical testing, the measurement of the remaining parameters listed in section 503(a)(3)(A) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act is subject to less precise quantification. A discussion of DOE's consideration of these parameters follows and is further documented in ``Electric Vehicles and the Corporate Average Fuel Economy'' and ``Proposed Electric Vehicle Petroleum Equivalency Factor Equation'' which are contained in Docket No. EE&hyph;RM&hyph;93&hyph;301. At this time DOE is proposing the Petroleum Equivalency Factor value to be used through the year 2004. The actual figures are provided below.
