FR940404-0-00074 FR940404-0-00019 Termination and Enforcement §19.60 Purpose of termination and enforcement. Sections 19.61 and 19.62 set forth uniform suspension, termination and enforcement procedures. §19.61 Termination. (a) Awards may be terminated in whole or in part only if the conditions in paragraph (a) (1), (2) or (3) of this section apply. (1) By the Federal awarding agency, if a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award. (2) By the Federal awarding agency with the consent of the recipient, in which case the two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. (3) By the recipient upon sending to the Federal awarding agency written notification setting forth the reasons for such termination, the effective date, and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. However, if the Federal awarding agency determines in the case of partial termination that the reduced or modified portion of the grant will not accomplish the purposes for which the grant was made, it may terminate the grant in its entirety under either paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section. (b) If costs are allowed under an award, the responsibilities of the recipient referred to in §19.71(a), including those for property management as applicable, shall be considered in the termination of the award, and provision shall be made for continuing responsibilities of the recipient after termination, as appropriate. §19.62 Enforcement. (a) Remedies for noncompliance. If a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award, whether stated in a Federal statute, regulation, assurance, application, or notice of award, the Federal awarding agency may, in addition to imposing any of the special conditions outlined in §19.14, take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate in the circumstances. (1) Temporarily withhold cash payments pending correction of the deficiency by the recipient or more severe enforcement action by the Federal awarding agency. (2) Disallow (that is, deny both use of funds and any applicable matching credit for) all or part of the cost of the activity or action not in compliance. (3) Wholly or partly suspend or terminate the current award. (4) Withhold further awards for the project or program. (5) Take other remedies that may be legally available. (b) Hearings and appeals. In taking an enforcement action, the awarding agency shall provide the recipient an opportunity for hearing, appeal, or other administrative proceeding to which the recipient is entitled under any statute or regulation applicable to the action involved. (c) Effects of suspension and termination. Costs of a recipient resulting from obligations incurred by the recipient during a suspension or after termination of an award are not allowable unless the awarding agency expressly authorizes them in the notice of suspension or termination or subsequently. Other recipient costs during suspension or after termination which are necessary and not reasonably avoidable are allowable if the conditions in paragraph (c) (1) or (2) of this section apply. (1) The costs result from obligations which were properly incurred by the recipient before the effective date of suspension or termination, are not in anticipation of it, and in the case of a termination, are noncancellable. (2) The costs would be allowable if the award were not suspended or expired normally at the end of the funding period in which the termination takes effect. (d) Relationship to debarment and suspension. The enforcement remedies identified in this section, including suspension and termination, do not preclude a recipient from being subject to debarment and suspension under E.O.s 12549 and 12689 and 49 CFR part 29 (see §19.13). Subpart D_After-the-Award Requirements §19.70 Purpose.
