FR941207-0-00097 FR941207-0-00015 (1) The listed arbitrator may divest himself or herself of the interest that caused the disqualification, and become qualified to serve; or (2) The listed arbitrator may offer to disclose on the record the conflict of interest causing disqualification. In such instances: (i) The Librarian shall publish a list detailing the conflicts of interest the listed arbitrators have offered to disclose, and any other matters which, although outside of the scope of the restrictions of §251.31, nevertheless, in the view of the Librarian, raise sufficient concerns to warrant disclosure to the affected parties; (ii) Such list shall be published in the order establishing the period for precontroversy motions ( see, §251.45(b)); (iii) Such list shall contain the matters of concern, but shall not contain the names of the listed arbitrators. (iv) Any party to the proceeding for which the listed arbitrator is being considered may interpose within the 45-day period described in §251.45(b) an objection to that arbitrator being selected. If the objection is raised to a matter found to be within the scope of §251.31, the objection will serve automatically to disqualify the arbitrator. If the objection is raised to a matter found to be outside the scope of §251.31, the objection will be taken into account when the Librarian makes his or her selection, but will not serve automatically to disqualify the arbitrator. * * * * * 11. Section 251.33(b) is revised to read as follows: §251.33 Ex parte communications. * * * * * (b) Selected arbitrators. No interested person shall engage in, or cause someone else to engage in, ex parte communications with the selected arbitrators in a proceeding for any reason whatsoever from the time of their selection to the time of the submission of their report to the Librarian, and, in the case of a remand, from the time of their reconvening to the time of their submission of their report to the Librarian. Incidental communications unrelated to any proceeding, such as an exchange of pleasantries, shall not be deemed to constitute an ex parte communication. * * * * * §251.33 [Amended] 12. Section 251.33(c) is amended by removing ``party'' and adding ``person''. Subpart E_Procedures of Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels 13. In §251.41, paragraph (b) is revised to read as follows: §251.41 Formal hearings. * * * * * (b) During the 45-day period specified in §251.45(b)(1)(i) for distribution proceedings, or during the 45-day period specified in §251.45(b)(2)(i) for rate adjustment proceedings, as appropriate, any party may petition the Librarian of Congress to dispense with formal hearings, and have the CARP decide the controversy or rate adjustment on the basis of written pleadings. The petition may be granted if_ (1) The controversy or rate adjustment, as appropriate, does not involve any genuine issue of material fact; or (2) All parties to the proceeding agree, in writing, that a grant of the petition is appropriate. 14. In §251.43, paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: §251.43 Written cases. (a) All parties who have filed a notice of intent to participate in the hearing shall file written direct cases with the Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel, and with other parties in the manner in which the Librarian of Congress shall direct in accordance with §251.45(b). * * * * * 15. Section 251.45 is amended by revising the section heading and paragraphs (a)&hyph;(c) to read as follows: §251.45 Discovery and prehearing motions. (a) Request for comment, notice of intention to participate. In the case of a royalty fee distribution proceeding, the Librarian of Congress shall, after the time period for filing claims, publish in the Federal Register a notice requesting each claimant on the claimant list to negotiate with each other a settlement of their differences, and to comment by a date certain as to the existence of controversies with respect to the royalty funds described in the notice. Such notice shall also establish a date certain by which parties wishing to participate in the proceeding must file with the Librarian a notice of intention to participate. In the case of a rate adjustment proceeding, the Librarian of Congress shall, after receiving a petition for rate adjustment filed under §251.62, or, in the case of noncommercial educational broadcasting and satellite carrier, prior to the commencement of proceedings, publish in the Federal Register a notice requesting interested parties to comment on the petition for rate adjustment. Such notice shall also establish a date certain by which parties wishing to participate in the proceeding must file with the Librarian a notice of intention to participate. (b) Precontroversy discovery, filing of written cases, scheduling. (1)(i) In the case of a royalty fee distribution proceeding, the Librarian of Congress shall, after the filing of comments and notices described in paragraph (a) of this section, designate a 45-day period for precontroversy discovery and exchange of documents. The period will begin with the exchange of written direct cases among the parties to the proceeding. Each party to the proceeding must serve a complete copy of its written direct case on each of the parties to the proceeding no later than the first day of the 45-day period. At any time during the 45-day period, parties to the proceeding may file with the Librarian prehearing motions and objections, including petitions to dispense with formal hearings under §251.41(b), and objections to arbitrators appearing on the arbitrator list under §251.4. Replies to motions, petitions, and objections must be filed with the Librarian seven days from the filing of such motions, petitions, and objections with the Librarian. (ii) Subject to §251.72, the Librarian shall establish, prior to the commencement of the 45-day period, the date on which arbitration proceedings will be initiated. (2) (i) In the case of a rate adjustment proceeding, the Librarian of Congress shall, after the filing of comments and notices described in paragraph (a) of this section, designate a 45-day period for precontroversy discovery and exchange of documents. The period will begin with the exchange of written direct cases among the parties to the proceeding. Each party to the proceeding must serve a complete copy of its written direct case on each of the parties to the proceeding no later than the first day of the 45-day period. At any time during the 45-day period, parties to the proceeding may file with the Librarian prehearing motions and objections, including petitions to dispense with formal hearings under §251.41(b), and objections to arbitrators appearing on the arbitrator list under §251.4. Replies to motions, petitions and objections must be filed with the Librarian seven days from the filing of such motions, petitions, and objections with the Librarian. (ii) Subject to §251.64, the Librarian shall establish, prior to the commencement of the 45-day period, the date on which arbitration proceedings will be initiated. (c) Discovery and motions filed with a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel. (1) A Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel shall designate a period following the filing of written direct and rebuttal cases with it in which parties may request of an opposing party nonprivileged underlying documents related to the written exhibits and testimony. (2) After the filing of written cases with a CARP, any party may file with a CARP objections to any portion of another party's written case on any proper ground including, without limitation, relevance, competency, and failure to provide underlying documents. If an objection is apparent from the face of a written case, that objection must be raised or the party may thereafter be precluded from raising such an objection. * * * * * §251.47 [Amended] 15. Section 251.47(l) is amended by removing ``for them'' and adding ``of any given witness'' after the word ``cross-examination'' each place it appears. 16. Section 251.51 is amended by revising the section heading to read as follows: §251.51 Closing the record. * * * * *
