FR940317-1-00138 FR940317-1-00013 (c) A claims approval or settlement authority will ask the Commander, USARCS for an advisory opinion prior to settling any Non-NAFI RIMP claim where the person whose conduct generated liability does not clearly fall within the above listed categories. Such authorities may also ask, through the Commander, USARCS, for an advisory opinion from the U.S. Army Community and Family Support Center prior to settling any claim arising under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, where it is not clear that the injured or deceased child was receiving care within the scope of the FCC program. (d) The total payments for all claims (including derivative claims) arising as a result of injury to or death of any one person are limited to $500,000 for each incident. Continuous or repeated exposure to substantially the same or similar general harmful activity or conditions is treated as one incident for purposes of determining the limit of liability. ยง536.211 Procedures. (a) Reporting. All Non-NAFI RIMP claims (regardless of the amount claimed) and incidents that could give rise to Non-NAFI RIMP claims will be reported to USARCS and the ACIF immediately. (b) Investigation. Field claims offices are responsible for the investigation of Non-NAFI RIMP claims. Such investigations will be closely coordinated with program managers responsible for the activity generating the claim. Close coordination with USARCS is required, and USARCS will maintain mirror files of the investigation of all actual and potential claims. (c) Payment. Non-NAFI RIMP claims will be transmitted to The Army Central Insurance Fund, ATTN: CFSC-RMB-I, Room 1240, 2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22331&hyph;0508 for payment. (d) Commercial insurance. The provisions of ยง536.203(e) (1) through (3) are also applicable to claims arising under this section, except that in claims involving FCC providers, a claims investigation will be conducted regardless of the presence of commercial insurance. ยง536.212 Delegation of authority. (a) Settlement authority. TJAG, TAJAG, and the Commander, USARCS, or designees, are authorized to settle or deny Non-NAFI RIMP claims regardless of the amount claimed. (b) Approval authority. (1) The SJA and, subject to limitations imposed by him or her, the chief of the command claims service of the commands listed below are delegated authority to approve, in full or in part, Non-NAFI RIMP claims presented in the amount of $25,000 or less, and to approve such claims regardless of the amount claimed provided an agreed settlement of $25,000 or less is accepted in full satisfaction of the claim, but only when the total value of all settlements, claims, and potential claims arising out of a single incident does not exceed $25,000. (i) USAREUR. (ii) Eighth U.S. Army, Korea. (iii) USARSO. (2) Area claims offices are delegated authority to approve, in full or in part, Non-NAFI RIMP claims presented in the amount of $15,000 or less, and to approve such claims regardless of the amount claimed provided an agreed settlement of $15,000 or less is accepted in full satisfaction of the claim, but only when the total value of all settlements, claims, and potential claims arising out of a single incident does not exceed $25,000. (3) The above authorities are not delegated authority to deny or make a final offer on claims under this section. Claims requiring such action will be forwarded to the Commander, USARCS, with an appropriate recommendation. (c) The decision of a settlement or approval authority on a Non-NAFI RIMP claim is final and conclusive and is not subject to reconsideration or appeal. Subpart M_Affirmative Claims General ยง536.213 Authority. (a) Federal statutory authority. (1) The Federal Claims Collection Act (31 U.S.C. 3711), as amended by the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and Public Law 101&hyph;552 (15 November 1990). The Federal Claims Collection Act states that Federal agencies will try to collect all claims of the United States for money or property. Among other things, it provides a basis for agencies to recover for damage to Government property. (2) Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651&hyph;53) (hereinafter ``FMCRA''). The FMCRA provides for the recovery of the reasonable value of medical care furnished by the United States on account of injury or disease incurred under circumstances creating tort liability upon some third person. The FMCRA is implemented by Executive Order 11060 and 28 CFR part 43; the Federal Claims Collection Standards (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix M) also apply, as appropriate. However, some procedures appropriate for liquidated debts may not be appropriate for unliquidated claims. (3) 10 U.S.C. 1095. 10 U.S.C. 1095 provides authority for military health care facilities to collect the reasonable cost of health care from health insurance and medicare supplemental policies. As amended by Public Law 101&hyph;510 (5 November 1990), this statute provides claims offices with additional authority to assert claims against automobile insurers for care provided in an MTF on or after that date. (b) Other authority. (1) State Workers' Compensation laws. (2) State hospital lien laws. (3) Contract rights under terms of insurance policies including medical payment coverage, uninsured and underinsured coverages, and no-fault. (4) State automobile no-fault laws.
