FR941104-2-00010 FR941104-2-00005 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration National Weather Service Modernization and Restructuring ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Department of Commerce is well underway toward completing the largest modernization and restructuring of the National Weather Service in history. This will result in substantial improvements to weather services provided nationwide. The Department of Commerce requests comments on service areas where it is believed that current weather services may be degraded as existing radars are decommissioned or as field offices are closed, consolidated, automated or relocated during the modernization of the Weather Service. DATES: Comments are due by January 3, 1995. ADDRESSES: Julie Scanlon, National Weather Service, 1325 East-West Highway #9372, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Julie Scanlon at 301&hyph;713&hyph;1413 or Nick Scheller at 301&hyph;713&hyph;0454. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In this notice, including the Study Guidelines in Appendix 1, the following terms and acronyms have the meaning indicated: Field office means any National Weather Service Office or National Weather Service Forecast Office. MTC means the Modernization Transition Committee established by Section 707 of the Act. NEXRAD means the Next Generation Radar also referred to as the WSR-88D radar. NIP means the National Implementation Plan for the modernization of the Weather Service required by Section 703 of the Act. NRC means the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences. NWS means the National Weather Service. Secretary means the Secretary of Commerce and, with respect to a function under the Act, an officer or employee of the Department of Commerce authorized to perform the function. Service Area means the geographical area for which an existing field office provides weather services or conducts observations. Weather service means a service or product provided to a service area by a field office. WSMA or Act means the Weather Service Modernization Act (Pub. L. 102&hyph;567, 15 U.S.C. 313n.) Pursuant to the WSMA, the Secretary has established procedures to ensure that the modernization of the Weather Service will not result in degradation of weather services currently provided. See 15 C.F.R. part 946 (58 FR 18317; 59 FR 9921). To strengthen public confidence in these procedures, without unnecessarily delaying the modernization process, the Department of Commerce has adopted and will apply the Study Guidelines of Appendix 1. These guidelines expand the opportunity for public participation in the modernization process as provided in these guidelines. The Secretary has also contracted with the NRC to develop additional independent scientific criteria to identify where weather services could be degraded as existing radars are decommissioned. The Secretary will apply these additional criteria as well as other criteria previously recommended by the NRC to ensure that services will not be degraded as radars are decommissioned or as field offices are closed, consolidated, relocated or automated. The Department of Commerce requests comments where commentors believe that current weather services may be degraded as existing radars are decommissioned or as field offices are closed, consolidated, automated or relocated. Commentors are requested to state the basis for their belief as fully as possible, and include a description of local weather characteristics (including unique weather phenomena) and weather related concerns which involve a substantial threat to public safety which they believe affect the weather services provided. Comments received prior to the deadline will be forwarded promptly to the NRC. The full procedures the Secretary will follow regarding reviewing the adequacy of the nation's overall NEXRAD coverage, to ensure a solid scientific and technical basis for the decision making process, and to assure meaningful participation by the public are set forth in the Study Guidelines in Appendix 1. Dated: October 31, 1994. D. James Baker, Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere.
