FR940930-0-00235 FR940930-0-00029 Final Rule This section requires that each cut-out circuit shall be tested at least once every three months to determine that the circuit functions as intended. For purposes of this section, a cut-out circuit is any circuit which overrides the operation of automatic warning systems. This includes both switch cut-out circuits and devices which enable personnel to manually override the operation of automatic warning systems. Section 234.271␣Insulated Rail Joints, Bond Wires, and Track Connections The proposed rule requires that each insulated rail joint, bond wire, and track connection located within the limits of a highway-rail grade crossing train detection circuit be inspected at least once every three months. Insulated rail joints are used to prevent current from flowing between rails. Bondwires and track connections ensure continuity of a train detection circuit. The labor/management group supported the proposed rule. The only other commenter on this proposal, the Wisconsin Central Railroad, commented that the requirement for inspection every three months is nearly impossible to meet, given the large geographical territories some signal maintainers have. Wisconsin Central suggests that this inspection should be extended to every six months. Because of the effect that damage to bonds, track connections and insulated rail joints due to vandalism, track equipment and other conditions can have on the integrity of the warning system, it is imperative that those components be inspected more often than twice a year. FRA notes that the three month inspection schedule is generally consistent with present industry inspection standards. Final Rule This section is adopted as proposed. Section 234.273␣Results of Tests This section as proposed requires that results of tests made in compliance with this part be recorded on preprinted or computerized forms provided by the railroad, or by electronic means, approved by the Associate Administrator for Safety. Records must show the name of the railroad having maintenance responsibility for the warning system, AAR/DOT inventory number, place and date, equipment tested, results of tests, repairs, replacements, adjustments made, and condition in which the apparatus was left. Each record must be signed or electronically coded by the employee making the test and be filed in the office of a supervisory official having jurisdiction. Additionally, the proposal requires that records be made available to FRA as provided by 49 U.S.C. 20107 (formerly section 208 of the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 437). Each record must be retained until the next record for that test is filed but in no case less than one year from the date of the test. If a railroad elects to use an electronic means for recording and signing results of tests, such means must be approved by FRA prior to use. Only two parties specifically commented on this section. Labor/management group and New Jersey Transit commented that test results should be permitted to be retained at the highway-rail grade crossing location or at the office of an official. FRA has determined that a more centralized location is needed for the retention of the results of tests. In some instances the control housings of warning systems are destroyed when there is an accident at a grade crossing. If the records of tests are also destroyed, an effective investigation of the accident would be precluded. Additionally, retaining test results at the office of an official permits more effective monitoring of rule compliance by the railroad and FRA. The final rule will not be changed as suggested. FRA is adding notice similar to that contained in §234.109 that records required to be kept shall be made available to FRA as provided by 49 U.S.C. 20107 (formerly section 208 of the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 437). Final Rule This section is adopted as proposed with additional language as stated above.
