FR940617-1-00101 FR940617-1-00012 Table 1._ Sampling Times for Surgical Hand Scrub Effectiveness Test 1Days 1Hours 2Baseline period 21/60 23 26 Day 0 lX l l l Day 1 l lX lX lX Day 3 or 5 l lX lX lX Day 5 or 7 l lX lX lX The schematic layout of randomization of subjects in blocks of 6 is given in Table 2; in Table 2, R refers to right hand and L refers to left hand as follows: Table 2._ Randomization of Subjects for Surgical Hand Scrub Effectiveness Test 1Subjects 1Hours 21/60 23 26 A lR lL B lL R C lL lR D lL lR E lR L F lR L n,s Total Observations l4 l4 l4 Assume N evaluable subjects are enrolled (the issue of determining N, the sample size, is discussed in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(F) of this section). First, randomly divide the N subjects into as many treatment groups as there are products to be tested (n t ). Secondly, randomize the n t subjects within each treatment group in blocks of six subjects in accordance with the subject allocation scheme in Table 2 of paragraph (b)(iii)(G) of this section until all n t patients are randomized to 6 hours. Repeat this process for each of the other treatment groups. (H) Count determinations. No sooner than 12 hours, nor longer than 4 days after completion of their baseline determination, subjects perform the initial scrub with the test formulations. Determine the bacterial population on the randomly designated hand of all subjects assigned to hour 1/60 in Table 2 of paragraph (b)(iii)(G) of this section immediately (within 1 minute) after scrub with the appropriate scrub formulation. Determine the bacterial counts on the designated hands at 3 and 6 hours after scrub. Determine bacterial population by sampling hands and enumerating the bacteria in the sampling solution as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(K) and (b)(1)(iii)(L) of this section. Repeat this scrubbing and sampling procedure the next day (day 2). On day 5, repeat the sampling procedure after scrubbing with the formulations two additional times on day 2 and three times per day on day 3 and day 4, with at least a 1-hour interval between scrubs. Perform one scrub on day 5, prior to sampling. In summary, the subjects scrub a total of 11 times with each formulation, once on days 1 and 5 and 3 times per day on days 2, 3, and 4. Collect bacterial samples following the single scrubs of days 1 and 5 and following the first scrub on day 2. This procedure mimics typical usage and permits determination of both immediate and longer-term reductions. (I) Washing technique for baseline determinations. ( 1 ) Volunteers clean under fingernails with nail stick and clip fingernails to less than or equal to 2 millimeter free edge. Remove all jewelry from hands and arms. ( 2 ) Rinse hands including two thirds of forearm under running tap water 38 to 42 ○C for 30 seconds. Maintain hands higher than elbows during this procedure and steps outlined in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(I)( 3 ), (b)(1)(iii)(I)( 4 ), and (b)(1)(iii)(I)( 5 ) of this section. ( 3 ) Wash hands and forearms with baseline control soap for 30 seconds using water as required to develop lather. ( 4 ) Rinse hands and forearms for 30 seconds under tap water to thoroughly remove all lather. ( 5 ) Don rubber gloves used in sampling hands and secure gloves at wrist. (J) Surgical scrub technique to be used prior to bacterial sampling. ( 1 ) Repeat procedure outlined in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(I)( 1 ) and (b)(1)(iii)(I)( 2 ) of this section. ( 2 ) Perform surgical scrub with test formulation in accordance with directions furnished with the test formulation. If no instructions are provided with the test formulation, use the 10-minute scrub procedure described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(J)( 3 ) of this section. ( 3 ) Perform 10-minute scrub procedure as follows: ( i ) Dispense formulation into hands. ( ii ) Set and start timer for 5 minutes (time required for the steps described in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(J)( 3 )( iii ) through (b)(1)(iii)(J)( 3 )( vii ) of this section. ( iii ) With hands, distribute formulation over hands and lower two-thirds of forearms. ( iv ) If scrub brush is to be used, pick up with finger tips and pass under tap to wet without rinsing formulation from hands. ( v ) Alternatively, scrub right hand and lower two-thirds of forearm and left hand and lower two-thirds of forearm. ( vi ) Rinse both hands, the lower two-thirds of forearms, and the brush for 30 seconds. ( vii ) Place brush in sterile dish within easy reach. ( viii ) Repeat the timed 5 minute scrub in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(J)( 3 )( iii ) through (b)(1)(iii)(J)( 3 )( vii ) of this section so that each hand and forearm is washed twice. The second wash and rinse should be limited to the lower one-third of the forearms and the hands. ( ix ) Perform final rinse. Rinse each hand and forearm separately for 1 minute per hand.
