FR940203-2-00036 FR940203-2-00017 Enclosed is a ``PROVISIONAL PERMIT.'' The provisional permit is NOT VALID and does not authorize you to do your work. The provisional permit describes the work that will be authorized, and the General and Special Conditions [if any] which will be placed on your final Department of the Army (DA) permit, if the State of XXX Water Quality Certification and/or Coastal Zone Management (CZM) consistency requirements are satisfied as described below. No work is to be performed in the waterway or adjacent wetlands until you have received a validated copy of the DA permit. By Federal law no DA permit can be issued until a State Section 401 Water Quality Certification has been issued or has been waived and/or the State has concurred with a permit applicant's CZM consistency determination or concurrence has been presumed. As of this date the [State 401 certification agency] has not issued a Section 401 Water Quality Certification for your proposed work. If the [State 401 certification agency] fails or refuses to act by [date 401 certification must be issued] the Section 401 Water Quality Certification requirement will be automatically waived. Also, as of this date the [State CZM agency] has not concurred with your CZM consistency determination. If the State does not act by [six months from receipt by the State of the applicant's CZM consistency determination] then concurrence with your CZM consistency determination will automatically be presumed. Conditions of the State Section 401 Water Quality Certification and/or the State CZM concurrence will become conditions to the final DA permit. Should the State's action on the required certification or concurrence preclude validation of the provisional permit in its current form, a modification to the provisional permit will be evaluated and you will be notified as appropriate. Substantial changes may require a new permit evaluation process, including issuing a new public notice. Enclosure 1 Final Permit Actions Normal Permit Process 1. Corps Completes permit decision, and state 401/CZM issued/waived 2. Corps sends unsigned permit to applicant 3. Applicant signs permit and returns with fee 4. Corps signs permit Draft Permit Process 1. Corps Completes permit decision, but state 401/CZM not complete 2. Corps sends draft permit to applicant 3. State 401/CZM issued waived 4. Applicant signs permit and returns with fee and 401/CZM action 5. Corps reviews 401/CZM action and signs permit 1. The signed draft permit with the attached 401/CZM action is to be treated as the applicant's request for a permit subject to any 401/CZM certification/concurrence including any conditions. 2. If the 401/CZM action results in a modification to the draft permit, then step 4. would be treated as a request for such modification and if we agree with the modification, then the permit would be issued with the modification and the decision document supplemented, as appropriate. If the Corps does not initially agree with the modification, or it involves a substantial change or measurable increase in adverse impacts, then the modification would be processed as a separate permit action for reporting purposes. Enclosure 2
