FR940513-2-00187 FR940513-2-00090 Maritime Administration [Docket S&hyph;906] Mormac Marine Transport, Inc.; Application for Written Permission Pursuant to Section 805(a) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as Amended Mormac Marine Transport, Inc. (Mormac), a subsidiary of Mormac Marine Group, Inc. (Mormac Marine), by application of May 9, 1994, requests, pursuant to section 805(a) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended (Act) and Article II&hyph;13 of Operating-Differential Subsidy Agreements, Contracts MA/MSB&hyph;295 (a), (b), and (c) (ODSAs), written permission for (1) James R. Barker and Paul R. Tregurtha (and members of their immediate families), to own a pecuniary interest in Moran Towing Corporation (Moran) and (2) Messrs. Barker and Tregurtha and members of their immediate families to serve as officers and directors of Moran and any of its subsidiaries. Moran provides domestic coastwise transportation services and performs harbor ship work with tugboats, more particularly described below. Mormac is of the view that docking and undocking ships within harbors is not subject to section 805(a), noting that that type of service was within section 803 of the Act, which was repealed by the Merchant Marine Act of 1970. Mormac points out that it currently has approval for common ownership, officers and directors of Mormac Marine and its subsidiaries as well as the Interlake Steamship Company and Lakes Shipping Company, Inc., both of which are involved in the domestic coastwise Great Lakes service. Mormac needs approval for the acquisition of Moran for the brief period of time remaining under the terms of Mormac's ODSAs. Mormac's ODSAs will terminate in December 1995, June 1996, and February 1997, respectively. Pursuant to the letter of intent, Messrs. Barker and Tregurtha, members of their immediate families, and Lakes Shipping Company, Inc. (which itself is owned in substantial part by the Barker and Tregurtha families) will be purchasing the outstanding stock of Moran. According to Mormac, Moran and its subsidiaries are currently involved principally in the operation of tug boats from eight ports on the U.S. east and gulf coasts used to dock and undock ships and also tow barges and other vessels. Moran also uses its own tugs and barges to transport cargoes along the east and gulf coasts and dry bulk cargoes both in the coastwise and worldwide trades. The Moran fleet currently consists of 54 tugs and 12 barges. Moran also indirectly owns a 20-percent interest in tankers transporting crude oil from Alaska to the continental U.S. Mormac states that Moran and Mormac are both U.S. citizens within the definition of section 2 of the Shipping Act, 1916, and section 905(a) of the Act, and will continue to be so after the consummation of the proposed transactions. Following the change in ownership, Mormac claims that Moran will continue to be involved in the same domestic coastwise and worldwide service in which it is currently engaged, with the possibility of future modifications and expansion to these services as circumstances warrant and permit. Mormac feels that it is essential that Moran be permitted freely to move tugboats and barges among the several services in which they are presently employed and into new services if conditions and circumstances so dictate. It is also important that Moran be able to expand services geographically within the regions currently being served. Mormac maintains that the ownership of Moran by Messrs. Tregurtha and Barker and their involvement in the management of Moran will not result in any change in competitive conditions for U.S.-flag vessels providing domestic coastwise marine transportation and harbor tug services or for U.S.-flag vessels providing tanker services from Alaska to the continental U.S. The only effect of the proposed transaction will be a change in the ownership of Moran. Furthermore, it is expected that the management of Moran will remain with Moran after the acquisition. Messrs. Tregurtha and Barker will serve as Chairman and Vice Chairman thereof, respectively. Moran and Mormac are, and will remain, according to Mormac, entirely separate corporate entities that will maintain separate and discrete accounts so there will be no issue of a subsidy leakage or diversion of subsidy. Following the consummation of the proposed transaction, Mormac and Moran will consent to examination of their books and records to the extent necessary to establish that there is no diversion of subsidy. Mormac will receive no benefit from the operations of Moran and Moran will receive no benefit from the operations of Mormac. Moran believes that no U.S.-flag competitor of Moran will be subject to unfair competition nor will the ownership of Moran by Messrs. Barker and Tregurtha and their family members be prejudicial to the purposes and policies of the Act. Mormac contends that no disputed issue of material fact is anticipated by a transaction that simply changes ownership of a company providing existing services. Any competitive condition that existed before the transaction will exist after the transaction. Mormac believes that no credible argument of leakage can be raised, eliminating the possibility of any argument that a change in ownership and the continuation of current services will result in unfair competition to any U.S.-flag vessel. Under these circumstances, should there be any request to intervene in this application, no issue is expected by Mormac to be raised that could not be addressed on the basis of available information provided to the record or subject to official notice and certainly no issue that would involve the submission of substantial evidence, either written or oral. In Mormac's view, approval of this application is also entirely consistent with the purposes and policies of the Act. This acquisition will be a significant expansion of Messrs. Barker's and Tregurtha's U.S.-flag fleets and a strong statement of continuing support for the U.S. merchant marine by individuals who have a long history in and are well respected by the maritime industry. Mormac requests the scope of domestic operations permitted under the ODSAs be modified to allow ownership of Moran by Lakes Shipping Company, Inc., Messrs. Barker and Tregurtha and members of their immediate families, as well as to allow Messrs. Barker and Tregurtha to serve as officers and directors of both Mormac and Moran, with Moran continuing to be involved in its current services (modified and expanded as circumstances warrant and permit). This application may be inspected in the Office of the Secretary, Maritime Administration. Any person, firm, or corporation having any interest in such application within the meaning of section 805(a) of the Act and desiring to submit comments concerning the application, must file written comments in triplicate with the Secretary, Maritime Administration, together with petition for leave to intervene, Room 7300, Nassif Building, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Comments must be received no later than 5 p.m. on May 24, 1994. The petition shall state clearly and concisely the grounds of interest, and the alleged facts relied on for relief. If no petition for leave to intervene is received within the specified time or if it is determined that petitions filed do not demonstrate sufficient interest to warrant a hearing, the Maritime Administration will take such action as may be deemed appropriate. In the event petitions regarding the relevant section 805(a) issues are received from parties with standing to be heard, a hearing will be held, the purpose of which will be to receive evidence under section 805(a) relative to whether the proposed operations (a) could result in unfair competition to any person, firm, or corporation operating exclusively in the coastwise or intercoastal service, or (b) would be prejudicial to the objects and policy of the Act relative to domestic trade operations. Dated: May 11, 1994. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program No. 20.804 (Operating-Differential Subsidies)) By Order of the Maritime Administrator. James E. Saari, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11825 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 9410&hyph;81&hyph;M
