FR940822-2-00126 FR940822-2-00061 III. Definitions The following definitions apply for the purposes of this guideline: A. Institute The State Justice Institute. B. State Supreme Court The highest appellate court in a State, unless, for the purposes of the Institute program, a constitutionally or legislatively established judicial council that acts in place of that court. In States having more than one court with final appellate authority, State Supreme Court shall mean that court which also has administrative responsibility for the State's judicial system. State Supreme Court also includes the office of the court or council, if any, it designates to perform the functions described in this guideline. C. Designated Agency or Council The office or judicial body which is authorized under State law or by delegation from the State Supreme Court to approve applications for funds and to receive, administer, and be accountable for those funds. D. Grantee The organization, entity, or individual to which an award of Institute funds is made. For a grant based on an application from a State or local court, grantee refers to the State Supreme Court or its designee. E. Subgrantee A State or local court which receives Institute funds through the State Supreme Court. F. Match The portion of project costs not borne by the Institute. Match includes both in-kind and cash contributions. Cash match is the direct outlay of funds by the grantee to support the project. In-kind match consists of contributions of time, services, space, supplies, etc., made to the project by the grantee or others (e.g., advisory board members) working directly on the project. Under normal circumstances, allowable match may be incurred only during the project period. When appropriate, and with the prior written permission of the Institute, match may be incurred from the date of the Institute Board of Directors' approval of an award. Match does not include project-related income such as tuition or revenue from the sale of grant products, or the time of participants attending an education program. Amounts contributed as cash or in-kind match may not be recovered through the sale of grant products during or following the grant period. G. Continuation Grant A grant of no more than 24 months to permit completion of activities initiated under an existing Institute grant or enhancement of the programs or services produced or established during the prior grant period. H. On-going Support Grant A grant of up to 36 months to support a project that is national in scope and that provides the State courts with services, programs or products for which there is a continuing important need. I. Package Grant A single grant that supports two or more closely-related projects which logically should be viewed as a whole or would require substantial duplication of effort if administered separately. Closely-related projects may include those addressing interrelated topics, or those requiring the services of all or some of the same key staff persons, or the core elements of a multifaceted program. Each of the components of a package grant must operate within the same project period. J. Human Subjects Individuals who are participants in an experimental procedure or who are asked to provide information about themselves, their attitudes, feelings, opinions and/or experiences through an interview, questionnaire, or other data collection technique(s). K. Curriculum The materials needed to replicate an education or training program developed with grant funds including, but not limited to: the learning objectives; the presentation methods; a sample agenda or schedule; an outline of presentations and other instructors' notes; copies of overhead transparencies or other visual aids; exercises, case studies, hypotheticals, quizzes and other materials for involving the participants; background materials for participants; evaluation forms; and suggestions for replicating the program including possible faculty or the preferred qualifications or experience of those selected as faculty. L. Products Tangible materials resulting from funded projects including, but not limited to: curricula; monographs; reports; books; articles; manuals; handbooks; benchbooks; guidelines; videotapes; audiotapes; and computer software.
