FR941017-0-00029 FR941017-0-00009 Recordkeeping Requirements Eliminated To relieve the burden imposed on financial institutions by Section 103.29, today's Final Rule reduces substantially the amount of information required to be maintained and eliminates the requirement for a centralized chronological log. Because Treasury is reducing requirements already imposed by Section 103.29 of the BSA regulations, and not adding any new requirements, this rule is published as a Final Rule, effective upon publication in the Federal Register . For the sake of clarity and for ease of understanding, amended Section 103.29 is published in its entirety. Information Eliminated Treasury rescinds the requirement for centralized chronological log(s) for sales of monetary instruments. Instead, financial institutions will be required to obtain and maintain records of certain information and may keep them in any format. In the case of deposit accountholders, Treasury eliminates the requirement to log the purchaser's account number, the branch where the purchase occurred, and the requirement to note on the log whether the transaction is part of a multiple sale. In the case of persons who do not hold deposit accounts with the financial institution, Treasury eliminates the requirement to obtain and record information regarding the person(s) ``on whose behalf'' the instrument is being purchased, the branch where the purchase occurred, payee(s) on each cashier's check and bank checks and drafts purchased, and the amount of the purchase in currency. The requirement to note whether the transaction is part of a multiple sale is also eliminated. Although Treasury rescinds the requirement to record whether a given transaction is part of a multiple sale, Treasury retains the requirement that a financial institution treat as a single purchase, multiple sales to an individual of which the institution has knowledge. Conclusion Treasury is rescinding those provisions of Section 103.29 as described above and clarifying revised recordkeeping requirements. Executive Order 12866 This Final Rule is not a ``significant'' rule for purposes of Executive Order 12866. Consistent with that Order, it reduces regulatory burden. It rescinds a requirement that financial institutions maintain centralized chronological log(s) of the issuance or sale for cash of certain monetary instruments, and substantially reduces data required to be recorded regarding such issuances or sales. Therefore, it is not anticipated to have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more. Rather, it will reduce the costs of doing business for financial institutions. It will not affect adversely in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or state, local, or tribal governments or communities. It is not inconsistent with, nor does it interfere with actions taken or planned by other agencies. Finally, it raises no novel legal or policy issues. A cost and benefit analysis, therefore, is not required. Regulatory Flexibility Act Because no notice of proposed rulemaking is required, the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601, et seq ., do not apply. Paperwork Reduction Act The collection of information requirements contained in this Final Rule has been reviewed and approved previously by the Office of Management and Budget for review in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (under control number 1505&hyph;0063). Drafting Information The principal author of this document is the Office of Financial Enforcement. List of Subjects in 31 CFR Part 103 Authority delegations (Government agencies), Banks and banking, Currency, Foreign banking, Investigations, Law enforcement, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Taxes. Amendment For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 31 CFR Part 103 is amended as set forth below: PART 103_FINANCIAL RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTING OF CURRENCY AND FOREIGN TRANSACTIONS 1. The authority citation for Part 103 is revised to read as follows: Authority: Pub. L. 91&hyph;508, Title I, 84 Stat. 1114 (12 U.S.C. 1829b and 1951&hyph;1959); 31 U.S.C. 5311&hyph;5328. 2. Section 103.29 is revised to read as follows:
