FR940817-2-00107 FR940817-2-00056 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC&hyph;489] National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health; Health and Exposure Surveillance of Siberian Asbestos Miners Cooperative Agreement Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a cooperative agreement with the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health (FIOH) to evaluate workplace exposures and conduct health assessments of workers exposed to asbestos in a large mining, milling, and production center located in Asbest, Russia. Approximately $150,000 will be available in FY 1994 to fund the cooperative agreement. The award will begin on or about September 30, 1994, for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 3 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation award(s) within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. The purpose of this cooperative agreement is to assist the FIOH in further developing and strengthening epidemiologic research, surveillance and monitoring, and training in order to promote the further understanding of the prevention of occupational respiratory disease. The CDC will provide scientific, epidemiologic, engineering, environmental, and clinical technical assistance to the recipient, as needed, for successful completion of this project; collaborate with the recipient on the methods for the collection, tabulation analysis, and publication of the data related to the project; assist in the development of the overall plan or study design for this project; assist in the design and implementation of the evaluation plan for the project; coordinate the training of the appropriate grantee staff in technical and scientific procedures necessary for the successful completion of the project; and assist in the development of a series of symposia to present findings, provide training, and provide for the dissemination of information relevant to the prevention of occupational lung disease due to asbestos exposure. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000 , a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of Occupational Lung Disease. (For ordering Healthy People 2000, see the section entitled Where to Obtain Additional Information. )
