FR940304-1-00118 FR940304-1-00014 Manufacturers' data provided by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers and published reports 29 were used by the Department to analyze the effects from improved contact conductance and reflective surfaces. Cost data were also provided by these sources. The electronic controls referred to by the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy and the Rocky Mountain Institute cannot be evaluated by the DOE test procedure. Different types of tests based on boiling water have been used to evaluate electronic controls. But boiling water tests have yet to be standardized by DOE as a method to rate cooktops. Therefore, this design option was not analyzed by the Department. 29 ``Costing Analysis of Design Options for Residential Appliances and Space Conditioning Equipment,'' Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, prepared by ADM Associates, Inc., Purchase No. 4541710, December 1987, ``Energy Efficient Electrical Product Knowledge Base,'' Canadian Electrical Association, prepared by ORTECH International, C.E.A. No. 821 U 678, October 1989, M. Shepard, A.B. Lovins, J. Neymark, D.J. Houghton, and H.R. Heede, ``The State of the Art: Appliances,'' Rocky Mountain Institute, Competitek, August 1990 Edition, and U.S. Department of Energy Engineering Analysis, DOE/CS&hyph;0166, June 1980. For electric smooth cooktops, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers's comments on product classes proposed separate classes for solid disk elements, radiant elements under glass, halogen elements under glass, and induction elements. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers commented that though solid disk elements are inherently less efficient than open coil elements, they should be a separate class because of the additional utility in their ease of cleaning. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 39, 40). With regard to radiant and halogen elements under glass, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers commented that not only are these cooktops easy to clean because of their smooth surfaces, but additional work space is gained when the cooktop surface is not in use. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers also stated that the recommended cookware for halogen elements are metal pots and pans, since glass and ceramic cookware are not good heat conductors. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 40, 41). The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that since induction elements heat items by transferring electromagnetic energy, the glass or ceramic countertop under which they lie is unaffected and remains relatively cool. This also means that the cookware used with induction elements must be made from magnetic materials. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers listed the following advantages of induction cooking: fast response and control of heat source, ease of cleaning (since food spills do not burn onto the cooking surface), and the ability to heat utensils that are not flat. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers pointed out that because the DOE test procedure uses non-magnetic aluminum blocks, it is not suitable for testing induction elements. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No.61A at 41&hyph;43). As stated in the discussion of product classes, the Department has established two classes for electric cooktops (open coil and smooth), and believes that radiant, halogen, and induction elements offer no consumer utility which prevents them from being analyzed as design options for smooth cooktops. Solid disk elements are treated as the baseline unit for smooth cooktops. Data provided by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, cooktop manufacturers, suppliers, and a published report 30 were used in the analysis of smooth cooktops. Data were provided which evaluated radiant, halogen, and induction elements according to the DOE test procedure. The Department test results were obtained for induction elements by attaching a ferro-magnetic material to the aluminum test block. As with open coil elements, different types of tests based on boiling water have been used to evaluate electronic controls for smooth cooktops. But boiling water tests have yet to be standardized by DOE as a method to rate cooktops. Therefore, this design option was not analyzed by the Department. 30 M. Shepard, A.B. Lovins, J. Neymark, D.J. Houghton, and H.R. Heede, ``The State of the Art: Appliances,'' Rocky Mountain Institute, Competitek, August 1990 Edition.
