FR940429-0-00039 FR940429-0-00009 (b) Nonallowable costs. (1) The Congregate Housing Services Program supportive service funds may not be used to cover expenses related to any grantee program, service, or activity existing at the time of application to the Congregate Housing Services Program. (2) Examples of non-allowable costs under the program are: (i) Capital funding (such as purchase of buildings, related facilities or land and certain major kitchen items such as stoves, refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers, trash compactors or sinks); (ii) Administrative costs, such as a non-proportional share of costs charged to the Congregate Housing Services Program for rent/lease, utilities, staff time; (iii) Payments to PAC members (other than the Service Coordinator) or third party organizations providing that function; (iv) Cost of supportive services other than those approved by the Secretary concerned; (v) Modernization, renovation or new construction of a building or facility, including kitchens; (vi) Any costs related to the development of the application and plan of operations before the effective date of the Congregate Housing Services Program grant award; (vii) Emergency medical services and ongoing and regular care from doctors and nurses, including but not limited to administering medication, purchase of medical supplies, equipment and medications, overnight nursing services, and other institutional forms of service, care or support; (viii) Occupational therapy and vocational rehabilitation services; or (ix) The value of PAC members' time for any time period estimate related to the initial assessment of individuals before they are accepted into the CHSP; or (x) Other items defined as unallowable costs in the supportive services grant instrument and OMB Circular A&hyph;87 or 122. (c) Administrative cost limitation. A recipient of assistance under this section may not use more than 10 percent of the sum of the assistance and the contribution amounts required under § XXX .235(a) for administrative costs, and shall ensure that any entity to which the recipient distributes amounts may not expend more than a reasonable amount from distributed amounts for administrative costs. Administrative costs may not include any capital expenses. § XXX .435 Use of residents in providing services. Each housing project that receives assistance under this section shall, to the maximum extent practicable, utilize the elderly and persons with disabilities who are residents of the housing project, but who are not eligible project residents, to participate in providing congregate services under this part. These individuals shall be paid wages that shall not be less than the higher of: (a) The minimum wage that would be applicable to the employee under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, if section 6(a)(1) of that Act applied to the resident, and if the resident were not exempt under section 13 of that Act; (b) The State or local minimum wage for the most nearly comparable covered employment; or (c) The prevailing rates of pay for persons employed in similar public occupations by the same employer. § XXX .440 Services provided not income. Except for wages paid under § XXX .435, services provided to a resident of an eligible housing project under a congregate services program shall not be considered as income for the purpose of determining eligibility for or the amount of assistance or aid furnished under, any federal, federally assisted, or state program based on need. § XXX .445 Consultation with the Department of Health and Human Services. The Secretary concerned shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services regarding the availability of assistance from other Federal programs to support services under this part and shall make information available to applicants for assistance under this part. XXX .500 Eligibility and priority for 1978 Act recipients. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any public housing agency or nonprofit corporation assisted under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 that was receiving assistance under a grant under the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978 on November 28, 1990 shall receive assistance under the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978 for the remainder of the term of its grant, and shall receive priority for assistance under this section after the expiration of its grant. (b) For any congregate services program that was receiving assistance under a grant under the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978 on November 28, 1990, the grantee, in coordinating with a local government with respect to that grantee's program, shall not be subject to the requirement to provide supplemental contributions under § XXX .235(a) (for that program) for the six-year period beginning on the expiration of the program's current assistance contract. Each such program recipient shall maintain, for the six-year period, the same dollar amount of annual contributions in support of the services eligible for assistance under this section as was contributed to the program during the year preceding November 28, 1990. This amount shall be equal to no less than the dollar amount of the annual contribution plus any inflationary increases allowed by HUD and FmHA. § XXX .505 Submission and approval of applications by grantees. The applicant shall submit an application as required by the Secretary concerned. § XXX .510 Submission and approval of applications by grantees funded initially under the 1978 Act, after the six-year transition period. Grantees funded initially under the 1978 Act shall be eligible to receive continued, non-competitive funding after the six-year transition period. These grantees will be eligible to receive priority funding under this part if they comply with these regulations and with the requirements of any Funding Notice issued in a particular fiscal year. § XXX .515 Waiver authority. The Secretary concerned may waive any requirement of these regulations that is not required by law, upon a determination of good cause. Each waiver will be in writing, supported by documentation of the pertinent facts and grounds, and signed by the Secretary concerned. The Secretary concerned will publish notice of granted waivers in the Federal Register . Adoption of the Final Common Rule The agency specific adoption of the final common rule, which appears at the end of the common preamble appears below: FARMERS HOME ADMINISTRATION 7 CFR Part 1944 List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1944 Farm labor housing, Migrant labor, Nonprofit organizations, Public housing, Rent subsidies, and Rural rental housing.
