FR940617-0-00241 FR940617-0-00026 Subpart K_General Enforcement Provisions and Prohibited Acts §89.1001 Applicability. The requirements of subpart K are applicable to all nonroad engines subject to the provisions of subpart A of part 89, and to all nonroad vehicles and equipment that contain such nonroad engines. §89.1002 Definitions. The definitions in subpart A of this part apply to this subpart. §89.1003 Prohibited acts. (a) The following acts and the causing thereof are prohibited: (1)(i) In the case of a manufacturer of new nonroad engines, vehicles, or equipment for distribution in commerce, the sale, or the offering for sale, or the introduction, or delivery for introduction, into commerce, of any new nonroad engine manufactured after the applicable effective date under this part, or any nonroad vehicle or equipment containing such engine, unless such engine is covered by a certificate of conformity issued (and in effect) under regulations found in this part. (ii) In the case of any person, except as provided in subpart G of this part, the importation into the United States of any new nonroad engine manufactured after the applicable effective date under this part, or any nonroad vehicle or equipment containing such engine, unless such engine is covered by a certificate of conformity issued (and in effect) under regulations found in this part. (2)(i) For a person to fail or refuse to permit access to or copying of records or to fail to make reports or provide information required under §89.1004. (ii) For a person to fail or refuse to permit entry, testing, or inspection authorized under §§89.129&hyph;96, 89.506&hyph;96 or 89.1004. (iii) For a person to fail or refuse to perform tests, or to have tests performed as required under §§89.119&hyph;96 or 89.1004. (iv) For a person to fail to establish or maintain records as required under §89.1004. (3)(i) For a person to remove or render inoperative a device or element of design installed on or in a nonroad engine, vehicle or equipment in compliance with regulations under this part prior to its sale and delivery to the ultimate purchaser, or for a person knowingly to remove or render inoperative such a device or element of design after the sale and delivery to the ultimate purchaser; or (ii) For a person to manufacture, sell or offer to sell, or install, a part or component intended for use with, or as part of, a nonroad engine, vehicle or equipment, where a principal effect of the part or component is to bypass, defeat, or render inoperative a device or element of design installed on or in a nonroad engine in compliance with regulations issued under this part, and where the person knows or should know that the part or component is being offered for sale or installed for this use or put to such use. (4) For a manufacturer of a new nonroad engine subject to standards prescribed under this part: (i) To sell, offer for sale, or introduce or deliver into commerce, a nonroad engine unless the manufacturer has complied with the requirements of §89.1007. (ii) To sell, offer for sale, or introduce or deliver into commerce, a nonroad engine unless a label or tag is affixed to the engine in accordance with §89.110&hyph;96. (iii) To fail or refuse to comply with the requirements of §89.1008. (iv) Except as provided in §89.109&hyph;96, to provide directly or indirectly in any communication to the ultimate purchaser or a subsequent purchaser that the coverage of a warranty under the Act is conditioned upon use of a part, component, or system manufactured by the manufacturer or a person acting for the manufacturer or under its control, or conditioned upon service performed by such persons. (v) To fail or refuse to comply with the terms and conditions of the warranty under §89.1007. (5) For a person to circumvent or attempt to circumvent the residence time requirements of subsection (b)(2)(iii) of the nonroad engine definition in §89.2. (6) For a manufacturer of nonroad vehicles or equipment to distribute in commerce, sell, offer for sale, or introduce into commerce nonroad vehicles or equipment which contain an engine not covered by a certificate of conformity. (b) For the purposes of enforcement of this part, the following apply: (1) Nothing in paragraph (a)(3) of this section is to be construed to require the use of manufacturer parts in maintaining or repairing a nonroad engine. (2) Actions for the purpose of repair or replacement of a device or element of design or any other item are not considered prohibited acts under §89.1003(a) if the action is a necessary and temporary procedure, the device or element is replaced upon completion of the procedure, and the action results in the proper functioning of the device or element of design. (3) Actions for the purpose of a conversion of a nonroad engine for use of a clean alternative fuel (as defined in Title II of the Act) are not considered prohibited acts under §89.1003(a) if: (i) the vehicle complies with the applicable standard when operating on the alternative fuel, and the device or element is replaced upon completion of the conversion procedure, and
