FR940516-2-00150 FR940516-2-00095 (iii) Inability of potential Indian clientele to pay for services; (iv) Technical barriers created by existing public or private programs; (v) Availability of transportation to existing programs; (vi) Distance between the Indian community to be served under the proposal and the nearest existing programs; (vii) Quality of services provided to Indian clientele; and (viii) Relevance of services provided to the specific needs of the Indian clientele. (8) If the proposed program duplicates existing Federal, state, or local child and family service programs emphasizing the prevention of Indian family breakups, proper and current documented evidence that repeated attempts to obtain services have been unsuccessful; (9) Evidence of substantial support from the Indian community or communities to be served, including but not limited to: (i) Tribal support evidenced by a tribal resolution or cooperative service agreements between the administrative bodies of the affected tribe(s) and the applicant for the duration of the grant period, or (ii) Letters of support from social services organizations familiar with the applicant's past work experience; (10) A staffing plan that is consistent with implementation of the above-described program plan of operation and the procedures necessary for the successful delivery of services. The plan must include proposed key personnel, their qualifications, training or experience relevant to the services to be provided, responsibilities, Indian preference criteria for employment and position descriptions. In accordance with 25 U.S.C. 3201 et seq. (Pub. L. 101&hyph;630), Title IV, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act, grantees shall conduct character and background investigations of those personnel identified in that statue prior to their actual employment. (11) The reasonableness and relevance of the estimated overall costs of the proposed program or services and their overall relation to the organization's funding base, activities, and mission; (12) The degree to which the detailed annual budget and justification for the requested funds are consistent with, and clearly supported by, the proposed plan and by appropriate program services and activities for the applicable grant year; (13) The applicant's identification of any consultants and/or subgrantees it proposes to employ; description of the services to be rendered; the qualifications and experience of said personnel, reflecting the requirements for performing the identified services; and the basis for the cost and the amount to be paid for such services; (14) Certification by a licensed accountant that the bookkeeping and accounting procedures that the applicant uses or intends to use meet existing Federal standards for grant administration and management specified at 25 CFR 23.46; (15) The compliance of property management and recordkeeping systems with subpart D of 43 CFR Part 2 (the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a), and with existing Federal requirements for grants at 25 CFR 276.5 and 276.11, including the maintenance and safeguarding of direct service case records on families and/or individuals served by the grant; (16) A description of the proposed facilities, equipment, and buildings necessary to carry out the grant activities; and (17) Proof of liability insurance coverage for FY 1994 and FY 1995. E. Scoring and Grant Application Selection Criteria Upon receipt of an application for an off-reservation grant under 25 CFR 23.33 which requires the approval of the Area Director, the Area Director shall: (1) Establish and convene an area review committee, chaired by a person qualified by knowledge, training and experience in the delivery of Indian child and family services. (2) Review the area office certification form required in 25 CFR 23.33(a). (3) Review the application in accordance with the competitive review procedures prescribed in 25 CFR section 23.33. An application shall not receive approval for funding under the area competitive review and scoring process unless a review of the application determines that it:
