FR940224-1-00031 FR940224-1-00009 2. Alternative Approaches Although EPA is considering steady state conditions for the generation of emissions in the final rule, it has not excluded the possibility of using the previously proposed FTP method or other transient or semi-transient (e.g., multi-modal) methods. EPA solicits detailed comments on whether transient methods are necessary to ensure that toxicologically significant species will not be unintentionally omitted from the emission stream. EPA is considering the use of emission conditioning techniques that could potentially accommodate transient cycle emission generation within the context of the F/FA inhalation toxicity testing program. One option being considered would use constant dilution ratio equipment (e.g., the mini-diluter or variable flow rate ``constant volume sampling'' (VFR&hyph;CVS) systems) being developed and evaluated in the American Industry/Government Emissions Research, Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (AIGER CRADA) to limit the transient variability characteristics of classical CVS (variable dilution ratio) exhaust. With this equipment, the diluent can be managed to achieve desired CO, CO 2 and water vapor concentrations (e.g., to avoid animal asphyxiation or water condensation) and sample temperatures prior to being directed to the biological exposure chambers. Concentration swings will occur when the engine air/fuel ratio diverges from stoichiometric combustion, but for only short durations of time. EPA recognizes that this is a developing technology and invites comments, suggestions, and supporting data on its possible application in the F/FA biological testing program. Another alternative that would allow management of the variability of transient vehicle exhaust is use of a mixing chamber between the classical CVS source and the exposure chamber. The transient exhaust would be injected into a large dilution/mixing/integration chamber prior to its delivery to the animal exposure chamber. This would allow necessary adjustment of the exhaust concentrations and integration of the large concentration swings typical of CVS exhaust, prior to exposing the animals. The mixing chamber would be charged from the CVS at a constant rate determined by the exposure chamber purge rate. The exposure chamber flow could begin at the conclusion of the initial transient cycle with the associated mixing chamber charge. EPA requests comments on the feasibility of using mixing chambers to condition diluted transient exhaust for animal exposure in the context of the F/FA testing program. 3. Engine-Out Emissions EPA is also considering the use of engine-out (i.e., non-catalyzed) rather than catalyzed tailpipe emissions for biological testing, to assure that the test animals will be exposed to the full range of emission species potentially resulting from the combustion of F/FAs. With modern emission control technology in place, most of the ambient air pollutant species attributable to automobile exhaust come from two sources: malfunctioning vehicles (``high emitters'') and normal vehicles during their cold start period, when their engines run rich and their catalytic converters have not yet reached effective operating temperatures. The variety of emissions from these two important sources are not well represented by hot, catalyzed exhaust generated from well-maintained, modern vehicles. Emissions during the cold-start include hundreds of organic chemical species which are generated before the catalytic converter reaches its effective temperature. Once the catalytic converter is warmed-up, its efficiency increases to the point where only a dozen or so simple compounds remain in readily measurable amounts in the catalyzed exhaust. Thus, the use of treated exhaust in the biological testing program would expose the laboratory animals to only a very few of the organic emission species associated with the combustion of the fuel or additive of interest. In vivo testing requires continuous air changes in the animal chambers to avoid confounding health effects (e.g., lung and skin irritations, hypoxia, bacterial infections, heat exhaustion, etc.) caused by a build-up of metabolic by-products (e.g., CO 2 , ammonia, humidity and body heat) of the animal test population. Because of the need for frequent air changes, the initial cold-start emissions would remain in the exposure chamber for only a few minutes before being flushed out. Assuming catalyzed emissions were used, the remaining hours of each day's test period would expose the animals only to the relatively few species that remain in hot, treated exhaust. Thus, the use of catalyzed exhaust for biological exposures could exclude from the tests relevant emission species that could potentially be harmful to human health or the environment. In contrast, the ambient air normally contains the full range of combustion emissions, since cold-start emissions are continuously re-introduced and some ``high emitters'' are always in operation. Since humans experience continuous exposure to these emissions, EPA believes it is important that they be included in the test exposure atmosphere. Several possible methods have been considered for increasing the frequency and/or duration of biological exposures to actual cold-start emissions. These included the use of emission storage and retrieval systems, use of an enhanced engine and exhaust cooling system, and the use of a fleet of identical vehicles that could be interchanged to provide natural cooling periods. However, each of these methods could introduce still more technical challenges. Thus, EPA believes that production of a constant supply of genuine cold-start emissions could be an impractical requirement for the type of toxicology tests required in this program. Comments and suggestions on these issues are welcome.
