FR941027-2-00069 FR941027-2-00039 4. An AETC specifically in the District of Columbia that either stands alone or is incorporated in a consortium arrangement with another AETC. At least 50 percent of project funds must be expended for training activities in high AIDS prevalence areas, i.e.: as defined as EMAs in the Ryan White CARE ACT, Title I. If this is not done, appropriate justification from regional epidemiological data and the needs assessment must be provided. B. Performance Expectations Each AETC must provide or perform the following. These items are essential for consideration for this cooperative agreement. 1. Submission of a coordinated plan, including a clear statement of resources available from the region's EMA(s), for the network that has been created for dissemination of state-of-the-art information to health professions schools and organizations, HIV care providers and CBOs, including organizations of people living with AIDS (PLWA) in the AETC's proposed region; the methodology (e.g., electronic bulletin boards, print material and teleconferencing, etc.) should be described as well as the types of education materials to be distributed in concert with other PHS agencies and health professions' schools and organizations. 2. A comprehensive clinical training plan, of which a minimum of 50 percent of the Federal funds devoted to training is directed toward primary care providers, i.e., physicians, registered nurses, dentists, physician assistants, nurses with advanced training (e.g., nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists and nurse midwives) and dental hygienists. 3. A training plan for other health professionals including, but not limited to, mental health care providers, case managers, substance abuse counselors and other allied health personnel; 4. Linkages to other organizations in the following priority order: (a) Ryan White CARE ACT, Titles I, II, including Special Programs of National Significance (SPNS), IIIb and IVd funded health services programs, and the Hemophilia Programs; (b) health professions schools, academic centers, and national health professions organizations, including minority professional groups; (c) Federally supported substance abuse programs (e.g.: NIDA & SAMHSA) and community substance abuse programs; (d) PHS funded Area Health Education Centers (AHECs), migrant centers (e.g., sec. 329(a)(1), community health centers (e.g., sec. 330(a), and homeless centers (e.g., sec. 340), mental health providers (e.g.: SAMHSA grantees), Federally supported STD and prevention activities (e.g.: CDC, etc.), providers in prisons, family planning programs and HRSA supported maternal and child health programs, State and local health agencies and health care facilities involved in providing care for HIV infected individuals in order to fill any gaps in training; (e) other community based HIV-related organizations (including those formed by PLWA); AETC projects also are encouraged to collaborate with (f) national networks of AIDS clinical trials such as the adult and pediatric AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG), the Community Programs for Clinical Research on AIDS (CPCRA), AMFAR and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. 5. An updated needs-assessment of the education and training needs of the primary care providers within the proposed service area and which is based upon epidemiological data for that service area. 6. A plan for outreach to minorities, including involvement of minority providers, providers who serve minority populations, minority professional organizations, and minority health care delivery systems; 7. A plan for program assessment and data collection on program and trainees which can be used for regional and national evaluative purposes; and 8. Plan for non-Federal funding during the 3-year project period. Proposed Review Criteria The following review criteria are proposed for FY 1995: Applications will be reviewed and rated according to the applicant's ability to meet the following: 1. The completeness and pertinence of the needs assessment to the proposed region and the degree of linkage between its findings and the plans for information dissemination and training for National AETC Program Levels I through III described in the program guidelines; 2. The degree of emphasis on linkages with Ryan White CARE ACT programs I, II (including Special Programs of National Significance (SPNS)), IIIb and IVd, health professions schools and academic health centers, and other collaborations as described under Proposed Project Requirements above; 3. The extent to which the training plans meet the national priorities (prevention, substance abuse, cultural competence, tuberculosis, providers in prisons, implementation of the PHS recommendations of protocol, AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG 076), and psychosocial issues) of the National AETC Program; 4. The completeness and appropriateness of the plan for information dissemination among key HIV contacts as defined under Proposed Project Requirements above; 5. The completeness and appropriateness of the training plans for National AETC Program Levels I, II and III; 6. The organization of the AETC; the administration and management of the AETC and its relationship to its component parts, i.e.: Consortia members and/or subcontractors; 7. The appropriateness of the size and configuration of the AETC; the appropriateness and cost-effectiveness of the budget; the amount of support contributed by the proposed awardee institution, including in-kind support; 8. The completeness and appropriateness of the data management and evaluation plans; and
