FR940505-1-00325 FR940505-1-00012 Baseline emissions means the emissions calculated using 1990 emission inventory data in the affected FIP areas and adjusted for emission reductions projected to occur by the implementation year of the FIP cap program in the affected FIP area. The baseline shall be denominated in pounds per year of FIP cap pollutant (e.g., pounds of NO X per year) and monthly caps shall be prorated based on this data. Cement kiln is a device for the calcining and clinkering of limestone, clay and other raw materials, and recycle dust in the dry-process manufacture of cement. Clinker is a mass of fused material produced in a cement kiln from which the finished cement is manufactured by milling and grinding. Combustion equipment is any equipment that burns fuel, including but not limited to natural gas or fuel oil in order to operate. Combustion equipment includes, but is not limited to, boilers, turbines, heaters, engines, kilns, furnaces, ovens, dryers, flares, and afterburners. Continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) means any system of equipment that continuously measures all parameters necessary to directly determine mass emissions of a pollutant, and which meets all performance standards for CEMS set forth in this regulation. Continuously measure means to measure at least once every 15 minutes except during periods of routine maintenance and calibration, or as otherwise specified in this regulation. Daily means occurring once between 12 midnight and 24 hours later at midnight. Day means a period of consecutive 24 hours beginning at 12:00 a.m. (midnight) local time, or beginning at a time consistent with a facility's operating schedule. Direct monitoring device is a device that measures the emissions of NO X and all other variables as specified in this regulation. Electric utility is all facilities which generate power and are owned or operated by any one of the following: Southern California Edison or any of its successors. Emission rate means the total mass of NO X released or discharged from an emissions source into the atmosphere per unit of production, throughput, or heat input (e.g., pounds NO X /mmBtu). Emission source or source means any building, structure, facility, property, equipment, device, container, or any combination thereof, at, from, or by reason which NO X is emitted or discharged into the atmosphere. Facility means all of the pollutant-emitting activities which belong to the same industrial grouping, are located on one or more contiguous or adjacent properties, and are under the control of the same person (or persons under common control), except the activities of any marine vessel. Pollutant-emitting activities shall be considered as part of the same industrial grouping if they belong to the same ``Major Group'' (i.e., which have the same two-digit code) as described in the ``Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1987'' (incorporated by reference as specified in paragraph (b) of this section). Federally enforceable means all limitations and conditions that are enforceable by the Administrator including those requirements contained in permits issued pursuant to 40 CFR parts 70 and 71, except those terms or conditions designated as not federally enforceable; those requirements developed pursuant to 40 CFR parts 60 and 61; requirements within any applicable implementation plan; and any permit requirements established pursuant to §52.21 or under regulations approved pursuant to 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, and 40 CFR 51.166. Gaseous fuels include, but are not limited to, any natural, process, synthetic, landfill, sewage digester or waste gases with a gross heating value of 300 Btu per cubic foot or higher, at standard conditions. Incinerator means a combustion apparatus in which solid, semi-solid, liquid, or gaseous combustible wastes are ignited and burned and from which the solid and gaseous residues contain little or no combustible material. Monitor means to measure and record. Natural gas is a mixture of gaseous hydrocarbons, with at least 80 percent methane (by volume), and of pipeline quality, such as the gas sold or distributed by any utility company regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission. NO X emissions means the sum of nitric oxides and nitrogen dioxides emitted, calculated as nitrogen dioxide. Non-cap program pollutants are those pollutants other than NO X and VOC. Owner or operator means any person who owns, operates, leases, controls, or supervises an emissions source or air pollution control equipment. Person means any individual, corporation, copartnership, firm, company, partnership, joint stock company, trust, association, State, municipality, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal representative, agent, or assigns. Process means any stationary emission source. Quarter is a three-month period from January 1 to March 31, April 1 to June 30, July 1 to September 30, or October 1 to December 31, inclusive. Rated brake horsepower (bhp) is the maximum rating specified by the manufacturer and listed on the nameplate. Rental equipment is equipment which is rented or leased for operation by someone other than the owner of the equipment. Research operations are those operations the sole purpose of which is to permit investigation of experimental research to advance the state of knowledge or state-of-the-art technology. Source means emission source. Standard conditions means a temperature of 20 ○C (68 ○F) and a pressure of 760 mm Hg (29.92 in. Hg).
