FR940705-2-00115 FR940705-2-00081 [Release No. 34&hyph;34269; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;16] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to Audit Trail Account Identification Codes June 28, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on April 20, 1994, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change consists of the addition of identification codes to the Exchange's audit trail to indicate transactions that are exempt from the short sale rules. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (a) Purpose NYSE Rule 132 requires a clearing member firm submitting a trade to comparison to include specified audit trail data elements, including a specification of the account type for which that trade was effected according to specified account categories. Currently, the Exchange uses 12 identifiers. Three additional account type identifiers, relating to orders of competing dealers, have been approved by the Commission, but have not yet been implemented. 1 These three identifiers would be implemented upon Commission approval of the new identifiers being proposed herein. 1 The three identifiers recently approved by the Commission consist of O, T, and R and will denote that a transaction was effected for the account of a competing dealer. The identifier ``O'' denotes a proprietary order for the account of a competing dealer. The identifier ``T'' denotes an order where one member is acting as an agent for another member's competiting dealer account. The identifier ``R'' denotes an order for the account of a non-member competiting dealer. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33662 (February 23, 1994), 59 FR 10027 (March 2, 1994) (order approving File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;91&hyph;46). The Exchange is proposing to expand use of the audit trail account type field to require designation of a type of trade, namely, ``short exempt'' trades. Four identifiers would be added to the audit trail account type field to identify ``short exempt'' trades for: •The proprietary account of a clearing member organization or an affiliated member/member organization_to be designated E.
