FR941031-1-00008 FR941031-1-00002 Therefore, proposed §618.8005(d) would provide that related services may be offered to recipients that do not otherwise meet the eligibility requirements, as long as such service is offered in connection with loan applications, loan servicing, and other transactions between these recipients and persons or entities eligible to borrow under the criteria in proposed §618.8005(a), (b), or (c) discussed above. The service in question would have to be a part of or pertain to the transaction. For example, if a System institution offered a soil testing service, a natural food store wishing to purchase produce from a farmer could utilize the System institution's service to test the soil for pesticides. Although the eligible farmer directly benefits from the service and could arrange for the testing from the institution, the food store may wish to contract for the service directly in order to ensure independence of the testing. The System institution could not, however, offer tax planning services to the natural food store because tax planning does not pertain to the store's transaction with the farmer and does not directly benefit the eligible farmer. In addition, the authority to provide related services in §618.8005(d) would not depend on which party arranges for or pays for the related services. Finally, for BCs and ACBs, proposed §618.8005(d) would not change the requirements of §613.3120 of this chapter that a voting stockholder must substantially benefit from services provided in connection with foreign export or import transactions. One of the Regulatory Burden comments stated that System institutions should have the authority to provide related services to non-eligible entities as long as such services did not comprise the majority of the institution's program. The FCA does not believe that statutory or regulatory eligibility requirements depend on the percentage of an institution's services that are provided to the person or entity whose eligibility is in question, and did not include this suggestion in the proposed regulation. Finally, the FCA does not agree with the view advanced by the Farm Credit Council (FCC) and FRS petitioners that appraisals and other services could be provided to non-eligible entities pursuant to the institutions' incidental authorities under sections 1.5(21), 2.2(20), 2.12(20), and 3.2(16) of the Act. System institutions were created for the express purpose of providing lending and related services. It is a general principle of corporate law that incidental powers are those powers that are directly and immediately appropriate to the execution of powers expressly granted and cannot be used to waive a specific limitation on an express power. 5 Therefore, any use of incidental authorities for activities derived from either lending or related services express powers would still be subject to the limitations on those express powers. 5 Fletcher Cyc. Corp. §2485 (rev. perm. ed. 1989). 3. Section 618.8010_Related Services Authorization Process As part of its commitment to reducing the regulatory burden, the FCA proposes to eliminate the existing regulatory requirement that each System bank or association obtain the FCA's prior approval before providing a related service program. In addition, System institutions requested a change in the approval process to lessen the burden and speed up the process. A number of suggestions were made regarding the process; many of these have been incorporated into the proposed regulation. The proposed regulation sharply reduces the FCA's up-front role in two ways. First, the FCA would only evaluate proposals for new related services up front, that is, only services that have not previously been approved by the FCA. Second, only the service itself, not an institution's program, would initially be evaluated. This means that the FCA's evaluation of new services could occur before the proposing institution prepares a complete feasibility analysis or its funding bank completes its review. In fact, while the FCA would expect well-documented service proposals, an institution would not need to devote valuable resources to developing its operational program before submitting a new related service for the FCA's evaluation. Following the FCA's authorization of the service, any authorized institution could develop and offer a program based on regulatory criteria in proposed §§618.8020 and 618.8025 without obtaining prior approval from the FCA. The institution's program would then be subject to review in the course of the examination process.
