FR941116-0-00132 FR941116-0-00022 (2) Related conditions of insect infestation, plant disease, or other deterioration of such crop, including aflatoxin, that is accelerated or exerbated naturally because of damaging weather occurring before or during harvest; and (3) Flooding within flood or flowage easement areas. Farm program payment yield means the yield for the crop for the farm which is determined by the county committee in accordance with ยง1413.15 adjusted to reflect any determinations made with respect to such yield in accordance with part 780 of this title. The 1985 farm program payment yield means: (1) The yield for the crop for the farm which was determined by the county committee in accordance with the regulations in this part which were applicable for the 1985 crop year; or (2) The yield for the crop for the farm which is determined in accordance with ยง1413.15 if no yield was determined for the crop for the farm for the 1985 crop year. Farming operations and practices means the integration of crops and crop-plant variety selection, rotation practices, tillage systems, soil conserving and soil building practices, nutrient management strategies, biological control and integrated pest management strategies, livestock production and management systems, animal waste management systems, water and energy conservation measures, and health and safety considerations. Final disposition date means the date or time by which an acreage of barley, wheat, oilseeds, or oats must be disposed of in order that such acreage will not be considered as barley, wheat, oats, or oilseeds for harvest or by which an acreage of rye or similar grain must be disposed of in order for the acreage to qualify as ACR acreage in accordance with ยง1413.63 or as a conserving or conservation use. Grain sorghum means grain sorghum of a feed grain or dual purpose variety (including any cross which, at all stages of growth, has most of the characteristics of a feed grain or dual purpose variety). Sweet sorghum is excluded regardless of use. High residue program crop (HRC) means a crop of barley, corn, grain sorghum, oats, and wheat that is not harvested for silage. Industrial and other crops (IOC's) are: castor beans, chia, crambe, crotalaria, cuphea, guar, guayule, hesperaloe, kenaf, lesquerella, meadowfoam, milkweed, plantago ovato, and sesame, or other crops as designated by the Secretary. Individual State ASC Committees may remove individual crops of IOC's from the list permitted in such State. Landlord means an individual, entity, or joint operation that rents or leases land to another individual, entity, or joint operation according to 7 CFR part 719. Low residue crop (LRC) means a crop of barley, corn, grain sorghum, oats, or wheat that has been harvested for silage, and cotton. A crop of soybeans is considered a low residue crop. Marketing year means the 12-month period beginning in the current year and ending the next year as follows: (1) For barley, oats, and wheat, June 1 through May 31. (2) For cotton and rice, August 1 through July 31. (3) For corn and grain sorghum, September 1 through August 31. Maximum payment acres for wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, and rice means 85 percent of the crop acreage base for the crop for the farm less the required ACR. Minor means an individual who is not at least 18 years of age on or before the status date, as established by part 1497 of this title, of the current calendar year. Minor oilseeds means acreages of sunflowers, safflowers, mustard seed, flaxseed, rapeseed, and canola that are planted for harvest as seed, or volunteer acreages of such crops from which the seed is harvested. Nonprogram crop means any crop other than a program crop, ELS cotton, oilseed, or IOC as determined in accordance with this section. Nonrotation means the planted and considered planted acreage of a crop that is generally consistent in every year on a farm. Operator means an individual, entity, or joint operation that is in general control of the farming operations on the farm during the program year, as determined in accordance with 7 CFR part 719.
