FR940912-2-00078 FR940912-2-00056 VI It is further ordered that: A. Within sixty (60) days after the date this order becomes final and every sixty (60) days thereafter until the Respondents have fully complied with Paragraphs II and III of this order, Roche shall submit to the Commission a verified written report setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it intends to comply, is complying, and has complied with Paragraphs II, III, and IV of this order. Roche shall include in its compliance reports, among other things that are required from time to time, a full description of the efforts being made to comply with Paragraphs II, III, and IV of this order, including a description of all substantive contacts or negotiations for the divestiture required by this order, including the identity of all parties contacted. Roche shall include in its compliance reports copies of all written communications to and from such parties, all internal memoranda, and all reports and recommendations concerning the divestiture. B. One (1) year from the date this order becomes final, annually for the next nine (9) years on the anniversary of the date this order becomes final, and at such other times as the Commission may require, Roche shall file a verified written report with the Commission setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it has complied and is complying with Paragraph V of this order. VII It is further ordered that, for the purpose of determining or securing compliance with this order, Respondents shall permit any duly authorized representatives of the Commission: A. Access, during office hours and in the presence of counsel, to inspect and copy all books, ledgers, accounts, correspondence, memoranda and other records and documents in the possession or under the control of Respondents, relating to any matters contained in this order; and B. Upon five (5) days' notice to Respondents, and without restraint or interference from Respondents, to interview officers, directors, or employees of Respondents. Officers and employees of Respondents whose place of employment is outside the United States shall be made available on reasonable notice. VIII It is further ordered that Roche shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any proposed change in the corporate Respondent such as dissolution, assignment, sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation, or the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries or any other change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising out of the order.
