FR941227-0-00024 FR941227-0-00005 (1) Background and need for the project. Explain the circumstances which necessitate a Small Farmer Outreach Training and Technical Assistance Project within the State to serve small farmers, especially members of socially disadvantaged groups. (2) Objectives and goals proposed to meet the objectives. Clearly state the objectives of the project, which should be in line with the objectives of the program stated in ยง1943.102 of this subpart, and explain the goals proposed to meet the objectives. (3) Statement of Work, including staffing. Describe the plan of action for meeting the objective of the Small Farmer Outreach Training and Technical Assistance Program and the necessary staffing. (4) Proposed budget . (i) Submit a proposed budget for each of the 5 years, showing line-by-line cost items for the proposed project. Include any in-kind contributions to be provided. (ii) Show all funding sources and itemize costs by the following line items: personnel costs, equipment, material and supplies, travel, and all other costs. (iii) Salaries of project personnel who will be working on the project may be requested in proportion to the effort that they will devote to the project. (iv) Funds may be requested under any of the line items listed above provided that the item or source for which support is requested is identified as necessary for successful conduct of the project, is allowable under the authorizing legislation and applicable Federal cost principles, and is not prohibited under any applicable Federal statute. (5) Identification of personnel. Incorporate into the proposal the resumes of all anticipated personnel, including the Project Director. Also discuss the experience, qualifications, and availability of all personnel, including the Project Director, to direct and carry out the project. (c) The State Office will review the proposal and forward the proposal to the National Office Project Manager, within 15 days of receipt, with the State Office's recommendations. (d) The National Office will make a preliminary review of the proposal and reserves the right to return it to the State Office with any questions or comments to be clarified by the 1890 or other eligible educational institution or community-based organization. A time period for resubmission will be specified. (e) All proposals from entities eligible for funding under ยง1943.105 of this subpart shall be evaluated for funding consideration. To assist in the evaluation and obtain the best possible balance of viewpoints for funding consideration, a proposal review panel will be used. The proposal review panel will be selected and organized to provide maximum expertise and objective judgment in the evaluation of proposals. The proposal review panel will use Form FmHA 1943&hyph;2, ``EVALUATION_Small Farmer Outreach Training and Technical Assistance Program,'' to evaluate each proposal. The proposal review panel will evaluate each proposal against the five criteria using the following scale: Highly Responsive (5); Fully Responsive (3); Marginally Responsive (1); and Not Responsive (0). The criteria used by the proposal review panel and the criteria weights are: (1) Feasibility and Policy Consistency (3.5). Degree to which the proposal clearly describes its objective and evidences a high level of feasibility and consistency with United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) policy and CFSA mission. (2) Institutional Commitment (3.5). Degree to which the institution or organization is committed to the project, as shown by funds, in-kind services, or historical success in meeting the objectives of the program. (3) Number of Counties and Farmers Served (3.5). Degree to which the proposal reflects collaborative approaches in meeting with other agencies or organizations to enhance the objectives of the program. Also, the areas and number of farmers who would benefit from the services offered. (4) Socially Disadvantaged Applicants_Outreach (3.5). Degree to which the proposal contains efforts to reach persons identified as socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers in designated counties. (5) Preparatory Features_Statement of Work (6.0). Degree to which the proposal reflects special innovative features to attract, interest, and improve the economical and social conditions of socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers.
