FR941110-0-00257 FR941110-0-00016 (3) Except when the facility is in substantial compliance, HCFA or the State may apply one or more of the remedies in Category 2 to any deficiency. (e) Category 3. (1) Category 3 remedies include the following: (i) Temporary management. (ii) Immediate termination. (iii) Civil money penalties of $3,050&hyph;$10,000 per day. (2) When there are one or more deficiencies that constitute immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety_ (i) HCFA does and the State must do one or both of the following: (A) Impose temporary management; or (B) Terminate the provider agreement; (ii) HCFA and the State may impose a civil money penalty of $3,050&hyph;$10,000 per day, in addition to imposing the remedies specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section. (3) When there are widespread deficiencies that constitute actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy, HCFA and the State may impose temporary management, in addition to Category 2 remedies. (f) Plan of correction. (1) Except as specified in paragraph (F)(2) of this section, each facility that has a deficiency with regard to a requirement for long term care facilities must submit a plan of correction for approval by HCFA or the State, regardless of_ (i) Which remedies are imposed; or (ii) The seriousness of the deficiencies. (2) When there are only isolated deficiencies that HCFA or the State determines constitute no actual harm with a potential for minimal harm, the facility need not submit a plan of correction. (g) Appeal of a certification of noncompliance. (1) A facility may appeal a certification of noncompliance leading to an enforcement remedy. (2) A facility may not appeal the choice of remedy, including the factors considered by HCFA or the State in selecting the remedy, specified in ยง488.404. ยง488.410 Action when there is immediate jeopardy. (a) If there is immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety, the State must (and HCFA does) either terminate the provider agreement within 23 calendar days of the last date of the survey or appoint a temporary manager to remove the immediate jeopardy. The rules for appointment of a temporary manager in an immediate jeopardy situation are as follows: (1) HCFA does and the State must notify the facility that a temporary manager is being appointed. (2) If the facility fails to relinquish control to the temporary manager, HCFA does and the State must terminate the provider agreement within 23 calendar days of the last day of the survey, if the immediate jeopardy is not removed. In these cases, State monitoring may be imposed pending termination. (3) If the facility relinquishes control to the temporary manager, the State must (and HCFA does) notify the facility that, unless it removes the immediate jeopardy, its provider agreement will be terminated within 23 calendar days of the last day of the survey. (4) HCFA does and the State must terminate the provider agreement within 23 calendar days of the last day of survey if the immediate jeopardy has not been removed. (b) HCFA or the State may also impose other remedies, as appropriate. (c)(1) In a NF or dually participating facility, if either HCFA or the State finds that a facility's noncompliance poses immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety, HCFA or the State must notify the other of such a finding. (2) HCFA will or the State must_
