FR940110-1-00110 FR940110-1-00008 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Chapter I [Docket No. 27581, Notice No. 94&hyph;1] Regulatory Review AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Request for comments. SUMMARY: This notice requests that the public identify regulations that it believes should be amended or eliminated to reduce undue regulatory burdens, if any, consistent with the FAA's statutory safety, security, and other public interest responsibilities. This notice asks each commenter to identify, in order of priority, those regulations that are believed to be unwarranted or inappropriate. In order to focus agency consideration, each commenter is asked to concentrate on no more than three regulations he or she believes to be of primary concern. The agency asks further that each commenter provide a brief explanation of: (1) The bases for the three highest priority recommendations to amend or eliminate the regulations; (2) the ways in which each regulation's objective is otherwise fulfilled ( e.g., by duplicative regulations or by technological advances that render the regulations obsolete); and (3) where appropriate, a suggested substitute or amended version of the regulations identified. This information will help the FAA to respond to the Administration's direction to design regulations in the most effective manner to achieve their regulatory objective. DATES: Comments should be submitted on or before March 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed, in triplicate, to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;200), Docket No. 27581, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591. Comments delivered must be marked Docket No. 27581. Comments may be examined in room 915G weekdays between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m., except on Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Chris Christie, Director, Office of Rulemaking, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591; telephone (202) 267&hyph;9677. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: With this Notice, the FAA is undertaking an evaluation aimed at eliminating or amending existing rules and regulations that may not be necessary to achieve the agency's safety, security, and other public interest responsibilities. This effort initiates a response to the recommendations of the 15-member National Commission to Ensure a Strong Competitive Airline Industry, the recommendations of the Vice President's National Performance Review, and DOT and FAA regulatory initiatives. In April 1993, the National Commission to Ensure a Strong Competitive Airline Industry (Commission) was established by Public Law No. 103&hyph;13. The Commission was asked to investigate, study and make policy recommendations regarding the financial vitality and future competitiveness of the U.S. airline and aerospace industries. In August 1993, the Commission issued a report to the President and Congress that addressed, among other things, the legal and administrative policies that govern the regulatory responsibilities imposed on United States airlines. The Commission found that Federal regulations impose a cumulative burden on airlines. While the FAA has not quantified that burden, the Commission estimated that existing rules have added to airline costs and concluded that the costs of these rules have a direct impact on the airlines' financial condition. To enhance the FAA's ability to perform its statutory role without undue economic impact on the aviation industry, the Commission recommends that the ``FAA/DOT undertake a short-range regulatory review_in close consultation with industry and other interested parties_to eliminate or amend existing regulations to reduce regulatory burdens consistent with safety and security considerations.'' In addition, Executive Order 12866 requires that agencies ``identify regulations that are cumulative, obsolete, or inconsistent, and where appropriate, eliminate or modify them.'' In light of these concerns, and consistent with the Administration's Civil Aviation Initiative, this notice solicits public comment that will assist the FAA in focusing attention on areas where the public believes the regulatory burden is excessive and unjustified. In particular, the agency requests that each commenter identify the most significant regulations that the commenter believes may no longer be necessary, are unduly burdensome, or impose excessive costs or red tape. In some cases, for example, important innovations, technologies, or new market opportunities may have taken place or may have been created since a rule was promulgated, potentially rendering a rule obsolete. The FAA requests commenters to focus their recommendations on up to three regulations they believe to be of primary concern_rather than catalogue all rules that they may view to be objectionable in some respect. This will facilitate development of a manageable overall proposal. Further, each commenter should rank in priority order the regulations that the commenter believes the agency should address first. In addition, each submission should include an explanation of: (1) How the identified regulatory requirement is burdensome; (2) how the requirement should be changed or deleted, including, where possible, suggested draft substitutes; (3) how a regulatory change would benefit the public; and (4) how a proposed regulatory change would provide an adequate level of safety, security, or environmental protection. Specific economic information to support a reliable cost/benefit analysis of the proposed change will also be of assistance. Comments in response to this notice are also expected to facilitate the FAA's regulatory review envisioned by Executive Order No. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review,'' issued September 30, 1993. This executive order requires each agency to create a program under which it will periodically review its existing significant regulations to determine whether any should be modified or eliminated to make the agency's regulatory program more effective and less burdensome. The comments provided in response to this notice will assist the agency in establishing its priorities for future regulatory changes, including repeal or modification of rules where appropriate, to maintain safety and security while reducing regulatory burdens. Issued in Washington, DC, on January 5, 1994. David R. Hinson, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;544 Filed 1&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
