FR940426-1-00071 FR940426-1-00007 (a) In determining whether exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member, the commander at the level designated by the Service concerned shall consider the definition of ``exigencies of military duty'' contained in this part, the evidence provided by the member, any other reasonably available evidence (e.g., a copy of the member's personnel record), and whether the military duties in question were of such paramount importance that they precluded making the member available to attend the judicial proceedings, or rendered the member unable to timely respond to process, motions, pleadings, or orders of the court. (b) The evidentiary standard for a commander to determine whether exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member from an appearance in the judicial proceeding upon which the Involuntary Allotment Application is sought is ``a preponderance of the evidence''. (6) Provide the member a copy of the completed DD Form bb within five days of mailing to the designated DFAS official. d. Upon receipt of DD Form bb, ``Involuntary Allotment Notice and Processing,'' and any additional evidence submitted by the member, the designated DFAS official will conduct a review of the entire application package, DD Form bb, ``Involuntary Allotment Notice and Processing,'' and any evidence submitted by the member, to determine whether the application for an involuntary allotment will be approved and established. (1) In those cases where the commander of the member has completed Part III of DD Form bb, and determined that exigencies of military duty caused the absence of the member from an appearance in a judicial proceeding upon which the involuntary allotment application is sought, the designated DFAS official shall deny the involuntary allotment application. The designated DFAS official will provide the applicant written notice of the denial and the reason therefor. Additionally, the designated DFAS official shall advise the applicant that the responsibility for determining whether exigencies of military duty existed belonged to the member's commander, that the commander's decision is final, that DFAS has no authority to change the commander's decision regarding exigencies of military duty, and that any correspondence concerning this issue should be addressed to the Service concerned. (2) In all cases other than as described in paragraph B.2.d(1) of this section, the designated DFAS official shall deny an involuntary allotment application, and give written notice to the applicant of the reason(s) for denial, if the designated DFAS official determines that: (a) The member's rights under the SSCRA were not complied with during the judicial proceeding upon which the involuntary allotment application is sought. (b) The pay of a similarly situated civilian employee is not subject to garnishment under applicable State law and Public Law 103&hyph;94, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. (c) Information contained in the application is false or erroneous in material part. (d) The judgment has been fully satisfied, or has been superseded or set aside. (e) The judgment has been materially amended, or partially satisfied. In such a case, the request for involuntary allotment may be approved only to satisfy that portion of the judgment that remains in effect and unsatisfied; the remainder of the request shall be denied. (f) There is a legal impediment to the establishment of the involuntary allotment (for example, the judgment debt has been discharged in bankruptcy, or the judgment debtor has filed for protection from the creditors under the bankruptcy laws of the United States, or the applicant is not the judgment creditor nor a proper successor in interest to that creditor). (g) Either now or at the time the debt was incurred that forms the basis for the court judgment, the applicant (and the judgment creditor, if different from the applicant) was (were) in an ``off-limits'' status, or had been determined to be practicing unfair consumer or commercial practices detrimental to the morale and welfare of services members, pursuant to applicable directives of the military services, to include the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board and Off-Installation Liaison and Operations regulation. (h) Either now or at the time the debt was incurred that forms the basis for the court judgment, the applicant (and the judgment creditor, if different from the applicant) was (were) acting in a manner that violated the Standards of Fairness promulgated as Appendix A to this part. (i) A separate involuntary allotment (pursuant to Public Law 103&hyph;94 and this part) already exists against the member's disposable pay. (j) Because of spousal and child support garnishments or statutory allotments, the member has insufficient funds from which to pay the requested involuntary allotment without violating the applicable maximum percentage prescribed in 15 U.S.C. 1673. (k) The applicant has abused the processing privilege (e.g., an applicant, having been notified of the requirements of this part, repeatedly refuses or fails to comply therewith). (l) Or other appropriate reasons which must be clearly explained to the applicant. (3) In all cases other than as described in paragraphs B.2.d.(1) and (2) of this section, the designated DFAS official shall approve the involuntary allotment application and establish an involuntary allotment against the disposable pay of the member. e. The designated DFAS official shall, at any time after establishing an involuntary allotment, cancel or suspend such allotment and notify the applicant of that cancellation if a member submits legally sufficient proof, by affidavit or otherwise, that the allotment should not continue because of the existence of the factors enumerated in paragraph B.2.d(2) of this section. 3. Payments
