FR940413-0-00092 FR940413-0-00026 (4) Criteria for approval of updated plan. (i) HUD shall approve an updated allocation plan based on HUD's review and assessment of the updated plan, using the criteria in (d) of this section. If HUD considers it appropriate, the review and assessment shall include any on-site review and monitoring of PHA performance in the administration of its designated housing and in the allocation of the PHA's housing resources. Notification of approval or disapproval of the updated allocation plan shall be provided in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section; (ii) If a PHA's updated plan is not approved, HUD may require PHAs to change the designation of existing or planned projects to other categories, such as general occupancy or mixed population projects. (5) Notification of approval or disapproval of updated plan. HUD shall notify each PHA submitting an updated plan of approval or disapproval of the updated plan, in accordance with the form of notification and within the time periods required by paragraph (e) of this section. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577&hyph;0192.) ยง945.205 Designated housing for disabled families. (a) General. (1) In general, HUD will approve designated projects for disabled families only if there is a clear demonstration that there is both a need and a demand by disabled families for such designation. In the absence of such demonstrated need and demand, PHAs should provide for the housing needs of disabled families in the most integrated setting possible. (2) To designate a project for disabled families, a PHA must submit the allocation plan required by ยง945.203 and the supportive service plan described in paragraph (b) of this section. (3) In its allocation plan, (i) The PHA may not designate a project for persons with a specific disability; (ii) The designated project does not have to be made up of contiguous units. PHAs are encouraged to place the units in the project, whether contiguous or not, in the most integrated setting possible. (4) The consultation process for the allocation plan provided in ยง945.203(b) and consultation process for the supportive service plan provided in this section may occur concurrently. (5) If the PHA conducts surveys to determine the need or demand for a designated project for disabled families or for supportive services in such project, the PHA must protect the confidentiality of the survey responses. (b) Supportive Service Plan. The plan shall describe how the PHA will provide or arrange for the provision of the appropriate supportive services requested by the disabled families who will occupy the designated housing and who have expressed a need for these services. (1) Contents of plan. The supportive service plan, at a minimum, must: (i) Identify the number of disabled families who need the supportive services and who have expressed an interest in receiving them; (ii) Describe the types of supportive services that will be provided, and, if known, the length of time the supportive services will be available; (iii) Identify each service provider to be utilized, and describe the experience of the service provider in delivering supportive services; (iv) Describe how the supportive services will be provided to the disabled families that the designated housing is expected to serve (how the services will be provided depends upon the type of service offered; e.g., if the package includes transportation assistance, how transportation assistance will be provided to disabled families); (v) Identify all sources of funding upon which the PHA is relying to deliver supportive services to residents of the designated housing for disabled families, or the supportive service resources to be provided in lieu of funding; (vi) Submit evidence of a specific contractual commitment or commitments provided to the PHA by the sources identified in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section to make funds available for supportive services, or the delivery of supportive services available to the PHA for at least two calendar years; (vii) Identify any public and private service providers, advocates for the interests of designated housing families, and other interested parties with whom the PHA consulted in the development of this supportive service plan, and summarize the comments and recommendations made by these parties. (These comments must be maintained for a period of five years, and be available for review by HUD as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section.); (viii) If applicable, address the need for residential supervision of disabled families (on-site supervision within the designated housing) and how this supervision is to be provided; (ix) Include any other information that the PHA determines would assist HUD in assessing the suitability of the PHA's supportive service plan; and (x) Include any additional information that HUD may request, and which is appropriate to a determination of the suitability of the supportive service plan. (2) Public review and comment on the supportive service plan. In preparing the initial supportive service plan, or any update of the supportive service plan, the PHA shall: (i) Issue public notices regarding its intention to provide supportive services to designated housing for disabled families and the availability of the draft supportive service plan; (ii) Send notices directly to interested individuals and agencies that have contacted the PHA and have expressed an interest in the supportive service plan, and to parties specified in paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section;
