FR941003-1-00018 FR941003-1-00002 (b) Extension. Where the inmate demonstrates a valid reason for delay, an extension in filing time may be allowed. In general, valid reason for delay means a situation which prevented the inmate from submitting the request within the established time frame. Valid reasons for delay include the following: an extended period in-transit during which the inmate was separated from documents needed to prepare the Request or Appeal; an extended period of time during which the inmate was physically incapable of preparing a Request or Appeal; an unusually long period taken for informal resolution attempts; indication by an inmate, verified by staff, that a response to the inmate's request for copies of dispositions requested under §542.19 of this part has not been received. (c) Form . (1) The inmate shall obtain the appropriate form from CCC staff or institution staff (ordinarily, the correctional counselor). (2) The inmate shall place a single complaint or a reasonable number of closely related issues on the form. If the inmate includes on a single form multiple unrelated issues, the submission shall be rejected and returned without response, and the inmate shall be advised to use a separate form for each unrelated issue. For DHO and UDC appeals, each separate incident report number must be appealed on a separate form. (3) The inmate shall complete the form with all requested identifying information and shall state the complaint in the space provided on the form. If more space is needed, the inmate may use up to one letter-size (8 1/2 ’ ’ by 11 ’ ’) continuation page. The inmate must provide an additional three copies of any continuation page. The inmate must submit one copy of supporting exhibits. Exhibits will not be returned with the response. Because copies of exhibits must be filed for any appeal (see §542.15(b)(3)), the inmate is encouraged to retain a copy of all exhibits for his or her personal records. (4) The inmate shall date and sign the Request and submit it to the institution staff member designated to receive such Requests (ordinarily a correctional counselor). CCC inmates may mail their Requests to the CCM. (d) Exceptions to initial filing at institution_(1) Sensitive issues . If the inmate reasonably believes the issue is sensitive and the inmate's safety or well-being would be placed in danger if the Request became known at the institution, the inmate may submit the Request directly to the appropriate Regional Director. The inmate shall clearly mark ``Sensitive'' upon the Request and explain, in writing, the reason for not submitting the Request at the institution. If the Regional Administrative Remedy Coordinator agrees that the Request is sensitive, the Request shall be accepted. Otherwise, the Request will not be accepted, and the inmate shall be advised in writing of that determination, without a return of the Request. The inmate may pursue the matter by submitting an Administrative Remedy Request locally to the Warden. The Warden shall allow a reasonable extension of time for such a resubmission. (2) DHO appeals. DHO appeals shall be submitted initially to the Regional Director for the region where the inmate is currently located. (3) Control unit appeals. Appeals related to Executive Panel Reviews of Control Unit placement shall be submitted directly to the General Counsel. (4) Controlled housing status appeals. Appeals related to the Regional Director's review of controlled housing status placement may be filed directly with the General Counsel. §542.15 Appeals. (a) Submission. An inmate who is not satisfied with the Warden's response may submit an Appeal on the appropriate form (BP&hyph;10) to the appropriate Regional Director within 20 calendar days of the date the Warden signed the response. An inmate who is not satisfied with the Regional Director's response may submit an Appeal on the appropriate form (BP&hyph;11) to the General Counsel within 30 calendar days of the date the Regional Director signed the response. When the inmate demonstrates a valid reason for delay, these time limits may be extended. Valid reasons for delay include those situations described in §542.14(b) of this part. Appeal to the General Counsel is the final administrative appeal.
