FR940127-2-00080 FR940127-2-00058 ADMINISTRATION . Although the amended section is not part of Chapter 2 of Title II of the Trade Act, it does have a significant impact on the payment of benefits to NAFTA&hyph;TAA certified workers after the September 30, 1998 expiration date of the TAA program or an earlier expiration date prescribed in any new law. While it is important to be aware of this provision, the Department of Labor will provide precise closeout information to States in advance of the statutory expiration date, or if the expiration date is impacted by a law change. D. EFFECTIVE DATES D.1. General. AMENDED LAW . Subsection (a) of section 506 of the Act provides that sections 501, 502, 503, 504, and 505 shall take effect on the date the Agreement enters into force with respect to the United States. ADMINISTRATION . It is expected that NAFTA will enter into force on January 1, 1994. D.2. Covered Workers; In General . AMENDED LAW . Subsection (b)(1), of section 506 of the Act states that, except as provided in paragraph (2) of section 506, no worker shall be certified as eligible to receive assistance under subchapter D of chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act (as added by this subtitle) whose last total or partial separation from a firm (or appropriate subdivision of a firm) occurred before such date of entry into force. ADMINISTRATION . With the exception of the reachback provision, which is discussed in the next section, no worker is to be certified as eligible to receive assistance under NAFTA&hyph;TAA whose last separation under a certification occurred before the NAFTA date of entry into force. D.3. Covered Workers; Reachback. AMENDED LAW . Subsection (b)(2), of section 506 of the new law provides that notwithstanding paragraph (1), any worker_ (A) whose last total or partial separation from a firm (or appropriate subdivision of a firm) occurs_ (i) after the date of the enactment of this Act, and (ii) before such date of entry into force, and (B) who would otherwise be eligible to receive assistance under subchapter D of chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974, shall be eligible to receive such assistance in the same manner as if such separation occurred on or after such date of entry into force. ADMINISTRATION . In determining the eligibility of workers for benefits under NAFTA&hyph;TAA, consideration must be given to the date a worker is separated from employment. A worker whose last total or partial separation from a firm occurred after the enactment of Pub. L. 103&hyph;182 on December 8, 1993, but before the date of entry into force of NAFTA (which is anticipated to be on January 1, 1994), may be eligible for certification under the ``reachback'' provision in section 506(b)(2) of the Act. Workers whose total or partial separation occurred at an earlier time must petition under the regular TAA program to be eligible for TAA services and benefits. The regular TAA program allows workers laid off up to one year prior to the date of the petition on which a certification of eligibility is issued to qualify for services and benefits. It is important for State agency staff members to be familiar with the reachback provisions of both the NAFTA&hyph;TAA and regular TAA programs so that they can properly advise workers regarding which program may be applicable to their situation. 5. Action Required . States are required to implement the provisions of the NAFTA Amendments as set forth in this document as of the date of NAFTA entry into force which is expected to be on January 1, 1994. States are advised to inform all appropriate staff of the contents of this document. 6. Inquiries . States are to direct all inquiries to the appropriate ETA Regional Office. 7. Attachment . Title V_NAFTA Transitional Adjustment Assistance and Other Provisions. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1599 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
