FR940804-0-00110 FR940804-0-00024 For the foregoing and other reasons, the Department believes that this regulation effectively preempts state ethical rules regarding contacts with represented persons. 3. The Department's Authority to Supersede Federal District Court Rules. Most federal district courts have adopted as local federal district court rules one of the two sets of ABA rules or a similar anti-contact rule of the state in which the district court sits. See Rand v. Monsanto Co. , 926 F.2d 596, 601&hyph;603 (7th Cir. 1991). Such adoption gives the state rules the force of federal law. See United States v. Hvass, 355 U.S. 570, 575 (1958). One individual and two organizations commented that this regulation, if promulgated, would abrogate the primary authority of federal courts to regulate the conduct of attorneys arising out of federal law enforcement proceedings. The Department views this concern as significant but essentially theoretical, because the regulation has been crafted so that it will not operate in a way that puts it into conflict with local district court rules. However, in response to these comments, it should be noted that through this regulation the Department does intend not only to preempt the application by state courts of state rules relating to contacts by attorneys for the government, but also to supersede the application by federal courts of the local federal district court rules relating to contacts by government attorneys in civil and criminal law enforcement investigations and proceedings. See §77.12 and accompanying commentary. There are two reasons why the promulgation and operation of this regulation is unlikely to present the issue of abrogation of federal court authority identified by these commenters. The first is that the regulation adopts the line of analysis adopted by the great weight of authority interpreting local district court rules governing contacts with represented persons. See United States v. Ryans, 903 F.2d 731, 739 (10th Cir.) (discussing cases), cert. denied , 498 U.S. 855 (1990). The Department has not sought in this regulation to validate conduct that would otherwise be invalid under most local district court rules. In addition, nearly all district courts that have adopted local rules governing contacts with represented persons have incorporated the ``authorized by law'' exception in the Model Rules or in the corresponding state rule. See generally Rand, 926 F.2d at 601&hyph;603. As explained above, this regulation constitutes ``law'' within the meaning of any such exception. Thus, the conduct this regulation authorizes is for that reason equally authorized by these local district court rules. Thus, this regulation in practice should not present any tension between the federal executive and judicial powers. In response to the commenters' suggestion that any tension would have to be resolved in favor of the judicial power, however, the Department disagrees. Were the issue to arise, it would be properly considered, as an initial matter, as a question of the proper exercise of delegated legislative authority. Congress, not the courts, has the primary power to prescribe rules for the federal courts. See Palermo v. United States, 360 U.S. 343, 353 n. 11 (1959); Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., 312 U.S. 1, 9&hyph;10 (1941). See generally Hanna v. Plumer, 380 U.S. 460, 472&hyph;73 (1965). In the case of this regulation, Congress has delegated that authority by statute to the Attorney General. This regulation therefore has no less legal force than, for example, the Federal Rules, which derive their ultimate authority from legislation. See 28 U.S.C. §§2071 et seq. Local district court rules, even those dealing with attorney discipline, may not displace legislatively-authorized national rules of procedure. Rand, 926 F.2d at 600 (Rules of Civil Procedure). Accord, Baylson v. Disciplinary Bd. of Supreme Court of Pa., 975 F.2d 102, 107 (3d Cir. 1992) (Rules of Criminal Procedure). A local rule inconsistent with a regulation lawfully issued under statutory authority is, as a matter of law, inconsistent with the underlying statute, and must yield to Congress's paramount authority as delegated to the department or agency issuing the regulation. Thus, the conclusion that the Attorney General has the statutory authority to promulgate the proposed regulation entails the further conclusion that the regulation displaces inconsistent local federal court rules. Furthermore, the regulation has been carefully drawn in such a way so that once a person has been brought before a court, in general no substantive communication can occur without the consent of counsel unless: the court finds a knowing, intelligent, and voluntary waiver; the communication is made pursuant to court-approved discovery procedures; or the communication concerns a criminal or civil offense different from the offense before the court. The regulation thus accords substantial and appropriate deference to the court's supervisory authority over the parties and proceedings before it. Moreover, this regulation does not purport to disturb the authority of federal courts to fashion appropriate remedies when an ex parte contact violates the Constitution. See §77.11(b) and accompanying commentary. Therefore, federal courts will retain significant powers under the Constitution to respond to or sanction improper ex parte contacts by government attorneys with represented parties. The balance of the regulation regulates contacts with persons who are not before the court, and as to whom the supervisory authority of a federal court is, at best, attenuated. See, e.g., United States v. Payner, 447 U.S. 727, 735 n. 7 (1980) (``The supervisory power merely permits federal courts to supervise the administration of criminal justice among the parties before the bar.''); United States v. Williams, 112 S. Ct. 1735, 1742 (1992) (federal court has no ``supervisory'' judicial authority to prescribe standards of prosecutorial conduct before the grand jury in the first instance). It would raise significant separation of powers concerns for a district court to assert supervisory authority to regulate and sanction the conduct of executive branch attorneys when the Attorney General has adjudged such conduct legitimate and necessary for law enforcement purposes, when that judgment has been embodied in a duly promulgated regulation, and when the conduct concerns persons who have not yet come before the court.
