FR940727-1-00026 FR940727-1-00013 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 13 [PR Docket No. 94&hyph;58; FCC 94&hyph;169] Temporary Operating Authority for Commercial Radio Operator Applicants AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Proposed rules. SUMMARY: This action proposes to authorize persons who have passed the required examinations and applied for commercial radio operator licenses to perform the functions of a commercial radio operator on a temporary and conditional basis while awaiting their licenses. The proposed rules are necessary so that persons who need their licenses immediately as a condition of employment can begin work. DATES: Comments are due on or before September 1, 1994. Reply comments are due on or before October 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20554. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William T. Cross, Federal Communications Commission, Private Radio Bureau, Washington, D.C. 20544, (202) 632&hyph;4964. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a summary of the Commission's Notice of Proposed Rule Making, adopted June 13, 1994, and released July 6, 1994. The complete text of this Commission action, including the proposed rule amendments, is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Reference Center (Room 230), 1919 M Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. The complete text of this Notice of Proposed Rule Making, including the proposed rule amendments, may also be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Services, Inc., (ITS, Inc), 2100 M Street N.W., Suite 140, Washington, D.C. 20037. Summary of Notice of Proposed Rule Making 1. A commercial radio operator license is required to be held by a person who operates stations in a number of radio services. To qualify for certain of these licenses, an applicant must pass an examination(s) that is administered by one of the nine Commission-certified Commercial Operator License Examination (COLE) Managers. Within 10 days of completion of an examination element(s), the COLE Manager must issued a Proof-of-Passing Certificate (PPC) to an examinee who scores a passing grade on an examination element. When the examinee is credited for all examination elements required for the commercial operator license sought, the examinee applies to the Commission for the license. The Commission then processes the application and, if the applicant is fully qualified, grants the license. Total processing time may be as much as eight weeks. 2. We are dedicated to providing better and friendlier service to our customers. One significant way we can further this goal is by permitting applicants who have passed the qualifying examinations and applied for a commercial radio operator license to perform the functions of a commercial radio operator prior to receiving the Commission license. This would be a significant benefit to persons who must have the license as a condition of employment by allowing them to start work immediately. Providing for such temporary conditional operating authority would product a secondary benefit by likely applicants receiving their Commission-issued licenses sooner because there would be a reduction in the number of inquiries to the processing staff regarding the status of pending applications. Answering such inquires diverts resources from the primary task of processing license applications. 3. We propose to amend §§13.9 and 13.13 of the Commission's Rules to provide temporary conditional operating authority to successful examinee upon properly filing an application with the Commission. This proposed temporary operating authority, however, would not apply to any person who has previously had a commercial radio operator license revoked, suspended, or is the subject of an ongoing suspension proceeding. In addition, the proposed rules provide that the Commission, in its discretion, may cancel the temporary conditional operating authority without a hearing, if the need for such action arises. 4. For purposes of making log entries, the Commission proposed that a commercial radio operator exercising temporary conditional operating authority would enter the PPC serial number and date of issue in place of the FCC-issued license serial number and expiration date. Possession of the PPC document would activate the operating authority of proposed §13.9(d) and §13.13(d) and would thereby serve in the stead of the license temporarily and conditionally. This procedure would be verifiable and simple to implement.
