FR940325-1-00030 FR940325-1-00007 (3) Is signed for by the cardholder or, for children, a responsible adult, indicating their reason for boarding the vessel; and (4) Is strictly accounted for, by number. (d) Each operator shall establish a procedure for identifying each passenger each time the passenger boards the vessel. The procedure must require an identification document containing a photograph of the holder to identify each passenger over the age of 10 and shall compare the name of the person so identified against the official passenger list of the vessel. The identification document may be one provided by the passenger such as a driver's license, passport, or armed forces identification card, or one provided by the operator. The operator shall issue an identification document containing a photograph of the holder to any passenger over the age of 10 not possessing such a document. Passengers presenting an identification document containing a photograph of the holder issued by the operator that is unique to the voyage need not be verified against the official passenger list of the vessel. ยง120.360 Screening. (a) Each personal article and each piece of baggage brought aboard a vessel to which this part applies and not stored in a restricted area must undergo a thorough check. The check may take the form of a manual search, an electronic screening, or equivalent means acceptable to the Commandant. (b) Each person boarding the vessel shall undergo a metal detector check. (c) The checks required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply to each boarding of the vessel. (d) When in a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, only the following persons may board the vessel until the U.S. Customs Service (``Customs'') declares the vessel ``cleared'': (1) Officials of Customs. (2) Officials of the Coast Guard. (3) Officials of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. (4) Officials of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. (5) Officials of the U.S. Public Health Service. (6) Port Authority Police. (7) The shoreside representative of the passenger vessel, designated by the operator of the vessel. (8) Repair and maintenance personnel cleared by Customs. (9) Other persons cleared by Customs. (e) When in a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, only the following persons may leave the vessel until Customs declares the vessel ``cleared'': (1) The pilot. (2) Members of the crew involved in docking. (3) Members of the crew cleared by Customs for early departure. (4) Passengers cleared by Customs for early departure. (f) One or more guards shall watch each gangway whenever it is accessible. (g) A written notice, legible in the assembly area shoreside of the screening station, must be posted to advise persons boarding the vessel that security checks are being conducted. The notice must be written in English except that, where a language other than English is widespread, it must be written in both English and the other language. (h) No persons refusing to submit to a security check at a point of access may enter the vessel. Each person denied entry for refusing to submit to a security check shall, if possible, be identified and reported to appropriate authorities. (i) Before being placed aboard the vessel_ (1) All cargo and stores, and all baggage destined for a restricted area, must undergo a brief inspection; and (2) A percentage of the cargo, stores, and baggage, specified by the Commandant, shall be selected at random and thoroughly checked by manual search, electronic screening, or equivalent means acceptable to the Commandant. (j) Each piece of baggage must be marked, labeled, tagged, or otherwise identified as belonging to a particular passenger and must be compared against the official passenger list of the vessel. No unidentified baggage may go aboard. Baggage identified as belonging to a passenger that does not sail with the vessel must be turned over to the vessel security officer for disposition. (k) All cargo and stores, and all baggage destined for a restricted area, must remain under supervision after inspection or thorough check until stowed.
