FR940628-0-00028 FR940628-0-00017 Discussion: It was the Secretary's intention in the Dear Colleague Letter that the lender would consider the applicant as being 90 days or more delinquent on the repayment of a debt only if the applicant was reported 90 days delinquent on the credit report being reviewed. The regulations are consistent with this approach. Changes: None. Comments: Commenters expressed concern that there was no timeframe in the NPRM indicating that the credit bureau report used in determining adverse credit history must be current and accurate and not outdated. Discussion: In an attempt to give the lender greater flexibility, the Secretary had not included a reference to a specific timeframe for the credit report in the regulations. However, in DCL 93&hyph;L&hyph;159 the Department stated that the credit report must be secured within a timeframe that would ensure the most accurate, current representation of the borrower's credit history before the first day of the period of enrollment for which the loan was intended. Changes: Since the language in the DCL reflects the Secretary's position on the timing of securing the credit report, that language has been added to the final regulations. Comments: One commenter indicated that the ``90 days or more delinquent on any debt'' requirement did not make any allowance for disputed debts with a credit bureau that is still investigating the dispute. This same commenter also found the term ``default determination'' too vague and undefined. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the lender's option of applying the extenuating circumstances criterion would permit the lender, based on its examination of supporting documentation presented by the borrower, to override a determination of adverse credit in the case of a legitimately disputed debt that was not resolved at the time of the credit report. The commenter correctly pointed out that while default has been defined for purposes of the FFEL Program, its definition could vary with regard to other debts. It is specifically for this reason that the Secretary has not attempted to define, for purposes of these regulations, the term non-Title IV debt. Changes: None. Section 682.201(c) Comments: Several commenters recommended that the Secretary amend this section to reflect the changes made to the Consolidation Loan Program by OBRA and 1993 Technical Amendments. The commenters specifically noted that OBRA deleted the requirement that the borrower must consolidate at least $7,500 in eligible student loans. The commenters also noted that the 1993 Technical Amendments modified the requirement that a defaulted borrower who has made satisfactory repayment arrangements may be eligible to borrow under the Consolidation Loan Program. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that these regulations should reflect the self-implementing statutory changes made to the Consolidation Loan Program. Changes: The regulations have been revised to incorporate the self-implementing statutory changes. Section 682.204␣Maximum Loan Amounts Comments: Many commenters recommended that the annual loan limits be revised to include changes made to the proration requirements by the 1993 Technical Amendments. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters that the regulations should reflect the new proration requirements. Changes: The regulations have been revised to incorporate the new loan proration requirements. The Secretary has also revised §682.603(f)(3) to reflect the formula to be used in certifying a Stafford or SLS loan amounts subject to proration. Comments: Some commenters recommended that the regulations should reflect the loan limits for the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Changes: Section 682.204 (c), (d) and (e) incorporates the loan limits for the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program. Section 682.207␣Due Diligence in Disbursing a Loan Section 682.207(b)(1)(v)(B)(1) Comments: Some commenters suggested that the regulations be revised to specifically allow for the delivery of a lump sum or master check from a lender to a school that can be placed in an account of the school, as with electronic funds transfer, and credited to an individual student's account.
