FR941212-0-00054 FR941212-0-00015 (5) Interests with rights of conversion to equity, including debt instruments, warrants, convertible debentures, and options, shall not be included in the determination of cognizable ownership interests unless and until conversion is affected. (6) Attribution of ownership interests in a video programmer that are held indirectly by any party, other than an investment company, through one or more intervening entities, will be determined by successive multiplication of the ownership percentages for each link in the vertical ownership chain, and application of the relevant benchmark to the resulting product, except that wherever the ownership percentage for any link in the chain exceeds 50%, it shall not be included for purposes of this multiplication. (For example, if A owns 10% of company X, which owns 60% of company Y, which owns 25% of a video programmer, then X's interest in the video programmer would be 25% (the same as Y's interest since X's interest in Y exceeds 50%), and A's interest in the video programmer would be 2.5% (0.1 × 0.25)). Under the 5% attribution benchmark, X's interest in video programmer would be cognizable, while A's interest would not be cognizable. Paragraph (e)(2) of this section governs stock ownership interests held by an investment company in a corporation. (f) Nothing in this section prohibits a telephone company from providing video programming directly to subscribers outside its telephone service area or from owning video programming that an unaffiliated video programmer directly provides to subscribers in the telephone company's service area. (g) As used in this section, the term ``video programmer'' shall mean any entity that provides video programming either directly or indirectly through an affiliate, directly to subscribers. Any entity shall be deemed to ``provide'' video programming if it determines how video programming is presented for sale to subscribers, including making decisions concerning the bundling or ``tiering,'' or the price, terms, or conditions on which video programming is offered to subscribers. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30241 Filed 12&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
