FR940114-0-00062 FR940114-0-00020 (2) Wind loads_zone designations. The Wind Zone and specific wind design load requirements are determined by the fastest basic wind speed (mph) within each Zone and the intended location, based on the Basic Wind Zone Map, as follows: (i) Wind Zone I. Wind Zone I consists of those areas on the Basic Wind Zone Map that are not identified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section as being within Wind Zone II or III, respectively. (ii) Wind Zone II .....100 mph. The following areas are deemed to be within Wind Zone II of the Basic Wind Zone Map: Local governments: The following local governments listed by State (counties, unless specified otherwise): Alabama: Baldwin and Mobile. Florida: All counties except those identified in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section as within Wind Zone III. Georgia: Bryan, Camden, Chatham, Glynn, Liberty, McIntosh. Louisiana: Parishes of Acadia, Allen, Ascension, Assumption, Calcasieu, Cameron, East Baton Rouge, East Feliciana, Evangeline, Iberia, Iberville, Jefferson, Jefferson Davis, LaFayette, La Fourche, Livingston, Orleans, Plaquemines, Pointe Coupee, St. Bernard, St. Charles, St. Helena, St. James, St. John the Baptist, St. Landry, St. Martin, St. Mary, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Terrabonne, Vermillion, Washington, West Baton Rouge, and West Feliciana. Maine: Hancock and Washington. Massachusetts: Barnstable, Bristol, Dukes, Nantucket, and Plymouth. Mississippi: George, Hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Pearl River, and Stone. North Carolina: Beaufort, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Currituck, Dare, Hyde, Jones, New Hanover, Onslow, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Tyrrell, and Washington. South Carolina: Beaufort, Berkeley, Charleston, Colleton, Dorchester, Georgetown, Horry, Jasper, and Williamsburg. Texas: Aransas, Brazoria, Calhoun, Cameron, Chambers, Galveston, Jefferson, Kenedy, Kleberg, Matagorda, Nueces, Orange, Refugio, San Patricio, and Willacy. Virginia: Cities of Chesapeake, Norfolk, Portsmouth, Princess Anne, and Virginia Beach. (iii) Wind Zone III .....110 mph. The following areas are considered to be within Wind Zone III of the Basic Wind Zone Map: (A) States and Territories: The entire State of Hawaii, the coastal regions of Alaska (as determined by the 90 mph isotach on the ANSI/ASCE 7&hyph;88 map), and all of the U.S. Territories of American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the United States Virgin Islands. (B) Local governments: The following local governments listed by State (counties, unless specified otherwise): Florida: Broward, Charlotte, Collier, Dade, Franklin, Gulf, Hendry, Lee, Martin, Manatee, Monroe, Palm Beach, Pinellas, and Sarasota. Louisiana: Parishes of Jefferson, La Fourche, Orleans, Plaquemines, St. Bernard, St. Charles, St. Mary, and Terrabonne. North Carolina: Carteret, Dare, and Hyde. (iv) Consideration of local requirements. For areas where local building code requirements exceed the design wind speed requirements of these standards, the Department will consider the adoption through rulemaking of the more stringent requirements of the State or local building authority. (3) Snow and roof loads. *␣*␣* (iii) Eaves and cornices shall be designed for a net uplift pressure of 2.5 times the design uplift wind pressure cited in §3280.305(c)(1)(i) for Wind Zone I, and for the design pressures cited in §3280.305(c)(1)(ii) for Wind Zones II and III. (4) Data plate requirements. The Data Plate posted in the manufactured home (see §3280.5) shall designate the wind and roof load zones or, if designed for higher loads, the actual design external snow and wind loads for which the home has been designed. The Data Plate shall include reproductions of the Load Zone Maps shown in this section, with any related information. The Load Zone Maps shall be not less than either 31/2 in. by 21/4 in., or one-half the size illustrated in the Code of Federal Regulations. BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSER14JA94.000 BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;C
