FR940927-2-00036 FR940927-2-00027 Office of the Secretary Health Care Financing Administration Administration for Children and Families [ORD&hyph;069&hyph;N] Medicaid Program; Demonstration Proposals Pursuant to Section 1115(a) of the Social Security Act; Policies and Procedures AGENCIES: Office of the Secretary, Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), and Administration for Children and Families (ACF), HHS. ACTION: Public Notice. SUMMARY: This public notice informs interested parties of (1) the principles the Department of Health and Human Services ordinarily will consider when deciding whether to exercise its discretion to approve or disapprove demonstration projects under the authority in Section 1115(a) of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. ยง1315(a); (2) the kinds of procedures the Department would expect States to employ in involving the public in the development of proposed demonstration projects under Section 1115; and (3) the procedures the Department ordinarily will follow in reviewing demonstration proposals. The principles and procedures described in this public notice are being provided for the information of interested parties, and are not legally binding on the Department of Health and Human Services. This notice does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or equity, by any person or entity, against the United States, its agencies or instrumentalities, the States, or any other person. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Howard Rolston, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, at (202) 401&hyph;9220. Thomas Kickham, Health Care Financing Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, at (410) 966&hyph;6503. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction Demonstration Proposals Pursuant to Section 1115 of the Social Security Act_General Policies and Procedures Under Section 1115, the Department of Health and Human Services is given latitude, subject to the requirements of the Social Security Act, to consider and approve research and demonstration proposals with a broad range of policy objectives. The Department desires to facilitate the testing of new policy approaches to social problems. Such demonstrations can provide valuable knowledge that will help lead to improvements in achieving the purposes of the Act. The Department also is committed to both a thorough and an expeditious review of State requests to conduct such demonstrations. In exercising her discretionary authority, the Secretary has developed a number of policies and procedures for reviewing proposals. In order to ensure a sound, expeditious and open decision-making process, the Department will be guided by the policies and procedures described in this statement in accepting and reviewing proposals submitted pursuant to section 1115.
