FR940325-1-00066 FR940325-1-00008 Members of technical review teams would be selected by the multiple resource advisory council or chartered rangeland resource team on the basis of their knowledge of resource management or their familiarity with the issues involved in the assigned task. At least one member of each technical review team would be required to be selected from the membership of the parent multiple resource advisory council or chartered rangeland resource team. PART 4100_GRAZING ADMINISTRATION_EXCLUSIVE OF ALASKA Subpart 4100_Grazing Administration_Exclusive of Alaska; General Section 4100.0&hyph;2␣Objectives The proposed rule would amend the objectives statement for part 4100 by including as objectives the preservation of public land and resources from destruction and unnecessary injury, the enhancement of productivity for multiple use purposes, the maintenance of open spaces and integral ecosystems, and the maintenance of the stability of communities depending on the western livestock industry. Section 4100.0&hyph;5␣Definitions The proposed rule would remove two definitions, add five new definitions, and revise 10 definitions in section 4100.0&hyph;5. Generally these amendments would reduce redundancy and make the definitions more concise, germane, and understandable. Several changes were made to the definitions presented in the advance notice of proposed rulemaking, most notably, the removal of the definition for ``Affected interest'' and replacement with the term ``Interested public.'' This new term is used to recognize necessary public involvement in decisionmaking and to make 43 CFR part 4100 more consistent with other BLM rules and those of the Forest Service. The proposed rule would redefine Active use to include conservation use and exclude nonuse or suspended use. The proposed rule would add a definition of Activity plan to mean a plan for managing a use, or resource value or use, and would clarify that an AMP is one form of an activity plan. The definition of Actual use would be revised to clarify that the term may refer to all or just a portion (e.g., a pasture) of a grazing allotment. A new definition of Affiliate addresses the controlling interests of a permittee's business relationships. The term is used in determining whether applicants have satisfactory records of performance for receiving or renewing a permit or lease or in receiving additional forage that becomes available for allocation to livestock grazing. The definition of Allotment management plan (AMP) would be modified to describe more clearly the focus and purpose of the plan, and to make clear that an AMP is a form of activity plan. A definition of Conservation use would be added to mean an activity for the purpose of protecting the land and its resources from destruction or unnecessary injury. The term would include improving rangeland conditions and the enhancement of resource values or functions. The definition of Consultation, cooperation and coordination would be modified to reflect the proposed discontinuance of grazing advisory boards; to clarify that consultation, cooperation, and coordination apply to the development, revision, or termination of allotment management plans; and to include States having not only lands but also resource management responsibility (e.g., wildlife, water quality) in the subject allotment. The proposed rule would redefine the terms Grazing lease and Grazing permit to clarify what forms of use are authorized in leases and permits and to clarify that the documents specify a total number of AUMs apportioned.
