FR940727-0-00154 FR940727-0-00028 (a) For purposes of this part, technical assistance costs associated with developing the capacity to undertake a specific funded program activity are not considered administrative costs. Therefore, these costs are not included in the twenty percent limitation on planning and administration stated in part 570, subpart C of this title. (b) Technical assistance costs cannot exceed ten percent of the total grant award. As used in this part, ``technical assistance'' means the transfer of skills and knowledge in planning, developing, and administering the CDBG program to eligible Indian CDBG recipients who need them in order to undertake a specific funded program activity. Subpart D_Single Purpose Grant Application and Selection Process ยง953.300 Application requirements. (a) Application information . Headquarters shall publish a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) in the Federal Register not less than 30 days before the deadline(s) for application submission. The NOFA will provide information relating to the date and time for application submission, the form and content requirements of the application, specific information regarding the rating and ranking criteria to be utilized, and any other information pertinent to the application process. (b) Costs incurred by applicant . Notwithstanding any provision in Part 570 of this title, HUD will not reimburse or recognize any costs incurred before submission of the single purpose grant application to HUD. (c) HUD will not normally reimburse or recognize costs incurred before HUD approval of the application for funding. However, under unusual circumstances, the field office may consider and approve written requests to recognize and reimburse costs incurred after submission of the application where failure to do so would impose undue hardship on the applicant. Such authorization will be made only before the costs are incurred and where the requirements for reimbursement have been met in accordance with 24 CFR 58.22 and with the understanding that HUD has no obligation whatsoever to approve the application or to reimburse the applicant should the application be disapproved. ยง953.301 Screening and review of applications. Each Field Office will screen and review applications for single purpose grants in accordance with the requirements specified in the annual NOFA. ยง953.302 Selection process. (a) Threshold requirements . (1)(i) In order for applications that have passed the initial screening tests of ยง953.301 to be rated and ranked, field offices must determine that the following requirements have been met: (A) Community development appropriateness . ( 1 ) The costs are reasonable; ( 2 ) The project(s) is appropriate for the intended use; and ( 3 ) The project(s) is usable or achievable (generally within a two-year period). (B) Reserved. (ii) If in the judgment of the field office, available data indicate that the proposed project(s) costs are unreasonable, is inappropriate for the intended use, or is not usable generally within two years, the field office shall determine that the applicant has not met this threshold requirement, and shall reject such project(s) from further consideration. (2) Capacity and performance . The applicant has the capacity to undertake the proposed program. Additionally, applicants that previously have participated in the Indian CDBG Program must have performed adequately or, in cases of previously documented deficient performance, the applicant must have taken appropriate corrective action to improve its performance. (i) Capacity . The applicant possesses, or will acquire, the managerial, technical, or administrative staff necessary to carry out the proposed projects. If the field office determines that the applicant does not have or cannot obtain the capacity to undertake the project(s), such project(s) will be rejected from further consideration. (ii) Performance _(A) Community development . Performance determinations are made through the field office's normal monitoring process. Applicants that have been advised in writing of negative findings on previous grants, for which a schedule of corrective actions has been established, will not be considered for funding if they are behind schedule as of the deadline date for filing applications. (B) Housing assistance . The applicant must not have been found taking actions to impede the provision or operation of assisted housing for the low- and moderate-income members of the Tribe or Village. If inadequate performance is found, and the applicant has been notified in writing, they may be rejected from further consideration. Performance determinations are made through the field office's normal monitoring process. (C) Audits . An applicant that has an outstanding ICDBG obligation to HUD that is in arrears, or one that has not agreed to a repayment schedule, will be disqualified from the current and subsequent competitions until the obligations are current. An applicant whose response to an audit finding is overdue or unsatisfactory will be disqualified from the current and subsequent competitions until the applicant has taken final action necessary to close the audit finding(s). The field office administrator may provide exceptions to this disqualification requirement in cases where the applicant has made a good faith effort to clear non-monetary audit findings. In no instance, however, shall an exception be provided when funds are due HUD, unless a satisfactory arrangement for repayment of the debt has been made, and payments are current.
