FR940429-0-00196 FR940429-0-00015 Comments: Many commenters responded to the Secretary's request for comments regarding the acceptability of a ``bond rating'' as sufficient indicia of a nonprofit institution's financial responsibility. The majority of the commenters expressed support of the use of a bond rating as a means of evaluating financial responsibility. One commenter suggested that the Secretary consider an institution to be financially responsible if it is able to demonstrate that it has a debt financing arrangement that is acceptable to the College Construction Loan Authority (Connie Lee). Another commenter believed that the Secretary should broaden the definition of acceptable bonds to include other than general obligation bonds because certain types of revenue bonds issued by pubic nonprofit institutions also have ratings by nationally recognized rating agencies. One commenter believed that the Secretary should expand the provision to exempt for-profit institutions with an acceptable bond rating. Discussion: The Secretary believes that a superior bond rating may serve as an effective proxy for demonstrating an institution's financial responsibility. An institution that has the capacity to issue a top rated debt security is, in general, considered to have the financial resources necessary to meet all of its financial obligations. The Secretary believes that the debt paying ability of an institution, as determined by a comprehensive credit review conducted by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, is representative of the institution's financial health. For an institution's bond rating to serve as an acceptable proxy, the institution must have the financial resources required to obtain a rating at or above the second highest level used by the rating organization. Furthermore, the Secretary requires that an institution provide evidence that the issue has been rated without consideration of any insurance, guarantee, or credit enhancement that may have been used to lower the institution's cost of capital. The Secretary requires that an institution provide an actual rating from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization. Since Connie Lee is not a rating organization, financing arrangements that are acceptable to Connie Lee are only eligible for consideration to the extent that they are separately rated by a nationally recognized rating organization that is acceptable to the Secretary. The Secretary agrees with commenters that the substitution of a bond rating for an institution's having to demonstrate financial responsibility should be expanded to include other forms of rated debt such as revenue bonds. The Secretary also agrees that this provision should be applied to both nonprofit and for-profit institutions. Changes: Sections 668.15(b)(7)(ii), (b)(8)(ii) and (b)(9)(v) have been added to provide that the Secretary shall consider an institution to be financially responsible if the institution is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary that it has an outstanding debt obligation which has been rated by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization at or above the second highest level rated by that organization. To be acceptable to the Secretary, an institution's debt must have been rated without consideration of any insurance, guarantee, or credit enhancement employed by the institution to lower its cost of capital. General standards of financial responsibility. Comments: A few commenters expressed concern that the Secretary's requirement that an institution submit an audited financial statement without qualification or disclaimer was particularly burdensome because the commenters believed an institution is likely to be faced with a ``qualified'' statement as a result of adopting new accounting standards mandated under FAS 117. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the reliability of any financial statement is dependent upon the ability of the institution's independent auditor to determine and report that the information contained within the financial statements is a fair representation of the institution's financial resources. The auditor will issue a qualified statement if the auditor is unable to determine that the information is a fair representation because of any uncertainty. It is the institution's responsibility to identify the cause of the uncertainty and make every reasonable effort to correct it. Changes: None.
