FR940825-0-00046 FR940825-0-00012 Several commenters representing the trucking industry or State departments of transportation expressed concern that the general wording of this section is overly broad in that the superintendent would potentially have the authority to administratively restrict or eliminate general commercial vehicle use of U.S. Highway 191 through the permitting process. The commenters were concerned that this would be in conflict with the proposal articulated in the Final Environmental Assessment and that the superintendent may become the focal point for political pressure should he or she have the discretion to restrict commercial traffic through permits. The NPS acknowledges these concerns, but for several reasons, disagrees with the perceived implications. First, the alternative adopted in the Final Environmental Assessment proposed ``to allow commercial traffic continued use of U.S. Highway 191 but to restrict the transportation of quantities and types of hazardous materials.'' Provisions included that the superintendent shall have the authority to issue permits specifically for the transportation of quantities and types of hazardous materials through the park under certain circumstances. This alternative did not propose to relinquish the superintendent's existing authority to establish public use limits as defined in section 1.5, or the authority to issue permits as defined in section 1.6. NPS believes that the general wording of Section 7.13(a)(4) is needed to address the management of commercial vehicle traffic on all park roads and is not limited to U.S. Highway 191. NPS also believes that requiring a permit for all commercial vehicles traveling on park roads other than U.S. Highway 191 is appropriate and consistent with the current regulations and existing practice. With regard to park roads other than U.S. Highway 191, the primary current commercial vehicle permittees are companies supplying goods, including petroleum products such as gasoline, propane and heating oil, to the Cooke City, Montana, area. It is the intent of the NPS that the superintendent would continue to issue permits to commercial vehicles which are providing the Cooke City area communities and tourism industry with essential goods and services. Under the terms and conditions of permit, the superintendent will exclude commercial uses of these roads which are not related to community or visitor services. As stated in the NPRM, the NPS has no intention of requiring a permit under existing conditions for ``general'' commercial traffic that is not transporting hazardous materials on U.S. Highway 191 through the park as authorized by section 7.13(a)(1). The NPS believes that it currently is neither justifiable nor administratively feasible to require permits for such traffic. However, consistent with the authority granted in 36 CFR 1.5 to establish public use limits and in 36 CFR 1.6 to manage those limits through the permit process, the NPS reserves the authority to manage that use through a permit process should unforeseeable circumstances occur in the future. The NPS believes that section 1.5 contains adequate safeguards to prevent a superintendent from being politically coerced into establishing arbitrary or unjustified public use limits relative to commercial vehicle use of U.S. Highway 191. Section 1.5(b) states: Except in emergency situations, a closure, designation, use or activity restriction or condition, or the termination or relaxation of such, which is of a nature, magnitude and duration that will result in the public use pattern of the park area, adversely affect the park's natural, aesthetic, scenic or cultural values, require a long-term or significant modification in the resource management objectives of the unit, or is a highly controversial nature, shall be published as rulemaking in the Federal Register .'' Clearly, significant restrictions or changes in use limits relative to U.S. Highway 191 would require the promulgation of regulations allowing for public input. Since the new 36 CFR 7.13(a)(1) explicitly authorizes commercial traffic not carrying hazardous materials to use U.S. Highway 191, the NPS believes that the superintendent is not empowered to prohibit such use through a permit requirement. The superintendent's authority would be to issue permits to impose use limits, which would have to meet the criteria defined in Section 1.5.
