FR940817-2-00068 FR940817-2-00043 Chrysler submitted data on the analysis of four catalysts, which was completed by Johnson Matthey Incorporated (JMI) at Chrysler's request, that had various degrees of manganese deposition from Canadian vehicles exposed to MMT in the fuel. It indicated that the results of the analysis demonstrate that the washcoat of both the partially plugged catalysts and unaffected catalysts exhibit a clear layer of ``densified'' washcoat containing large quantities of manganese oxides. Chrysler believes that the JMI report supports its concern that manganese oxides can fill the catalyst pores, thereby covering precious metal sites or decreasing wash coat surface area, consequently eventually decreasing catalyst activity. Regarding the automakers' concerns about the Additive's effect on emissions system components, such as exhaust oxygen sensors, exhaust gas recirculation valves, catalysts and oxygen sensors, Ethyl stated that it has already provided extensive data showing that the Additive does not adversely effect any of these emission system components. 37 (Ethyl's test programs are discussed in the previous section.) 37Public Docket A&hyph;92&hyph;41, No. IV&hyph;D&hyph;3 (summarizing Ethyl's emission control component testing.) Nineteen small refiners including the National Petroleum Refiners Association all recommended approval. They concurred in Ethyl's assessment of the economic benefits and reduced refinery and vehicle emissions that would accrue from the replacement of octane obtained through higher-severity refining with octane obtained from MMT. Several emphasized that MMT would be especially helpful to small refiners since octane enhancement from MMT requires less capital investment than other means of increasing octane. Many refiners also pointed out that refinery operations at lower severity would result in decreased aromatic and benzene emissions from vehicles and increased yield for each barrel of crude oil refined. C. Available Data Meet Previously Used Criteria The criteria and statistical tests previously used by EPA to examine durability waiver applications were used only once by the Agency prior to Ethyl's 1990 application for the use of MMT. 38 These tests include a variety of approaches to durability data designed to determine whether the additive causes increases in regulated pollutants and, if so, whether those increases bring about failure of vehicles in the fleet to meet the standards to which they were certified. While EPA has some concerns regarding the appropriateness of these criteria and tests for current conditions, the Agency does not intend in this action to hold Ethyl to any new criteria and/or tests that are not currently in place. Accordingly, the following discussion is addressed primarily to the results of applying the most critical of the previously used EPA tests. 39 38 The test were used in EPA's examination of Ethyl's 1978 application. For a description of these tests, see EPA's decision on the application at 43 FR 41424, September 18, 1978. 39 EPA has carefully reviewed Ethyl's application of the test to these data in various combinations and has concluded that the tests were conscientiously and accurately applied. This review focused particularly upon the application of the ``integrated emissions test'', the ``cause or contribute'' test, and the overall sign test. The earliest set of test results under consideration here (tests of 1988 vehicles submitted with Ethyl's 1990 application) exhibit the most pronounced MMT-caused emissions increases of the data generated by the applicant (about 0.02 gm/mi 40 , but these increases fall substantially short of failure on the determinative ``cause or contribute'' test 41 (3 of 8 vehicle models tested fail for HC and 4 of 8 models fail for CO, while 7 of the 8 models tested are required to fail before the additive fails this overall test on either pollutant). 40 Determined by integration of emissions test results gathered over the full range of mileage supplied by the applicant. 41 Ethyl's consultant, Systems Applications, Inc., describes this test on page 19 of a report that was included as Appendix 2A in Ethyl's May 9, 1990 application for waiver. This co-called ``cause or contribute'' test, really addresses the question of whether the additive ``causes'' a failure to meet the certified standard for a regulated pollutant for each model group and then looks to see if enough model groups failed the test to warrant the conclusion with high confidence that more than half of the models are caused to fail by operation on the additive.
