FR940118-1-00028 FR940118-1-00006 §251.54 Assessment of costs of Arbitration Panels. (a) After the conclusion of the proceeding and the delivery of the report of the determination of the Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel, the Panel may assess its costs to the participants to the proceeding. (1) In the case of a rate adjustment proceeding, the parties to the proceeding shall bear the entire cost thereof in such manner and proportion as the Panel shall direct. (2) In the case of a royalty distribution proceeding, the parties to the proceeding shall bear the cost of the proceeding in direct proportion to their share of the distribution. (b) The chairperson of the Panel shall cause to be delivered to each participating party a statement of the total costs of the proceeding, the party's share of the total cost, and the amount owed by the party to each arbitrator. (c) All parties to a proceeding shall have 30 days from receipt of the statement of costs and bill for payment in which to tender payment to the arbitrators. Payment should be in the form of a money order, check, or bank draft. Failure to submit timely payment may submit the nonpaying party to the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982, including disclosure to consumer credit reporting agencies and referral to collection agencies. §251.55 Post-Panel motions. (a) Any party to the proceeding may file with the Librarian of Congress a petition to modify or set aside the determination of a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel within 14 days of the Librarian's receipt of the Panel's report of its determination. Such petition shall state the reasons for modification or reversal of the Panel's determination, and shall include applicable sections of the party's proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. (b) Replies to petitions to modify or set aside shall be filed within 14 days of the filing of such petitions. §251.56 Order of the Librarian of Congress. (a) After the filing of post-Panel motions, see §251.55, but within 60 days from receipt of the report of the determination of a Panel, the Librarian of Congress shall issue an order accepting the Panel's determination or substituting the Librarian's own determination. The Librarian shall adopt the determination of the Panel unless he or she finds that the determination is arbitrary or contrary to the applicable provisions of 17 U.S.C. (b) If the Librarian substitutes his or her own determination, the order shall set forth the reasons for not accepting the Panel's determination, and shall set forth the facts which the Librarian found relevant to his or her determination. (c) The Librarian shall cause a copy of the order to be delivered to all parties participating in the proceeding. The librarian shall also publish the order, and the determination of the Panel, in the Federal Register . §251.57 Effective date of order. An order of determination issued by the Librarian under §251.56 shall become effective 30 days following its publication in the Federal Register , unless an appeal has been filed pursuant to §251.58 and notice of the appeal has been served on all parties to the proceeding. §251.58 Judicial review. (a) Any order of determination issued by the Librarian of Congress under §251.55 may be appealed, by any aggrieved party who would be bound by the determination, to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, within 30 days after publication of the order in the Federal Register . (b) If no appeal is brought within the 30 day period, the order of determination of the Librarian is final, and shall take effect as set forth in the order. (c) The pendency of any appeal shall not relieve persons obligated to make royalty payments under 17 U.S.C. 111, 115, 116, 118, 119, or 1003, and who would be affected by the determination on appeal, from depositing statements of account and royalty fees specified by those sections. Subpart F_Rate Adjustment Proceedings §251.60 Scope. This subpart governs only those proceedings dealing with royalty rate adjustments affecting cable television (17 U.S.C. 111), the production of phonorecords (17 U.S.C. 115), performances on coin-operated phonorecord players (jukeboxes) (17 U.S.C. 116), noncommercial educational broadcasting (17 U.S.C. 118), and audio home recording devices and media (17 U.S.C. chapter 10). Those provisions of subpart E of this part generally regulating the conduct of proceedings shall apply to rate adjustment proceedings, unless they are inconsistent with the specific provisions of this subpart. §251.61 Commencement of adjustment proceedings. (a) In the case of cable television, phonorecords, coin-operated phonorecord players (jukeboxes) and audio home recording devices and media, rate adjustment proceedings shall commence with the filing of a petition by an interested party according to the following schedule: (1) Cable Television: During 1995, and each subsequent fifth calendar year. (2) Phonorecords: During 1997 and each subsequent 10th calendar year. (3) Coin-operated phonorecord players (jukeboxes): Within one year of the expiration or termination of a negotiated license authorized by 17 U.S.C. 116.
