FR940922-2-00039 FR940922-2-00016 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Unsolicited Application; Central Michigan University agency: Department of Energy. action: Notice of intent to award a grant based upon an unsolicited application. summary: The Department of Energy (DOE), Golden Field Office, through the Chicago Support Office, announces, pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules 10 CFR 600.14(f) its intent to award a grant to Central Michigan University to analyze and evaluate the impact of solar domestic hot water heaters (SDHW) on the electric consumption and demand patterns on Beaver Island, in Lake Michigan, off the City of Charlevoix, Michigan. supplementary information: Central Michigan University (CMU), through its Biological Station at Beaver Island, has been a lead participant in the Beaver Island Energy Project (BIEP). The BIEP assists the residents of Beaver Island to develop their economy with energy efficiency and renewable energy to sustain the Island's unique ecological and social infrastructure. One result of the BIEP has been the increased use of solar domestic water heating, supplementing mostly electric domestic water heating. Beaver Island may have one of the largest percentage concentrations of SDHW for residential structures in the Great Lakes region. The minimal usage of other seasonal electric demand, such as air conditioning, is an opportunity to evaluate the effectiveness of SDHW as a demand-side management tool. This award will further the usage of renewable energy application by monitoring the impact of SDHW on electric power demand and consumption. This study is unique because it will take place in a northern latitude location in the Great Lakes region to supplement other ongoing studies of SDHW which are taking place in the southern and western parts of the United States. CMU has supported the BIEP with the only college-level facilities located on the Island. The unsolicited application is being accepted by DOE as a result of DOE's determination that the proposed activity is meritorious, likely to be effective and successful, and offers a unique opportunity to further the use of renewable energy, as encouraged by Titles XII (Renewable Energy) and XVI (Global Climate Change) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, as well as the Climate Change Action Plan. The project period for the grant award is 24-months, expected to begin October, 1994. DOE plans to provide funding in the amount of $30,000. for further information contact: Mark Burger, U.S. Department of Energy, Chicago Regional Support Office, 9800 South Cass Avenue, Argonne, IL 60439, 708/252&hyph;2193. Issued in Golden, Colorado on August 30, 1994. John W. Meeker, Contracting Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23475 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
