FR940324-2-00090 FR940324-2-00044 CSAP will accept applications that attempt to replicate an identified model with as much fidelity as possible, regarding comprehensiveness, targeted domains, setting, target population, demographics, level of staff expertise, etc. Applicants wishing to adapt a project to specific needs in their area may do so, but should provide sufficient justification for proposed changes. Applicants are expected to provide a logical rationale for choosing a particular project for replication, that is, linking this choice to an identified need for such a project in their area and proposed outcomes for the target population. It is important that applicants understand that they are proposing not only to replicate an existing project, but that this project is, as well, a high risk youth project. Consequently they must be prepared to address: a. Outcomes to assess the impact of the interventions to be delivered on participating youth, b. The process of implementing and conducting a project targeted to a high risk youth population, and c. The process of implementing and conducting the project as a replication. Questions that need to be addressed that pertain to High Risk Youth participant outcomes may be found in Module A, under Recommended Approach. For this effort, CSAP invites applications that will, additionally, address the following replication-specific questions: •Does the fidelity with which projects are replicated affect participant outcomes and the overall success of the project as a replication? In what respects? •How can lessons learned from the replicants' implementation process be applied to improve a like project? •What impact did the availability of ancillary services and resources have on: (a) The success of the replicant project; and (b) how closely the applicant's available resources must parallel those of the replicant in order to conduct a successful project? •How can the impact of such intangibles as combinations of personnel attributes and characteristics on the success of the replicant project be measured; and how can this information be used in developing a replication? Evaluation: All applications must include a plan for documenting program implementation and performance, particularly with regard to the replication process (process evaluation), and for measuring results (outcome evaluation), as outlined in part IV of this notice. It is important to note that the replication requires an evaluation that exceeds the usual evaluation requirements. The evaluation design should provide for evaluating outcomes with respect to the effect of the intervention on participants, just as it would in any other High Risk Youth project. The process evaluation, however, requires a two-part approach. On one level, the process evaluation would parallel the process evaluation in the replicant project. On an additional level, data would need to be collected to ascertain how the project worked as a replication. All applications, in their process evaluation design, should pay particular attention to documenting implementation as it relates to the replication process. It is the purpose of this effort to replicate promising interventions, and assess their effectiveness. Regardless of the evaluation design of the original replicant project, the evaluation plan for this application should be rigorous and should be designed to answer the specific questions detailed in the High Risk Youth priority area (Module A, Recommended Approach), and in the Evaluation section of part IV of this notice.
