FR941031-2-00008 FR941031-2-00005 The Army Corps of Engineers' decisions to be made will include WHETHER OR NOT a Section 404 permit will be issued to the applicant. Scoping (Land Exchange and Ski Mountain Development) The Forest Service, in cooperation with the Corps, will conduct scoping in conjunction with, and subsequent to, this Notice of Intent. The Forest Service previously scoped for ski area development issues as a part of the ``Adam's Rib Recreation Area Final Environmental Impact Statement'' in 1982. It is believed that additional scoping is needed to gather information regarding a potential Federal land exchange associated with the permittee's current base development proposal, and the specific development proposal (detailed development plan) on the ski mountains. The existing special use permit is still in effect and will not be revisited in the sdEIS. Public participation will be fully incorporated into preparation of the supplemental draft EIS through public notices in local papers and brief information packets to known interested people, groups, local government, and resource agencies. Public meetings will be held in the Eagle and Denver, Colorado areas throughout the public involvement process. The exact dates and locations of these meetings will be published two weeks in advance in local newspapers. Forest Service decisions to be made will include HOW the ski mountains will be developed within applicable laws and guidelines, and WHETHER OR NOT a Federal Land Exchange will occur. Preliminary Issues (1) Impacts to wetlands, (2) Impacts to water quality, (3) Impacts to fish and wildlife resources, (4) Socio-economic effects, (5) Cumulative impacts of developing a new ski area, (6) Impacts on outdoor recreation, (7) Visual impacts, (8) Exchange of Federal lands, (9) Installation of power transmission lines. DATES FOR FILING THE sdEIS AND FINAL EIS: The sdEIS is scheduled to be published in June 1995, with the Final EIS estimated in December, 1995. The comment period on the supplemental draft environmental impact statement will be 60-days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency publishes the Notice of Availability in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts the agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519,553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the comment period so that substantive comments and objectives are made available to the Forest Service and Army Corps at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. Other Environmental Review and Consultation Required review and consultation which will be conducted during this National Environmental Policy Act process include sections 401 and 404 of the Clean Water Act, Fish and Wildlife Coordinating Act, National Historic Preservation Act, Endangered Species Act, Federal Land Exchange Facilitation Act, and Executive Orders 11988 (Flood Plain Management) and 11990 (Wetlands) Veto J. LaSalle, Forest Supervisor, White River National Forest. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26849 Filed 10&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
