FR940513-2-00198 FR940513-2-00092 Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria: 1. Quality of Program: Quality of program plan, including quality and rigor of the training, workshops and other activities as called for in this request, thorough conception of project, and demonstration of how participants' needs will be met. 2. Institutional Capability: Institutions should demonstrate their potential for program excellence and/or provide documentation of successful programs. If an organization is a previous USIA grant recipient, responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts will be considered. 3. Project Personnel: Personnel's professional and logistical expertise should be relevant to the proposed program. Resumes should be relevant to the specific proposal. 4. Thematic Expertise: Proposal should demonstrate the organization's expertise in the subject area. 5. Program Planning: Detailed agenda and work plan should demonstrate substance and logistical capacity. Agenda and plan should adhere to the program overview described above. 6. Ability to Achieve Program Objectives: Objectives should be realistic and attainable. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the grantee institution will meet the program's objectives. 7. Cross-Cultural Sensitivity/Area Expertise: Proposal should demonstrate sensitivity to historical, linguistic and other cross-cultural factors, and relevant knowledge of South Africa. 8. Multiplier Effect: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding and include maximum sharing of information. 9. Cost-Effectiveness: The overhead and administrative components should be as low as possible. All other items proposed for USIA funding should be necessary and appropriate to achieve the program's objectives. 10. Cost-Sharing: Proposals should show cost-sharing through direct funding contributions and in-kind support from the prospective grantee institution. 11. Project Evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the activity's success. 12. Evidence of program sustainability after the expiration of USIA funded grant. Notice The terms and conditions published in the RFP are binding any may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. Final award cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about August 5, 1994. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: May 6, 1994. Barry Fulton, Acting Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11596 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
