FR941028-2-00154 FR941028-2-00109 Comments and Responses Section I. Introduction Section II. Recommendations A. Assignment of Responsibility No comments received on this section. B. Risk Assessment, Development of the TB Control Plan, and Periodic Reassessment Comments: Provide more flexibility in levels of risk to accommodate facilities that rarely or never provide services to patients with tuberculosis. Response: Two new categories_``very low risk'' and ``minimal risk''_were added to accommodate such facilities. Comments: Rationale for selecting six patients per year in a given area as a criterion for risk level seems arbitrarily defined. Response: This criterion is based on surveys conducted by CDC in conjunction with the American Hospital Association, the Society for Health Care Epidemiology of America, and the Association for Professionals in Infection Control and Epidemiology. These surveys suggest an increased risk of tuberculin skin test conversion in employees working in facilities admitting six or more TB patients per year. Comments: Repeat skin testing at 3-month intervals in high-risk settings is too frequent. Response: The high-risk setting is essentially an outbreak setting, in which there is evidence of transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. In this situation, it is reasonable to conduct follow-up skin testing 12 weeks (3 months) after the initial testing. If there is no evidence of further transmission and any deficiencies in infection control practices and facilities have been corrected, the area is no longer considered high risk, and there is no need to continue testing every 3 months. Comments: A cluster of skin test conversions is defined as two or more conversions in one area within 3 months; however, because of the limitations of skin testing, this may not represent true conversions due to nosocomial transmission. Response: It is assumed that a cluster would be investigated to determine the likelihood that it truly represents nosocomial transmission. The situation would be classified as high risk only if this evaluation supported a conclusion that nosocomial transmission had occurred. The recommendation will be modified to clarify this point. Comments: Retesting all employees in a area when a single conversion has occurred may not be warranted. Response: Clarified wording of this section. C. Detection of Patients Who Have Active TB Comments: Provide more information and place more emphasis on early detection, specifically those categories of patients in whom TB should be suspected. Response: Reemphasized the need for protocols for early detection and the need to review and revise these protocols periodically. In addition, explained that the index of suspicion varies from place to place, depending on various factors, including the prevalence of infection in the population served.
