FR941128-0-00013 FR941128-0-00005 Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), it is certified that this final rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Discussion Section 202 of the Improvement Act (Pub. L. 102&hyph;242, 12 U.S.C. 3105) amended section 7 of the IBA by adding new subsection (h) which provides that after December 19, 1992 a state branch or state agency of a foreign bank may not engage in any type of activity that is not permissible for a federal branch of a foreign bank unless the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has determined that such activity is consistent with sound banking practice; and in the case of an insured branch, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has determined that the activity would pose no significant risk to the deposit insurance fund. 12 U.S.C. 3105(h)(1). On March 2, 1993, the FDIC proposed an amendment to part 346 of its regulations (12 CFR part 346), ``Foreign Banks'', in order to implement this new statutory provision. This proposal was published for a sixty-day comment period in the Federal Register . (58 FR 11992, March 2, 1993). 1 The proposal sought to amend subpart A, §346.1, to include a definition of ``significant risk to the deposit insurance fund'' and to add a new subpart D, ``Applications Seeking Approval for Insured State Branches to Conduct Activities Not Permissible for Federal Branches''. 2 1 Similarly, the Board proposed an amendment to its Regulation K (12 CFR part 211), ``International Banking Operations'', to implement section 202 of the Improvement Act on January 6, 1993. (58 FR 513, January 6, 1993). 2 Because §346.101 of the FDIC's regulations is obsolete, the FDIC proposed to remove the existing §346.101 and to add a new §346.101 which will comprise a new subpart D. The proposed new subpart provided that a foreign bank operating an insured state branch which desires to engage in or continue an activity that is not permissible for a federal branch, pursuant to statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, or any order or interpretation issued in writing by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), shall file with the FDIC a prior written application for permission to conduct or continue such activity. (Proposed §346.101(a)). The proposal went on to provide that the application shall be filed with the FDIC Regional Director of the Division of Supervision for the region in which the insured state branch is located. (Proposed §346.101(c)). Since section 202(a) of the Improvement Act became effective December 19, 1992, the FDIC proposed to allow existing insured state branches of foreign banks to continue activities (at existing levels) which may not be permissible for a federal branch until the regulation is promulgated in final form and the FDIC acts on their application. The proposal provided that the FDIC would expect all foreign banks engaged in an impermissible activity to file the required application no later than 60 days after the effective date of the final rule. (58 FR 11993, column three). Section 346.101(b) of the proposed regulation provided that the application shall be in letter form and shall contain certain information, including a description of the activity in which the branch desires to engage or in which it is already engaged, the foreign bank's financial condition, the branch's assets and liabilities, the projected effect of the proposed activity on the financial condition of the foreign bank and the branch, and a statement of why the proposed activity will pose no significant risk to the deposit insurance fund. Comment Letters The FDIC received two comment letters concerning the proposed amendments. Both comment letters were supportive of the FDIC's efforts to coordinate its application procedures with the Board and to minimize the administrative burden on state-licensed insured branches which apply for permission to conduct or continue to conduct an activity which is not permissible for a federal branch. The commenters raised four primary concerns with the Corporation's proposed regulation. First, the comments urged the FDIC to approve activities on an ``activity by activity'' basis, in addition to its approval of individual applications by specific banks requesting permission to conduct a particular activity. One commenter noted that such ``activity'' applications could be submitted by trade groups and state bank supervisors. Second, both commenters requested that the FDIC publish a list of ``pre-approved'' activities for state-licensed insured branches which the FDIC determines pose no significant risk to the BIF. They envision that once an activity is on this list, an insured state branch could engage in it without the necessity of applying to the FDIC. Third, it was suggested that the scope of the information required to be included in a branch's application (Proposed §346.101(b)) be reduced in order to decrease even further the administrative burden on applicants. Fourth, the commenters urged the FDIC not to carry over quantitative restrictions which the OCC places on federal branches to activities permitted to state-licensed insured branches which pose no significant risk of loss to the BIF. These points are discussed below. Approval of Activities Versus Applicants Both commenters urged the FDIC to approve generic activities, in addition to individual applications. One commenter expanded on this recommendation by suggesting that the FDIC accept applications from industry trade groups and state bank supervisors requesting approval of a certain activity or activities on behalf of state-licensed insured branches. That same commenter also argued that the intent of Congress in enacting the statute was not to require the FDIC, as a general rule, to review and approve applications from particular institutions to engage in specific activities. Rather, the commenter argued that Congress intended the FDIC to approve generic activities on an activity by activity basis as being permissible for all state-licensed insured branches.
