FR940926-0-00004 FR940926-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 7 CFR Parts 300 and 318 [Docket No. 93&hyph;118&hyph;2] Interstate Movement of Carambola from Hawaii AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are allowing the fruit of carambola to be moved interstate from Hawaii. As a condition of movement, the fruit of carambola must undergo prescribed treatment for fruit flies under the supervision of an inspector of Plant Protection and Quarantine, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. This action allows the interstate movement from Hawaii of this fruit while continuing to provide protection against the spread of injurious plant pests from Hawaii to other parts of the United States. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 26, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Frank Cooper, Senior Operations Officer, or Mr. Peter Grosser, Senior Operations Officer, Permit Unit, Port Operations, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 635, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;8645. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Hawaiian Fruits and Vegetable regulations (contained in 7 CFR 318.13 through 318.13&hyph;17 and referred to below as the regulations) govern the movement of raw and unprocessed fruits and vegetables, cut flowers, rice straw, mango seeds, and cactus plants and cactus parts, from Hawaii into or through the continental United States, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States. Under the regulations, any such movement is defined as ``interstate movement.'' Of the articles governed by the regulations, some are absolutely prohibited interstate movement. Others are prohibited such movement if they fail to meet certain qualifying criteria. Before the effective date of this final rule, the interstate movement of carambola from Hawaii was prohibited because of the risk that it could spread injurious insects from Hawaii to other parts of the United States. On March 21, 1994, we published in the Federal Register (59 FR 13256&hyph;13257, Docket No. 93&hyph;118&hyph;1) a proposal to allow the fruit of carambola ( Averrhoa carambola ) to be moved interstate from Hawaii under specified conditions. One of the proposed conditions for interstate movement was that the fruit be treated with a specified cold treatment. This treatment has been determined to be effective against the insects in Hawaii that attack carambola_i.e., the Mediterranean fruit fly ( Ceratitis capitata ), the melon fly ( Bactrocera cucurbitae ), and the Oriental fruit fly ( Bactrocera dorsalis ). We solicited comments concerning our proposed rule for 60 days ending May 20, 1994. We received six comments by that date. The comments were from a municipality in Hawaii, an agricultural association, and other members of the public. Five of the commenters supported the proposal as written. One commenter expressed concerns regarding the testing done on the prescribed treatment. We discuss below each of the issues raised by the commenter. The commenter stated that it appeared that the research done to test a cold treatment against insect pests of carambola did not include phytotoxicity tests, or the impact of the proposed treatment upon the quality of Hawaiian carambola. We are making no changes based on this comment. The Agricultural Research Service (ARS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture conducted tests on a preliminary basis in conjunction with the Hawaii carambola industry to determine whether the fruit would tolerate the proposed cold treatment. Fruit of carambola was stored at 1.1 # 0.6 o C for 12 days. No adverse impact on fruit quality or marketability was observed, which follows the trend of previous observations by Campbell, 1 Campbell et al. , 2 and Miller et al. , 3 showing that the fruit of carambola tends to tolerate refrigeration relatively well. 1 Campbell, C. A. 1987. Carambola Fruit Development and Storage in Florida. M.S. thesis, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL. 2 Campbell, C. A., D. J. Huber and K. E. Koch, 1987. Postharvest Response of Carambolas to Storage at Low Temperatures. Proc. Fla. State Hort. Soc. 100: 272&hyph;275. 3 Miller, W. R., R. E. McDonald and M. Nisperos-Carriedo. 1991. Quality of ``Arkin'' Carambolas with or without Conditioning Followed by Low-Temperature Quarantine Treatment. Proc. Fla. State Hort. Soc. 104: 118&hyph;122. Notwithstanding the tests discussed above, it should be emphasized that all quarantine treatments may affect fruit quality in some way. For this reason, the APHIS Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) Treatment Manual, which is incorporated by reference into the regulations at 7 CFR 300.1, states that all treatments are applied at the importer's risk, and that PPQ cannot be held responsible for loss or damage as a result of any prescribed treatments. The commenter also stated that the study did not specify the cultivar of fruit used for testing. According to the commenter, sweet and tart varieties of carambola may have very different host characteristics, and fruit size may have an impact upon the application of the treatment. We are making no changes based on this comment. In its cold treatment tests, ARS used both ``sweet'' and ``tart'' cultivars. Nel showed that temperatures and exposure times required to disinfest Mediterranean fruit fly from different host fruits remained constant regardless of host fruit. 4 This ``generic'' approach to cold treatments has been accepted for other fruit fly species, including Mexican fruit fly, A. ludens (Loew), and Queensland fruit fly, Bactrocera tryoni Froggatt. 4 Nel, R. G. 1936. The Utilization of Low Temperatures in the Sterilization of Deciduous Fruit Infested with the Immature Stages of the Mediterranean Fruit Fly, Ceratitis capitata (Wiedemann). Sci. Bull. Dept. Agric. S. Afr. No. 155. With regard to the effect of fruit size on cold treatment application, ARS made the same observation as Gould and Sharp, who concluded that ``*␣*␣* in terms of total treatment time, there is a small difference in cool-down time between a large and a small carambola.'' 5 In other words, fruit size is not an important consideration in treatment application. Additionally, APHIS closely regulates treatments by means of temperature-monitoring devices, and the treatment time is not considered to have begun until the fruit has reached the required treatment temperature. 5 Gould, W. P. and J. L. Sharp. 1990. Cold-Storage Quarantine Treatment for Carambolas Infested with the Caribbean Fruit Fly (Diptera: Tephritidae). J. Econ. Entomol. 83: 458&hyph;460. The commenter stated that the artificial infestation procedure used in the study may have placed stress on the fruit fly larvae, making them more susceptible to cold than would be wild flies in a natural infestation. According to the commenter, the large number of larvae artificially raised on the small amount of fruit used in the study could have produced overcrowding effects not representative of field conditions.
