FR940513-1-00063 FR940513-1-00017 II. Summary of the Proposed Standards A. Source Category to be Regulated B. Pollutants to be Regulated C. Proposed Standards D. Emission Points to be Regulated E. Format for the Proposed Standards F. Compliance Deadline G. Initial Performance Tests H. Vessel Tightness Testing I. Monitoring J. Recordkeeping and Reporting III. Rationale A. Selection of Affected Sources B. Selection of Pollutants to be Regulated C. Selection of Basis and Level of the RACT Standards D. Selection of MACT Regulatory Approach E. Selection of Basis and Level of Proposed MACT Standards F. Selection of Format of the Standards G. Selection of Test Methods H. Selection of Monitoring and Compliance and Performance Testing Requirements I. Selection of Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements J. Solicitation of Comments IV. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing B. Docket C. Office of Management and Budget Reviews D. Regulatory Flexibility Act Compliance The proposed regulatory text is not included in this Federal Register notice, but is available in Docket No. A&hyph;90&hyph;44 or by request from the EPA contact persons designated earlier in this notice free of charge. The proposed regulatory language is also available on the EPA's Technology Transfer Network (TTN). See the Docket section of this preamble for more information on accessing TTN. I. Background A. History In 1982, the U.S. Department of Transportation's Maritime Administration (MARAD) began working with the EPA regarding the establishment of Federal regulations under the Clean Air Act pertaining to air pollutants emitted from commercial marine vessels. The MARAD raised concerns regarding the potential disruption of interstate and foreign commerce and safety problems that may result from State regulation of marine vessel emissions. The MARAD believed that the most appropriate method to control these emissions without causing undue disruption of commerce or safety problems would be for the EPA to promulgate national standards regulating air pollutants from these sources. In 1985, the U.S. Department of Transportation requested that the National Academy of Sciences' National Research Council (NRC) evaluate the feasibility of controlling emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations. At that time, many States were already considering vapor controls for barge and tankship loading and tankship ballasting. The NRC Commission on Engineering and Technical Systems (CETS) then convened a Committee on Control and Recovery of Hydrocarbon Vapors from Ships and Barges. This committee operated under the guidance of the Marine Board of the NRC. The committee and the Marine Board consisted of members of industry and academia and State representatives. The Coast Guard (U.S. Department of Transportation) and the EPA also worked with the committee on the feasibility study. In 1987, the committee issued its report ``Controlling Hydrocarbon Emissions From Tank Vessel Loading'' (Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;44, item II&hyph;I&hyph;4). The Marine Board's report determined that controls were technically feasible but that there was a need for the Coast Guard to promulgate safety requirements and a need for the EPA to set uniform emissions standards to mitigate some of the safety issues that could arise from varied State regulations. The report recommended that the Coast Guard ``lead the development and implementation of a coordinated program to ensure the safety and standardization of maritime hydrocarbon vapor emissions controls.'' The Coast Guard would be responsible for the safety issues involved (standardized equipment, detonation arrestors, personnel training, etc.), and the EPA would be responsible for the emissions standards. One of the methods suggested to achieve the coordination necessary to develop standards for marine tank vessel loading operations was an amendment to the Act. Part of the Marine Board's task was to develop cost estimates. The Marine Board contracted United Technical Design (UTD) to develop cost estimates for three different model terminals and four model vessels. These model terminals and costs served as the basis for the EPA costs (Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;44, item II&hyph;I&hyph;5). In response to the NRC recommendation, the Coast Guard's Chemical Transportation Advisory Committee (CTAC) formed a Subcommittee on Vapor Control to develop standards for designing and operating vapor control systems. This CTAC subcommittee presented its final recommendations to the Coast Guard in February 1989. The Coast Guard standards for safe design, installation, and operation of marine vapor recovery equipment were promulgated in June 1990 (55 FR 2596). The Coast Guard regulations are found in 33 CFR part 154 and 46 CFR part 39.
