FR940406-2-00065 FR940406-2-00043 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Agency for Health Care Policy and Research Assessment of Medical Technology The Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR), through its Office of Health Technology Assessment (OHTA), announces that it is initiating a Technology Assessment or a Technology Review (see below) of the safety, clinical effectiveness and indications for the use of signal-averaged electrocardiography (SAECG). This technique reduces the level of background noise that is present in the standard electrocardiography and allows the detection of signals of very low amplitude, such as ventricular late potentials. The AHCPR is particularly interested in whether the performance of SAECG has a positive effect on health outcomes and whether it influences the medical management of the patient. A description of AHCPR's process for conducting technology assessments and technology reviews was published in the Federal Register , December 3, 1993. In brief, the full assessment process includes an extensive review of the published literature, consultation with other components of the Public Health Service (PHS), obtaining information from relevant specialty groups and evaluation of information received in response to a Federal Register notice. A technology review is a shorter evaluation of a technology; it may be performed if the medical or scientific questions posed are limited, the available evidence is limited and the published medical literature is insufficient in quantity or quality, or the time frame available precludes utilization of the full assessment process. The AHCPR is interested in receiving information which would help in the assessment or review of the technology as described above. To enable the scientific community to evaluate the information included in the assessment or review, AHCPR will discuss in the assessment or review only those data and analyses for which a source(s) may be cited. Respondents are therefore encouraged to include with their submissions a written consent permitting AHCPR to cite the sources of the data and comments provided. Otherwise, in accordance with the confidentiality statute governing information collected by AHCPR, 42 U.S.C. 299a-l(c), no information received will be published or disclosed which could identify an individual or entity described in the information, or could identify an entity or individual supplying the information. Information and comments should be submitted in writing no later than July 5, 1994 to the AHCPR Office of Health Technology Assessment at the address below. Thomas V. Holohan, M.D., Director, Office of Health Technology Assessment, AHCPR, 6000 Executive Boulevard, suite 309, Rockville, MD 20852, Phone: (301) 594&hyph;4023. Dated: March 30, 1994. J. Jarrett Clinton, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8184 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;90&hyph;P
