FR940203-0-00028 FR940203-0-00009 Subpart B_Investigations Relating to Global Safeguard Actions §206.11 Applicability of subpart. This subpart B applies specifically to investigations under section 202(b) of the Trade Act. For other applicable rules, see subpart A of this part and part 201 of this chapter. §206.12 Definitions applicable to sub- part␣B. For the purposes of this subpart, the following terms have the meanings hereby assigned to them: (a) Adjustment plan means a plan to facilitate positive adjustment to import competition submitted by a petitioner to the Commission and USTR either with the petition or at any time within 120 days after the date of filing of the petition. (b) Commitment means commitments that a firm in the domestic industry, a certified or recognized union or group of workers in the domestic industry, a local community, a trade association representing the domestic industry, or any other person or group of persons submits to the Commission regarding actions such persons and entities intend to take to facilitate positive adjustment to import competition; (c) Critical circumstances mean such circumstances as are described in section 202(b)(3)(B) of the Trade Act; (d) Perishable agricultural product means any agricultural article or citrus product, including livestock, which is the subject of monitoring pursuant to section 202(d) of the Trade Act. §206.13 Who may file a petition. (a) In general. A petition under this subpart B may be filed by an entity, including a trade association, firm, certified or recognized union, or group of workers, that is representative of a domestic industry producing an article like or directly competitive with a foreign article that is allegedly being imported into the United States in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or the threat thereof, to such domestic industry. (b) Reinvestigation within 1 year. Except for good cause determined by the Commission to exist, no investigation for the purposes of section 202 of the Trade Act shall be made with respect to the same subject matter as a previous investigation under this section unless 1 year has elapsed since the Commission made its report to the President of the results of such previous investigation. (c) Perishable agricultural product. An entity of the type described in paragraph (a) of this section that represents a domestic industry producing a perishable agricultural product may petition for provisional relief with respect to such product only if such product has been subject to monitoring by the Commission for not less than 90 days as of the date the allegation of injury is included in the petition. §206.14 Contents of petition. A petition under this subpart B shall include specific information in support of the claim that an article is being imported into the United States in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or the threat thereof, to the domestic industry producing an article like or directly competitive with the imported article. Such petition shall state whether provisional relief is sought because the imported article is a perishable agricultural product . In addition, such petition shall include the following information, to the extent that such information is publicly available from governmental or other sources, or best estimates and the basis therefor if such information is not available: (a) Product description. The name and description of the imported article concerned, specifying the United States tariff provision under which such article is classified and the current tariff treatment thereof, and the name and description of the like or directly competitive domestic article concerned; (b) Representativeness. (1) The names and addresses of the firms represented in the petition and/or the firms employing or previously employing the workers represented in the petition and the locations of their establishments in which the domestic article is produced; (2) the percentage of domestic production of the like or directly competitive domestic article that such represented firms and/or workers account for and the basis for claiming that such firms and/or workers are representative of an industry; and (3) the names and locations of all other producers of the domestic article known to the petitioner; (c) Import data. Import data for at least each of the most recent 5 full years which form the basis of the claim that the article concerned is being imported in increased quantities, either actual or relative to domestic production;
