FR940325-1-00102 FR940325-1-00008 §4130.6&hyph;1 Mandatory terms and conditions. (a) *␣*␣* The authorized livestock grazing use shall not exceed the livestock carrying capacity of the allotment. * * * * * (c) Permits and leases shall incorporate terms and conditions that ensure conformance with the national requirements and standards and guidelines pursuant to subpart 4180. 48. Section 4130.6&hyph;2 is amended by revising paragraph (f), removing the period from the end of paragraph (g) and adding a ``; and'' and by adding a new paragraph (h) to read as follows: §4130.6&hyph;2 Other terms and conditions. * * * * * (f) Provision for livestock grazing to be temporarily delayed, discontinued or modified to allow for the reproduction, establishment, or restoration of vigor of plants, provide for the improvement of riparian areas to achieve proper functioning condition or for the protection of other rangeland resources and values consistent with objectives of applicable land use plans, or to prevent compaction of wet soils, such as where delay of spring turnout is required because of weather conditions or lack of plant growth; * * * * * (h) A statement disclosing the requirement that permittees or lessees shall provide reasonable access across private and leased lands to the Bureau of Land Management for the orderly administration, management and protection of the public lands. 49. Section 4130.6&hyph;3 is revised to read as follows: §4130.6&hyph;3 Modification. Following consultation with the affected lessees or permittees, other landowners involved, the interested public, and States having lands or responsibility for managing resources within the affected area, the authorized officer may modify terms and conditions of the permit or lease when the present grazing use is not meeting the land use plan, AMP or other activity plan, or management objectives, or is not in conformance with the national requirements or the standards and guidelines. To the extent practical, the authorized officer shall provide to affected permittees or lessees, States having lands or responsibility for managing resources within the affected area, and the interested public an opportunity to review, comment and give input during the preparation of reports that evaluate monitoring and other data that are used as a basis for making decisions to increase or decrease grazing use, or to change the terms and conditions of a permit or lease. 50. Section 4130.7&hyph;1 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (c), redesignating paragraphs (d) and (e) as (f) and (g), respectively, adding new paragraphs (d), (e), and (h), and in newly redesignated paragraph (f) adding a new sentence after the second sentence and a sentence to the end of the paragraph to read as follows: §4130.7&hyph;1 Payment of fees. (a) Grazing fees shall be established annually by the Secretary. (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section, and §4130.7&hyph;2, the grazing fee per AUM shall be equal to the $3.96 base value multiplied by the Forage Value Index computed annually from private grazing land lease rate data supplied by the National Agricultural Statistics Service, as follows: Grazing Fee per AUM=$3.96×Forage Value Index $3.96=The base value per AUM; and Forage Value Index (FVI) = the weighted average of the prior year's private grazing land lease rate per AUM for pasturing cattle on private rangelands in each of the 17 contiguous western States (Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Kansas, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming) divided by the weighted average of the private grazing land lease rate per AUM for pasturing cattle in the year 1996 in each of the 17 contiguous western States. The weighted averages are calculated by multiplying the private grazing land lease rate for each of the 17 States by the number of public AUMs sold on public lands, National Forests and National Grasslands in each of the States during the respective years and dividing by the total number of public AUMs sold in the 17 western States in the respective years. (2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and §4130.7&hyph;2, the fee shall be phased in over the years 1995 through 1997 as follows: Grazing Fee per AUM for 1995=$2.75 Grazing Fee per AUM for 1996=$3.50 Grazing Fee per AUM for 1997=$3.96 × FVI
