FR940817-0-00077 FR940817-0-00020 Wednesday August 17, 1994 Part IX Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 20 Migratory Bird Hunting; Final Frameworks for Early-Season Migratory Bird Hunting Regulations; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 158␣/␣Wednesday, August 17, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 20 RIN 1018&hyph;AA24 Migratory Bird Hunting; Final Frameworks for Early-Season Migratory Bird Hunting Regulations AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule prescribes final early-season frameworks from which States, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands may select season dates, limits, and other options for the 1994&hyph;95 migratory bird hunting season. These early seasons may open prior to October 1, 1994. The effect of this final rule is to facilitate the selection of hunting seasons by the States and Territories to further the annual establishment of the early-season migratory bird hunting regulations. These selections will be published in the Federal Register as amendments to §§20.101 through 20.107, and §20.109 of title 50 CFR part 20. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule takes effect on August 17, 1994. ADDRESSES: Season selections from States and Territories are to be mailed to: Chief, Office of Migratory Bird Management, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, ms 634_ARLSQ, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240. Comments received are available for public inspection during normal business hours in room 634, Arlington Square Building, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paul R. Schmidt, Chief, Office of Migratory Bird Management, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, ms 634_ARLSQ, NW., 1849 C Street, Washington, DC 20240, (703) 358&hyph;1714. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Regulations Schedule for 1994 On April 7, 1994, the Service published for public comment in the Federal Register (59 FR 16762) a proposal to amend 50 CFR part 20, with comment periods ending July 21, 1994, for early-season proposals and August 29, 1994, for late-season proposals. On June 8, 1994, the Service published for public comment a second document (59 FR 29700) which provided supplemental proposals for early- and late-season migratory bird hunting regulations frameworks. On June 23, 1994, a public hearing was held in Washington, DC, as announced in the April 7 and June 8 Federal Registers to review the status of migratory shore and upland game birds. Proposed hunting regulations were discussed for those species and for other early seasons. On July 12, 1994, the Service published in the Federal Register (59 FR 35566) a third document in the series of proposed, supplemental, and final rulemaking documents which dealt specifically with proposed early-season frameworks for the 1994&hyph;95 season. This rulemaking is the fourth in the series, and establishes final frameworks for early-season migratory bird hunting regulations for the 1994&hyph;95 season. Review of Public Comments and the Service's Response As of July 25, 1994, the Service had received 36 written comments; 28 of these specifically addressed early-season issues. The Service also received recommendations from all four Flyway Councils. Early-season comments are summarized and discussed in the order used in the April 7 Federal Register . Only the numbered items pertaining to early seasons for which comments were received are included. General Written Comments: The Humane Society of the United States recommended that all seasons open at noon, mid-week, to reduce the large kills associated with the traditional Saturday openings. They recommend special seasons be discontinued for the same purpose. One individual from California suggested that the waterfowl bag limits and seasons should be established on a flyway basis. Two local sportsmen's organization from Massachusetts requested that shooting hours remain one-half hour before sunrise to sunset. 1. Ducks The categories used to discuss issues related to duck harvest management are as follows: (A) General Harvest Strategy, (B) Framework Dates, (C) Season Length, (D) Closed Seasons, (E) Bag Limits, (F) Zones and Split Seasons, and (G) Special Seasons/Species Management. Only those categories containing substantial recommendations are included below. G. Special Seasons/Species Management i. September Teal Seasons Council Recommendations: The Central Flyway Council recommended that September teal season shooting hours begin one-half hour before sunrise to sunset without further evaluation for all non-production Central Flyway States. The Central Flyway Council recommended that the Service review the guidelines for establishing a September teal season for any new requests for seasons. The Upper-Region and Lower-Region Regulations Committees of the Mississippi Flyway Council recommended that Michigan be permitted to hold an experimental September teal season in southeastern portions of the State. The Lower-Region Regulations Committee of the Mississippi Flyway Council requested that September teal season shooting hours beginning one-half hour before sunrise be made operational and that no further evaluation of shooting hours be required. Written Comments: An individual representing a group of duck hunters from Wisconsin expressed concern that some States with a September teal season are allowed shooting hours that begin one-half hour before sunrise. He believes that hunters are unable to identify ducks and that most crippling loss occurs prior to sunrise. The Michigan Department of Natural Resources requested that Michigan be allowed to conduct a teal season in areas where teal concentrate. They proposed limiting the season to no more than 2,000 hunters and believed that hunters' skills at identifying waterfowl are better now than they were during initial evaluations of teal seasons in the 1960's. Four individuals from Michigan supported the proposed September teal season for portions of Michigan. Service Response: Breeding population information for 1994 and harvest and band-recovery information from the 1993&hyph;94 waterfowl season indicate that a September teal season can be offered to nonproduction States of the Central and Mississippi Flyways in 1994. During their 1993-94 teal seasons, the States of Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas in the Central flyway and Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi in the Mississippi Flyway participated in a study that indicated that shooting hours beginning at one-half hour before sunrise during teal seasons have a negligible impact on nontarget duck species in those States. The Service believes the data are sufficient to address its concern about the potential harvest of nontarget species during the presunrise period, and will permit those States that participated in the study to have presunrise shooting hours during the 1994 teal season, without further evaluation. Other States that are permitted a teal season (Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, and Ohio), but did not participate in the study, must begin shooting hours at sunrise. The Service recognizes the value of these September teal seasons in providing additional hunting opportunity but remains concerned about the potential impacts of these seasons on non-target species in certain areas. The Service strategy regarding use of teal seasons specifies that teal seasons can be offered only to nonproduction States of the Central and Mississippi Flyways. Because Michigan is considered a production State and was not part of the original, comprehensive evaluation, the Service does not support the requests for a teal season. Although the definitions of production and nonproduction States may need to be reviewed, the Service has stated in the August 23, 1993, Federal Register (58 FR 44577) that it prefers a Flyway-wide approach to assess whether expansion of teal seasons to areas beyond those currently allowed is permissible. The Michigan proposal does not meet this criterion. The Service also notes that such expansions would require a reevaluation of the entire teal season, including an analysis of information from areas currently permitted teal seasons as well as areas into which teal seasons might be expanded. ii. September Duck Seasons Council Recommendations: The Upper-Region and Lower-Region Regulations Committees of the Mississippi Flyway Council recommended that Iowa be permitted to hold a portion of their regular duck season in September to increase harvest opportunity on blue-winged teal. Written Comments: Several individuals and petitions with 4,697 signatures requested nine additional days of duck hunting in Wisconsin. The request notes that the efforts of duck hunters, the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, Ducks Unlimited, and various sportsmen's organizations have resulted in record levels of duck production. The additional nine days of duck hunting would make Wisconsin's season equal in length to certain other States in the Mississippi Flyway that are permitted a September teal season. Service Response: The Service previously determined in the ``Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement: Issuance of Annual Regulations Permitting the Sport Hunting of Migratory Birds (SEIS 88)'' that the extension of framework dates into September for Iowa's September duck season was a type of special season. The Service further acknowledges that the 1990 assessment of special September teal seasons included data from Iowa's September duck season segments during 1979-87. As such, the effects of Iowa's special seasons were taken into account when determining the appropriateness of September teal seasons as a harvest-management tool. Iowa's data also suggested little impact on other duck species during this season. Therefore, the Service believes that Iowa's September duck season segment, as conducted during 1979-87, is consistent with the Service's policy regarding the use of special seasons. Current status information for the blue-winged teal supports Iowa's request for a September duck season in 1994. The Service stated in SEIS 88 that special seasons should be re-evaluated periodically to assess potential changes in impacts to the waterfowl resource. The Service notes that more than a decade has passed since Iowa conducted its evaluation of this season and requests that Iowa collect information documenting the effect of this season on other duck species in Iowa. Regarding the requests for additional days of duck hunting in Wisconsin, an important consideration in the establishment of hunting regulations is the distinction between regular hunting seasons and special seasons. Regular seasons are developed by Flyway/management unit, and the same season length, bag limit, etc. are provided for all States in that Flyway/management unit. Special seasons, however, usually involve additional harvest opportunity and are focused on a single species or group of species. Because of this, the use of these seasons is limited to times and areas where the species or group is sufficiently isolated to minimize impacts on other species/groups. This limitation increases the likelihood that in some cases a special season or some compensating increase in other harvest opportunity cannot be available to all States. The September teal season is an example. Wisconsin is one of nine States in the Mississippi and Central Flyways that are not eligible for this special season. 3. Sea Ducks Council Recommendations: The Atlantic Flyway Council recommended that the 1994 sea duck season frameworks remain the same as the 1993&hyph;94 frameworks. Written Comments: The Humane Society of the United States (Humane Society) opposed this season in the Atlantic Flyway because they believe crippling and wanton waste occur, information is insufficient to justify a season, and available data indicate possible declines for certain sea duck species. They believe that season length and bag limits in the Atlantic Flyway should be reduced substantially until more complete information on biology and population status is available. They repeat their concern regarding seasons and limits on sea ducks which are deemed too liberal, considering the quality and quantity of data on population status and trends, and recommend reductions in those regulations. The Humane Society notes that apparently the Pacific Flyway Council has not completed a comparable evaluation of its sea duck harvests and believes such seasons should be closed until necessary data are obtained. Two local organizations from Massachusetts requested a continuation of the 107-day sea duck season, with a 7-bird bag limit to include scoters. Service Response: The Service continues to be concerned about the status of sea ducks and the potential impact that increased hunting activity could have on these species. In recognition of the need for additional information on these species, the Service prepared a report (dated June, 1993) on sea duck and merganser hunting seasons, status, and harvests in Alaska and the Pacific Flyway coastal states. This document was prepared for use by the Service and the Pacific Flyway Council in evaluating the effects of seasons on these ducks. There is no special season on sea ducks in the Pacific Flyway; however, Alaska has a sea duck limit that is additional to the limit on other ducks. In the Atlantic Flyway, a report was recently completed (dated April, 1994) and distributed, describing the status of sea ducks in that portion of the continent. Cooperative efforts are ongoing to summarize additional information on sea ducks, however the Service continues to emphasize the importance of completing the sea duck management plan. Furthermore, the Service considers improvements in survey capabilities for these species to be extremely important for future management actions. In 1993, the Service reduced bag limits on scoters from 7 to 4 within an overall 7-bird sea duck limit. The Service will continue to monitor these species and notes that further harvest restrictions may be necessary. 4. Canada Geese A. Special Seasons Council Recommendations: The Atlantic Flyway Council recommended that West Virginia be permitted to initiate a 3-year experimental resident Canada goose season during September 1&hyph;15. The Atlantic Flyway Council recommended modifications to hunt zones for September seasons on resident Canada geese in Maryland, North Carolina, Pennsylvania (Northwestern and Southeastern Zones), and Virginia. These proposed changes would be experimental. The Upper-Region Regulations Committee of the Mississippi Flyway Council made the following recommendations pertaining to special Canada goose seasons: In Indiana, expand the September season hunting area to Statewide with a September 1&hyph;15 framework. The proposed changes would not be experimental. In Michigan, extend the seasons in the northern Lower Peninsula and Upper Peninsula for 2 additional years and expand the zone in the Upper Peninsula to approximately the eastern half of the Peninsula; change the season length in the southern part of the Lower Peninsula from 10 to 15 days (September 1&hyph;15) for 3 years and include the southern portions of Tuscola and Huron Counties. The proposed changes would be experimental. In Minnesota, expand the Fergus Falls/Alexandria Zone and extend the framework for the 10-day season to September 1&hyph;16 for 3 years. The proposed changes would be experimental. In Ohio, expand the September-season hunting area to Statewide with a September 1&hyph;15 framework. The proposed changes would not be experimental. In Wisconsin, enlarge the size of the Southeastern Wisconsin Zone and continue as a special season with a September 1&hyph;13 framework. The proposed changes would not be experimental. The Lower-Region Regulations Committee of the Mississippi Flyway Council requested that the Service closely monitor all Canada goose seasons and fully analyze data from existing special or experimental seasons before expanding seasons that cumulatively might increase harvest of the Southern James Bay Population. Also, current special seasons should adhere to present criteria designed by the Service. The Lower-Region Regulations Committee of the Mississippi Flyway Council also requested that a 3-year experimental, 10-day September Canada goose season be permitted in the eastern portion of Tennessee. The Pacific Flyway Council recommended that there be no change in frameworks in the experimental goose zone in Oregon or in the operational status in Washington. They also recommended no change in frameworks for Wyoming. Written Comments: The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources expressed concern that all of their special September Canada goose zone would return to experimental status, rather than just the expanded portion. They also indicated that they wish to delay the zone expansion and later season dates until next year. Service Response: The Service agrees with the proposed changes to resident Canada goose seasons in Maryland, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin and the new seasons in Tennessee and West Virginia. All of these proposed changes are considered experimental and subject to evaluation. The Service notes that all of the seasons proposed in the Mississippi Flyway, except those for Michigan, Minnesota and Tennessee, were not proposed as experimental. The Service remains committed to population-specific management of Canada geese. However, the Service believes that the contribution of different goose populations to the goose harvest during special seasons must be determined experimentally. For this reason, the Service has established criteria for special Canada goose seasons (58 FR 44578&hyph;44579), which clearly state the need for experimental evaluation of new seasons, including extensions of geographic areas or times. Therefore, the Service agrees to the changes proposed by the Mississippi Flyway Council, but on an experimental basis and provided an approved evaluation is conducted as specified in the existing criteria. B. Regular Seasons. Council Recommendations: The Upper-Region Regulations Committee of the Mississippi Flyway Council recommended that the early-season frameworks provide for the opening of regular goose seasons in Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan as early as September 24. The Lower-Region Regulations Committee of the Mississippi Flyway Council requested that the Service closely monitor all Canada goose seasons and fully analyze data from existing special or experimental seasons before expanding seasons that cumulatively might increase harvest of the Southern James Bay Population of Canada geese. The Pacific Flyway Council seeks a limited resumption of cackling Canada goose hunting throughout their range and recommends that the Service provide an expedited review of their recommended changes in cackling Canada goose regulations for impacts on Aleutian Canada geese under the Section 7 consultation process. Written Comments: The Michigan Department of Natural Resources believes that regular goose seasons should be allowed to open as early as September 24 in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. They noted that significant numbers of migrant geese begin arriving in the Upper Peninsula during September 20&hyph;24 in most years. They anticipate that harvest in this region would remain small compared to the rest of the State. They also believe that nearly all Canada geese harvested in this region are of the giant subspecies or the Mississippi Valley Population. Finally, they noted that allowing a September 24 opening would provide equitable hunting opportunity compared to other areas because most geese leave this region by early November. The Association of Village Council Presidents, representing Native American interests in the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta area of Alaska, supported modest liberalizations of white-fronted goose seasons in Alaska and Washington. However, they did not support further liberalizations in Oregon or California, noting that liberalizations occurred during each of the preceding years and that it was difficult to measure the effects of these incremental changes. Service Response: The Service concurs with the September 24 opening of regular Canada goose seasons in Wisconsin and in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. The Service routinely monitors Canada goose seasons for impacts on the Southern James Bay Population through its harvest surveys and reviews of State evaluation reports on special seasons. The population index for cackling Canada geese was 164,300 geese in 1993, which was 10 percent above the 1992 index and the largest since this special survey was initiated in 1979. The Service supports the Pacific Flyway Council's recommendation for a resumption of the season on these geese and frameworks described herein reflect that change. Section 7 consultation is an integral part of the season-setting process. The population index for the Pacific Population of white-fronted geese was 295,000 in November 1993 and near the population objective of 300,000. The Service concurs with the Association of Village Council Presidents for increased limits on white-fronted geese in western Alaska and frameworks, herein, reflect that change. A decision regarding frameworks affecting white-fronted goose harvests in Washington, Oregon, and California, however, will be deferred to the late-season process. 9. Sandhill Cranes Council Recommendations: The Central and Pacific Flyway Councils recommended no changes in the Federal frameworks for the hunting of sandhill cranes during the 1994&hyph;95 seasons. Written Comments: The Texas Parks and Wildlife Department responded to statements in the April 7, 1994, Federal Register (59 FR 16765) which indicated that there should be no increase or shift in crane harvest toward the Gulf Coast Subpopulation of Mid-Continent Sandhill Cranes and especially the greater-sandhill-crane component. They noted that the Central Flyway Council did not propose any framework changes for the 1994&hyph;95 seasons and asked for clarification of the reasons for this concern, especially since the population remains stable. In this regard, they suggested that the Service provide a harvest objective, rationale and method of evaluation of any harvest reduction proposed. Furthermore, the appropriate level of management should be clearly identified, i.e. population, subpopulation, or subspecies level. Although biologists working in Texas support management at the population or subpopulation level, they indicated that zoning for the hunting of cranes could not be attempted until these issues had been resolved. Service Response: In 1993, the Central and Pacific Flyways completed a revision of the Cooperative Management Plan for the Mid-Continent Population of sandhill cranes. This revision established a goal of a stable population at levels observed during the 1982&hyph;92 period and removed the harvest threshold (25,000) that had been in place since 1981. The Service believes that future management actions for Mid-Continent cranes should be based on the recognition of biologically discrete subpopulations, which would necessitate the development of certain data collection efforts at the subspecies level. In the April 9, 1993, Federal Register (59 FR 16765), the Service reiterated its concern that overall harvest levels should not be increased and that there should be no increase or shift in harvest toward the Gulf Coast Subpopulation or to the greater sandhill crane component. The Service supports continuation of last year's frameworks but remains extremely concerned about possible increases or shifts in harvest toward the Gulf Coast subpopulation, especially the greater-sandhill-crane component. The Service considers a harvest threshold to be an integral component of the Cooperative Management Plan for the Mid-Continent Population and hopes that the newly-formed crane working group, appointed by the Central Flyway Council, will strongly reconsider the need for a harvest threshold in the development of a harvest strategy for this population. 11. Moorhens & Gallinules Written Comments: The Humane Society of the United States believes the bag limits for moorhens are extremely high. Service Response: The Service is not aware of any information indicating that the current bag limits have had any adverse impact on moorhen populations. Since these bag limits have been the same for a number of years, the Service believes they are appropriate. 12. Rails Written Comments: The Humane Society of the United States believes that bag limits for rails are extremely high and that they are not consistent with wise use and conservation of the resource. Service Response: Available information indicates that harvest pressure on rails is relatively light and there is no evidence to suggest that the frameworks provided herein are not appropriate. 13. Snipe Council Recommendations: The Pacific Flyway Council recommends no change in frameworks. Written Comments: The Humane Society of the United States believes the bag limits for common snipe are extremely high. Service Response: The Service believes that frameworks provided herein are appropriate, considering the relatively light harvest pressure on snipe. 14. Woodcock Council Recommendations: The Lower-Region Regulations Committee of the Mississippi Flyway Council requested that Tennessee be allowed to divide the State into 2 zones (East and West) for woodcock hunting. Service Response: The Service is concerned about the gradual long-term declines in woodcock populations in both the Eastern and Central management regions. Although habitat changes appear to be the primary factor in the declines, adjustment of harvest opportunities may be appropriate in light of current population trends. The Service will work with the Atlantic and Mississippi Flyway Councils to review the status of woodcock and cooperatively develop a harvest-management strategy. The Service believes that zoning has the potential to increase the harvest of woodcock. Therefore, the Service does not support a zoned woodcock season at a time when woodcock populations are declining and restrictive harvest regulations are being considered to bring harvest opportunities to levels commensurate with current populations. 15. Band-Tailed Pigeon Council Recommendations: The Pacific Flyway Council recommended no change in the band-tailed pigeon frameworks for the Pacific Coast and Four Corners populations. Service Response: The Service supports the continuation of seasons on both the Coastal and Interior Populations. Regarding the Coastal Population, the Service has reviewed recent population status and harvest information provided by the States. This information indicates that the Coastal Population probably numbers between 2 and 3 million birds and that the 1993 harvest did not exceed 16,000 band-tails. However, the Service remains concerned about the long-term decline of this population and continues to support restrictive harvest regulations. Again this year, all States having band-tailed pigeon hunting seasons must require band-tailed pigeon hunters to obtain mandatory State permits (or participate in the nationwide Migratory Bird Harvest Information Program) to provide a sampling frame for obtaining more precise estimates of band-tailed pigeon harvest. Those States not participating in the Migratory Bird Harvest Information Program will be required to conduct a harvest survey and provide the results to the Service by June 1, 1995. 16. Mourning Doves Council Recommendations: The Central Flyway Council recommended that Texas be allowed an increase in the number of segments from 2 to 3 in 2 of the 3 mourning dove hunting zones now offered to Texas. The Pacific Flyway Council recommended that there be no change in the frameworks for mourning doves. Service Response: The Service denies the request pertaining to Texas. In the August 23, 1993, Federal Register (58 FR 44581), the Service noted that the proliferation of zones and split seasons is contrary to the preferred alternative in the ``1988 Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement: Issuance of Annual Regulations Permitting the Sport Hunting of Migratory Birds (FSES 88-14).'' In regard to Texas, the Service noted that no other States are allowed to select both 3 zones and 3 splits for any species; in fact, no State other than Texas is allowed to select 3 zones for doves. The Service also expressed concern about the ability to detect and measure possible changes in harvest that may result from those additional splits. Additionally, the Service is concerned about changes in the schedule for inclusion of States in the Harvest Information Program. It emphasizes the need for full implementation of this program to gain accurate harvest estimates for mourning doves and other migratory game birds. This information is needed to evaluate changes in hunting seasons such as the proposed change in Service policy governing zones and splits in Texas. 17. White-winged and White-tipped doves Council Recommendations: The Central Flyway Council recommended that the number of white-winged doves allowed in the 12-bird aggregate bag limit during the mourning dove season be increased from 2 to 6 in the Texas Counties of Cameron, Hidalgo, Starr, and Willacy. The Pacific Flyway Council recommended no change in the frameworks. Service Response: The Service approves the request to increase the bag limit in Texas. The whitewing population in the four-county area of South Texas has improved dramatically from past years and has apparently recovered from significant population decreases due to habitat degradation caused by drought and freezing temperatures. 18. Alaska Council Recommendations: The Pacific Flyway Council recommended that Alaska be allowed no more than 1 Canada goose in the daily bag for Unit 9E and the western portions of Unit 18. The Council also recommended that the Statewide closure on cackling Canada geese be removed. The Pacific Flyway Council recommended removal of restrictive bag limits for white-fronted geese in Units 1&hyph;9 and 14&hyph;18 in Alaska. The goose limit would be 6 daily and 12 in possession, of which no more than 4 daily and 8 in possession could be any combination of Canada or white-fronted geese. The Pacific Flyway Council recommended no change in frameworks for tundra swans. Written Comments: The Association of Village Council Presidents, representing Native American interests in the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta area of Alaska, supported modest liberalizations of white-fronted goose seasons in Alaska and Washington. The Humane Society of the United States recommends that the opening date for all seasons in Alaska be delayed by two weeks so that young birds are able to leave natal marshes before being subjected to hunting pressure. Service Response: The Service concurs with the Pacific Flyway Council's recommendations for one Canada goose in the daily limit in those areas in western Alaska previously closed to protect cackling Canada geese and agrees with eliminating the state-wide closure on cackling Canada geese. The frameworks herein reflect those changes. The Service supports the Association for Village Council Presidents' recommendation for increased limits on white-fronted geese in portions of western Alaska; and frameworks herein reflect that change. A decision regarding seasons in Washington will be deferred until the late-season process. It is important to note that in Alaska, hunting pressure on migratory birds is comparatively light. Many northern species will have migrated from the State before seasons open there in September and there is no evidence to indicate that regulated hunting has adversely impacted local populations. 22. Falconry Council Recommendations: The Pacific Flyway Council recommends no change in frameworks. Written Comments: The Minnesota Department of Natural Resources supported the Service policy regarding exceptions to the 3&hyph;split limit. Service Response: The Service appreciates the support for the frameworks contained in this document. NEPA Consideration NEPA considerations are covered by the programmatic document, ``Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement: Issuance of Annual Regulations Permitting the Sport Hunting of Migratory Birds (FSES 88&hyph;14),'' filed with EPA on June 9, 1988. Notice of Availability was published in the Federal Register on June 16, 1988 (53 FR 22582). The Service's Record of Decision was published on August 18, 1988 (53 FR 31341). Copies of these documents are available from the Service at the address indicated under the caption ADDRESSES. Endangered Species Act Consideration In August 1994, the Division of Endangered Species concluded that the proposed action is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of listed species or result in the destruction or adverse modification of their critical habitats. Hunting regulations are designed, among other things, to remove or alleviate chances of conflict between seasons for migratory game birds and the protection and conservation of endangered and threatened species and their habitats. The Service's biological opinions resulting from its consultation under section 7 are considered public documents and are available for inspection in the Division of Endangered Species and the Office of Migratory Bird Management. Regulatory Flexibility Act; Executive Order (E.O.) 12866 and the Paperwork Reduction Act In the Federal Register dated April 7, 1994 (59 FR 16762), the Service reported measures it had undertaken to comply with requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq) and Executive Order 12866. These included preparing an Analysis of Regulatory Effects, preparing a Small Entity Flexibility Analysis under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, and publishing a summary of the latter. This rule was not subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866. This rule does not contain any information collection requiring approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3504. Authorship The primary author is Robert J. Blohm, Office of Migratory Bird Management. Regulations Promulgation The rulemaking process for migratory bird hunting regulations must, by its nature, operate under severe time constraints. However, the Service is of the view that every attempt should be made to give the public the greatest possible opportunity to comment on the regulations. Thus, when the proposed early-season rulemaking was published on July 13, the Service established what it believed was the longest period possible for public comment. In doing this, the Service recognized that, at the close of the comment period, time would be of the essence. That is, if there were a delay in the effective date of these regulations after this final rulemaking, the Service is of the opinion that the States would have insufficient time to select season dates and limits; to communicate those selections to the Service; and to establish and publicize the necessary regulations and procedures that implement their decisions. Therefore, the Service, under authority of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (July 3, 1918), as amended, (16 U.S.C. 703&hyph;712), prescribes final frameworks setting forth the species to be hunted, the daily bag and possession limits, the shooting hours, the season lengths, the earliest opening and latest closing season dates, and hunting areas, from which State and Territory conservation agency officials may select hunting season dates and other options. Upon receipt of season and option selections from these officials, the Service will publish in the Federal Register a final rulemaking amending 50 CFR part 20 to reflect seasons, limits, and shooting hours for the contiguous United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, for the 1993&hyph;94 season. The Service therefore finds that ``good cause'' exists, within the terms of 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(3) of the Administrative Procedure Act, and these frameworks will, therefore, take effect immediately upon publication. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 20 Exports, Hunting, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Transportation, Wildlife. The rules that eventually will be promulgated for the 1993&hyph;94 hunting season are authorized under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (July 3, 1918), as amended, (16 U.S.C. 703&hyph;712); the Fish and Wildlife Improvement Act (November 8, 1978), as amended, (16 U.S.C. 742); and the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 (August 8, 1956), as amended, (16 U.S.C. 742 a_j). Dated: August 8, 1994 George. T. Frampton, Jr. Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks Final Regulations Frameworks for 1994&hyph;95 Early Hunting Seasons on Certain Migratory Game Birds Pursuant to the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and delegated authorities, the Director approved the following proposed frameworks which prescribe season lengths, bag limits, shooting hours, and outside dates within which States may select seasons for certain migratory game birds between September 1, 1994, and March 10, 1995. General Dates: All outside dates noted below are inclusive. Shooting and Hawking (taking by falconry) Hours: Unless otherwise specified, from one-half hour before sunrise to sunset daily. Possession Limits: Unless otherwise specified, possession limits are twice the daily bag limit. Area, Zone, and Unit Descriptions: Geographic descriptions that differ from those published in the August 23, 1993, Federal Register (58 FR 44576) are contained in a later portion of this document. Special September Teal Season Outside Dates: Between September 1 and September 30, an open season on all species of teal may be selected by Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado (Central Flyway portion only), Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico (Central Flyway portion only), Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee, and Texas in areas delineated by State regulations. Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: Not to exceed 9 consecutive days, with a daily bag limit of 4 teal. Shooting Hours: One-half hour before sunrise to sunset, except in Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, and Ohio, where the hours are from sunrise to sunset. Special September Duck Seasons Florida: An experimental 5-consecutive-day season may be selected in September. The daily bag limit may not exceed 4 teal and wood ducks in the aggregate. Kentucky and Tennessee: In lieu of a special September teal season, an experimental 5-consecutive-day season may be selected in September. The daily bag limit may not exceed 4 teal and wood ducks in the aggregate, of which no more than 2 may be wood ducks. Iowa: Iowa may hold up to 5 days of its regular duck hunting season in September. All ducks which are legal during the regular duck season may be taken during the September segment of the season. The September season segment may commence no earlier than the Saturday nearest September 20 (September 17, 1994), with daily bag and possession limits being the same as those in effect during the 1994 regular duck season. The remainder of the regular duck season may not begin before October 15. Scoter, Eider, and Oldsquaw Ducks (Atlantic Flyway) Outside Dates: Between September 15 and January 20. Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: Not to exceed 107 days, with a daily bag limit of 7, singly or in the aggregate of the listed sea-duck species, of which no more than 4 may be scoters. Daily Bag Limits During the Regular Duck Season: Within the special sea duck areas, during the regular duck season in the Atlantic Flyway, States may choose to allow the above sea duck limits in addition to the limits applying to other ducks during the regular duck season. In all other areas, sea ducks may be taken only during the regular open season for ducks and must be included in the regular duck season daily bag and possession limits. Areas: In all coastal waters and all waters of rivers and streams seaward from the first upstream bridge in Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New York; in any waters of the Atlantic Ocean and in any tidal waters of any bay which are separated by at least 1 mile of open water from any shore, island, and emergent vegetation in New Jersey, South Carolina, and Georgia; and in any waters of the Atlantic Ocean and in any tidal waters of any bay which are separated by at least 800 yards of open water from any shore, island, and emergent vegetation in Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina and Virginia; and provided that any such areas have been described, delineated, and designated as special sea-duck hunting areas under the hunting regulations adopted by the respective States. Special Early Canada Goose Seasons Atlantic Flyway Hunting Seasons: Experimental Canada goose seasons may be selected by Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia. Areas open to the hunting of Canada geese must be described, delineated, and designated as such in each State's hunting regulations. Outside Dates: Between September 1 and September 10, except that the closing date is September 15 in Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, southeastern Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia and September 30 in North Carolina. Daily Bag Limits: Not to exceed 5 Canada geese. Mississippi Flyway Hunting Seasons: Canada goose seasons may be selected by Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, Tennessee, and Wisconsin. Seasons in all States except Wisconsin are experimental. Areas open to the hunting of Canada geese must be described, delineated, and designated as such in each State's hunting regulations. Outside Dates: September 1&hyph;10 in Wisconsin and in the Upper Peninsula and Northern Lower Peninsula Zones in Michigan; September 1&hyph;15 in Indiana, Ohio, and the South Zone in Michigan; September 1&hyph;16 in Minnesota; September 1&hyph;30 in Tennessee; and October 1&hyph;15 in Missouri. Season Length: Not to exceed 10 days except in Indiana, Ohio, and the South Zone in Michigan, where the season may extend for 15 days. Daily Bag Limits: Not to exceed 5 Canada geese. Pacific Flyway Wyoming may select a September season on Canada geese subject to the following conditions: 1. The season must be concurrent with the September portion of the sandhill crane season. 2. Hunting will be by State permit. 3. No more than 150 permits, in total, may be issued. 4. Each permittee may take no more than 2 Canada geese per season. Oregon, in the Lower Columbia River Zone, may select a season on Canada geese subject to the following conditions: 1. The season length is 12 days during September 1&hyph;12. 2. The daily bag limit is 3 Canada geese. Oregon, in the Northwest Zone, may select an experimental season on Canada geese subject to the following conditions: 1. The season length is 12 days during September 1&hyph;12. 2. Hunting will be by State permit. 3. Each permittee may take no more than 2 Canada geese per day. Washington may select a season on Canada geese, subject to the following conditions, in the Lower Columbia River Zone: 1. The season length is 12 days during September 1&hyph;12. 2. The daily bag limit is 3 Canada geese. Regular Goose Seasons Regular goose seasons in Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan may open as early as September 24. Season lengths and bag and possession limits will be established during the late-season regulations process. Sandhill Cranes Regular Seasons in the Central Flyway: Outside Dates: Between September 1 and February 28. Hunting Seasons: Seasons not to exceed 58 consecutive days may be selected in designated portions of the following States: Colorado, Kansas, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming. Seasons not to exceed 93 consecutive days may be selected in designated portions of the following States: New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas. Daily Bag Limits: 3 sandhill cranes. Permits: Each person participating in the regular sandhill crane seasons must have a valid Federal sandhill crane hunting permit in his possession while hunting. Special Seasons in the Central and Pacific Flyways: Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming may select seasons for hunting sandhill cranes within the range of the Rocky Mountain Population subject to the following conditions: Outside Dates: Between September 1 and January 31. Hunting Seasons: The season in any State or zone may not exceed 30 days. Bag limits: Not to exceed 3 daily and 9 per season. Permits: Participants must have a valid permit, issued by the appropriate State, in their possession while hunting. Other provisions: Numbers of permits, open areas, season dates, protection plans for other species, and other provisions of seasons must be consistent with the management plan and approved by the Central and Pacific Flyway Councils. All hunts except those in Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming will be experimental. Common Moorhens and Purple Gallinules Outside Dates: Between September 1 and January 20 in the Atlantic, Mississippi, and Central Flyways. States in the Pacific Flyway have been allowed to select their hunting seasons between the outside dates for the season on ducks; therefore, they are late-season frameworks and no frameworks are provided in this document. Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: Seasons may not exceed 70 days in the Atlantic, Mississippi, and Central Flyways. Seasons may be split into two segments. The daily bag limit is 15 common moorhens and purple gallinules, singly or in the aggregate of the two species. Rails Outside Dates: States included herein may select seasons between September 1 and January 20 on clapper, king, sora, and Virginia rails. Hunting Seasons: The season may not exceed 70 days, and may be split into two segments. Daily Bag Limits: Clapper and King Rails - In Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland, 10, singly or in the aggregate of the two species. In Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia, 15, singly or in the aggregate of the two species. Sora and Virginia Rails - In the Atlantic, Mississippi, and Central Flyways and the Pacific-Flyway portions of Colorado, Montana, New Mexico, and Wyoming, 25 daily and 25 in possession, singly or in the aggregate of the two species. The season is closed in the remainder of the Pacific Flyway. Common Snipe Outside Dates: Between September 1 and February 28. Except, in Maine,Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia, the season must end no later than January 31. Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: Seasons may not exceed 107 days and may be split into two segments. The daily bag limit is 8 snipe. American Woodcock Outside Dates: States in the Atlantic Flyway may select hunting seasons between October 1 and January 31. States in the Central and Mississippi Flyways may select hunting seasons between September 1 and January 31. Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: In the Atlantic Flyway, seasons may not exceed 45 days, with a daily bag limit of 3; in the Central and Mississippi Flyways, seasons may not exceed 65 days, with a daily bag limit of 5. Seasons may be split into two segments. Zoning: New Jersey may select seasons in each of two zones. The season in each zone may not exceed 35 days. Band-tailed Pigeons Pacific Coast States (California, Oregon, Washington, and Nevada) Outside Dates: Between September 15 and January 1. Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: Not more than 9 consecutive days, with bag and possession limits of 2 and 2 band-tailed pigeons, respectively. Permit Requirement: The appropriate State agency must issue permits, and report on harvest and hunter participation to the Service by June 1 of the following year, or participate in the Migratory Bird Harvest Information Program. Zoning: California may select hunting seasons not to exceed 9 consecutive days in each of two zones. The season in the North Zone must close by October 7. Four-Corners States (Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah) Outside Dates: Between September 1 and November 30. Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: Not more than 30 consecutive days, with a daily bag limit of 5 band-tailed pigeons. Permit Requirement: The appropriate State agency must issue permits, and report on harvest and hunter participation to the Service by June 1 of the following year, or participate in the Migratory Bird Harvest Information Program. Zoning: New Mexico may select hunting seasons not to exceed 20 consecutive days in each of two zones. The season in the South Zone may not open until October 1. Mourning Doves Outside Dates: Between September 1 and January 15, except as otherwise provided, States may select hunting seasons and daily bag limits as follows: Eastern Management Unit (All States east of the Mississippi River, and Louisiana) Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: Not more than 70 days with a daily bag limit of 12, or not more than 60 days with a daily bag limit of 15. Zoning and Split Seasons: States may select hunting seasons in each of two zones. The season within each zone may be split into not more than three periods. The hunting seasons in the South Zones of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, and Mississippi may commence no earlier than September 20. Regulations for bag and possession limits, season length, and shooting hours must be uniform within specific hunting zones. Central Management Unit (Arkansas, Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, and Wyoming) Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: Not more than 70 days with a daily bag limit of 12, or not more than 60 days with a daily bag limit of 15. Zoning and Split Seasons: States may select hunting seasons in each of two zones. The season within each zone may be split into not more than three periods. Texas may select hunting seasons for each of three zones subject to the following conditions: A. The hunting season may be split into not more than two periods, except in that portion of Texas in which the special white-winged dove season is allowed, where a limited mourning dove season may be held concurrently with that special season (see white-winged dove frameworks). B. A season may be selected for the North and Central Zones between September 1 and January 25; and for the South Zone between September 20 and January 25. C. Each zone may have a daily bag limit of 12 doves (15 under the alternative) in the aggregate, no more than 6 of which may be white-winged doves and no more than 2 of which may be white-tipped doves, except that during the special white-winged dove season, the daily bag limit may not exceed 10 white-winged, mourning, and white-tipped doves in the aggregate, of which no more than 5 may be mourning doves and 2 may be white-tipped doves. D. Except as noted above, regulations for bag and possession limits, season length, and shooting hours must be uniform within each hunting zone. Western Management Unit (Arizona, California, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, and Washington) Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, and Washington - Not more than 30 consecutive days with a daily bag limit of 10 mourning doves (in Nevada, the daily bag limit may not exceed 10 mourning and white-winged doves in the aggregate). Arizona and California - Not more than 60 days which may be split between two periods, September 1&hyph;15 and November 1&hyph;January 15. In Arizona, during the first segment of the season, the daily bag limit is 10 mourning and white-winged doves in the aggregate, of which no more than 6 may be white-winged doves. During the remainder of the season, the daily bag limit is restricted to 10 mourning doves. In California, the daily bag limit may not exceed 10 mourning and white-winged doves in the aggregate. White-Winged and White-Tipped Doves Hunting Seasons and Daily Bag Limits: Except as shown below, seasons in Arizona, California, Florida, Nevada, New Mexico, and Texas must be concurrent with mourning dove seasons. Arizona may select a hunting season of not more than 30 consecutive days, running concurrently with the first segment of the mourning dove season. The daily bag limit may not exceed 10 mourning and white-winged doves in the aggregate, of which no more than 6 may be white-winged doves. In Florida, the daily bag limit may not exceed 12 mourning and white-winged doves (15 under the alternative) in the aggregate, of which no more than 4 may be white-winged doves. In the Nevada Counties of Clark and Nye, and in the California Counties of Imperial, Riverside, and San Bernardino, the daily bag limit may not exceed 10 mourning and white-winged doves in the aggregate. In New Mexico, the daily bag limit may not exceed 12 mourning and white-winged doves (15 under the alternative) in the aggregate. In Texas, the daily bag limit may not exceed 12 mourning, white-winged, and white-tipped doves (15 under the alternative) in the aggregate, of which not more than 6 may be white-winged doves and not more than 2 may be white-tipped doves. In addition, Texas may also select a hunting season of not more than 4 days for the special white-winged dove area of the South Zone between September 1 and September 19. The daily bag limit may not exceed 10 white-winged,mourning, and white-tipped doves in the aggregate, of which no more than 5 may be mourning doves and 2 may be white-tipped doves. Alaska Outside Dates: Between September 1 and January 26. Hunting Seasons: Alaska may select 107 consecutive days for waterfowl, sandhill cranes, and common snipe in each of five zones. The season may be split without penalty in the Kodiak Zone. The seasons in each zone must be concurrent. Closures: The season is closed on Canada geese from Unimak Pass westward in the Aleutian Island chain. The hunting season is closed on Aleutian Canada geese, emperor geese, spectacled eiders, and Steller's eiders. Daily Bag and Possession limits: Ducks_Except as noted, a basic daily bag limit of 5 and a possession limit of 15 ducks. Daily bag and possession limits in the North Zone are 8 and 24, and in the Gulf Coast Zone they are 6 and 18, respectively. The basic limits may include no more than 2 pintails daily and 6 in possession, and 1 canvasback daily and 3 in possession. In addition to the basic limit, there is a daily bag limit of 15 and a possession limit of 30 scoter, common and king eiders, oldsquaw, harlequin, and common and red-breasted mergansers, singly or in the aggregate of these species. Geese_A basic daily bag limit of 6, of which not more than 4 may be greater white-fronted or Canada geese, singly or in the aggregate of these species, except that the daily bag limit on Canada geese in Game Management Units 9E and 18 is 1. Brant_A daily bag limit of 2. Common snipe_A daily bag limit of 8. Sandhill cranes_A daily bag limit of 3. Tundra swans_Open seasons for tundra swans may be selected subject to the following conditions: 1. No more than 300 permits may be issued in GMU 22, authorizing each permittee to take 1 tundra swan per season. 2. No more than 500 permits may be issued during the experimental season in GMU 18. No more than 1 tundra swan may be taken per permit. 3. The seasons must be concurrent with other migratory bird seasons. 4. The appropriate State agency must issue permits, obtain harvest and hunter-participation data, and report the results of this hunt to the Service by June 1 of the following year. Hawaii Outside Dates: Between September 1 and January 15. Hunting Seasons: Not more than 60 days (70 under the alternative) for mourning doves. Bag Limits: Not to exceed 15 (12 under the alternative) mourning doves. Note: Mourning doves may be taken in Hawaii in accordance with shooting hours and other regulations set by the State of Hawaii, and subject to the applicable provisions of 50 CFR part 20. Puerto Rico Doves and Pigeons: Outside Dates: Between September 1 and January 15. Hunting Seasons: Not more than 60 days. Daily Bag and Possession Limits: Not to exceed 10 Zenaida, mourning, and white-winged doves in the aggregate. Not to exceed 5 scaly-naped pigeons. Closed Areas: There is no open season on doves or pigeons in the following areas: Municipality of Culebra, Desecheo Island, Mona Island, El Verde Closure Area, and Cidra Municipality and adjacent areas. Ducks, Coots, Moorhens, Gallinules, and Snipe: Outside Dates: Between October 1 and January 31. Hunting Seasons: Not more than 55 days may be selected for hunting ducks, common moorhens, and common snipe. The season may be split into two segments. Daily Bag Limits: Ducks_Not to exceed 3. Common moorhens_Not to exceed 6. Common snipe_Not to exceed 6. Closed Seasons: The season is closed on the ruddy duck, white-cheeked pintail, West Indian whistling duck, fulvous whistling duck, and masked duck, which are protected by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The season also is closed on the purple gallinule, American coot, and Caribbean coot. Closed Areas: There is no open season on ducks, common moorhens, and common snipe in the Municipality of Culebra and on Desecheo Island. Virgin Islands Doves and Pigeons: Outside Dates: Between September 1 and January 15. Hunting Seasons: Not more than 60 days for Zenaida doves. Daily Bag and Possession Limits: Not to exceed 10 Zenaida doves. Closed Seasons: No open season is prescribed for ground or quail doves, or pigeons in the Virgin Islands. Closed Areas: There is no open season for migratory game birds on Ruth Cay (just south of St. Croix). Local Names for Certain Birds: Zenaida dove, also known as mountain dove; bridled quail-dove, also known as Barbary dove or partridge; Common ground-dove, also known as stone dove, tobacco dove, rola, or tortolita; scaly-naped pigeon, also known as red-necked or scaled pigeon. Ducks: Outside Dates: Between December 1 and January 31. Hunting Seasons: Not more than 55 consecutive days. Daily Bag Limits: Not to exceed 3 ducks. Closed Seasons: The season is closed on the ruddy duck, white-cheeked pintail, West Indian whistling duck, fulvous whistling duck, and masked duck. Special Falconry Regulations Falconry is a permitted means of taking migratory game birds in any State meeting Federal falconry standards in 50 CFR 21.29(k). These States may select an extended season for taking migratory game birds in accordance with the following: Extended Seasons: For all hunting methods combined, the combined length of the extended season, regular season, and any special or experimental seasons shall not exceed 107 days for any species or group of species in a geographical area. Each extended season may be divided into a maximum of 3 segments. Framework Dates: Seasons must fall between September 1 and March 10. Daily Bag and Possession Limits: Falconry daily bag and possession limits for all permitted migratory game birds shall not exceed 3 and 6 birds, respectively, singly or in the aggregate, during extended falconry seasons, any special or experimental seasons, and regular hunting seasons in all States, including those that do not select an extended falconry season. Regular Seasons: General hunting regulations, including seasons and hunting hours, apply to falconry in each State listed in 50 CFR 21.29(k). Regular-season bag and possession limits do not apply to falconry. The falconry bag limit is not in addition to gun limits. Area, Unit, and Zone Descriptions Central Flyway portion of the following States consists of: Colorado: That area lying east of the Continental Divide. Montana: That area lying east of Hill, Chouteau, Cascade, Meagher, and Park Counties. New Mexico: That area lying east of the Continental Divide but outside the Jicarilla Apache Indian Reservation. Wyoming: That area lying east of the Continental Divide. The remaining portions of these States are in the Pacific Flyway. Mourning and White-Winged Doves Alabama South Zone_Baldwin, Barbour, Coffee, Covington, Dale, Escambia, Geneva, Henry, Houston, and Mobile Counties. North Zone_Remainder of the State. California White-winged Dove Open Areas_Imperial, Riverside, and San Bernardino Counties. Florida Northwest Zone_The Counties of Bay, Calhoun, Escambia, Franklin, Gadsden, Gulf, Holmes, Jackson, Liberty, Okaloosa, Santa Rosa, Walton, Washington, Leon (except that portion north of U.S. 27 and east of State Road 155), Jefferson (south of U.S. 27, west of State Road 59 and north of U.S. 98), and Wakulla (except that portion south of U.S. 98 and east of the St. Marks River). South Zone_Remainder of State. Georgia Northern Zone_That portion of the State lying north of a line running west to east along U.S. Highway 280 from Columbus to Wilcox County, thence southward along the western border of Wilcox County; thence east along the southern border of Wilcox County to the Ocmulgee River, thence north along the Ocmulgee River to Highway 280, thence east along Highway 280 to the Little Ocmulgee River; thence southward along the Little Ocmulgee River to the Ocmulgee River; thence southwesterly along the Ocmulgee River to the western border of the Jeff Davis County; thence south along the western border of Jeff Davis County; thence east along the southern border of Jeff Davis and Appling Counties; thence north along the eastern border of Appling County, to the Altamaha River; thence east to the eastern border of Tattnall County; thence north along the eastern border of Tattnall County; thence north along the western border of Evans to Candler County; thence west along the southern border of Candler County to the Ohoopee River; thence north along the western border of Candler County to Bulloch County; thence north along the western border of Bulloch County to U.S. Highway 301; thence northeast along U.S. Highway 301 to the South Carolina line. South Zone_Remainder of the State. Louisiana North Zone_That portion of the State north of Interstate Highway 10 from the Texas State line to Baton Rouge, Interstate Highway 12 from Baton Rouge to Slidell and Interstate Highway 10 from Slidell to the Mississippi State line. South Zone_The remainder of the State. Mississippi South Zone_The Counties of Forrest, George, Greene, hancock, Harrison, Jackson, Lamar, Marion, Pearl River, Perry, Pike, Stone, and Walthall. North Zone_The remainder of the State. Nevada White-winged Dove Open Areas_Clark and Nye Counties. Texas North Zone_That portion of the State north of a line beginning at the International Bridge south of Fort Hancock; north along FM 1088 to TX 20; west along TX 20 to TX 148; north along TX 148 to I&hyph;10 at Fort Hancock; east along I&hyph;10 to I&hyph;20; northeast along I&hyph;20 to I&hyph;30 at Fort Worth; northeast along I&hyph;30 to the Texas-Arkansas State line. South Zone_That portion of the State south and west of a line beginning at the International Bridge south of Del Rio, proceeding east on U.S. 90 to San Antonio; then east on I&hyph;10 to Orange, Texas. Special White-winged Dove Area in the South Zone_That portion of the State south and west of a line beginning at the International Bridge south of Del Rio, proceeding east on U.S. 90 to Uvalde; south on U.S. 83 to TX 44; east along TX 44 to TX 16 at Freer; south along TX 16 to TX 285 at Hebbronville; east along TX 285 to FM 1017; southwest along FM 1017 to TX 186 at Linn; east along TX 186 to the Mansfield Channel at Port Mansfield; east along the Mansfield Channel to the Gulf of Mexico. Area with additional restrictions_Cameron, Hidalgo, Starr, and Willacy Counties. Central Zone_That portion of the State lying between the North and South Zones. Band-Tailed Pigeons California North Zone_Alpine, Butte, Del Norte, Glenn, Humboldt, Lassen, Mendocino, Modoc, Plumas, Shasta, Sierra, Siskiyou, Tehama, and Trinity Counties. South Zone_The remainder of the State. New Mexico North Zone_North of a line following U.S. 60 from the Arizona State line east to I&hyph;25 at Socorro and then south along I&hyph;25 from Socorro to the Texas State line. South Zone_Remainder of the State. Washington Western Washington_The State of Washington excluding those portions lying east of the Pacific Crest Trail and east of the Big White Salmon River in Klickitat County. Woodcock New Jersey North Zone_That portion of the State north of NJ 70. South Zone_The remainder of the State. Special September Goose Seasons Atlantic Flyway Maryland Open Area_Counties of Allegany, Anne Arundel, Baltimore, Calvert, Charles, Carroll, Dorchester, Frederick, Garret, Harford, Howard, Montgomery, Prince George's, St. Mary's, Somerset, Washington, Wicomico, and Worcester. Massachusetts Western Zone_That portion of the State west of a line extending from the Vermont line at I&hyph;91, south to Route 9, west on Route 9 to Route 10, south on Route 10 to Route 202, south on Route 202 to the Connecticut line. New Jersey Open Area_That portion of New Jersey within a continuous line that runs east along the New York State boundary line to the Hudson River; then south along the New York State boundary to its intersection with Route 440 at Perth Amboy; then west on Route 440 to its intersection with the Garden State Parkway; then south on the Parkway to its intersection with Route 70; then west on Route 70 to its intersection with Route 206; then south on Route 206 to its intersection with Route 54; then south on Route 54 to its intersection with Route 40; then west on Route 40 to its intersection with the New Jersey Turnpike; then south on the Turnpike to the Delaware State boundary line; then north on the Delaware State boundary line to its intersection with the Pennsylvania State boundary; then north on the Pennsylvania boundary in the Delaware River to its intersection with the New York State boundary. New York Northern Area_All or portions of St. Lawrence County; see State hunting regulations for area descriptions. Western Area_Counties of Erie, Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, Niagara, Orleans, and Genesee, and portions of Wyoming, Livingston, Allegany and Steuben Counties. Southeastern Area_All of Rockland, Westchester, Orange, Putnam, Dutchess, Columbia, and Rensselaer Counties, and portions of Sullivan, Delaware, Ulster, Greene, Albany, Schenectady, Saratoga, Warren, and Washington Counties. North Carolina Early-season Canada Goose Area_The special early Canada goose resident season may be held in all areas of the State, except the Counties of Bertie, Beaufort, Camden, Chovan, Currituck, Dare, Gates, Hartford, Hyde, Northampton (East of I-95), Pamlico, Pasquotank, Perquimans, Tyrrell, and Washington. Pennsylvania Northwestern Early-Season Goose Area_Counties of Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Cambria, Crawford, Erie, Greene, Fayette, Indiana, Lawrence, Mercer, Somerset, Venango, Washington, and Westmoreland. Southeastern Early-Season Goose Area_Counties of Berks, Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Lehigh, Monroe, Montgomery, Northampton, Pike and Wayne. Virginia Open Area_Counties of Accomack, Albemarle, Alleghany, Amelia, Amherst, Appomattox, Augusta, Bath, Bedford, Buckingham, Caroline, Charles City, Chesterfield, Clarke, Culpeper, Cumberland, Fairfax, Fauquier, Frederick, Fluvanna, Goochland, Greene, Hanover, Henrico, Highland, Isle of Wight, James City, King William, Loudoun, Louisa, Madison, Nelson, New Kent, Northampton, Orange, Page, Powhatan, Prince George, Prince William, Rappahannock, Rockbridge, Rockingham, Shenandoah, Spotsylvania, Stafford, Surry, Warren and York. Mississippi Flyway Michigan Upper Peninsula Zone_That portion of the Upper Peninsula outside the AuTrain Basin Waterfowl Project in Alger County (described below) and east of a line described as follows: Beginning at the point where the meridian line 87'30 ’ intersects the United States-Canada border, then south along the 87'30 ’ meridian line to the 47'00 ’ parallel, west along the 47'00 ’ parallel to a point directly north of County Road 550 in the village of Big Bay in Marquette County, southerly along this line and County 550 through Big Bay to County 510, southerly along County 510 to Michigan Highway 28/U.S. Highway 41, westerly along M-28/U.S. 41 to M-35, southerly along M-35 to the Delta County line, westerly and southerly along the Delta County line to the Lake Michigan shoreline, then southeasterly along the Central-Eastern time zone boundary to the Wisconsin border in Green Bay. The AuTrain Basin Waterfowl Project is bounded on the north by M-94, on the south by Trout Lake Road, on the east by County 509 (Rapid River Truck Trail), and on the west by M-67. Northern Lower Peninsula Zone_Bay, Isabella, Mecosta, Midland, Newaygo, and Oceana Counties and all counties north thereof. Southern Lower Peninsula Zone_The remainder of the Lower Peninsula, excluding Huron, Saginaw, and Tuscola Counties. Minnesota Twin Cities Metro Zone_ All of Hennepin and Ramsey Counties. In Anoka County; the municipalities of Andover, Anoka, Blaine, Centerville, Circle Pines, Columbia Heights, Coon Rapids, Fridley, Hilltop, Lexington, Lino Lakes, Ramsey, and Spring Lake Park; that portion of Columbus Township lying south of County State Aid Highway (CSAH) 18; and all of the municipality of Ham Lake except that portion described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of CSAH 18 and U.S. Highway 65, then east along CSAH 18 to the eastern boundary of Ham Lake, north along the eastern boundary of Ham Lake to the north boundary of Ham Lake, west along the north boundary of Ham Lake to U.S. 65, and south along U.S. 65 to the point of beginning. In Carver County; the municipalities of Carver, Chanhassen, Chaska, and Victoria; the Townships of Chaska and Laketown; and those portions of the municipalities of Cologne, Mayer, Waconia, and Watertown and the Townships of Benton, Dahlgren, Waconia, and Watertown lying north and east of the following described line: Beginning on U.S. 212 at the southwest corner of the municipality of Chaska, then west along U.S. 212 to State Trunk Highway (STH) 284, north along STH 284 to CSAH 10, north and west along CSAH 10 to CSAH 30, north and west along CSAH 30 to STH 25, west and north along STH 25 to CSAH 10, north along CSAH 10 to the Carver County line, and east along the Carver County line to the Hennepin County line. In Dakota County; the municipalities of Apple Valley, Burnsville, Eagan, Farmington, Hastings, Inver Grove Heights, Lakeville, Lilydale, Mendota, Mendota Heights, Rosemont, South St. Paul, Sunfish Lake, and West St. Paul; and the Township of Nininger. In Scott County; the municipalities of Jordan, Prior Lake, Savage and Shakopee; and the Townships of Credit River, Jackson, Louisville, St. Lawrence, Sand Creek, and Spring Lake. In Washington County; the municipalities of Afton, Bayport, Birchwood, Cottage Grove, Dellwood, Forest Lake, Hastings, Hugo, Lake Elmo, Lakeland, Lakeland Shores, Landfall, Mahtomedi, Marine, Newport, Oakdale, Oak Park Heights, Pine Springs, St. Croix Beach, St. Mary's Point, St. Paul Park, Stillwater, White Bear Lake, Willernie, and Woodbury; the Townships of Baytown, Denmark, Grant, Gray Cloud Island, May, Stillwater, and West Lakeland; that portion of Forest Lake Township lying south of STH 97 and CSAH 2; and those portions of New Scandia Township lying south of STH 97 and a line due east from the intersection of STH 97 and STH 95 to the eastern border of the State. Fergus Falls/Benson Zone_That area encompassed by a line beginning on State Trunk Highway (STH) 55 at the Minnesota border, then south along the Minnesota border to a point due south of the intersection of STH 7 and County State Aid Highway (CSAH) 7 in Big Stone County, north to the STH 7/CSAH 7 intersection and continuing north along CSAH 7 to CSAH 6 in Big Stone County, east along CSAH 6 to CSAH 21 in Big Stone County, south along CSAH 21 to CSAH 10 in Big Stone County, east along CSAH 10 to CSAH 22 in Swift County, east along CSAH 22 to CSAH 5 in Swift County, south along CSAH 5 to U.S. Highway 12, east along U.S. 12 to CSAH 17 in Swift County, south along CSAH 17 to the Swift County border, east along the south border of Swift County and north along the east border of Swift County to the south border of Pope County, east along the south border of Pope County and north along the east border of Pope County to STH 28, west along STH 28 to CSAH 33 in Pope County, north along CSAH 33 to CSAH 3 in Douglas County, north along CSAH 3 to CSAH 69 in Otter Tail County, north along CSAH 69 to CSAH 46 in Otter Tail County, east along CSAH 46 to the east border of Otter Tail County, north along the east border of Otter Tail County to CSAH 40 in Otter Tail County, west along CSAH 40 to CSAH 75 in Otter Tail County, north along CSAH 75 to STH 210, west along STH 210 to STH 108, north along STH 108 to CSAH 1 in Otter Tail County, west along CSAH 1 to CSAH 14 in Otter Tail County, north along CSAH 14 to CSAH 44 in Otter Tail County, west along CSAH 44 to CSAH 35 in Otter Tail County, north along CSAH 35 to STH 108, west along STH 108 to CSAH 19 in Wilkin County, south along CSAH 19 to STH 55, then west along STH 55 to the point of beginning. Southwest Canada Goose Zone_ All of Blue Earth, Cottonwood, Faribault, Jackson, LeSueur, Lincoln, Lyon, Martin, McLeod, Murray, Nicollet, Nobles, Sibley, Waseca, and Watonwan Counties; that portion of Brown County lying south and west of the following described line: beginning at the junction of U.S. Highway 14, and the east of Brown County line; thence west on U.S. Highway 14 to Cobden; thence due west one mile on U.S. Highway 14 and the township road to the Brown County line; thence due west 12 miles along the county line to the west Brown County line; that portion of Renville County east of State Trunk Highway 4 (STH); that portion of Meeker County south of U.S. Highway 12; in Scott County, the Townships of Belle Plaine, Blakeley, and Helena, including the municipalities located therein; and that portion of Carver County lying west, of the following described line: beginning at the northeast corner of San Francisco Township, thence west along the San Francisco Township line to the east boundary of Dahlgren Township, thence north on the Dahlgren Township line to U.S. Highway 212, thence west on U.S. Highway 212 to STH 284, thence north on STH 284 to County State Aid Highway (CSAH) 10, thence north and west on CSAH 10 to CSAH 30, thence north and west on CSAH 30 the STH 25, thence east and north on STH 25 to CSAH 10, thence north on CSAH 10 to the Carver County line. Missouri Central Missouri Zone_ Boone County and that portion of Callaway County west of U.S. Highway 54. Tennessee East Tennessee Zone_Anderson, Blount, Campbell, Claiborne, Knox, Loudon, Monroe, Roane, and Union Counties and those portions of Meigs and Rhea Counties north of Highway 68. Wisconsin Early-Season Subzone_That area encompassed by a line beginning at Lake Michigan in Port Washington and extending west along State Highway 33 to State 175, south along State 175 to State 83, south along State 83 to State 36, southwest along State 36 to State 120, south along State 120 to U.S. Highway 12, then southeast along U.S. 12 to the Illinois border. Pacific Flyway Oregon Lower Columbia River Zone_Those portions of Clatsop, Columbia, and Multnomah Counties within the following boundary: beginning at Portland, Oregon, at the south end of the Interstate 5 Bridge; south on I&hyph;5 to Highway 30; west on Highway 30 to the town of Svensen; south from Svensen to Youngs River Falls; due west from Youngs River Falls to the Pacific Ocean coastline; north along the coastline to a point where Clatsop Spit and the South Jetty meet; due north to the Oregon-Washington border; east and south along the Oregon-Washington border to the I&hyph;5 Bridge; south on the I&hyph;5 Bridge to the point of beginning. Northwest Oregon Zone_All of Benton, Clackamas, Clatsop, Columbia, Lane, Lincoln, Linn, Marion, Polk, Multnomah, Tillamook, Washington, and Yamhill Counties; except for the Lower Columbia River Zone. Washington Lower Columbia River Zone_Beginning at the Washington-Oregon border on the I&hyph;5 Bridge near Vancouver, Washington; north on I&hyph;5 to Kelso; west on Highway 4 from Kelso to Highway 401; south and west on Highway 401 to Highway 101 at the Astoria-Megler Bridge; west on Highway 101 to Gray Drive in the City of Ilwaco; west on Gray Drive to Canby Road; southwest on Canby Road to the North Jetty; southwest on the North Jetty to its end; southeast to the Washington-Oregon border; upstream along the Washington-Oregon border to the point of origin. Wyoming Bear River Area_That portion of Lincoln County described in State regulations. Salt River Area_That portion of Lincoln County described in State regulations. Eden-Farson Area_Those portions of Sweetwater and Sublette Counties described in State regulations. Sandhill Cranes Central Flyway Colorado Regular-Season Open Area_The Central Flyway portion of the State except the San Luis Valley (Alamosa, Conejos, Costilla, Hinsdale, Mineral, Rio Grande and Saguache Counties east of the Continental Divide) and North Park (Jackson County). Kansas Regular Season Open Area_That portion of the State west of a line beginning at the Oklahoma border, north on I&hyph;35 to Wichita, north on I&hyph;135 to Salina, and north on U.S. 81 to the Nebraska border. New Mexico Regular-Season Open Area_Chaves, Curry, De Baca, Eddy, Lea, Quay, and Roosevelt Counties. Middle Rio Grande Valley Area_The Central Flyway portion of New Mexico in Socorro and Valencia Counties. Southwest Zone_Sierra, Luna, and Dona Ana Counties. Oklahoma Regular-Season Open Area_That portion of the State west of I&hyph;35. Texas Regular-Season Open Area_That portion of the State west of a line from the International Toll Bridge at Brownsville along U.S. 77 to Victoria; U.S. 87 to Placedo; Farm Road 616 to Blessing; State 35 to Alvin; State 6 to U.S. 290; U.S. 290 to Austin; I&hyph;35 to the Texas-Oklahoma border. North Dakota Regular-Season Open Area_That portion of the State west of U.S. 281. South Dakota Regular-Season Open Area_That portion of the State west of U.S. 281. Montana Regular-Season Open Area_The Central Flyway portion of the State except that area south of I&hyph;90 and west of the Bighorn River. Wyoming Regular-Season Open Area_Campbell, Converse, Crook, Goshen, Laramie, Niobrara, Platte, and Weston Counties. Riverton-Boysen Unit_Portions of Fremont County. Pacific Flyway Arizona Special-Season Area_Game Management Units 30A, 30B, 31, and 32. Montana Special-Season Area_See State regulations. Utah Special-Season Area_Rich and Cache Counties. Wyoming Bear River Area_That portion of Lincoln County described in State regulations. Salt River Area_That portion of Lincoln County described in State regulations. Eden-Farson Area_Those portions of Sweetwater and Sublette Counties described in State regulations. All Migratory Game Birds in Alaska North Zone_State Game Management Units 11&hyph;13 and 17&hyph;26. Gulf Coast Zone_State Game Management Units 5&hyph;7, 9, 14&hyph;16, and 10 - Unimak Island only. Southeast Zone_State Game Management Units 1&hyph;4. Pribilof and Aleutian Islands Zone_State Game Management Unit 10 - except Unimak Island. Kodiak Zone_State Game Management Unit 8. All Migratory Birds in the Virgin Islands Ruth Cay Closure Area_The island of Ruth Cay, just south of St. Croix. All Migratory Birds in Puerto Rico Municipality of Culebra Closure Area_All of the Municipality of Culebra. Desecheo Island Closure Area_All of Desecheo Island. Mona Island Closure Area_All of Mona Island. El Verde Closure Area_Those areas of the municipalities of Rio Grande and Loiza delineated as follows: (1) All lands between Routes 956 on the west and 186 on the east, from Route 3 on the north to the juncture of Routes 956 and 186 (Km 13.2) in the south; (2) all lands between Routes 186 and 966 from the juncture of 186 and 966 on the north, to the Caribbean National Forest Boundary on the south; (3) all lands lying west of Route 186 for one kilometer from the juncture of Routes 186 and 956 south to Km 6 on Route 186; (4) all lands within Km 14 and Km 6 on the west and the Caribbean National Forest Boundary on the east; and (5) all lands within the Caribbean National Forest Boundary whether private or public. Cidra Municipality and adjacent areas_All of Cidra Municipality and portions of Aguas, Buenas, Caguas, Cayer, and Comerio Municipalities as encompassed within the following boundary: beginning on Highway 172 as it leaves the Municipality of Cidra on the west edge, north to Highway 156, east on Highway 156 to Highway 1, south on Highway 1 to Highway 765, south on Highway 765 to Highway 763, south on Highway 763 to the Rio Guavate, west along Rio Guavate to Highway 1, southwest on Highway 1 to Highway 14, west on Highway 14 to Highway 729, north on Highway 729 to Cidra Municipality boundary to the point of beginning. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20192 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310-55-F
