FR940728-2-00087 FR940728-2-00061 •Comprehensive assessment of current communications and telecommunications environment throughout all components of the public health structure within the State. •Creation of a Network Design and Technology and Implementation Plan that emphasizes a WAN using modern, personal computer-based client server architecture. •Creation of a Hardware and Software Implementation Plan. ii. Implementation Phase •Strategy for the integration of the State communications network and the immunization information system, allowing access to all providers of immunization and other public health services. •Implement local area network connectivity (including cabling, hardware and software installation, and user training) between local and State health departments and CDC, including an Internet interface. •User applications, including support and training. iii. Evaluation Phase •Demonstrate that there has been an adequate inclusion of all agencies and organizations that will be critical to successful implementation of elements B and C below (i.e., Information Access and Data Exchange). •Thorough specification of existing public health related systems infrastructure and current plans for and funding sources for expanding this infrastructure. B. Information Access i. Planning Phase •Grantee should specify the types of immunization information needed to assist public health personnel to more effectively improve and protect the health of the public. For example, directories of training resources, guidelines for disease prevention, operational guidelines for prevention programs, State information databases, etc., to which online access would be desirable. •Grantee should specify the process through which these information resources will be determined and developed. ii. Implementation Phase •Grantee must present an implementation strategy and timeline for placing these information resources into electronic access. iii. Evaluation Phase •Grantee should present an evaluation plan that provides a basis for determining the impact that access to the immunization information databases (item B.i.) above has on changing the practice of public health and potentially the outcomes as measured by health status indicators. C. Data Exchange Future public health information systems should provide for efficient capture, transmission and exchange of the universe of data relevant to the practice of public health. i. Planning Phase •Grantee must describe the State's approach to state-wide public health data system integration, the goal of which is to provide efficient capture, transmission and exchange of public health data (e.g., patient specific data, immunization events, vital records, disease surveillance and reporting data, population based assessments, etc.). •The plan should specify how the State is proceeding or will proceed to develop an integrated data system to meet the future needs of public health. Where appropriate, the plan should discuss plans for electronic interaction with non-government health care organizations, such as managed care organizations, private practitioners, etc. ii. Implementation Phase •The grantee should present a data system implementation plan and system design with timeliness and development schedules. iii. Evaluation Phase •The grantee's evaluation plan should correspond to the goals (as identified in the PURPOSE section of this announcement) of the integrated State system and include an inventory of existing health-related information systems. 2. Hardware and software requirements and estimated costs. 3. Personnel requirements and estimated costs. 4. Training requirements and estimated costs. 5. Travel requirements and estimated costs. 6. Other funding sources, if any, supporting project activities.
