FR941110-1-00016 FR941110-1-00005 The Office has also determined that this notice has no federalism implications affecting the relationship between the National Government and the States as outlined in E.O. 12612. These rule changes will impose no substantial additional burden under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. The paperwork burden imposed by adherence to the patent term extension rules is currently approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 0651&hyph;0020. Comments relating to this requirement should be directed to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of OMB, Attention: Desk Officer for Commerce, Patent and Trademark Office. List of Subjects in 37 CFR Part 1 Administrative practice and procedure, Authority delegations (government agencies), Conflict of interest, Courts, Inventions and patents, Lawyers. For the reasons given in the preamble and pursuant to the authority granted to the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks by 35 U.S.C. 6 and 156, the Office proposes to amend Title 37 of the Code of Federal Regulations as set forth below: It is proposed to amend 37 CFR Part 1, Subparts A and F, as follows wherein removals are indicated by brackets and additions by arrows: PART 1_RULES OF PRACTICE IN PATENT CASES 1. (a) An authority citation for 37 CFR Part 1, subpart A would be added to read as follows: Authority: 35 U.S.C. 6, unless otherwise noted. 1. (b) The authority citation for 37 CFR Part 1, subpart F would continue to read as follows: Authority: 35 U.S.C. 6 and 156. 2. Section 1.20 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (j) to read as follows: §1.20 Post-issuance fees. * * * * * (j) For filing an application for extension of the term of a patent >(1) Application for extension under §1.740<[(§1.740)]_$1,000.00 >(2) Initial application for interim extension under §1.790_$400.00 (3) Subsequent application for interim extension under §1.790_$200.00< 3. Section 1.750 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.750 Determination of eligibility for extension of patent term. A determination as to whether a patent is eligible for extension may be made by the Commissioner solely on the basis of the representations contained in the application for extension filed in compliance with §1.740> or §1.790<. This determination may be delegated to appropriate Patent and Trademark Office officials and may be made at any time before the certificate of extension is issued. The Commissioner or other appropriate officials may require from applicant further information or make such independent inquiries as desired before a final determination is made on whether a patent is eligible for extension. >In an application for extension filed in compliance with §1.740,a< [A] notice will be mailed to applicant containing the determination as to the eligibility of the patent for extension and the period of time of the extension, if any. This notice shall constitute the final determination as to the eligibility and any period of extension of the patent. A single request for reconsideration of a final determination may be made if filed by the applicant within such time as may be set in the notice of final determination or, if no time is set, within one month from the date of the final determination. The time periods set forth herein are subject to the provisions of [37 CFR]> §<1.136. 4. In §1.760, the heading is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.760 Interim extension of patent term > under 35 U.S.C. §156(e)(2)<. 5. Section 1.765(a) is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.765 Duty of disclosure in patent term extension proceedings. (a) A duty of candor and good faith toward the Patent and Trademark Office and the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Secretary of Agriculture rests on the patent owner or its agent, on each attorney or agent who represents the patent owner and on every other individual who is substantively involved on behalf of the patent owner in a patent term extension proceeding. All such individuals who are aware, or become aware, of material information adverse to a determination of entitlement to the extension sought, which has not been previously made of record in the patent term extension proceeding must bring such information to the attention of the Office [of] > or < the Secretary, as appropriate, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, as soon as it is practical to do so after the individual becomes aware of the information. Information is material where there is a substantial likelihood that the Office [of] > or < the Secretary would consider it important in determinations to be made in the patent term extension proceeding. 6. Section 1.780 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.780 Certificate of extension of patent term. If a determination is made pursuant to §1.750 that a patent is eligible for extension and that the term of the patent is to be extended, a certificate of extension, under seal,>or certificate of interim extension under 35 U.S.C. 156(d)(5)<will be issued to the applicant for the extension of the patent term. Such certificate will be recorded in the official file of the patent and will be considered as part of the original patent. Notification of the issuance of the certificate of extension will be published in the Official Gazette of the Patent and Trademark Office. >Notification of the issuance of the certificate of interim extension under 35 U.S.C. 156(d)(5), including the identity of the product currently under regulatory review, will be published in the Official Gazette of the Patent and Trademark Office and in the Federal Register.< No certificate of extension will be issued if the term of the patent cannot be extended, even though the patent is otherwise determined to be eligible for extension. In such situations the final determination made pursuant to §1.750 will indicate that no certificate will issue. 7. Section 1.785 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.785 Multiple applications for extension of term of the same patent or of different patents for the same regulatory review period for a period. (a) Only one patent may be extended for a regulatory review period for any product (§1.720[(g)]>(h)<). If more than one application for extension of the same patent is filed, the certificate of extension of patent term, if appropriate, will be issued based upon the first filed application for extension.
