FR940812-2-00219 FR940812-2-00080 Notice of Action Subject to Intergovernmental Review AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Notice of action subject to Intergovernmental Review Under Executive Order 12372. SUMMARY: This notice provides for public awareness of SBA's intention to refund thirty-three presently existent Small Business Development Centers (SBDC) on January 1, 1995. Currently there are 56 SBDC program. The following SBDCs are intended to be refunded, subject to the availability of funds: Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Maine, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin. This notice also provides a description of the SBDC program by setting forth a condensed version of the program announcement which has been furnished to each of the SBDCs to be refunded. This publication is being made to provide the State single points of contact, designated pursuant to Executive Order 12372, and other interested State and local entities, the opportunity to comment on the proposed refunding in accordance with the Executive Order and SBA's regulations found at 13 CFR Part 135. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 10, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Ms. Johnnie L. Albertson, Associate Administrator for SBDC Program, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, S.W., Fifth Floor, Washington, DC 20416. (202) 205&hyph;6766. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Same as above. Notice of Action Subject to Intergovernmental Review SBA is bound by the provisions of Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.'' SBA has promulgated regulations spelling out its obligations under that Executive Order. See 13 CFR Part 135, effective September 30, 1983. In accordance with these regulations, specifically 135.4, SBA is publishing this notice to provide public awareness of the pending application of thirty-three presently existent Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs) for refunding. Also, published herewith is an annotated program announcement describing the SBDC program in detail. This notice is being published four months in advance of the expected date of refunding these SBDCs. Relevant information identifying these SBDCs and providing their mailing address is provided below. In addition to this publication, a copy of this notice is being simultaneously furnished to the affected State single point of contact which has been established under the Executive Order. The State single points of contact and other interested State and local entities are expected to advise the relevant SBDC of their comments regarding the proposed refunding in writing as soon as possible. The SBDC proposal cannot be inconsistent with any area-wide plan providing assistance to small business, if there is one, which has been adopted by an agency recognized by the State government as authorized to do so. Copies of such written comments should also be furnished to Ms. Johnnie L. Albertson, Associate Administrator for SBDC Program, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, S.W., Fifth Floor, Washington, DC 20416. Comments will be accepted by the relevant SBDC and SBA for a period of 120 days from the date of publication of this notice. The relevant SBDC will make every effort to accommodate these comments during the 120-day period. If the comments cannot be accommodated by the relevant SBDC, SBA will prior to refunding the SBDC, either attain accommodation of any comments or furnish an explanation of why accommodation cannot be attained to the commentor prior to refunding the SBDC. Description of the SBDC Program The SBDC operates under the general management and oversight of SBA, but with recognition that a partnership exists between the Agency and the SBDC for the delivery of assistance to the small business community. SBDC services shall be provided pursuant to a negotiated Cooperative Agreement with full participation of both parties.
