FR941125-0-00046 FR941125-0-00019 (ii) Amount of loans outstanding means_ (A) The sum of_ ( 1 ) The original principal amount of all loans guaranteed by the agency; and ( 2 ) The original principal amount of any loans on which the guarantee was transferred to the agency from another guarantor, excluding loan guarantees transferred to another agency pursuant to a plan of the Secretary in response to the insolvency of the agency; (B) Minus the original principal amount of all loans on which_ ( 1 ) The loan guarantee was cancelled; ( 2 ) The loan guarantee was transferred to another agency; ( 3 ) Payment in full has been made by the borrower; ( 4 ) Reinsurance coverage has been lost and cannot be regained; and ( 5 ) The agency paid claims. * * * * * (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number 1840&hyph;0538) 3. A new §682.417 is added to subpart D to read as follows: §682.417 Determination of reserve funds or assets to be returned. (a) General. The procedures described in this section apply to a determination by the Secretary that_ (1) A guaranty agency must return to the Secretary a portion of its reserve funds which the Secretary has determined is unnecessary to pay the program expenses and contingent liabilities of the agency; and (2) A guaranty agency must require the return to the agency or the Secretary of reserve funds or assets within the meaning of section 422(g)(1) of the Act held by or under the control of any other entity, which the Secretary determines are necessary to pay the program expenses and contingent liabilities of the agency or which are required for the orderly termination of the guaranty agency's operations and the liquidation of its assets. (b) Return of unnecessary reserve funds. (1) The Secretary may initiate a process to recover unnecessary reserve funds under paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the Secretary determines that a guaranty agency's reserve fund ratio under §682.410(a)(10) for each of the two preceding Federal fiscal years exceeded 2.0 percent. (2) If the Secretary initiates a process to recover unnecessary reserve funds, the Secretary requires the return of a portion of the reserve funds that the Secretary determines will permit the agency to_ (i) Have a reserve fund ratio of at least 2.0 percent under §682.410(a)(10) at the time of the determination; and (ii) Meet the minimum reserve fund requirements under §682.410(a)(10) and retain sufficient additional reserve funds to perform its responsibilities as a guaranty agency during the current Federal fiscal year and the four succeeding Federal fiscal years. (3)(i) The Secretary makes a determination of the amount of the reserve funds needed by the guaranty agency under paragraph (b)(2) of this section on the basis of financial projections for the period described in that paragraph. If the agency provides projections for a period longer than the period referred to in that paragraph, the Secretary may consider those projections. (ii) The Secretary may require a guaranty agency to provide financial projections in a form and on the basis of assumptions prescribed by the Secretary. If the Secretary requests the agency to provide financial projections, the agency shall provide the projections within 60 days of the Secretary's request. If the agency does not provide the projections within the specified time period, the Secretary determines the amount of reserve funds needed by the agency on the basis of other information. (c) Notice. (1) The Secretary or an authorized Departmental official begins a proceeding to order a guaranty agency to return a portion of its reserve funds, or to direct the return of reserve funds or assets subject to return, by sending the guaranty agency a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested. (2) The notice_ (i) Informs the guaranty agency of the Secretary's determination that the reserve funds or assets must be returned;
