FR940610-2-00066 FR940610-2-00049 E. 3␣ Office of Policy Coordination and Analysis (BB3) analyzes and interprets issues related to AoA program policy; develops and interprets AoA goals, priorities, and strategies; performs analyses related to the aging. Performs all functions with appropriate input from the AoA units with subject matter responsibility. Conducts policy studies on a wide range of issues affecting AoA programs and the elderly; solicits policy and strategy input from a wide spectrum of organizations concerned with the aging. Prepares the AoA long- and short-range plans; provides interpretation and guidance for implementation of these plans to all AoA units; and reviews all new and changed policy documents for consistency with AoA long-range goals and strategies. Coordinates with the Office of the Assistant Secretary and all AoA units, and Departmental staff offices on policy, planning and evaluation issues and development. Coordinates with the Office of Administration and Management in that Office's translation of the long- and short-range plans into procedural guidance for AoA units concerning employee performance appraisal planning, work planning and budget preparation. By means of this system, coordinates the development of implementation strategies and subsidiary plans as well as processes for monitoring progress toward stated objectives. Develops AoA plans and priorities for evaluation of programs, with subject matter input from appropriate units. Manages contracting for mandated evaluation projects and performs intramural evaluation studies. Prepares reports of the results of program and impact evaluations conducted by and for AoA, with technical input from other AoA units. Assesses the need for, develops strategies and priorities about, and conducts activities for the development of adequate knowledge for improving the circumstances of older people. Assists in the collection and analysis of demographic and socio-economic information related to the aging. F. Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Program Development and Elder Rights Programs (BC) reports to the Assistant Secretary for Aging. Plans, directs and evaluates activities authorized under Titles IV and VII of the OAA. Conducts activities for the development of adequate knowledge for improving the circumstances of older people and develops a knowledge base for policy decisions and program development and coordination through support of a wide range of research, demonstration, and training activities. Elicits new knowledge and techniques to improve the circumstances of older Americans. Promotes coordination of research, demonstration, and training activities. Prepares the planning documents for, and coordinates the development of, the annual discretionary funds program announcement. Oversees the grant and contract activities designed to carry out research, demonstration, and training activities, and develops AoA policies and criteria for monitoring grants and contracts supported through the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Program Development and Elder Rights (``D/ASPDER''). Assesses results of these activities to develop utilization strategies. Implements strategies for improving the quality of facilities, programs, and services for the nation's older population. Maintains information on programs in other Federal agencies and national voluntary agencies which have potential for relating to these strategies. Collects and disseminates information related to problems of the aged and aging. Manages AoA's public information and public education activities.
