FR940112-0-00048 FR940112-0-00016 The Advisory Committee Notes to the 1991 Amendment to Rule 35 are particularly useful in understanding how this change to the revised rule shall operate. The Advisory Committee Note states: The rule was revised in 1988 by Congressional enactment to authorize mental examinations by licensed clinical psychologists. This revision extends that amendment to include other certified or licensed professionals, such as dentists or occupational therapists, who are not physicians or clinical psychologists, but who may be well-qualified to give valuable testimony about the physical or mental condition that is the subject of dispute. The requirement that the examiner be suitably licensed or certified is a new requirement. The court is thus expressly authorized to assess the credentials of the examiner to assure that no person is subjected to a court-ordered examination by an examiner whose testimony would be of such limited value that it would be unjust to require the person to undergo the invasion of privacy associated with the examination. This authority is not wholly new, for under the former rule, the court retained discretion to refuse to order an examination, or to restrict an examination. 8 Wright & Miller, Federal Practice & Procedure section 2234 (1986 Supp.). The revision is intended to encourage the exercise of this discretion, especially with respect to examinations by persons having narrow qualifications. The court's responsibility to determine the suitability of the examiner's qualifications applies even to a proposed examination by a physician. If the proposed examination and testimony calls for an expertise that the proposed examiner does not have, it should not be ordered, even if the proposed examiner is a physician. The rule does not, however, require that the license or certificate be conferred by the jurisdiction in which the examination is conducted. The Department is publishing this rule as a final rule without prior public notice and opportunity to comment because the rule's content is technical in nature and limited to the practices and procedures associated with administrative proceedings. Other Matters An environmental finding under the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321&hyph;4347) is unnecessary because this rule relates to agency administrative procedures governing discovery of evidence. This final rule was determined to be non-significant and therefore was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866, Regulatory Planning and Review, which was signed by the President on September 30, 1993. The Secretary, in approving the publication of this rule, certifies in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 605(b) (the Regulatory Flexibility Act), that this rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rule is a technical, procedural change which only affects operations within HUD. The rule does not affect substantive rights. The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family, has determined that this rule would have no significant impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being. The General Counsel, as the Designated official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that this rule, if implemented, would have no significant impact on federalism.
