FR940613-2-00071 FR940613-2-00044 While ADR techniques have proven to be useful in resolving serious conflicts, the day-to-day operations of the Department's bureaus should provide conflict avoidance methods, where possible. Moreover, the ADR Act, 5 U.S.C. 582(b), specifically cautions that: An agency shall consider not using a dispute resolution proceeding if_ (1) a definitive or authoritative resolution of the matter is required for precedential value, and such a proceeding is not likely to be accepted generally as an authoritative precedent; (2) the matter involves or may bear upon significant questions of Government policy that require additional procedures before a final resolution may be made, and such a proceeding would not likely serve to develop a recommended policy for the agency; (3) maintaining established policies is of special importance, so that variations among individual decisions are not increased and such a proceeding would not likely reach consistent results among individual decisions; (4) the matter significantly affects persons or organizations who are not parties to the proceeding; (5) a full public record of the proceeding is important, and a dispute resolution proceeding cannot provide such a record; and (6) the agency must maintain continuing jurisdiction over the matter with authority to alter the disposition of the matter in the light of changed circumstances, and a dispute resolution proceeding would interfere with the agency's fulfilling that requirement. The decision whether to use ADR, however, remains within each federal agency's discretion, and participation in ADR processes is by mutual consent of the disputants. The ADR Act fosters the use of ADR by ensuring appropriate protection of parties' and neutrals' communication. The ADR Act, however, is not a statute exempting disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). To establish a baseline of understanding, concerned parties should establish confidentiality guidelines consistent with FOIA requirements before entering into negotiations. Within the limitations set forth in the ADR Act, and elsewhere, the Department plans to explore, over the next two years, whether and in which contexts the use of ADR facilitates fairer, faster, or more rational resolutions of disputes than present dispute resolution methods provide. Additionally, the Department will conduct an evaluation of the interim policy. On the basis of this evaluation, the Department will consider modifying any of its current procedures or rules, as appropriate, to allow for greater use of ADR. II. Negotiated Rulemaking Act In enacting the Negotiated Rulemaking Act, Public Law No. 101&hyph;648, Congress indicated its concern that traditional notice and comment rulemaking procedures may discourage agreement among the potentially affected parties and the Federal Government. Congress addressed this concern by purposefully designing the Negotiated Rulemaking Act's procedures to facilitate the cooperative development of regulations by interested persons and agencies. Moreover, Vice President Gore's report recently recommended improving agencies' regulatory systems by ``[e]ncourag[ing] agencies to use negotiated rulemaking more frequently in developing new rules.'' National Performance Review, Recommendation REG03. Negotiated Rulemaking (Reg-Neg) does not replace the traditional notice and comment rulemaking. Rather, Reg-Neg supplements the more traditional process by developing consensus around the candidate proposed rule before an agency publishes it in the Federal Register. Combining early consensus-building and information-gathering with an opportunity for broad public consideration, the Reg-Neg process meets the prescription of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 551 et seq. , and can facilitate more effective regulatory development and regulations. Moreover, on September 30, 1993, President Clinton issued a Memorandum in conjunction with the issuance of Executive Order 12866 on Regulatory Planning and Review. The Memorandum required each department to identify to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs at least one rulemaking within the upcoming year to be developed through negotiated rulemaking or to explain why negotiated rulemaking would not be feasible, 58 FR 52391 (Oct. 7, 1993).
