FR941206-0-00078 FR941206-0-00011 (2) Measure and record once per week the level of the scrubber liquor in the recirculation tank. The owner or operator shall install, maintain, and use a liquid level indicator to measure the scrubber liquor tank level (i.e., a marker on the tank wall, a dipstick, a magnetic indicator, etc.). (c) For sterilization facilities complying with §63.363(b), (c), (d), or (e) through the use of catalytic oxidation or thermal oxidation, the owner or operator shall continuously monitor and record the oxidation temperature at the outlet to the catalyst bed or at the exhaust point from the thermal combustion chamber using the temperature monitor described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. (1) For the sterilization chamber vent, a data acquisition system for the temperature monitor shall compute and record an average oxidation temperature over the length of the cycle (based on the length of the cycle used during the performance test in §63.365(b)(2)) and a three-cycle block average every third cycle. (2) For the aeration room vent, a data acquisition system for the temperature monitor shall compute and record an average oxidation temperature each hour and a 3-hour block average every third hour. (3) For the chamber exhaust vent, a data acquisition system for the temperature monitor shall compute and record an average oxidation temperature over the length of the cycle (based on the length of the cycle used during the performance test in §63.365(d)(2)). (4) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitor accurate to within # 5.6 ○C ( # 10 ○F) to measure the oxidation temperature. The owner or operator shall verify the accuracy of the temperature monitor twice each calendar year with a reference temperature monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature measurement device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the temperature monitor being tested. (d) For sterilization facilities complying with §63.363(b), (c), (d), or (e) through the use of a control device other than acid-water scrubbers or catalytic or thermal oxidizers, the owner or operator shall monitor the parameters as approved by the Administrator using the methods and procedures in §63.365(g). (e) For sterilization facilities complying with §63.363(c)(3)(i) or (e)(2)(i) through the use of direct measurement of ethylene oxide concentration, the owner or operator shall follow either paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section: (1) Measure and record once per hour the ethylene oxide concentration at the outlet to the atmosphere from the aeration room vent after any control device according to the procedures specified in §63.365(c)(1). The owner or operator shall compute and record a 3-hour average every third hour. The owner or operator will install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a gas chromatograph consistent with the requirements of performance specification (PS) 9 in 40 CFR part 60, Appendix B, to measure ethylene oxide. The daily calibration requirements of section 7.2 of PS 9 are required only on days when ethylene oxide emissions are vented to the control device from the aeration room vent. (2) Measure and record the ethylene oxide concentration in the sterilization chamber immediately before the chamber exhaust is activated according to the procedures specified in §63.365(c)(2). The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a gas chromatograph consistent with the requirements of PS 9 to measure ethylene oxide concentration. The daily calibration requirements of section 7.2 of PS 9 are required only on days when the chamber exhaust is activated. (f) For sterilization facilities complying with §63.363(d)(1) or (e)(1) by manifolding emissions from the chamber exhaust vent to a control device controlling emissions from another vent type, the owner or operator shall monitor the control device to which emissions from the chamber exhaust vent are manifolded using the appropriate monitoring requirements in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section and record the monitoring data.
