FR940318-0-00232 FR940318-0-00023 (1) Acceptable. Where the Agency has reviewed a substitute and found no reason to prohibit its use, it will list the alternative as acceptable for the end-uses listed in the notice. (2) Acceptable subject to use conditions. After reviewing a notice, the Agency may make a determination that a substitute is acceptable only if conditions of use are met to minimize risks to human health and the environment. Where users intending to adopt a substitute acceptable subject to use conditions must make reasonable efforts to ascertain that other alternatives are not feasible due to safety, performance or technical reasons, documentation of this assessment must be retained on file for the purpose of demonstrating compliance. This documentation shall include descriptions of substitutes examined and rejected, processes or products in which the substitute is needed, reason for rejection of other alternatives, e.g., performance, technical or safety standards. Use of such substitutes in ways that are inconsistent with such use conditions renders them unacceptable. (3) Acceptable subject to narrowed use limits. Even though the Agency can restrict the use of a substitute based on the potential for adverse effects, it may be necessary to permit a narrowed range of use within a sector end-use because of the lack of alternatives for specialized applications. Users intending to adopt a substitute acceptable with narrowed use limits must ascertain that other alternatives are not technically feasible. Companies must document the results of their evaluation, and retain the results on file for the purpose of demonstrating compliance. This documentation shall include descriptions of substitutes examined and rejected, processes or products in which the substitute is needed, reason for rejection of other alternatives, e.g., performance, technical or safety standards, and the anticipated date other substitutes will be available and projected time for switching to other available substitutes. Use of such substitutes in applications and end-uses which are not specified as acceptable in the narrowed use limit renders them unacceptable. (4) Unacceptable. This designation will apply to substitutes where the Agency's review indicates that the substitute poses risk of adverse effects to human health and the environment and that other alternatives exist that reduce overall risk. (5) Pending. Submissions for which the Agency has not reached a determination will be described as pending. For all substitutes in this category, the Agency will work with the submitter to obtain any missing information and to determine a schedule for providing the missing information if the Agency wishes to extend the 90-day review period. EPA will use the authority under section 114 of the Clean Air Act to gather this information, if necessary. In some instances, the Agency may also explore using additional statutory provisions (e.g., section 5 of TSCA) to collect the needed data. (c) Joint processing under SNAP and TSCA. The Agency will coordinate reviews of substitutes submitted for evaluation under both the TSCA PMN program and the CAA. (d) Joint processing under SNAP and FIFRA. The Agency will coordinate reviews of substitutes submitted for evaluation under both FIFRA and the CAA. ยง82.182 Confidentiality of data. (a) Clean Air Act provisions. Anyone submitting information must assert a claim of confidentiality at the time of submission for any data they wish to have treated as confidential business information (CBI) under 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. Failure to assert a claim of confidentiality at the time of submission may result in disclosure of the information by the Agency without further notice to the submitter. The submitter should also be aware that under section 114(c), emissions data may not be claimed as confidential. (b) Substantiation of confidentiality claims. At the time of submission, EPA requires substantiation of any confidentiality claims made. Failure to provide any substantiation may result in disclosure of information without further notice by the Agency. All submissions must include adequate substantiation in order for an acceptability determination on a substitute to be published. Moreover, under 40 CFR part 2, subpart B, there are further instances in which confidentiality assertions may later be reviewed even when confidentiality claims are initially received. The submitter will also be contacted as part of such an evaluation process. (c) Confidentiality provisions for toxicity data. In the event that toxicity or health and safety studies are listed as confidential, this information cannot be maintained as confidential where such data are also submitted under TSCA or FIFRA, to the extent that confidential treatment is prohibited under those statutes. However, information contained in a toxicity study that is not health and safety data and is not relevant to the effects of a substance on human health and the environment (e.g., discussion of process information, proprietary blends) can be maintained as confidential subject to 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. (d) Joint submissions under other statutes. Information submitted as part of a joint submission to either SNAP/TSCA or SNAP/FIFRA must adhere to the security provisions of the program offices implementing these statutes. For such submissions, the SNAP handling of such notices will follow the security provisions under these statutes. ยง82.184 Petitions. (a) Who may petition. Any person may petition the Agency to amend existing listing decisions under the SNAP program, or to add a new substance to any of the SNAP lists. (b) Types of petitions. Five types of petitions exist: (1) Petitions to add a substitute not previously reviewed under the SNAP program to the acceptable list. This type of petition is comparable to the 90-day notifications, except that it would generally be initiated by entities other than the companies that manufacture, formulate, or otherwise use the substitute. Companies that manufacture, formulate, or use substitutes that want to have their substitutes added to the acceptable list should submit information on the substitute under the 90-day review program; (2) Petitions to add a substitute not previously reviewed under the SNAP program to the unacceptable list;
