FR940805-1-00028 FR940805-1-00004 D. Statement D_Competitive Alternatives In Statement D, the Commission is proposing that the oil pipeline describe available transportation alternatives in competition with the oil pipeline in the relevant markets and other competition constraining the oil pipeline's rates in those markets. Statement D would have to include all pertinent data about transportation alternatives and other constraining competition. 23 For example, without limitation, the oil pipeline would have to include data similar to that provided for its own facilities and services in Statement C, including cost and mileage data in specific reference to the oil pipeline's terminals and major consuming markets. 23 If the oil pipeline seeks to include competitive alternatives from outside a BEA, it would have to show that any such alternative is a competitive factor. The NOI listed the following forms of transport and other competition that might be included in a market power calculation: 24 other pipelines, including private pipelines and those passing through the geographic market but without terminals, pipelines passing near the geographic market, barges, trucks, and refineries within the geographic market. 25 The Commission does not propose to exclude any alternative form of transport or other competition, including, for example, local consumption in origin markets. However, the burden is on the oil pipeline to justify its inclusion of transportation alternatives and other competition in its market power analysis. 24 E.g., in calculating its Herfindahl-Hirschman Index, discussed infra. 25 Potential Competition included in the list is discussed infra. E. Statement E_Potential Competition In Statement E, the Commission is proposing that the oil pipeline describe potential competition in the relevant markets. Statement E would have to include data about the potential competitors such as a potential entrant's costs and mileage in reference to the oil pipeline's terminals and major consuming markets. F. Statement F_Maps Statement F would consist of a map or maps showing the principal oil pipeline facilities and the points at which service is rendered under its tariff, the direction of flow of each line, the location of each of the oil pipeline's terminals, the location of each of its major consuming markets (cities, airports, and the like, as appropriate), and the location of alternatives to the oil pipeline, including their distance in miles from the oil pipeline's terminals and major consuming markets. The map may be on separate pages and must include a general system map and maps by geographic markets. G. Statement G_Market Power Measures In Statement G, the Commission is proposing that the oil pipeline set forth the calculation of the HHI 26 and its market share with respect to the relevant markets and the calculation of other market power measures relied on by the oil pipeline, along with complete particulars about those calculations. 26 The HHI calculates market concentration by summing the squares of individual market shares of all the firms included in the market. For example, if each of four firms has a 25 percent share of the market, the HHI for the market would be .2500 ((.25x.25)4) or 2500 in 12 nontechnical terms. The Commission believes that it is useful to obtain a showing of market concentration using the HHI. The HHI would include the oil pipeline and the competitive alternatives set forth in Statements D and E. The burden is on the oil pipeline to justify the individual market shares used in calculating the HHIs. In addition, the Commission is not proposing any particular HHI level, such as 1800 or 2500, as a screen or presumption, rebuttable or otherwise. All factors must be considered in determining whether an oil pipeline lacks significant market power. The Commission also is proposing to require the oil pipeline to submit a market share calculation based on its receipts in its origin markets and its deliveries in its destination markets, if the HHIs are not based on those factors. For example, if the destination HHIs are based on capacity determined market shares, the oil pipeline would have to submit a market share calculation for itself based on deliveries in the respective destination markets. The Commission is not proposing any screen or presumption, rebuttable or otherwise, about particular market share levels. All factors must be considered in determining whether an oil pipeline lacks significant market power. The oil pipeline may also include other indicators of the lack of significant market power. For example, it could present evidence about water transportation as an indication that the oil pipeline lacks significant market power.
