FR940721-0-00070 FR940721-0-00014 The final rule clarifies that suppliers are required to provide both separate and combined information concerning the U.S. and Canadian content of parts that may be used in engines or transmissions. With respect to Ford's suggestion that separate U.S. and Canadian content information be required for all equipment, NHTSA notes that it would be inappropriate for the regulation to require suppliers to provide information that is not relevant to Labeling Act requirements. However, manufacturers are free to request suppliers to provide such information outside the context of 49 CFR part 583. The agency notes that additional issues related to supplier certifications are discussed below in the section entitled ``Recordkeeping Requirements; Supplier Certifications.'' E. Requirements for Dealers NHTSA proposed to require dealers to maintain the label on each vehicle until the vehicle is sold to a consumer. The agency noted in the NPRM that AIADA had submitted a comment on the request for comments arguing that dealers should be permitted to remove the label from a vehicle if state law requires it, such as when dealers are operating demonstrator vehicles, or when dealers move cars in an intra-dealer exchange. AIADA had also recommended that dealers be permitted to affix duplicate labels in the event that the manufacturer-supplied label becomes torn or otherwise mutilated. NHTSA addressed this issue as follows in the NPRM: NHTSA has tentatively concluded that dealers should not be permitted to remove the label for any reason before sale to a consumer. The agency believes that it is appropriate to treat this label in same manner as Monroney and fuel economy labels, since all three labels are intended to provide information to aid consumers in making their purchase decision. Neither the EPA or Department of Justice permit dealers to remove fuel economy or Monroney labels, even temporarily, prior to sale to a consumer. The Department of Justice has advised that neither the Monroney nor fuel economy labeling statutes contain exceptions for situations in which labels purportedly constitute safety hazards in demonstrator cars (i.e., those cars that dealers allow potential customers to test drive), and went on to state that it was unaware of any judicial interpretations that would create such exceptions. Section 210 is similar to the other two labeling statutes in that it does not grant NHTSA the authority to permit dealers to remove the label. Indeed, section 210(b)(1) states explicitly that each dealer shall cause the label required by this Act to be maintained on the vehicle. NHTSA is also concerned that, if dealers were permitted to remove labels for demonstrator vehicles, consumers would not have the labeling information available to them at a crucial time in their purchasing decision, i.e., the time they were evaluating a vehicle for purchase. In addition, the labels might be re-attached inadvertently to the wrong vehicle or not re-attached at all. The Department of Justice has advised that most manufacturers have been applying Monroney and fuel economy labels to the rear left windows of vehicles, and affixing the vehicles with labels that do not easily tear or loosen from the windows to which they are attached. Such placement does not ordinarily interfere with the driver's vision in the event of a test drive or other similar purpose. Additionally, the dealer could not easily remove the label, even for temporary purposes, without tearing or destroying it. NHTSA will not, therefore, propose to permit dealers to remove labels for any reason prior to a first sale to a consumer, with one exception: the agency agrees with the AIADA that it is necessary for dealers to replace any label that becomes mutilated or otherwise damaged prior to sale to a consumer so that the information is no longer legible. 58 FR 61053.
