FR940314-1-00060 FR940314-1-00012 (A) Unit means the packaging or, if there is no packaging, the form in which a dietary supplement of vitamins and minerals is offered for sale to consumers. (B) Food product that is a dietary supplement of vitamins or minerals means a food (supplement) in any sized package which is manufactured by a single manufacturer or which bears the same brand name, which bears the same statement of identity, and which has similar preparation methods. (C) Person means all domestic and foreign affiliates of the corporation, in the case of a corporation, and all affiliates of a firm or other entity, when referring to a firm or other entity that is not a corporation. (D) Full-time equivalent employee means all individuals employed by the person claiming the exemption. This number shall be determined by dividing the total number of hours of salary or wages paid to individuals that render services to the person by the number of hours of work in a year, 2,080 hours (i.e., 40 hours × 52 weeks). * * * * * Dated: March 9, 1994. David A. Kessler, Commissioner of Food and Drugs. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services. Note: The following Appendixes will not appear in the annual Code of Federal Regulations. Appendix I_Model Small Business Food Labeling Exemption Notice (Please Type or Clearly Print) 1. Name of Firm 2. Firm Address XXXXXX State XX ZIP 3. Name of Food Product for which Exemption is Claimed. (Use continuation sheets as necessary) 4. Name and address of the manufacturers of the products listed in item 3 if different than the firm listed in item 1. (Use continuation sheets as necessary) 5. Average number of Full-Time Equivalent Employees XXXX (For time period of May 8, 1993, to May 7, 1994) 6. Approximate Total Number of Units sold in United States between May 8, 1993, and May 7, 1994. (Use continuation sheets as necessary) No. of Units␣␣Product 7. The undersigned certifies that the above information is a true and accurate representation of the operations of XXXX . (Name of firm) The undersigned will notify the Office of Food Labeling of the date on which the average number of full-time equivalent employees or the number of units of food products sold in the United States exceeds the applicable number for the exemption which is being claimed herein. (Signature) (Title)
