FR941005-1-00019 FR941005-1-00004 This criterion refers to the extent to which the assessment base reflects the degree of risk posed to the deposit insurance funds. For example, there is a link between the existing assessment base, which is based on total domestic deposits, and the magnitude of the loss the failure of an institution could cause its deposit insurance fund. On the one hand, private insurance firms often base the amount of their premiums at least in part on the amount to be paid out under the policy if the insured event transpires. This practice might suggest an assessment base consisting of insured deposits only. Such a definition also would be consistent with the primary purpose of federal deposit insurance as clarified by FDICIA_to protect insured deposits. On the other hand, existing public policy provides protection for liabilities other than insured deposits, through such measures as depositor preference_which provides some protection to non-insured domestic deposits_ and granting superior status to secured liabilities. In addition, to the extent that secured claims are elevated to a position superior to that of insured deposits, the FDIC may be at greater risk of not recovering the full amount of its payout on insured deposits. Thus, assessment of liabilities other than insured deposits is not inherently inconsistent with the concept of defining the assessment base in terms of the magnitude of the risk posed to the FDIC. 4. Non-Avoidability This criterion refers to the extent to which the assessment base precludes or minimizes transactions or adjustments made solely to avoid assessments. Under the existing assessment base, which is defined in terms of deposits held ``as of'' the last day of the quarter, avoidance activities usually involve the temporary transfer of deposits out of an institution's deposit base for a brief period extending over quarter end. One such example is the movement of deposits into non- deposit instruments (such as notes or repurchase agreements) within the same institution just prior to quarter end, solely for the purpose of reducing the assessment paid by the institution. The transferred funds are returned to deposit accounts at the beginning of the next quarter, after the ``as of'' date for determining the institution's assessment base. Another example, which involves the transfer of deposits from one insured institution to another, does not affect the total amount of assessments collected by the FDIC but rather forces the receiving institution to pay assessments on deposits that would otherwise have been included in the transferring institution's assessment base. In this example, deposits are transferred just prior to quarter end from one institution to another. The transfer is reversed shortly thereafter. The result is to disadvantage the (probably unsuspecting) receiving institution by increasing the deposit base on which its assessments are calculated. In both of these examples, the result is an artificial situation created solely for the purpose of avoiding assessments. Such situations could be mitigated by the use of ``average'' data in defining the assessment base. 5. Recordkeeping Burden This criterion refers to the ease of maintaining and reporting the data needed for computing an institution's assessment base. It encompasses the time and effort necessary for any additional recordkeeping beyond that required of reporting entities for purposes other than assessments.
