FR940126-2-00031 FR940126-2-00020 •It is not intended that the funds must go to the same agencies for the exact same purposes every year; and, •The funding is open to all organizations helping hungry and homeless people and is not intended that the funds should go only to Local Board member agencies or local government agencies. Having stated what it is not, what does the National Board want this program to be? EFSP should: •Create inclusive local coalitions that meet regularly to determine the best use of funds and to monitor their use in their respective communities; •Treat every program year as a fresh opportunity to reassess what particular community needs (e.g. on-site feeding or utility assistance, mass shelter or homelessness prevention) should be addressed; •Encourage agencies to work together to emphasize their respective strengths, work out common problems, and prevent duplication of effort; and, •Examine whether the program is helping to meet the needs of special populations such as minorities, Native Americans, veterans, families with children, the elderly, and the handicapped. We must emphasize that this program has a commitment to emergency services. We continue to view it as an opportunity for building a cohesive emergency structure which can, for example, •Coordinate across agencies the emergency assistance provided to families and individuals applying for rental, mortgage, or utility assistance; •Enhance a food banking network that is economical in its cost and broad in its coverage; •Reinforce creative cooperation among feeding and sheltering sites to ensure help for street populations most in need; and, •Establish or maintain a system that complements rather than supplants existing private and governmental efforts to provide rent, mortgage, or utility assistance. The National Board is aware that much is asked of our voluntary Local Boards and LROs, and very little administrative funding is provided. But the cooperative model that EFSP has helped to create can be a useful vehicle for many governmental and community-based programs. As a group, local providers can accomplish much: •Initiating a dialogue with local offices of Federal entities such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture to take full advantage of excess commodities and its other programs or with the U.S. Department of Labor's Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA); •Working with Federal programs that require the input of local providers such as the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD's) Community Development Block Grant and Emergency Shelter Grant and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Health Care for the Homeless; •Pooling agency efforts to gain Federal (for example, HUD's Transitional Housing Program) and private foundation grants; •Leveraging EFSP funds within the community by encouraging matches of local EFSP allocations from State and local governments and private resources; and, •Exchanging ideas on administrative and accounting methods that can improve delivery of services and focus on the collaborative rather than the competitive aspects of agency relations. Eleven years ago this program began as a one-time effort to help address urgent needs. The survival of this public-private partnership is not only a testament to needs, but also to the effectiveness of EFSP as an example of local decision-making and community responsibility in attempting to meet those needs. EFSP is a reminder of this nation's willingness to confront difficult problems within society in new ways. But most importantly, EFSP has fed and sheltered homeless and hungry people, it has maintained homes and the families in those homes, and it has created useful public-private partnerships within communities.
