FR940804-0-00098 FR940804-0-00023 (d) Provision of information. Upon written request, the EEOC or the Civil Rights Division shall provide the section 504 agency with any materials relating to its resolution of the charge, including its findings and conclusions, investigative reports and files, and any conciliation agreement. § XX .11 EEOC review of deferred charges. (a) Deferral by the EEOC. When it is determined that a section 504 agency is the agency that shall process a dual-filed complaint or charge under § XX .8(a)(2) or § XX .8(e), the EEOC shall defer further action until the section 504 agency takes one of the following actions: (1) Makes a finding that a violation has not occurred; (2) Enters into a voluntary compliance agreement; (3) Following a finding that a violation has occurred, refers the complaint to the Civil Rights Division for judicial enforcement and the Civil Rights Division resolves the complaint; (4) Following a finding that a violation has occurred, resolves the complaint through final administrative enforcement action; or (5) Otherwise resolves the charge. (b) Notification of the EEOC. The section 504 agency shall notify the EEOC upon resolution of any dual-filed complaint or charge. (c) Agency review. After receipt of notification that the section 504 agency has resolved the complaint, the EEOC shall promptly determine what further action by the EEOC is warranted. In reaching that determination, the EEOC shall give due weight to the section 504 agency's findings and conclusions. If the EEOC proposes to take an action inconsistent with the section 504 agency's findings and conclusions as to whether a violation has occurred, the EEOC shall notify in writing the Assistant Attorney General, the Chairman of the EEOC, and the head of the section 504 agency that processed the complaint. In the written notification, the EEOC shall state the action that it proposes to take and the basis of its decision to take such action. (d) Provision of information. Upon written request, the section 504 agency shall provide the EEOC with any materials relating to its resolution of the complaint, including its conclusions, investigative reports and files, and any voluntary compliance agreement. § XX .12 Standards. In any investigation, compliance review, hearing or other proceeding, the standards used to determine whether section 504 has been violated in a complaint alleging employment discrimination shall be the standards applied under title I of the ADA and the provisions of sections 501 through 504, and 510, of the ADA, as such sections relate to employment. Section 504 agencies shall consider the regulations and appendix implementing title I of the ADA, set forth at 29 CFR part 1630, and case law arising under such regulations, in determining whether a recipient of Federal financial assistance has engaged in an unlawful employment practice. § XX .13 Agency specific memoranda of understanding. When a section 504 agency amends its regulations to make them consistent with title I of the ADA, the EEOC and the individual section 504 agency may elect to enter into a memorandum of understanding providing for the investigation and processing of complaints dual filed under both section 504 and title I of the ADA by the section 504 agency. Adoption of the Joint Final Rule The agency-specific adoption of the joint final rule, which appears at the end of the joint preamble, appears below: Title 28_Judicial Administration Department of Justice 28 CFR Part 37 List of Subjects in 28 CFR Part 37 Administrative practice and procedure, Individuals with disabilities, Equal employment opportunity, Intergovernmental relations.
