FR940127-0-00014 FR940127-0-00003 Also, commentors suggested removing the word ``checking'' where it occurs throughout ยง1902.14, in part because credit unions and savings accounts may also be used when MFH reserve accounts are being established. The Agency agrees and is dropping the word ``checking'' from the section governing MFH reserve funds. List of Subjects 7 CFR Part 1902 Accounting, Banks, Banking, Grant programs_Housing and community development, Loan programs_Agriculture, Loan programs_Housing and community development. 7 CFR Part 1930 Accounting, Administrative practice and procedure, Grant programs_Housing and community development, Loan programs_Housing and community development, Low- and moderate-income housing_Rental, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Accordingly, title 7, chapter XVIII of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 1902_SUPERVISED BANK ACCOUNTS 1. The authority citation for part 1902 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70. Subpart A_Loan and Grant Disbursement 2. The heading of subpart A to part 1902 is revised to read as follows: Subpart A_Disbursement of Loan, Grant, and Other Funds 3. Section 1902.1 is amended by adding introductory text to read as follows: ยง1902.1 General. This subpart prescribes the policies and procedures of the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) for disbursement of funds under the Loan Disbursement System (LDS), in establishing and using supervised bank accounts, and in placing Multi-Family Housing (MFH) reserve accounts in supervised bank accounts. The LDS system provides for disbursement of funds on an as needed basis to substantially reduce interest costs to FmHA borrowers, U.S. Treasury, and FmHA. * * * * * 4. Section 1902.4 is added to read as follows: ยง1902.4 Establishing MFH reserve accounts in a supervised bank account. (a) General Requirements. All MFH borrowers required to maintain reserve accounts must place the reserve accounts in a supervised bank account(s) which meets the following requirements: (1) Countersignature requirements. The reserve account must require that any funds withdrawn be countersigned by an authorized FmHA official. (2) Restrictions on collateral. The financial institution holding the reserve account must ensure that the funds are not pledged or taken as security without the Agency's prior consent. (3) Interest bearing. The reserve account funds are encouraged to be maintained in an interest-bearing account. The ``Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement'' set out in Exhibit B of this subpart is not required to be used for reserve accounts. (4) Restricted investments. Reserve funds must be placed in investments authorized in subpart C of part 1930 of this chapter. The authorized investments are deemed to be of acceptable risk such that the potential for any loss is minimal. (5) Financial institutions. The reserve account must be maintained in authorized financial institutions set out in subpart C of part 1930 of this chapter (e.g., banks, savings and loan institutions, credit unions, brokerage firms, mutual funds, etc.). Generally, any financial institution may be used provided invested or deposited funds are insured to protect against theft and dishonesty. The reserve account funds need not be Federally insured. However, if Federally insured, any amount held above the Federal insurance ceilings established must be backed by a pledge of collateral from the financial institution, or otherwise covered by non-federal insurance against theft and dishonesty.
