FR940728-0-00013 FR940728-0-00005 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;76&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8982; AD 94&hyph;15&hyph;11] Airworthiness Directives; Fokker Model F&hyph;27 Mark 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, and 700 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain Fokker Model F&hyph;27 series airplanes, that requires the implementation of a corrosion prevention and control program either by accomplishing specific tasks or by revising the maintenance inspection program to include such a program. This amendment is prompted by reports of incidents involving corrosion and fatigue cracking in transport category airplanes that are approaching or have exceeded their economic design goal; these incidents have jeopardized the airworthiness of the affected airplanes. The actions specified by this AD are intended to prevent degradation of the structural capabilities of the airplane due to the problems associated with corrosion. DATES: Effective August 29, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of August 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Fokker Aircraft USA, Inc., 1199 North Fairfax Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314. This information may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Quam, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2145; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) to include an airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Fokker Model F&hyph;27 series airplanes was published in the Federal Register on March 14, 1994 (59 FR 11739). That action proposed to require the implementation of a corrosion prevention and control program either by accomplishing specific tasks or by revising the maintenance inspection program to include such a program. Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received. One commenter supports the proposal. Another commenter suggests that the FAA reconsider the applicability of the proposed AD. This commenter requests that the applicability statement be worded so that it will not affect future models of this airplane, such as the Model F&hyph;27 Mark 800, which does not exist yet. The FAA concurs. Inclusion of a reference to that model in the applicability of the proposed rule was in error. The final rule has been revised to delete reference to it. This same commenter points out that the latest version of the parallel Netherlands Airworthiness Directive (BLA) is BLA 91&hyph;113, Issue 3, dated November 1, 1993. The preamble to the notice referred to an earlier version of this BLA that was issued June 26, 1992. The FAA acknowledges this information. After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the change previously described. The FAA has determined that this change will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD. The FAA estimates that 55 airplanes of U.S. registry will be affected by this proposed AD. It will take an average of approximately 7 work hours per basic task to accomplish the 75 basic tasks called out in the Document; this represents a total average of 525 work hours. The average labor rate is $55 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the AD on U.S. operators for the 6-year average inspection cycle is estimated to be $1,588,125, or $28,875 per airplane. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The FAA recognizes that the obligation to maintain aircraft in an airworthy condition is vital, but sometimes expensive. Because AD's require specific actions to address specific unsafe conditions, they appear to impose costs that would not otherwise be borne by operators. However, because of the general obligation of operators to maintain aircraft in an airworthy condition, this appearance is deceptive. Attributing those costs solely to the issuance of this AD is unrealistic because, in the interest of maintaining safe aircraft, most prudent operators would accomplish the required actions even if they were not required to do so by the AD. A full cost-benefit analysis has not been accomplished for this AD. As a matter of law, in order to be airworthy, an aircraft must conform to its type design and be in a condition for safe operation. The type design is approved only after the FAA makes a determination that it complies with all applicable airworthiness requirements. In adopting and maintaining those requirements, the FAA has already made the determination that they establish a level of safety that is cost-beneficial. When the FAA, as in this AD, makes a finding of an unsafe condition, this means that this cost-beneficial level of safety is no longer being achieved and that the proposed actions are necessary to restore that level of safety. Because this level of safety has already been determined to be cost-beneficial, a full cost-benefit analysis for this AD would be redundant and unnecessary. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this action (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A final evaluation has been prepared for this action and it is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration amends part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) as follows:
