FR940902-1-00019 FR940902-1-00002 All REA borrowers must adopt the accrual accounting provisions and reporting requirements set forth in Statement No. 112 as of the statement's implementation date. A portion of the cumulative effect may be charged to construction and retirement activities provided such charges are properly supported. If a borrower elects to defer the cumulative effect of implementing Statement No. 112 in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, the deferral must be approved by REA. Effective Date and Implementation Statement No. 112 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1993. Previously issued financial statements should not be restated. REA borrowers must comply with the implementation date set forth in Statement No. 112. At the time of the adoption of Statement No. 112, rates must be in place sufficient to recover the current period expense. Accounting Journal Entries The journal entries required to account for postemployment benefits are as follows: Dr. 435.1, Cumulative Effect on Prior Years of a Change in Accounting Principle Dr. 107, Construction Work-in-Progress Dr. 108.8, Retirement Work-in-Progress Cr. 228.3, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits To record the cumulative effect of implementing Statement No. 112. Note: A portion of the cumulative effect may be charged to construction and retirement activities provided such charges are properly supported. Account 435.1 is closed to Account 219.2, Nonoperating Margins. If the borrower elects to defer and amortize the cumulative effect in accordance with the provisions of Statement No. 71, the following entry shall be recorded: Dr. 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets Cr. 435.1, Cumulative Effect on Prior Years of a Change in Accounting Principle To record the deferral of the cumulative effect of implementing Statement No. 112 in accordance with the provisions of Statement No. 71. Dr. 926, Employee Pensions and Benefits Dr. 107, Construction Work-in-Progress Dr. 108.8, Retirement Work-in-Progress Cr. 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets To record the amortization of the cumulative effect of implementing Statement No. 112 as it is recovered through rates in accordance with Statement No. 71. Dr. 926, Employee Pensions and Benefits Dr. 107, Construction Work-in-Progress Dr. 108.8, Retirement Work-in-Progress Cr. 228.3, Accumulated Provision for Pensions and Benefits To record current period postemployment benefit expense. Note: If postemployment benefits are accrued under the criteria set forth in Statement No. 43, this journal entry is made on a monthly basis. If, however, the accrual is based upon the provisions of Statement No. 5, this is a one-time entry unless the liability is reevaluated and subsequently adjusted. 629␣ Investments in Debt and Equity Securities Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (Statement No. 115), establishes the standards of financial accounting and reporting for investments in debt securities and for investments in equity securities that have readily determinable fair values. Statement No. 115 does not apply to investments in equity securities accounted for under the equity method nor to investments in consolidated subsidiaries. At the time of acquisition, an entity must classify debt and equity securities into one of three categories: held-to-maturity, available-for-sale, or trading. At the balance sheet date, the appropriateness of the classifications must be reassessed. Investments in debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity and are measured at amortized cost in the balance sheet only if the reporting entity has the positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. Debt securities are not classified as held-to-maturity if the entity has the intent to hold the security only for an indefinite period; for example if the security would become available for sale in response to changes in market interest rates and related changes in the security's prepayment risk, needs for liquidity, changes in the availability of and the yield on alternative investments, changes in funding sources and terms, and changes in foreign currency risk.
