FR940617-2-00229 FR940617-2-00118 C. Evaluation Criteria Using the appropriate evaluation criteria below, a panel of at least three reviewers (primarily experts from outside the Federal government) will review each application. Applicants should ensure that they address each minimum requirement in the priority area description under the appropriate section of the Program Narrative Statement. Reviewers will determine the strengths and weaknesses of each proposal in terms of the appropriate evaluation criteria listed below, provide comments and assign numerical scores. The point value following each criterion heading indicates the maximum numerical weight that each section may be given in the review process. Review Criteria for All Priority Areas Applications under all priority areas will be evaluated against the following criteria. 1. Objectives and Need for the Project (20 points). State the specific objectives and needs addressed by the project in terms of its national or regional significance, its theoretical importance, its applicability to policy and practice. Provide a detailed discussion of the ``state-of-the-art'' relative to the problem or area addressed by the proposal and indicate how the proposed effort will impact on it. State the goals or service objectives of the proposal. Provide supporting documentation or other testimonies from concerned interests other than the applicant. Summarize, evaluate and relate relevant data, based on planning or demonstration studies to the proposed project. The application must identify the specific topics or program areas to be served by the proposed project. 2. Results or Benefits Expected (20 points). The extent to which the application identifies the results and benefits to be derived, the extent to which they are consistent with the objectives of the proposal, the extent to which the application indicates the anticipated contributions to policy, practice, and theory, and the extent to which the proposed project costs are reasonable in view of the expected results. Identify, in specific terms, the results and benefits, for target groups and human service providers, to be derived from implementing the proposed project. Describe how the expected results and benefits will relate to previous demonstration efforts. Describe in detail evaluation plans and procedures which are capable of measuring the degree to which the project objectives have been accomplished. 3. Approach (35 points). The extent to which the application outlines a sound and workable plan of action pertaining to the scope of the project, and details how the proposed work will be accomplished; relates each task to the objectives and identifies the key staff member who will be the lead person; provides a chart indicating the timetable for completing each task, the lead person, and the time committed; cites factors which might accelerate or decelerate the work, giving acceptable reasons for taking this approach as opposed to others; describes and supports any unusual features of the project, such as design or technological innovations, reductions in cost or time, or extraordinary social and community involvements; and provides for projections of the accomplishments to be achieved. The extent to which, when applicable, the application describes the evaluation methodology that will be used to determine if the needs identified and discussed are being met and if the results and benefits identified are being achieved. The application also lists each organization, agency, consultant, or other key individuals or groups who will work on the project, along with a description of the activities and nature of their effort or contribution. 4. Level of Effort: (25 Points). Staffing pattern _Describe the staffing pattern for the proposed project, clearly linking responsibilities to project tasks and specifying the contributions to be made by key staff. Competence of staff _Describe the qualifications of the project team including any experiences working on similar projects. Also, describe the variety of skills to be used, relevant educational background and the demonstrated ability to produce final results that are comprehensible and usable. One or two pertinent paragraphs on each key member are preferred to vitae/résumés. However, vita/résumés may be included in the ten pages allowed for attachments/appendices. Adequacy of resources _Specify the adequacy of the available facilities, resources and organizational experience with regard to the tasks of the proposed project. List the financial, physical and other sources to be provided by other profit and nonprofit organizations. Explain how these organizations will participate in the day to day operations of the project. Budget _Relate the proposed budget to the level of effort required to obtain project objectives and provide a cost/benefit analysis. Demonstrate that the project's costs are reasonable in view of the anticipated results. Collaborative efforts _Discuss in detail and provide documentation for any collaborative or coordinated efforts with other agencies or organizations. Identify these agencies or organizations and explain how their participation will enhance the project. Letters from these agencies and organizations discussing the specifics of their commitment must be included in the application. Authorship _The authors of the application must be clearly identified together with their current relationship to the applicant organization and any future project role they may have if the project is funded. Applicants should note that non-responsiveness to the section ``Minimum Requirements for Project Design'' will result in a low evaluation score by the panel of expert reviewers. Applicants must clearly identify the specific priority area under which they wish to have their applications considered, and tailor their applications accordingly. Previous experience has shown that an application which is broader and more general in concept than outlined in the priority area description is less likely to score as well as one which is more clearly focused on and directly responsive to the concerns of that specific priority area. D. Available Funds OCS intends to award grants resulting from this announcement during the fourth quarter of FY 1994. The size of the actual awards will vary. Each priority area description includes information on the maximum Federal share of the project costs and the anticipated number of projects to be funded. The term ``project period'' refers to the total time a project is approved for support, including any extensions. Where appropriate, applicants may propose project periods which are shorter than the maximums specified in the various priority areas. Non-Federal share contributions may exceed the minimums specified in the various priority areas when the applicant is able to do so.
