FR940314-0-00003 FR940314-0-00001 (4) Is not subject to either CSRS or FERS and is in a position that OPM determines would satisfy one of the other three conditions cited above. In addition, an employee who has had law enforcement retirement coverage granted retroactively for service while subject to 5 U.S.C. chapter 51 is entitled to the special pay adjustment retroactively. An agency commented that there is a lack of congruence between the definitions of ``law enforcement officer'' under CSRS and FERS and that the classification standards should provide specific guidance for linking law enforcement duties to the definition of ``law enforcement officer'' for retirement purposes. Questions that arise concerning law enforcement duties for the purpose of determining an employee's entitlement to these special pay adjustments must be handled within the context of the technical amendments to FEPCA and law enforcement retirement law and regulations. Such issues are not within the scope of a classification standard. Adding a discussion of these issues to classification standards would add unnecessarily to the complexity of the standards without adding materially to the quality of information already provided. An employee organization commented that the definitions of ``law enforcement officer'' in these regulations should provide guidance on specific positions, job series, or duties. Such guidance is beyond the scope of these regulations. The criteria for approval of a position as a primary or secondary law enforcement position are in 5 CFR part 831, subpart I, for employees subject to CSRS, and in 5 CFR part 842, subpart H, for employees subject to FERS. Most employees who are covered by law enforcement retirement provisions are criminal investigators, Border Patrol Agents, Deputy U.S. Marshals, correctional officers, or support personnel in correctional institutions who have frequent and direct contact with inmates. Most Federal police officers are not covered by law enforcement retirement provisions. Basic Pay for Computation of Special Pay Adjustments An agency commented that some of its attorneys and accountants are on nationwide special rates under 5 U.S.C. 5305 that are not specifically related to law enforcement duties. Some of these attorneys and accountants have been granted retroactive coverage under the law enforcement retirement provisions. The agency believes special pay adjustments for LEO's should not be based on nationwide special rates unless the special rates are directly related to law enforcement duties. The interim regulations for special pay entitlements for law enforcement officers published on January 8, 1993, provided for computation of special pay adjustments on the basis of a nationwide or worldwide special salary rate under 5 U.S.C. 5305. Such a rate was included in the definition of ``scheduled annual rate of pay'' in ยง531.301 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations.
