FR941202-2-00149 FR941202-2-00098 Annual membership fees shall be payable by July 1 of each year and will cover the period July 1 to June 30 of the following year. Section 3_Billing The Executive Secretary shall bill each Member and Contributor for yearly dues 2 months prior to the expiration of the current membership year. Section 4_Evidence of Membership or Contributorship Membership certificates and cards of suitable design, bearing the insignia of the Conference shall be issued to the Members. Contributor certificates of a noticeably differing design shall be issued to the Contributors. The Executive Secretary shall advise the Treasurer of the count of new Members and Contributors and will forward the membership monies for deposit in the Conference Account. Article III_Use of the Insignia The insignia of the Conference may be used or displayed only by members of the Conference unless expressly authorized in writing by the Conference. Article IV_Board of Directors Section 1_Membership A. The Board of Directors consists of the Director, Executive Secretary, Chair of the Conference, Chair-Elect, the most recent still active Past Chair of the Conference, the Treasurer, and the six at-large members. B. The Nominating Committee in recommending candidates for the Board of Directors shall consider regional representation. C. The term of the Board of Directors runs from the adjournment of the Annual Meeting at which its members are elected (or appointed) through the succeeding Annual Meeting of the Conference. Section 2_Duties A. The Board of Directors has leadership responsibility for the conference and is charged with guiding the Conference in its primary mission of establishing standards for the accreditation of environmental laboratories. B. It generates the constitution and bylaws of the Conference, presents amendments, proposes changes in organizational structure, and defines roles and responsibilities as appropriate, for approval of the membership. C. It establishes administrative procedures and policy on internal matters and serves as the policy and coordinating body in matters of national and international significance. D. It holds accountable, reviews, and approves actions of all Committees. E. It utilizes the Standing Committees to resolve technical criteria issues regarding laboratory accreditation. F. It acts for the Conference in all routine or emergency situations. G. It authorizes interim meetings of Conference Committees as necessary. H. It fills any vacancy in any elective office of the Conference caused by death, resignation or retirement from active official service. I. It brings recommendations to the Conference for consideration and action as appropriate.
