FR941130-0-00138 FR941130-0-00020 We can appreciate the concerns of many ticket brokers that they may not be able to conduct business with tour operators in the same manner as they have in the past. However, it is also possible that the new Part 381 may influence a realignment of the distribution channels traditionally tapped by tour operators, for example by creating a motivation for event organizers to deal directly with ticket brokers or tour operators in order to facilitate the availability of tickets for event participants who use air tours. Nevertheless, experience has shown that the existing system is fraught with risk for consumers and that, when problems occur, significant inconvenience if not substantial financial harm is likely. The rights of consumers to be adequately informed about an offer and to receive what they are promised outweighs the concerns expressed by those who feel the new rule may alter the way they must do business. We note that there is nothing in the new rule that would prevent a tour operator from obtaining a contract for event tickets from a ticket broker who has obtained a written commitment from a series of individuals (e.g., alumni who are entitled to tickets but who aren't going to the game) who in turn each have a written commitment for game tickets from the ultimate distributor of the game tickets or an organization that receives such tickets directly from the distributor (e.g., a bowl committee, conference, or university). We would also like to emphasize that the rule applies only where a ticket to the event has been held out as a component of the tour that is being purchased. Tour operators remain free to use the same methods to obtain event tickets that they have in the past as long as they disclose that an event ticket is not a component of the tour, and that the operator will attempt to obtain the event ticket for the participant on an ``as available'' basis. (Once the operator represents to a participant that he has found the participant an event ticket, however, the operator must either have the ticket in hand or have a contract for it in the manner required by Part 381. In addition, the ``money back guarantee'' in Part 381 will apply from the point that the operator has represented that he has located and reserved a ticket for that individual.) In summary, we are issuing the rule as proposed in the NPRM, except for a minor change in the language in ยง381.7(c) made for purposes of clarity and changing the ban on price increases in ยง381.13 to apply to the last ten days before departure instead of the last five days, consistent with the same provision in the Public Charter rule (14 CFR Part 380). Regulatory Analyses and Notices This rule will be effective seven days after being published in the Federal Register . The seven day period will allow tour operators time to obtain ticket contracts that comply with the rule. A lengthier period between the publication and effective dates is not called for. The final rule is virtually unchanged from the proposed rule described in the NPRM; between the NPRM published in October and the ANPRM published last January, there has been ample notice of the Department's intentions in this proceeding. Air tours to college football bowl games have been popular in the past, and one such bowl was the reason that this rulemaking was initiated. The bowl season is only weeks away, and it is important for the consumer protections of this rule to be put in place as soon as possible lest consumers be financially harmed. The Department is already investigating several current special-event air tour promotions and is concerned that the risk of harm is real and significant. This rule is considered to be non-significant under DOT regulatory policies and procedures, 44 FR 11034. The proposal would have minimal economic impact, and accordingly no regulatory evaluation has been prepared. It is not subject to review by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs pursuant to Executive Order 12866. The NPRM has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that it does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. I certify that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. List of Subjects
