FR940118-2-00104 FR940118-2-00060 The Commission believes that, like the changes to NYSE Rule 75, the changes to Rule 126(i) appropriately increase the level of oversight brought to the resolution of trade disputes by removing the membership voting procedures and replacing them with specified factors for Floor Official consideration. This increased oversight will thus promote just and equitable principles of trade in accordance with section 6(b)(5) of the Act. 30 30 See supra footnote 12. Rule 131(a)_Types of Orders_Market Orders: Rule 131(a) provides that a market order to buy or sell a stated amount of a security at the most advantageous price obtainable after the order is represented in the trading crowd. Rule 131(a) further provides that the responsibilities of brokers handling market, limited price, at the close, and not held orders are set forth in Rule 156. It is proposed that ``switch orders'' be included in the reference to the orders brokers handle. This revision follows the inclusion of such orders in Rule 156. The Commission believes that the addition of switch orders is appropriate as such orders are being added to Rule 156. Rule 131(f)_Types of Orders_At the Opening Order: It is proposed that the phrase ``at the opening of the stock'' be revised to clarify that an ``at the opening order'' is to be executed ``on the opening trade in the stock.'' This revision incorporates into the rule a policy that is currently in effect on the Exchange. The Commission believes that because the proposed amendment would clarify the definition of an at-the-opening order, it should be approved. The Commission agrees with the Exchange that the clarifications to the definition of ``at-the-opening-only'' orders should help remove any misconceptions about when such orders are eligible for execution. Accordingly, the proposed rule change clarifies that while an ``at-the-opening-only'' order is eligible to be executed only on an opening trade, such an order is not cancelled if the stock opens with a quotation rather than a trade. In addition, the NYSE has revised its comparable rule in the same manner. 31 31 See NYSE Rule 13. Rule 131(h)_Do not reduce orders (``DNR''): Rule 131(h) relates to DNR orders, which are not reduced to reflect ordinary cash dividends but are reduced for other distributions such as when a stock goes ``ex'' a stock dividend or ex rights. Currently, the rule defines DNR orders to include a limited order to buy, or a stop limit order to sell a round lot or odd lot or a stop order to sell an odd lot which is not to be reduced by the amount of an ordinary cash dividend on the ex-dividend date. The rule further provides that a DNR order applies only to ordinary cash dividends; it should be reduced for other distributions such as when a stock goes ``ex'' a stock dividend or ex rights. The proposed change would add ``a stop order to sell'' to the list of DNR orders. The Exchange would also add ``a special cash dividend'' to the list which provides when a DNR order should be reduced for other distributions. 32 32 The Exchange states that the amended definition of a DNR order would be identical to the definition used by the NYSE. The Amex states that in 1987, the Exchange changed Rule 154 to permit specialists to accept stop orders on round lots 33 and therefore, it proposed to modify Rule 131(h) to include stop orders to sell round-lots. 34 The Exchange would also like to add special cash dividends to the list providing when a DNR order should be reduced for other distributions because such dividends are unexpected and will not have otherwise been taken into account. 33 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 24021 (January 21, 1987), 52 FR 3370 (February 3, 1987) (File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;84&hyph;32). 34 Amendment No. 3 proposes minor clarifying language changes. The Commission believes that the changes to Rule 131(h) bring this rule into conformance with other Amex Rules and lead to a correct definition of DNR orders in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. The changes promote just and equitable principles of trade in accordance with section 6(b)(5) of the Act. Rule 131(i)_Types of Orders_Fill or Kill: The definition of a ``fill or kill'' order in this paragraph includes a reference to two other types of orders, ``immediate or cancel'' and ``all or none.'' The Exchange believes that these references incorrectly suggest that such orders are comparable in nature when these three types of orders have unique characteristics. For instance, a ``fill or kill'' order is to be executed in its entirety on presentation in the crowd or immediately cancelled. ``Immediate or cancel'' orders require an immediate execution of all or part of the order with the balance cancelled. The ``all or none'' order is to be executed in its entirety in one transaction but is not cancelled if not executed immediately on presentation in the crowd. It is therefore proposed that the reference to ``immediate or cancel'' and ``all or none'' orders be deleted, because this paragraph of the rule is not applicable to those types of orders.
