FR940204-0-00057 FR940204-0-00021 Issue 3: A few commenters, citing Dr. John Thomas's opinions, stated that Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii is not a distinct taxon. Others contended that other botanical experts consulted by the Service ``did not reach a conclusion which would change the above view'' and that their brief reviews were not definitive and did not resolve the taxonomic questions that were raised. One commenter stated that a thorough taxonomic revision of the Pungentes subsection of the genus Chorizanthe was needed. Service Response: The Service believes that the recognized authority for the taxonomy of the buckwheat family, Dr. James Reveal, provided sufficient data to support the taxonomic validity of Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii. Moreover, other botanical experts consulted by the Service did not provide any information that disputed the taxonomic validity of this plant. The species C. robusta, inclusive of vars. robusta and hartwegii, faces threats as described under the section entitled ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species,'' hence even if the conservative Hickman (1993) treatment were used as in The Jepson Manual, the entire species would qualify for listing under the Act. The Service agrees that additional taxonomic work on the Pungentes subsection of the genus Chorizanthe would be desirable, but maintains that the existing treatment is sufficient to proceed with the listing. Issue 4: Several commenters contended that adequate regulatory mechanisms are currently in place, through the California Environmental Quality Act and the California Endangered Species Act, to protect Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii. Service Response: The only protection given to State-listed species is the requirement that landowners give CDFG 10 days notice of any land use change. The California Environmental Quality Act requires mitigation for projects that adversely affect listed plants as well as those that qualify for State listing; however, many mitigation attempts do not achieve the goal of securing long-term protection for such plants (Howald 1992). The California Environmental Quality Act process allowed the city of Scotts Valley to make a statement of overriding considerations to approve the Glenwood Development Company's project even though the project will eliminate approximately two-thirds of the known habitat for Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii (City of Scotts Valley 1992). Furthermore, CDFG was unable to come to agreement with the Glenwood Development Company on mitigation for impacts to the plant and compensation for unavoidable losses (Brian Hunter, CDFG, in litt. , 1993). The failure of existing regulatory mechanisms to adequately protect the plant are further discussed under Factor D in the ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species'' section. Issue 5: One commenter claimed that the Service has no jurisdiction over Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii because it occurs on privately owned lands, and the plant is neither in interstate commerce nor the subject of an international treaty and, therefore, is exclusively under the jurisdiction of the State. Service Response: Section 4 of the Act directs the Service to evaluate species for listing based on biological information only, not land jurisdiction. The five factors on which the biological vulnerability of species are evaluated are discussed in the ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species'' section. Land ownership is not a factor used to determine whether or not listing is appropriate. Issue 6: Two commenters stated that data concerning Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii were obtained in violation of State trespass laws on private land; therefore, such ``illegal evidence'' should be excluded from consideration in the listing process. Service Response: The ``trespass'' issue does not involve the Service, and although the Service does not condone entering private land without permission, it is charged with using the best commercially and scientifically available information in preparation of a proposal. Moreover, information concerning the rarity of Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii, the threats to its continued existence, and information from surveys on private land were made part of the public record in environmental assessments that were prepared as required by the California Environmental Quality Act (City of Scotts Valley 1989, Harding Lawson Associates 1991).
