FR940602-1-00047 FR940602-1-00013 (b) General. (1) Modifications, such as adding counterweights that might affect the vehicle's capacity or safety, shall not be performed without either the manufacturer's prior written approval or the written approval of a professional engineer experienced with the equipment, who has consulted with the manufacturer, if available. Capacity, operation and maintenance instruction plates, tags or decals shall be changed to conform to the equipment as modified. (2) Rated capacities, with and without removable counterweights, shall not be exceeded. Rated capacities shall be marked on the vehicle and shall be visible to the operator. The vehicle weight, with and without counterweight, shall be similarly marked. (3) If loads are lifted by two or more trucks working in unison, the total weight shall not exceed the combined safe lifting capacity of all trucks. (c) Guards for fork lift trucks. (1) Except as noted in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, fork lift trucks shall be equipped with overhead guards securely attached to the machines. The guard shall be of such design and construction as to protect the operator from boxes, cartons, packages, bagged material, and other similar individual items of cargo which may fall from the load being handled or from stowage. (2) Overhead guards shall not obstruct the operator's view, and openings in the top of the guard shall not exceed 6 inches (15.2 cm) in one of the two directions, width or length. Larger openings are permitted if no opening allows the smallest unit of cargo being handled through the guard. (3) Overhead guards shall be built so that failure of the vehicle's mast tilting mechanism will not displace the guard. (4) Overhead guards shall be large enough to extend over the operator during all truck operations, including forward tilt. (5) An overhead guard may be removed only when it would prevent a truck from entering a work space and if the operator is not exposed to low overhead obstructions in the work space. (6) Where necessary to protect the operator, fork lift trucks shall be fitted with a vertical load backrest extension to prevent the load from hitting the mast when the mast is positioned at maximum backward tilt. For this purpose, a ``load backrest extension'' means a device extending vertically from the fork carriage frame to prevent raised loads from falling backward. (d) Guards for bulk cargo-moving vehicles. (1) Every crawler type, rider operated, bulk cargo-moving vehicle shall be equipped with an operator's guard of such design and construction as to protect the operator, when seated, against injury from contact with a projecting overhead. (2) Guards and their attachment points shall be so designed as to be able to withstand, without excessive deflection, a load applied horizontally at the operator's shoulder level equal to the drawbar pull of the machine. (3) Guards shall not be required when the vehicle is used in situations in which the possibility of the seated operator coming in contact with projecting overheads does not exist. (4) Bulk cargo-moving vehicles shall be equipped with roll-over protection of such design and construction as to minimize the possibility of the operator being crushed as a result of a roll-over or upset. (e) Approved vehicle. (1) ``Approved power-operated vehicle'' means one listed as approved for the intended use or location by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. (2) Approved vehicles shall bear a label or other identification indicating testing laboratory approval. (3) When the atmosphere in an area is hazardous and the provisions of U.S. Coast Guard regulations 49 CFR 176.78 do not apply, only approved power-operated vehicles shall be used. (f) Maintenance. (1) Mechanically powered vehicles shall be maintained in safe working order. Safety devices shall not be removed or made inoperative except as otherwise provided in this section. Vehicles with a fuel system leak or any other safety defect shall not be operated. (2) Braking systems or other mechanisms used for braking shall be operable and in safe condition. (3) Replacement parts whose function might affect operational safety shall be equivalent in strength and performance capability to the original parts which they replace. (4) Repairs to the fuel and ignition systems of mechanically powered vehicles which involve fire hazards shall be conducted only in locations designated as safe for such repairs. (5) Batteries on all mechanically powered vehicles shall be disconnected during repairs to the primary electrical system unless power is necessary for testing and repair. On vehicles equipped with systems capable of storing residual energy, that energy shall be safely discharged before work on the primary electrical system begins. (6) Only designated persons shall perform maintenance and repair. (g) Parking brakes. All mechanically powered vehicles purchased after [insert effective date of the Final Rule] shall be equipped with parking brakes. (h) Operation. (1) Only stable and safely arranged loads within the rated capacity of the mechanically powered vehicle shall be handled. (2) The employer shall direct drivers to ascend and descend grades slowly. (3) If the load obstructs the forward view, the employer shall direct drivers to travel with the load trailing. (4) Steering knobs shall not be used unless the vehicle is equipped with power steering. (5) When mechanically powered vehicles use cargo lifting devices that have a means of engagement hidden from the operator, a means shall be provided to enable the operator to determine that the cargo has been engaged.
