FR941220-2-00041 FR941220-2-00028 Article LI is being amended to add definitions related to the listing, trading, and margin requirements of stock index, currency, and currency index warrants. Proposed Part V of the Exchange rules applies to the trading of index warrants and currency warrants. Proposed Article LIII, Rule 1 provides that, unless the context otherwise requires or a specific rule in Part V applies, the provisions of the Constitution and all other rules and policies of the Exchange apply to trading of such securities. Proposed Article LIII, Rule 2 states that no member or member organization shall accept an order from a customer for the purchase or sale of an index or currency warrant unless the customer's account has been approved for options trading pursuant to Exchange Article XXVIII, Rule 3. Proposed Article LIII, Rules 3, 4, 5, and 6 require that the options rules for suitability, discretionary account trading, supervision of accounts and customer complaints be applied to stock index and currency warrants. Proposed Article LIII, Rule 7 requires approval by a Compliance Registered Options Principal of all advertisements, sales literature and educational material issued by a member organization pertaining to stock index and currency warrants. The rule further requires Exchange approval of all advertisements and educational materials pertaining to stock index and currency warrants. Proposed Article LIII, Rule 8 provides that position limits for stock index warrants on the same index with original issue prices of ten dollars or less will be fifteen million warrants covering all such issues. In addition, with respect to warrants on the Standard & Poor's MidCap 400 Index, the position limit will be seven and one half million warrants covering all such issues, provided the original issue prices of the warrants are not greater than $10. Further, with respect to warrants on the Russell 2000 Index, the position limit will be twelve and one half million warrants. The rule provides that warrants with an original issue price of ten dollars or more will be weighted more heavily than warrants with an original issue price of ten dollars or less in calculating position limits. The rule gives the Exchange the authority to require the liquidation of a position in stock index warrants that is in excess of the position limits set forth in the rule, and commentary to the rule provides procedures for allowing limited exceptions to the position limits. Proposed Article LIII, Rule 9 provides for exercise limits on stock index warrants analogous to those found in stock index options and states that such limits are separate and distinct from any exercise limits that may be imposed by the issuers of stock index warrants. Proposed Article LIII, Rule 10, requires that the trading halt provisions in Article IX, Rule 10A shall be applied to the trading of stock index warrants. Upon SEC approval of the foregoing amendments, the Exchange proposes that it will only file rule changes for specific warrant issues where there is no corresponding option or warrant on the same underlying index already listed on a national securities exchange or NASDAQ. Accordingly, when a listed option or warrant overlies a particular broad based index, the Exchange proposes it be able to list warrants on that index without further SEC review and approval pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act. Both initial and maintenance listing standards for stock index warrants will require that no more than 20% of the securities in the underlying index, by weight, may be comprised of foreign securities or American depositary receipts (``ADRs'') overlying foreign securities that are not subject to comprehensive surveillance sharing agreements between the CHX and the primary exchange on which the foreign security (including a foreign security underlying an ADR) is traded. 3 Finally, prior to trading index or currency warrants, the Exchange will distribute a circular to its membership providing guidance regarding member firm compliance responsibilities (including suitability recommendations) when handling transactions in index or currency warrants. 3 Telephone conversation between David T. Rusoff, Foley & Lardner, and Stephen M. Youhn, SEC, on December 5, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). The Exchange proposes that the ``20% test'' be applied in the same manner as that contained in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34157 (June 3, 1994), 59 FR 30062 (June 10, 1994) (Commission approval order allowing the expedited trading approval of certain narrow-based index options). The Exchange believes the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the goals of Section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose a burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submission should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-referenced self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to file number in the caption above and should be submitted by January 10, 1995. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31204 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
