FR941012-2-00150 FR941012-2-00099 Under Customs proposed position, the only type of glass article classifiable as part of the class or kind ``preserving jars of glass'', would be regular and wide-mouth ``Mason-type'', threaded, home-canning jars with self-sealing lids. Glass articles with wire bails and glass or porcelain caps or lids would not be classifiable as ``preserving jars of glass'' as their physical characteristics do not allow them to be recommended for home canning use. Glassware of a Kind Used for Table or Kitchen Purposes Glass Storage Articles Based on the plain language of the heading, Customs is of the opinion that subheading 7013.39, HTSUS, provides for the class ``glassware of a kind used for table or kitchen purposes''. Customs position is based on exemplars from EN 70.13, which we believe demonstrate that the class ``glassware of a kind used for table or kitchen purposes'' provides for certain glass articles principally used for household storage. EN 70.13, pg. 936&hyph;937, states, in pertinent part, that: [T]his heading covers the following types of articles, most of which are obtained by pressing or blowing in moulds: (1) [T]able or kitchen glassware, e.g., drinking glasses, goblets, tankards, decanters, infants' feeding bottles, pitchers, jugs, plates, salad bowls, sugar-bowls, sauce-boats, fruit-stands, cake-stands, hors-d'oeuvres dishes, bowls, basins, egg-cups, butter dishes, oil or vinegar cruets, dishes (for serving, cooking, etc.) stew-pans, casseroles, trays, salt cellars, sugar sifters, knife-rests, mixers, table hand bells, coffee-pots and coffee-filters, sweetmeat boxes, graduated kitchenware, plate warmers, table mats, certain parts of domestic churns, cups for coffee-mills, cheese dishes, lemon squeezers, ice-buckets *␣*␣* Customs understands that the exemplars listed are articles principally used to hold or store other articles in the home. We believe that among these articles, certain glass storage jars may also be principally used in this fashion. Therefore, glass articles which are principally used to store articles in the home are classifiable under subheading 7013.39, HTSUS. After reviewing the ENs, relevant HRL's, and applying the principal use factors, which are indicative but not conclusive, for determining whether merchandise falls within a particular class or kind, Customs has identified the following characteristics which we believe are indicative, but not conclusive of glassware of a kind used for table or kitchen purposes; glass household storage articles. They are glass articles: 1. Made of ordinary glass, lead crystal glass, glass having a low coefficient of expansion (e.g., borosilicate glass) or of glass ceramics (the latter two in particular, for kitchen glassware). They may also be colourless, coloured or of flashed glass, and may be cut, frosted, etched or engraved; 2. Having a decorative motif consistent with a kitchen decor (e.g., geese, ``country theme'', etc.); 3. Which the consumer purchases primarily to use for storage in the home; 4. Sold from the importer to a wholesaler/distributor who then sells them to a retailer; 5. Sold in an environment of sale that emphasizes the article's use or reuse as a storage article; 6. Sold to the ultimate purchaser empty; 7. Which are recognized in the trade as primarily having a household storage use; and 8. Which are imported with their caps or lids.
