FR941222-1-00058 FR941222-1-00008 a. Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock. Summary The Agency is proposing not to list as hazardous wastewater treatment sludges from the production of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock. If this wastestream were managed by disposal in a municipal landfill (the plausible management scenario used for other wastewater treatment sludges), it would meet the criteria set out at 40 CFR 261.11(a)(3) for listing a waste as hazardous and would be capable of posing a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment. However, as discussed in Section II.D, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, the Agency has determined that management in a municipal landfill is not plausible for this wastestream. Despite this determination, for comparison purposes the Agency calculated the risks associated with disposal in a municipal landfill and with diposal in an on-site boiler. If, based on comments, the Agency determines that it is not reasonable to use fuel blending as the plausible management scenario, the Agency probably would determine that plausible management is disposal in a municipal landfill for the ground-water pathway, and is disposal in an on-site boiler for the air pathway. Disposal in an on-site monofill, which was established as the plausible management scenario for other wastewater treatment sludges ( i.e. , K162 and K164), is not a practical option for this wastestream due to its low volume relative to the capacity of a monofill, and so is not feasible economically. Based on ingestion of contaminated ground water due to releases from a municipal landfill, EPA calculated high-end individual cancer-risk levels of 1E&hyph;4 and 8E&hyph;5 for the constituents benzidine and aniline, respectively. The coeluting compounds 1,2-diphenylhydrazine and azobenzene are calculated to pose risks between 1E&hyph;6 and 1E&hyph;5. Therefore, the combined carcinogenic risk for multiple co-existing constituents in this wastestream would be 2E&hyph;4, assuming disposal in a landfill. However, the risks associated with the current and plausible management practice, blending with non-hazardous fuel, are insignificant for any constituent. Thus, the Agency is proposing not to list it as hazardous. Discussion Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock currently is generated at only one facility. This waste is generated from a filter press that is used as part of the wastewater pretreatment system. The waste is generated at a rate of approximately 18 metric tons per year. EPA has summarized the risk projections associated with this sludge in Table II&hyph;9. The data presented in this table represent one sample from one facility. Unlike earlier wastestreams, health benchmarks exist for all the contaminants detected in this wastestream (with the exception of one coeluting compound, which is discussed later in this section). Additional compounds which do have health benchmarks, however, have been identified in these wastes, but were dropped from further consideration following the risk screening. The complete list of compounds found in this and other wastestreams is presented in the Listing Background Document for this proposed rule, which is located in the RCRA Docket for this rulemaking (see ADDRESSES section). Details on the risk assessment are provided in Section II.D of this preamble, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, and in the Listing Background Document for this proposed rule, located in the RCRA Docket for this rulemaking (see ADDRESSES section).
