FR941227-2-00133 FR941227-2-00087 C. Implementation Provisions and Commission Oversight As discussed above, the SROs intend to adopt consistent procedures on providing advice under the Policy to prevent inconsistent interpretations that might invite abuse. In this regard, the SROs intend to publish their respective interpretations and honor each other's interpretations, with the home market having primary jurisdiction over transactions proposed by its issuers. Generally, if the NYSE or AMEX delist or the NASD deregisters an issuer's securities for violation of the Policy, the issuer will not be accepted subsequently for listing on the NYSE or Amex or qualify for inclusion in the Nasdaq System. In addition, during a new listing application process, each SRO will review past corporate action regarding voting rights, including action undertaken shortly prior to applying for listing or inclusion, in an attempt to flag such activity entered into solely in order to circumvent the Policy. 34 34 As noted above, the Policy will not be applied retroactively. Nevertheless, the SROs intend to scrutinize closely any disenfranchising actions taken shortly before a listing request. The Commission believes that these consistent interpretative procedures are necessary to prevent degradation of the Policy and provide consistency and predictability for issuers. 35 The SROs would not be able to proffer issuers an open, flexible voting rights standard and at the same time retain a meaningful voting rights Policy if they were open to unlimited issuer pressure to eviscerate the Policy. The SROs recognize that, with the implementation provisions, there is less likelihood that issuer pressure could create a ``loophole'' that will defeat the purpose of the Policy of each SRO. The Commission agrees that the SROs' action is necessary here to prevent abuse. 35 In this regard, the Commission agrees with the ABA letter in that consistency and reliability of interpretations is fundamental to the success of the Policy. Further, without the implementation procedures, the erosion of the minimum standard, with the consequent occurrences of shareholder disenfranchisement, could reduce investor confidence and participation in these markets. On the other hand, consistent interpretation of the Policy will increase investor confidence in the quality and reliability of the securities traded in these markets. Thus, the provisions of the Policy regarding implementation and interaction with other markets, including the proposed procedures to honor interpretations under the Policy, are an integral and necessary means of assuring meaningful implementation of the Policy. In addition, the Commission's extensive oversight over the enforcement of all SRO rules, including listing standards, will help to ensure that the Policy is not implemented in an anticompetitive or discriminatory manner. For example, the Commission inspects SROs for, among other things, compliance with SRO rules, and is authorized to bring enforcement action against an SRO for failure to comply with its own rules (including listing standards). 36 Accordingly, any action by an SRO to apply and enforce the Policy unfairly or in an anticompetitive manner could subject the SRO to an enforcement action by the Commission. 36 Under Section 19(h) of the Act, the Commission is authorized to bring an enforcement action against any SRO that fails to comply with its own rules. Therefore, failure by an SRO to apply its listing standards, or action by an SRO to enforce them in a manner inconsistent with its rules, would subject the SRO to discipline by the Commission. Finally, the Commission's authority in approving delistings and in reviewing appeals by issuers whose securities are delisted from an Exchange or terminated from inclusion in the Nasdaq System should further ensure fair application of the Policy. For example, before a security can be delisted by an Exchange under Section 12 of the Act, the Commission must enter an order granting the application to delist, 37 and may order a hearing to determine whether such application has been made in accordance with the rules of the Exchange. 38 Moreover, under Section 19(d)(2) of the Act, the Commission is authorized to review any SRO action that prohibits or limits any person in respect to access to services offered by the SRO. 39 In summary, the Commission's pervasive oversight over the implementation of SRO listing standards, in addition to the right of any issuer delisted, terminated from quotation, or denied listing as a result of an interpretation under the Policy to have the action reviewed by the Commission, will help to ensure that the Policy will not be implemented in an anti-competitive or discriminatory manner. 37 See e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32706 (August 2, 1993). 38 17 CFR 240.12d2&hyph;2(c) (1994). 39 Section 19(f) of the Act sets forth the applicable standard of review of any such action taken by an SRO, which would require the Commission to (1) ascertain if the action was taken in accordance with the rules of the SRO and (2) ensure that such rules are, and were applied in a manner consistent with the purposes of the Act.
