FR940817-2-00071 FR940817-2-00043 The Agency is continuing to investigate the question of the potential impact of use of MMT in unleaded gasoline on OBD systems. If after further investigation EPA concludes that the concerns expressed by the vehicle manufacturers are warranted, EPA intends to initiate an appropriate rulemaking under Section 211(c). VI. Manganese Health Assessment 52 52 The assessment presented here is taken from ``Reevaluation of Inhalation Health Risks Associated with Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl (MMT) in Gasoline'' (United States Environmental Protection Agency, 1994b) which can be found in the docket in its entirety. A. Introduction In 1990, the EPA Office of Research and Development (ORD) assessed the potential health risks associated with the use of methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl (MMT) as an additive in unleaded gasoline (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1990). 53 Later, ORD (Preuss, 1991) reaffirmed its assessment after considering a resubmitted waiver application for MMT from Ethyl Corporation. As identified in earlier ORD evaluations (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1990; Preuss, 1991), a key issue is the potential health risk associated with inhalation exposure to manganese tetroxide (Mn 3 O 4 ), which is the primary by-product resulting from the combustion of MMT in gasoline. New information on manganese (Mn) health effects and exposure is incorporated in this revised risk assessment. (United States Environmental Protection Agency, 1994b) 53 The many references in this section of the decision dealing with manganese health effects are referred to in parentheses and listed at the end of this section in subsection E. This reevaluation has four components: (1) a health effects assessment, (2) an exposure assessment, (3) a risk characterization relating the first two, and (4) a summary and conclusions. This evaluation summarizes earlier ORD assessments and incorporates information from certain other major new reports and analyses. 54 54 The reader is referred to the appendices of the full EPA/ORD reevaluation for more detailed background information. This report, ``Reevaluation of Inhalation Health Risks Associated with Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl (MMT) in Gasoline'', can be found in its entirety, including the appendices, in docket A&hyph;91&hyph;46. Appendix A presents dose-response analyses, Appendix B presents an exposure assessment, and Appendix C contains the current verified Mn inhalation reference concentration (RfC) as it appears in the U.S. EPA Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS, 1993).
