FR941004-2-00112 FR941004-2-00068 The Plants Committee is currently composed of individuals representing the six CITES geographic regions: North America, Central and South America and the Caribbean, Asia, Oceania, Africa, and Europe. Each CITES Region currently has one representative on the Plants Committee. Dr. Bruce MacBryde of the Service's Office of Scientific Authority serves as Vice-Chair of the Plants Committee (representing North America). The Regional representatives are selected by their respective regional caucuses, at the COP. A Chair will be selected by the new Plants Committee, most likely during a meeting to be held at the close of COP9. 3. Identification Manual Committee No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. Continue to support the Identification Manual Committee and development of animal and plant identification manuals for use by port and border enforcement officers, in providing a standard of reference for the identification of CITES species, within available resources and priorities. The enforcement officers of the Parties must be equipped with guides which are accurate, realistic, and helpful in the identification of the many CITES species and products found in trade throughout the world. 4. Nomenclature Committee No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. This agenda item has two subitems in the provisional agenda: (a) Report of the Chairman (b) Recommendations of the Committee Encourage the development and adoption of checklists for all taxa, within budgetary limits and priorities to be decided upon by the Parties. Support revisions of existing checklists for fauna prior to development of new ones. Because of the expense in developing checklists for taxa, the United States supports recognition of existing checklists for remaining taxa when suitable. Implementation of the Convention is strengthened by the use of uniform names of listed species. The Service understands that the report of the Chair presents technical nomenclatural corrections and recommended revisions to names included in the Appendices at the Plenipotentiary Conference and at COP1. Those revisions will require adoption by the Parties at COP9. XIII. Evolution of the Convention 1. Strategic Plan of the Secretariat No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. 2. How To Improve the Effectiveness of the Convention No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. This agenda item was suggested by the delegate from Canada at the March 1994 Standing Committee meeting; the Standing Committee agreed that a review of the general evolution and implementation of CITES should by done by an independent body, and that a project proposal for this review should be developed by the Secretariat. The main concern of the United States is what funding will be available for such a project, and that it not impair the ability of other functions in the Secretariat budget to receive necessary funding. XIV. Interpretation and Implementation of the Convention 1. Review of the Resolutions of the Conference of the Parties Support the effort begun by the Secretariat immediately following COP8, at the direction of the Standing Committee, to review all of the resolutions of the Conference of the Parties with the goal of assisting Parties in the effective utilization of the resolutions, in order to more effectively implement the Convention, by: (1) Deleting resolutions that have been superseded or whose purpose has been accomplished; and (2) consolidating resolutions that deal with the same subject. At every Standing Committee meeting since COP8, the United States delegation has strongly urged (and the Committee has adopted this recommendation of the United States) that any consolidation of resolutions retain the text of the original, including the preamble, so as to: (1) assist the Parties, while retaining the original intent of the resolution; and (2) reduce unnecessary or unproductive debate at COP9 on ``old'' issues. Therefore, the United States supports deleting only out-of-date resolutions that are truly non-controversial, and retaining the text of the original for any consolidations. The Standing Committee reiterated its support for this approach at its March 1994 meeting. The United States supports an expedited approval of these consolidations in Plenary Session at COP9, which will only be possible if the original text of resolutions (preamble and operative paragraphs) are retained, so that any consolidations will be structural and not substantive. (a) Deletion of Resolutions that are out of date. See Doc. 9.19.1_Deletion of Resolutions that are Out of Date. Support the deletion of resolutions that are out of date, if they have been superseded by other resolutions or have been overtaken by events. Likely to support the deletion of all resolutions proposed by the Secretariat and circulated to the Parties, with the following exceptions: Conf. 2.8, 3.13, and those relating to certain parts and derivatives of plants_Conf. 2.18, 4.24, 6.18, and 8.17 (b) and (c). Certain other resolutions on plants remain pertinent unless they are superseded by new resolutions coming from COP9, e.g., Conf. 5.15 in relation to Doc. 9.30 on nursery registration.
