FR940325-1-00101 FR940325-1-00008 ยง4130.4&hyph;3 Crossing permits. A crossing permit may be issued by the authorized officer to any applicant showing a need to cross the public land or other land under Bureau of Land Management control, or both, with livestock for proper and lawful purposes. A temporary use authorization for trailing livestock shall contain terms and conditions for the temporary grazing use that will occur as deemed necessary by the authorized officer to achieve the objectives of this part. 45. Section 4130.5 is amended by revising paragraph (d) and adding a new paragraph (f) to read as follows: ยง4130.5 Ownership and identification of livestock. * * * * * (d) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, where a permittee or lessee controls but does not own the livestock which graze the public lands, the agreement that gives the permittee or lessee control of the livestock by the permittee or lessee shall be filed with the authorized officer and approval received prior to any grazing use. The document shall describe the livestock and livestock numbers, identify the owner of the livestock, contain the terms for the care and management of the livestock, specify the duration of the agreement, and shall be signed by the parties to the agreement. * * * * * (f) Livestock owned by sons and daughters of grazing permittees and lessees may graze public lands included within the permit or lease of their parents when the following conditions exist: (1) The sons and daughters are participating in educational or youth programs related to animal husbandry, agribusiness or rangeland management, or (2) The sons and daughters are actively involved in the family ranching operation and are establishing a livestock herd with the intent of assuming part or all of the family ranch operation, and (3) The livestock owned by the sons and daughters to be grazed on public lands do not comprise greater than 50 percent of the total number authorized to occupy public lands under their parent's permit or lease, (4) The brands or other markings of livestock that are owned by sons and daughters are recorded on the parent's permit, lease, or grazing application, (5) Use by livestock owned by sons and daughters, when considered in addition to use by livestock owned or controlled by the permittee or lessee, does not exceed authorized numbers and is consistent with other terms and conditions of the permit or lease. 46. Section 4130.6 is revised to read as follows: ยง4130.6 Terms and conditions. Livestock grazing permits and leases shall contain terms and conditions determined by the authorized officer to be appropriate to achieve management and resource condition objectives for the public lands and other lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management, and to ensure conformance with the national requirements and established standards and guidelines. 47. Section 4130.6&hyph;1 is amended by revising the second sentence of paragraph (a) and adding a new paragraph (c) to read as follows:
