FR941117-2-00050 FR941117-2-00040 •Develops and evaluates policies for developing and applying rates of increase and total cost limitations to payment for hospital inpatient services. •Develops and evaluates criteria for exceptions to rates of increase and total cost limitations to payment for hospital inpatient services. •Reviews requests for exceptions to ESRD, Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act and capital payment limitations and recommends approval or disapproval. •Develops and evaluates national policies, regulations, and instructions for payment/reimbursement for the costs incurred by providers of services and other classes of facilities under the health insurance program. •Formulates and evaluates national policies for all Medicare program provider financial filing and reporting requirements. •Establishes policy for implementing payment controls and cost containment programs. (1) Division of Prospective Payment System (FKA31) •Develops, evaluates and maintains regulations, policies and standards for payments to hospitals for inpatient services under the prospective payment system (PPS). •Develops, evaluates and maintains policies pertaining to the determination of appropriate amounts of prospective payments to hospitals for services furnished to inpatients. •Works with the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission for PPS and reviews the Commission's recommendations on and basis for rates of payments. •Develops, evaluates and maintains policies pertaining to the appropriate methods for determining the amount of payments for cost items associated with inpatient hospital services but not yet within the prospective payment rates and develops policies for bringing such excepted cost items under PPS. •Develops, evaluates and maintains methods for classifying hospitals and hospital services to inpatients, including sole community hospitals, for determining prospective payments to hospitals and requirements for exceptions and adjustments to PPS rates. •Formulates HCFA policy for development and maintenance of new and revised codes for the International Classification of Diseases_Ninth Revision_Clinical Modification (ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM). •Chairs, serves, or supports various committees such as the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM Coordination and Maintenance Committee, the National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics, the American Hospital Association Editorial Advisory Board for the Coding Clinic, and the HCFA coding work-group. •Participates in the formulation and analysis of medical classification systems, such as Diagnosis Related Groups, mortality and other outcome groupings, and the Uniform Clinical Data Set. •Prepares reports which analyze the effects of changes in coding policy on HCFA payments, quality of care, and changes in the case mix index. •Serves as the principal organization within HCFA for the development, evaluation and implementation of the International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision. (2) Division of Hospital Services (FKA32) •Develops, evaluates and maintains policies, regulations, rulings and instructions pertaining to the capital prospective payment system for inpatient hospital services and payment for graduate medical education. •Develops, evaluates and maintains criteria for exceptions to the established rates of increase and limitations on hospitals' costs for inpatient services and reviews fiscal intermediaries' recommendations on requests for exceptions. •Develops, evaluates and maintains policies for determining and applying rates of increase and limitations to the costs of hospitals for services furnished to inpatients. •Develops, evaluates and reviews Medicare coverage policies, conditions of participation, regulations, procedures and standards pertaining to services provided by hospitals (general, psychiatric, and swing bed hospitals as well as nonparticipating emergency hospitals_including hospital level of care, custodial care, active treatment in psychiatric hospitals, rehabilitation care in hospitals, alcohol and drug treatment, hospital care in lieu of nonavailable skilled nursing facility care and outpatient hospital services including psychiatric partial hospitalization services and outpatient services covered as inpatient services) and services in Christian Science Sanitoriums. •Establishes the prospective payment rates applicable to capital-related costs for inpatient hospital services. •Reviews and processes obligated capital determinations and extraordinary circumstances exception requests for additional payment under the capital prospective payment system.
