FR940921-0-00039 FR940921-0-00016 For the purposes of these standards, the current scheme of classifying vehicles as either Otto-cycle or diesel is being extended to gaseous-fueled vehicles, with some modifications as described below. This classification scheme was promulgated with the methanol standards to group engines regardless of fuel type in a manner that would provide equivalent control. Although there are other factors to consider, in general an Otto-cycle engine is considered to be one that is throttled during normal operation whereas a diesel is not. The Agency recognizes, however, that in some cases this criterion may not be adequate or appropriate to determine a vehicle's classification. For example, a gaseous-fueled engine which is derived from a particular Otto-cycle or diesel base engine, and is expected to be used in similar applications as the base engine, would most appropriately be classified the same as the base engine from which it was derived. In such cases the Administrator will take into account other relevant factors, such as compression ratio, combustion and thermodynamic characteristics, or intended in-use duty cycle when classifying the vehicle. Today's rule establishes the same evaporative emission requirements for gaseous-fueled vehicles which were recently adopted for other vehicles. 5 The Agency recognizes that due to the sealed nature of gaseous-fueled vehicle fuel systems, emissions of unburned fuel from the fuel system are expected to be near-zero. However, the evaporative requirements are being adopted to assure leak-free fuel systems. 5 58 FR 16002, March 24, 1993. Today's rule establishes refueling requirements for gaseous-fueled light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks, as well as refueling stations. Natural gas-fueled vehicles must be equipped with a refueling receptacle which meets the requirements of the recently adopted ANSI/AGA NGV1 standard for refueling couplings. Natural gas refueling stations will not be allowed to vent more than 1.2 grams natural gas due to refueling nozzle disconnect. The applicable dates for these standards are discussed in the timing section of today's rule. For LPG vehicles there are two requirements. First, all LPG vehicle refueling stations will be required to use nozzles which have very low dead volume (2.0 cm3) from which fuel would be vented upon nozzle disconnect. This requirement was derived from the recently promulgated onboard refueling vapor recovery standard. For a complete description of the derivation please consult the summary and analysis of comments document. Second, LPG-fueled light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks will be subject to the onboard refueling emission standards, adjusted for the difference in LPG energy density as compared to gasoline. This adjusted standard is 0.15 grams per gallon of LPG dispensed. The applicable dates for these standards are discussed in the timing section of today's rule. Additionally, for any LPG vehicle that contains a fixed liquid level valve (i.e., ``outage valve''), the refueling test will be performed with the liquid level valve in the open position unless the manufacturer can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that the fixed liquid level gauge would not be opened during refueling in ordinary use due to inaccessibility or other reasons. EPA recognizes that, although it did propose the control of refueling emissions from gaseous-fueled vehicles, the proposal did not include specific numerical standards as contained in today's rule. However, EPA believes that this action will be noncontroversial, and the Agency anticipates no significant comments regarding it. Nonetheless, the public is advised that these elements of today's action dealing with refueling emissions will be effective 60 days from the date of this Federal Register notice, unless notice is received within 30 days that interested parties wish to submit adverse or critical comments on that element of this action. If such notice is received, this action will be withdrawn and two subsequent notices will be published. One notice, which would be published before the effective date, will withdraw the final action. Another notice will begin a new rulemaking by announcing a proposal of the action and establishing a comment period. There is reason to believe that, in the case of some of the above-mentioned pollutants and vehicle classes, the levels of emissions will normally be substantially below the levels of the applicable standards. In such cases today's rule includes provisions for a waiver of certification testing requirements which allow a manufacturer to certify the vehicle or engine without performing the actual certification testing for which a waiver has been granted, similar to the waivers available for heavy-duty diesel engine CO, methanol vehicle and engine smoke and particulate, and Otto-cycle light-duty vehicle and light-duty truck particulate standards. 6 A certification testing waiver can be obtained by demonstrating that, by virtue of a vehicle's design, it will always meet the standard for which the waiver was granted. This demonstration can be in the form of development testing data or other engineering data. It should be noted that these waivers only apply to certification testing requirements and do not relieve the manufacturer of liability for meeting the standard. Vehicles which have been certified using these waiver provisions also remain subject to selective enforcement audit (SEA) and in-use testing. The waivers provided in today's rule are available for all gaseous-fueled vehicle evaporative and refueling standards, gaseous-fueled heavy-duty diesel CO (including idle CO), particulate and smoke standards, and particulate standards for light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. 6 47 FR 49811, November 2, 1982; 54 FR 14426, April 11, 1989; and 56 FR 25724, June 5, 1991.
