FR941012-0-00037 FR941012-0-00011 At the close of the hearing Administrative Law Judge John M. Vittone established a 60-day post hearing comment period, until October 22, 1990, for the submission of additional information and data supplementing the testimony provided at the hearing. The post-hearing comment period was followed by another 30 days, until November 21, 1990, for hearing participants to submit final briefs, analyses and summations. OSHA received 12 comments during the post- hearing comment period. OSHA has considered all evidence, comments and testimony entered into the rulemaking record and presented at the public hearing in developing this final standard. II. Basis for Agency Action A. Hazards The safety hazards present in the logging industry are well-known, 1 and there is no dispute among participants in this rulemaking that logging is a high hazard industry (Ex. 2&hyph;1 through 2&hyph;10, 2&hyph;30, 5&hyph;18, 38B, 38C). The tools and equipment which logging employees use or operate, such as chain saws, axes and tractors, pose hazards wherever they are utilized in industry. As logging employees use their tools and equipment, they are dealing with massive weights and irresistible momentum of falling, rolling, and sliding trees and logs. The hazards are even more acute when dangerous environmental conditions are factored in, such as uneven, unstable or rough terrain; inclement weather including rain, snow, lightning, winds, and extreme cold; remote and isolated work sites where health care facilities are not immediately accessible. The combination of these hazards present a significant risk to employees working in logging operations throughout the country, regardless of the type of timber being logged, where it is logged or the end use of the wood. 1 The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health has identified a number of health hazards that are also present in the logging industry (Ex. 5&hyph;42). According to NIOSH, 20 to 50 percent of employees in felling operations may be affected by hand-arm vibration syndrome. Logging employees are also exposed to chain-saw exhaust, wood dust, tree fungi and bacteria. However, NIOSH has said that at this time there is insufficient data to project the magnitude of risk for some of these potential health hazards. The final rule on logging addresses health hazards, but only in certain specific ways (e.g., safety and health meetings). However, for those health hazards not specifically addressed in the logging final rule, other sections of Part 1910 apply. For example, occupational noise exposure is addressed by 29 CFR 1910.95. A permissible exposure limit for occupational exposure to wood dust is contained in 29 CFR 1910.1000. OSHA notes that hand-arm vibration, manual lifting and other risk factors associated with musculoskeletal disorders are being addressed in OSHA's rulemaking on ergonomic safety and health management. There is also no dispute that these hazards and the resulting injuries and fatalities are severe and are not limited to the pulpwood sector of the industry (Ex. 2&hyph;1, 5&hyph;6, 5&hyph;10, 5&hyph;17, 5&hyph;18, 5&hyph;21, 5&hyph;36, 5&hyph;42, 5&hyph;46, 5&hyph;48, 5&hyph;49, 5&hyph;54, 5&hyph;61, 5&hyph;65). The 1992 Census of Fatal Occupational Injuries, a public report compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), indicated there were 158 fatalities in the logging industry, which amounts to a 2 in 1,000 risk of death each year. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) estimates that there are 16,500 compensable injuries each year in the logging industry (Ex. 37). This amounts to an incidence rate of 1 in every 5 loggers. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the accident rate in the logging industry has pushed workers' compensation insurance to 40 percent of payroll costs (Ex. 5&hyph;18). The USDA estimates that this now amounts to $90 million annually in the Pacific Northwest Region alone. According to a study conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), as least 47 percent of all injuries reported occurred in non-pulpwood logging operations (Ex. 2&hyph;1). The following discussion of the accident and injury data shows that injury incidence rate for the logging industry is among the highest industry incidence rates in the country. B. Accident, Injury, and Other Data OSHA looked at several data sources to identify and characterize the degree of risk faced by employees in the logging industry. The data show that the logging industry has one of the highest injury incidence rates. For example, the most recent injury incidence rate for the logging industry (15.6) compiled by the BLS is almost double the incidence rate for the combined private sector (7.9). The logging incidence rate was also well above the incidence rate for the manufacturing sector (11.2). To assess the level of risk in logging operations, OSHA relied primarily on the following data sources. These data sources are described and discussed below.
