FR940919-2-00085 FR940919-2-00046 The process starts at the initial level when an individual first applies for DI and/or SSI benefits on the basis of a disabling physical or mental condition. An individual calls the national toll-free telephone number and is referred to a local SSA field office or visits or calls one of 1,300 local field offices to apply for benefits. Field office personnel assist with application completion, obtain detailed medical and vocational history and screen nonmedical eligibility factors. Field office personnel forward the claim to 1 of 54 State DDSs where medical evidence is developed and a final decision is made regarding the existence of a medically determinable impairment which meets the definition of disability. The decision is made by an adjudicative team consisting of a disability specialist and a program physician. After possible quality assurance review in the DDS or in the SSA regional Disability Quality Branch, the claim is returned to the field office; denials are retained pending possible appeal. In FY 1993, 39 percent of initial claims were allowed and sent to 1 of 7 processing centers (which include the Office of Disability and International Operations and the 6 Program Service Centers) for final processing and storage, as well as adjudication of claims for dependents. Allowed SSI claims remain in the field office for payment effectuation and folder retention. A sample of these are reviewed after payment for nondisability quality assurance. According to SSA's computer-based processing time measurements, an initial claim currently takes an average of about 100 days to process from the time of filing until a decision is made. However, from the claimant's perspective, a better understanding of how long the process takes comes from a 1993 study conducted by SSA s Office of Workforce Analysis, which showed that an average claimant waits up to 155 days from the initial contact with SSA until receiving an initial claim decision notice. During this period, 16 to 26 employees will handle the claim. The claimant may request reconsideration of the initial decision within 60 days of receiving the denial notice. In FY 1993, claimants requested reconsideration in 48 percent of denied claims. Local field office personnel receive the reconsideration request, update necessary information, and forward the claim file to the DDS for review, possible medical development, and a medical decision. The reconsideration decision is made by a different adjudicative team than the one that made the initial determination. After possible quality assurance review in the DDS or in the regional Disability Quality Branch, about 14 percent of these claims are returned to the field office for payment and forwarding to a processing center; the remaining denials are forwarded to the field office for retention, pending possible further appeal. According to SSA s computer-based processing time reports, the average reconsideration takes about 50 days_however, according to the Office of Workforce Analysis study, a claimant has now been involved with the disability process for roughly 8 months from the initial contact with SSA, and up to 36 different employees could have handled the claim. A claimant can request a hearing before an ALJ within 60 days of receiving an unfavorable reconsideration decision. In FY 1993, claimants requested an ALJ hearing in about 75 percent of all reconsideration denials. By this time, a claimant has usually retained an attorney or other representative to assist in pursuing the claim for benefits. About 75 percent of all claimants retain a representative at the hearing level. Local field office personnel receive the request for hearing and forward it with the claim file to one of 132 local SSA hearings offices. Hearing office personnel review the file for possible additional development, conduct a hearing, and render a decision. DI claims allowed at the hearing level are sent to a processing center for payment effectuation and adjudication of claims for dependents, and storage. Allowed SSI claims are returned to the local field office for income and resource development, and payment. Denied claims are forwarded to the Appeals Council for retention pending a possible request for review. According to computer-based reports, the hearing process takes about 265 days. However, according to the Office of Workforce Analysis study, a claimant has been dealing with SSA for over a year and a half at this point in the process.
