FR941021-2-00139 FR941021-2-00089 The Notes may not be redeemed prior to maturity and are not callable by the issuer. Holders of Banking Industry Portfolio Notes will be able to cash-out of their investment by selling the security on the Amex. The Exchange anticipates that the trading value of the security in this secondary trading market will depend in large part on the value of the securities comprising the Banking Industry Portfolio and also on such other factors as the level of interest rates, the volatility of the value of the Banking Industry Portfolio, the time remaining to maturity, dividend rates, and the creditworthiness of the issuer, Lehman Brothers. Because Banking Industry Portfolio Notes are linked to a portfolio of equity securities, the Amex's existing equity floor trading rules will apply to the trading of Banking Industry Portfolio Notes. First, pursuant to Amex Rule 411, the exchange will impose a duty of due diligence on its members and member firms to learn the essential facts relating to every customer prior to trading Banking Industry Portfolio Notes. 16 Second, consistent with Amex Rule 411, the Exchange will further require that a member or member firm specifically approve a customer's account for trading Banking Industry Portfolio Notes prior to, or promptly after, the completion of the transaction. Third, Banking Industry Portfolio Notes will be subject to the equity margin rules of the Exchange. Fourth, the Exchange will, prior to trading Banking Industry Portfolio Notes, distribute a circular to the membership providing guidance with regard to member firm compliance responsibilities (including suitability recommendations) when handling transactions in Banking Industry Portfolio Notes and highlighting the special risks and characteristics of the Banking Industry Portfolio Notes. 17 16 Amex Rule 411 requires that every member, member firm or member corporation use due diligence to learn the essential facts relative to every customer and to every order or account accepted. 17 The circular shall also highlight any cap on appreciation, if any, that the issuer includes in the Notes. III. Commission Findings and Conclusions The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. 18 Specifically, the Commission believes that providing for exchange-trading of Banking Industry Portfolio Notes will offer a new and innovative means of participating in the market for banking industry securities. 19 In particular, the Commission believes that Banking Industry Portfolio Notes will permit investors to gain equity exposure in such companies, while at the same time, limiting the downside risk of the original investment. For the reasons discussed in the Commission's order approving the listing of Basic Industry Portfolio Notes, 20 the Commission finds that the listing and trading of Banking Industry Portfolio Notes is consistent with the Act. 18 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 19 The Commission Notes that the Banking Industry Portfolio Notes are very similar in structure to Basic Industry Portfolio Notes recently approved for listing on the Amex. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34820 (October 11, 1994) (``Exchange Act Release No. 34820''). 20 Id. As with the Basic Industry Portfolio Notes, Banking Industry Portfolio Notes are not leveraged instruments. Their price, however, will still be derived and based upon the underlying linked securities. Accordingly, the level of risk involved in the purchase or sale of Banking Industry Portfolio Notes is similar to the risk involved in the purchase or sale of traditional common stock. Nonetheless, the Commission has several specific concerns with this type of product because the final rate or return of the Notes is derivatively priced, based on the performance of the underlying securities. The concerns include: (1) investor protection concerns, (2) dependence on the credit of the issuer of the security, (3) systemic concerns regarding position exposure of issuers with partially hedged positions or dynamically hedged positions, and (4) the impact on the market for the underlying linked securities. 21 The Commission believes the Amex has adequately addressed each of these issues such that the Commission's regulatory concerns are adequately minimized. 22 In particular, by imposing the listing standards, suitability, disclosure, and compliance requirements noted above, the Amex has adequately addressed the potential public customer concerns that could arise from the hybrid nature of the Notes. 23 Further, the Commission believes that the listing standards and issuance restrictions should help to reduce the likelihood of any adverse market impact on the securities comprising the Banking Industry Portfolio. 21 Id. 22 Id. 23 The Exchange will also distribute a circular to its membership, in a form approved by the Commission, calling attention to the specific risks associated with Banking Industry Portfolio Notes.
