FR941110-0-00244 FR941110-0-00016 (2) A description of further action that is required to remove the deficiencies. (3) A time-phased plan of correction developed by the provider and supplier and concurred with by the State agency. (4) A scheduled time for a resurvey of the institution or agency to be conducted by the State agency within 90 days following the completion of the survey. * * * * * 7. Section 488.20 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §488.20 Periodic review of compliance and approval. (a) Determinations by HCFA to the effect that a provider or supplier is in compliance with the conditions of participation, or requirements (for SNFs and NFs), or the conditions for coverage are made as often as HCFA deems necessary and may be more or less than a 12-month period, except for SNFs, NFs and HHAs. (See §488.308 for special rules for SNFs and NFs.) * * * * * 8. Section 488.24 is revised to read as follows: §488.24 Certification of noncompliance. (a) Special rules for certification of noncompliance for SNFs and NFs are set forth in §488.330. (b) The State agency will certify that a provider or supplier is not or is no longer in compliance with the conditions of participation or conditions for coverage where the deficiencies are of such character as to substantially limit the provider's or supplier's capacity to furnish adequate care or which adversely affect the health and safety of patients; or (c) If HCFA determines that an institution or agency does not qualify for participation or coverage because it is not in compliance with the conditions of participation or conditions for coverage, or if a provider's agreement is terminated for that reason, the institution or agency has the right to request that the determination be reviewed. (Appeals procedures are set forth in Part 498 of this chapter.) 9. Section 488.26 is revised to read as follows: §488.26 Determining compliance. (a) Additional rules for certification of compliance for SNFs and NFs are set forth in §488.330. (b) The decision as to whether there is compliance with a particular requirement, condition of participation, or condition for coverage depends upon the manner and degree to which the provider or supplier satisfies the various standards within each condition. Evaluation of a provider's or supplier's performance against these standards enables the State survey agency to document the nature and extent of deficiencies, if any, with respect to a particular function, and to assess the need for improvement in relation to the prescribed conditions. (c) The State survey agency must adhere to the following principles in determining compliance with participation requirements: (1) The survey process is the means to assess compliance with Federal health, safety and quality standards; (2) The survey process uses resident outcomes as the primary means to establish the compliance status of facilities. Specifically surveyors will directly observe the actual provision of care and services to residents, and the effects of that care, to assess whether the care provided meets the needs of individual residents; (3) Surveyors are professionals who use their judgment, in concert with Federal forms and procedures, to determine compliance; (4) Federal procedures are used by all surveyors to ensure uniform and consistent application and interpretation of Federal requirements;
