FR940606-0-00054 FR940606-0-00019 (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if: (i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and HUD determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance; (ii) The person moved into the property after execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition and, before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its potential impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (or for any assistance provided under this section) as a result of the project; (iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or (iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project. (3) The PHA or private owner may request, at any time, a HUD determination of whether a displacement is or would be covered by this section. (h) Definition of initiation of negotiations. For purposes of determining the formula for computing a replacement housing payment to be provided to a person displaced as a direct result of rehabilitation, demolition, or non-State agency acquisition of the real property, the term initiation of negotiations means the execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition. (Approved by Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control Number 2506&hyph;0121) PART 881_SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM FOR SUBSTANTIAL REHABILITATION 16. The authority citation for part 881 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437a, 1437c, 1437f, 3535(d), 12701, and 13611&hyph;13619. 17. Section 881.209 is revised to read as follows: ยง881.209 Displacement, relocation, and real property acquisition. (a) Minimizing displacement. Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, Owners shall assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part. (b) Temporary relocation. The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily for the project. Such tenants must be provided: (1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporary housing, any increase in monthly rent/utility costs and incidental expenses. (2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of: (i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation; (ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary temporary housing made available; (iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex upon completion of the project; and (iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(i) of this section. (c) Relocation assistance for displaced persons. A ``displaced person'' (defined in paragraph (g) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA), as amended (42 U.S.C. 4201&hyph;4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. A ``displaced person'' shall be advised of his/her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 360119), and, if the representative comparable replacement dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority is located in an area of minority concentration, such person also shall be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas. (d) Real property acquisition requirements. The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements described in 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. (e) Appeals. A person who disagrees with the PHA's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a ``displaced person,'' or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is found to be eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the PHA. A person who is dissatisfied with the PHA's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD Field Office. (f) Responsibility of Owner. (1) The Owner shall certify (i.e., provide assurance of compliance as required by 49 CFR part 24) that he or she will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section, and shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the Owner to comply with these provisions.
