FR940504-2-00050 FR940504-2-00046 Health Care Financing Administration Public Information Collection Requirements Submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for Clearance AGENCY: Health Care Financing Administration, HHS. The Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), has submitted to OMB the following proposals for the collection of information in compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (Public Law 96&hyph;511). 1. Type of Request: New; Title of Information Collection: Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA), Flexible Survey Protocol Form; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;667; Use: This form will be used for laboratories that are nonwaived, nonaccredited, and considered low risk by HCFA, in lieu of onsite inspection for the first survey cycle. This checklist is designed to screen laboratories and alert HCFA to any facility where an onsite inspection is vital; Frequency: Biennially; Respondents: State or local governments, Federal agencies or employees, small businesses or organizations, and nonprofit institutions; Estimated Number of Responses: 1,000; Average Hours Per Response: 1.5; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 1,500. 2. Type of Request: Extension; Title of Information Collection: Application for Health Insurance Benefits Under Medicare for Individual With Chronic Renal Disease; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;43; Use: The law requires the filing of an application to establish Medicare entitlement based on end stage renal disease. This form is the application form used to obtain information needed to determine Medicare eligibility. It guides district office personnel in securing the required development and becomes a permanent part of the claims file; Frequency: On occasion; Respondents: Individuals or households; Estimated Number of Responses: 21,000; Average Hours Per Response: .43; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 9,030. 3. Type of Request: Reinstatement; Title of Information Collection: Medicare Qualification Statement for Federal Employees; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;565; Use: Information is required on individuals filing for hospital insurance benefits (Part A) based on their Federal employment. This information is required in order to determine if they can get ``deemed'' quarters for work prior to 1983 to qualify for free Part A; Frequency: One time only; Respondents: Individuals or households; Estimated Number of Responses: 4,300; Average Hours Per Response: .17; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 731. 4. Type of Request: Reinstatement; Title of Information Collection: Attending Physician's Statement and Documentation of Medicare Emergency; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;1771; Use: This form is used to document the attending physician's statement that the hospitalization was required due to an emergency and give clinical support for the claim; Frequency: On occasion; Respondents: Businesses or other for profit; Estimated Number of Responses: 1,700; Average Hours Per Response: .25; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 425. 5. Type of Request: Reinstatement; Title of Information Collection: Request for Part B Medicare Hearing by an Administrative Law Judge; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;5011B; Use: This form is used by the beneficiary or other qualified appellant to request a hearing by an Administrative Law Judge if the carrier hearing decision fails to satisfy the claimant; Frequency: On occasion; Respondents: Businesses or other for profit, individuals or households; Estimated Number of Responses: 10,000; Average Hours Per Response: .25; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 2,500. 6. Type of Request: Reinstatement; Title of Information Collection: Request for Part A Medicare Hearing by an Administrative Law Judge; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;5011A; Use: This form is used by the beneficiary or other qualified appellant to request a hearing by an Administrative Law Judge if the carrier hearing decision fails to satisfy the claimant; Frequency: On occasion; Respondents: Businesses or other for profit, individuals or households; Estimated Number of Responses: 10,000; Average Hours Per Response: .25; Total Estimated Burden Hours: 2,500. 7. Type of Request: New; Title of Information Collection: Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) Adverse Action Extract; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;462; Use: The CLIA Adverse Action Extract will be used by HCFA surveyors (State health department surveyors and other HCFA agents) to record the adverse actions imposed against a laboratory. The form will also serve to track dates of the imposition of adverse actions, dates on which a laboratory corrects deficiencies, and all appeals activity; Frequency: Biennially or when adverse actions are imposed against a laboratory; Respondents: State or local governments, Federal agencies or employees, nonprofit institutions, small businesses or organizations; Estimated Number of Responses: 2,500 (reporting) 52 States (recordkeeping); Average Hours Per Response: 2.25 (reporting), 1.90 (recordkeeping); Total Estimated Burden Hours: 5,724. 8. Type of Request: New; Title of Information Collection: Medicare and Medicaid Coverage Data Bank Reports; Form No.: HCFA&hyph;163; Use: Employers are required to report information on individuals covered by the employer's group health plans to a data bank established by HHS. Information will be used to further purposes of Medicare Secondary Payer and Medicaid Third Party Liability provisions of the Social Security Act; Frequency: Annually; Respondents: State or local governments, Federal agencies or employees, nonprofit institutions, small businesses or organizations, individuals or households; Estimated Number of Responses: 120,000,000 (reporting), 10,000 (recordkeeping); Average Hours Per Response: 3.89 seconds (reporting), 100 hours (recordkeeping); Total Estimated Burden Hours: 2,300,000. Additional Information or Comments: Call the Reports Clearance Office on (410) 966&hyph;5536 for copies of the clearance request packages. Written comments and recommendations for the proposed information collections should be sent within 30 days of this notice directly to the OMB Desk Officer designated at the following address: OMB Human Resources and Housing Branch, Attention: Allison Eydt, New Executive Office Building, Room 3001, Washington, DC 20503 Dated: April 25, 1994. John A. Streb, Director, Management Planning and Analysis Staff, Office of Financial and Human Resources, Health Care Financing Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10635 Filed 5&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;03&hyph;P
