FR940913-1-00039 FR940913-1-00013 §28.820 Fire pumps, fire mains, fire hydrants, and fire hoses. (a) Each vessel must be equipped with a portable fire pump and a self-priming, power driven fire pump connected to a fixed piping system. (1) The fixed fire pump must be capable of delivering an effective stream of water from a hose connected to the highest outlet. It must have a minimum capacity of 50 gallons per minute at a pressure of not less than 60 pounds per square inch at the pump outlet. If multiple pumps are installed, they may be used for other purposes provided at least one pump is kept available for use on the fire system at all times. (2) The portable fire pump must have a minimum capacity of 9500 gallons per hour and be capable of being connected to National Standard Fire Hose of the size utilized on board the vessel. A single portable pump carried to satisfy the bilge system requirements of §28.815(c) may also satisfy the requirements of this section. (b) All parts of the firemain located on exposed decks shall either be protected against freezing or be fitted with both cut-out and drain valves. (c) Each vessel must have a sufficient number of fire hydrants to reach any part of the vessel using a single length of hose. (d) Each fire hydrant must have at least one length of fire hose connected to the outlet at all times, a spanner, and a hose rack or other device for stowing the hose at all times. (e) Each length of fire hose must be a minimum of 11/2 ’ ’ diameter lined commercial fire hose and be fitted with a nozzle made of corrosion resistant material capable of providing a solid stream and a spray pattern. Firehose shall not be used for any other purpose other than fire extinguishing, drills, and testing. §28.825 Excess fire detection and protection equipment. In lieu of §28.155, each vessel to which this subpart applies must meet the following requirements: (a) Installation of fire detection and protection equipment in excess of that required by the regulations in this subpart is permitted provided that the excess equipment does not endanger the vessel or individuals on board in any way. The excess equipment must, at a minimum, be listed and labeled by an independent, nationally recognized testing laboratory and be in accordance with an appropriate industry standard for design, installation, testing, and maintenance. (b) An existing fixed gas fire extinguishing system that is in excess of the required fire protection equipment required by subparts A, B, and C of this part, may remain in place and continued in service as long as all parts of the system are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Coast Guard Representative, and subject to the following: (1) A fixed fire extinguishing system capable of automatic discharge upon heat detection, may only be installed in a normally unoccupied space. For the purpose of this section, the machinery space aboard a fish tender operating in the Aleutian trade is considered occupied. (2) A fixed fire extinguishing system must: (i) Be capable of manual actuation from outside the space protected; (ii) Produce an audible alarm to indicate the discharge of the extinguishing agent for 20 seconds before the agent is released into the space; (iii) The branch line valves of all fire extinguishing systems shall be plainly and permanently marked indicating the spaces serviced; (iv) The control cabinets or spaces containing valves or manifolds for the various fire extinguishing systems shall be distinctly marked in conspicuous red letters at least 2 inches high: ``STEAM FIRE APPARATUS'' ``CARBON DIOXIDE FIRE APPARATUS'' ``FOAM FIRE APPARATUS'', or ``WATER SPRAY FIRE APPARATUS'' as the case may be; (v) Instructions for the operation of the system must be located in a conspicuous place at or near all pull boxes, stop valve controls, and in the agent storage space; (vi) If the space or enclosure containing the supply or controls is to be locked, a key to the space or enclosure shall be in a break-glass-type box conspicuously located adjacent to the opening, and; (vii) Be equipped with a sign at the alarm stating: ``WHEN ALARM SOUNDS_VACATE AT ONCE. CARBON DIOXIDE BEING RELEASED'', or list other fire extinguishing agent. (3) Any modification, alteration, or new installation of a fixed gas fire extinguishing system must meet the additional requirements of subpart D of this part. §28.830 Fire detection system. (a) Each accommodation space must be equipped with an independent modular smoke detector or a smoke actuated fire detecting unit installed in accordance with §76.33 of this chapter. (b) An independent modular smoke detector must meet UL 217 and be listed as a ``Single Station Smoke Detector_Also Suitable for Use in Recreational Vehicles.''
