FR940803-0-00107 FR940803-0-00040 IV. Public Participation A number of interested parties provided comments on EPA's March 1, 1991 NPRM. These comments and other documents relevant to the development of this final rule are contained in the public docket. The Agency has fully considered these comments in developing today's final rule. The following section presents a brief summary of the major comments received on the NPRM and EPA's responses to those comments. A separate and more detailed Summary and Analysis of Comments on the NPRM has been prepared and is contained in the public docket. The interested reader is referred to that document for a more complete discussion of the comments, including some of the more minor concerns that have been evaluated, but are not presented here. A. Options To Include Alternative-Fueled Automobiles in the Fuel Economy Regulations Summary of the Proposal EPA proposed to establish the CAFE incentive mechanism (credit calculation procedures) provided by the AMFA for methanol, ethanol, and natural gas-fueled automobiles in the regulations. EPA also proposed fuel economy measurement procedures for methanol-fueled automobiles. The current requirement that fuel economy data vehicles be covered by a certificate demonstrating compliance with emission standards was proposed to be revised so that it applies only when the vehicles are subject to emission standards. The Agency requested comments on how test procedures for alternative-fueled vehicles other than methanol could be promulgated on a timely basis, and whether there are any alternative fuels other than those addressed in the Alternative Motor Fuels Act, that could be included in the CAFE program in a manner consistent with the need of the nation to conserve energy. More specifically, EPA requested comments on whether the Agency would have good cause to dispense with prior notice and comment (i.e., direct final rule), if necessary to promulgate test procedures in time for manufacturers to obtain credits for vehicles designed to run on alternative fuels not already covered by established test procedures. Summary of Comments The Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association (MVMA) agreed with the proposal to revise the current requirements so that fuel economy data vehicles be covered by a certificate of conformity only when such vehicles are subject to emission standards. Atlantic Richfield Co. (ARCO) took issue with this proposal, stating that equal treatment is preferred for all the fuels, and that fuel economy determinations should be made on vehicles meeting emission standards both for gasoline and any alternative fuels considered. A number of comments were received regarding the importance of a level playing field for alternative fuels and that a lack of federal regulations may impede the development of alternative-fueled vehicles. Particularly, a number of commenters urged that the establishment of emission standards and fuel economy test procedures for natural gas vehicles not be delayed. Comments were also received recommending that a timetable for implementation of ethanol-fueled automobile standards and test procedures be established as this technology develops. One manufacturer further commented that it is working on electric vehicles and urged the EPA to work with the Department of Energy to establish a CAFE credit mechanism for electric vehicles. The Northeast Sustainable Energy Association (NESEA) expressed that they were very concerned that the proposed amendments did not address electric vehicles and that electric-powered vehicles and electric dual-fueled vehicles should be included in fuel economy regulations. The NESEA also encouraged EPA to pursue emission standards for solar, hydrogen, and electric powered automobiles. ARCO stressed that gasoline reformulations should be included when working toward a level playing field for alternative fuels. A number of commenters recommended that California's existing alternative-fueled vehicle test procedures could be used to generate fuel economy data until federal regulations are promulgated. Comments were received in response to EPA's request for comments on a direct final rule type approach. Ford stated that manufacturers should be allowed to comment on both test procedures and standards before they are finalized. Ford recommended that EPA schedule workshops to discuss proposed rulemaking, which would be advantageous in allowing manufacturers and EPA to raise questions and concerns before test procedures are published. The Natural Gas Vehicle Coalition (NGVC) believes that sufficient ``good cause'' exists for EPA to take immediate action to establish emission standards and procedures for natural gas vehicles based on California's standards and procedures. EPA Response to Comments The EPA recognizes ARCO's concern that fuel economy determinations be made on vehicles meeting emission standards both for gasoline and alternative fuels. EPA has promulgated emission standards and test procedures for methanol-fueled vehicles and is currently developing standards for gaseous-fueled (CNG and LPG) vehicles. In addition, EPA will continue to assess the need to develop emission standards for other alternative-fueled vehicles. However, in the event that emission standards are not developed and promulgated for alternative-fueled vehicles covered by the AMFA before a manufacturer produces and enters such vehicles into commerce, the current regulations that require that fuel economy data vehicles be covered by a certificate demonstrating compliance with emission standards would not provide a mechanism for obtaining CAFE credit. Therefore, EPA is revising the current regulation so that it applies only where the vehicles are subject to emission standards. This will serve as an interim policy to ensure that manufacturers receive the CAFE credit provided by the AMFA for natural gas-fueled vehicles, ethanol-fueled vehicles and other alternative-fueled vehicles in the event that such vehicles are entered into commerce before emission standards are promulgated. The EPA agrees with the comments received regarding the importance of a level playing field for the alternative fuels covered by the AMFA as well as other promising alternative fuels. The intent of EPA is to establish emission standards for any alternative-fueled vehicle design before such vehicles are commercially produced or, at the latest, before their sales volume could significantly impact a manufacturer's CAFE. As discussed previously, the EPA has promulgated emission standards and test procedures for methanol-fueled vehicles and is currently developing emission standards and test procedures for natural gas-fueled vehicles. The notice of proposed rulemaking for emission standards and emission test procedures as well as fuel economy calculation procedures for natural gas-fueled vehicles was published on November 5, 1992 (57 FR 52912). EPA expects that this rule will be finalized in advance of the completion of the 1993 model year annual production period after which CAFE for the 1993 model year is calculated, thereby allowing manufacturers to obtain CAFE credits for 1993 model year and later natural gas-fueled vehicles. In the event that this rulemaking cannot be promulgated in time, EPA will expect to finalize those portions regarding fuel economy test and calculation procedures in order to ensure fuel economy credits are available for 1993 model year natural gas-fueled vehicles. EPA is currently developing a timeline for the development of emission standards and test procedures for ethanol-fueled vehicles. In the event that manufacturers introduce ethanol-fueled vehicles into commerce before federal fuel economy test procedures are established, EPA will consider proposing California test procedures or procedures similar thereto and a fuel economy equation to ensure that a mechanism is in place for ethanol-fueled vehicle CAFE credit as soon as possible.
