FR940804-2-00136 FR940804-2-00076 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste; Meeting The Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste (ACNW) will hold its 66th meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday, August 16 and 17, 1994, in Room T&hyph;2B3, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance, with the exception of a portion that may be closed to discuss information the release of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(6). The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows: Tuesday, August 16, 1994_8:30 A.M. until 6:00 P.M. Wednesday, August 17, 1994_8:30 A.M. until 6:00 P.M. During this meeting the Committee plans to consider the following: A. Waste Confidence Decision Discuss the history and legal background behind this decision with representatives of the NRC Office of the General Counsel. B. DOE Proposed Program Approach (Scenario A) Discuss with NRC staff its views on DOE's new funding proposal and potential impacts on NRC future planning. C. DOE Topical Report on Extreme Erosion Discuss with the NRC staff its review of the topical report, and discuss with DOE and NRC staff regarding the use of topical reports of issue resolution. D. Meeting With Commissioner Rogers Meet with Commissioner Rogers to discuss items of mutual interest, Agreement State Compatibility, proposals relating to development of high-level waste site by DOE (Scenario A), and related items of mutual interest, as time permits. E. Government Land Ownership Discuss with NRC staff a proposed amendment to 10 CFR Part 61 which seeks to explore whether government land ownership for low level waste facilities post closure should continue to be required (tentative). F. Preparation of ACNW Reports Prepare ACNW reports on issues considered during this and previous meetings. G. Committee Activities/Future Agenda Discuss topics proposed for consideration by the full Committee and working groups. Discuss organizational and personnel matters related to ACNW members and ACNW staff. A portion of this session may be closed to public attendance to discuss information the release of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(6). H. Miscellaneous Discuss miscellaneous matters related to the conduct of Committee activities and organizational activities and complete discussion of matters and specific issues that were not completed during previous meetings, as time and availability of information permit. Procedures for the conduct of and participation in ACNW meetings were published in the Federal Register on June 6, 1988 (53 FR 20699). In accordance with these procedures, oral or written statements may be presented by members of the public, electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public, and questions may be asked only by members of the Committee, its consultants, and staff. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the ACNW Executive Director, Dr. John T. Larkins, as far in advance as practicable so that appropriate arrangements can be made to allow the necessary time during the meeting for such statements. Use of still, motion picture, and television cameras during this meeting may be limited to selected portions of the meeting as determined by the ACNW Chairman. Information regarding the time to be set aside for this purpose may be obtained by contacting the ACNW Executive Director prior to the meeting. In view of the possibility that the schedule for ACNW meetings may be adjusted by the Chairman as necessary to facilitate the conduct of the meeting, persons planning to attend should check with the ACNW Executive Director if such rescheduling would result in major inconvenience. Further information regarding topics to be discussed, whether the meeting has been cancelled or rescheduled, the Chairman's ruling on requests for the opportunity to present oral statements and the time allotted therefor can be obtained by contacting the ACNW Executive Director, Dr. John T. Larkins (telephone 301/415&hyph;7360), between 7:30 A.M. and 4:15 P.M. EST. Dated: July 29, 1994. Andrew L. Bates, Advisory Committee Management Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19001 Filed 8&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
