FR940816-1-00045 FR940816-1-00009 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 20 RIN 1018&hyph;AA24 Migratory Bird Hunting: Proposed Migratory Bird Hunting Regulations on Certain Federal Indian Reservations and Ceded Lands for the 1994&hyph;95 Season AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This rule proposes special migratory bird hunting regulations that would be established for certain tribes on Federal Indian reservations, off-reservation trust lands and ceded lands for the 1994&hyph;95 migratory bird hunting season. DATES: The comment period for these proposed regulations will end August 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Address Comments to: Director (FWS/MBMO), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 634 ARLSQ, 1849 C St., NW, Washington, DC 20240. Comments received, if any, on these proposed special hunting regulations and tribal proposals will be available for public inspection during normal business hours in Room 634&hyph;Arlington Square Building, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Keith A. Morehouse, Office of Migratory Bird Management, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, Room 634 ARLSQ, 1849 C St., NW, Washington, DC 20240 (703/358&hyph;1714). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the April 7, 1994 Federal Register (59 FR 16762), the Service requested proposals from Indian tribes that wished to establish special migratory bird hunting regulations for the 1994&hyph;95 hunting season, under the guidelines described in the June 4, 1985 Federal Register (50 FR 23467). The guidelines were developed in response to tribal requests for Service recognition of their reserved hunting rights, and for some tribes, recognition of their authority to regulate hunting by both tribal and non-tribal members on their reservations. The guidelines include possibilities for: (1) on-reservation hunting by both tribal and nontribal members, with hunting by nontribal members on some reservations to take place within Federal frameworks but on dates different from those selected by the surrounding State(s); (2) on-reservation hunting by tribal members only, outside of usual Federal frameworks for season dates and length, and for daily bag and possession limits; and (3) off-reservation hunting by tribal members on ceded lands, outside of usual framework dates and season length, with some added flexibility in daily bag and possession limits. In all cases, the regulations established under the guidelines would have to be consistent with the March 10 to September 1 closed season mandated by the 1916 Migratory Bird Treaty with Canada. The guidelines are capable of application to those tribes that have recognized reserved hunting rights on Federal Indian reservations (including off-reservation trust lands) and on ceded lands. They also apply to establishing migratory bird hunting regulations for nontribal members on all lands within the exterior boundaries of reservations where tribes have full wildlife management authority over such hunting or where the tribes and affected States otherwise have reached agreement over hunting by nontribal members on lands owned by non-Indians within the reservation. Tribes usually have the authority to regulate migratory bird hunting by nonmembers on Indian-owned reservation lands, subject to Service approval. The question of jurisdiction is more complex on reservations that include lands owned by non-Indians, especially when the surrounding States have established or intend to establish regulations governing hunting by non-Indians on these lands. In such cases, the Service encourages the tribes and States to reach agreement on regulations that would apply throughout the reservations. When appropriate, the Service will consult with a tribe and State with the aim of facilitating an accord. The Service also will consult jointly with tribal and State officials in the affected States where tribes may wish to establish special hunting regulations for tribal members on ceded lands. Because of past questions regarding interpretation of what events trigger the consultation process, as well as who initiates it, there is a need to provide clarification here. The Service routinely provides Federal Register copies of published proposed and final rulemakings and other documents to all State Directors, tribes and other interested parties. It is the responsibility of the States, tribes and others to bring any concern for any feature(s) of any regulations to the attention of the Service. Consultation will be initiated at the point in time at which the Service is made aware of a concern. The Service cannot presume to know beforehand what, if any, concerns will be voiced regarding rulemakings. The guidelines provide for the continuation of harvest of waterfowl and other migratory game birds by tribal members on reservations where it has been a customary practice. The Service does not oppose this harvest, provided it does not take place during the closed season defined by the 1916 Migratory Bird Convention with Canada, and it is not so large as to adversely affect the status of the migratory bird resource.
