FR940429-0-00054 FR940429-0-00010 (a)(1) The Secretary may limit, suspend, or terminate the recognition of an accrediting agency before completion of its previously granted recognition period if the Secretary determines, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that the agency fails or has failed to satisfy any of the requirements of this part. (2)(i) If the agency requests a hearing, the hearing is conducted by the Advisory Committee or by a subcommittee of five members of the Advisory Committee, selected by the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that a more timely hearing is necessary than can be accommodated by the schedule of the full Advisory Committee. (ii) If the Secretary selects a subcommittee of the Advisory Committee instead of the full Advisory Committee, the agency may challenge the membership of the subcommittee on grounds of conflict of interest on the part of one or more of the members of the subcommittee, and the Secretary replaces the member(s) if the agency's challenge is successful. (iii) The designated Department official arranges for a transcript to be made of the hearing. (b) The designated Department official begins a limitation, suspension, or termination proceeding against an accrediting agency by sending the agency a notice that_ (1) Informs the agency of the Secretary's intent to limit, suspend, or terminate its recognition; (2) Identifies the alleged violations of the governing regulations that constitute the basis for the action; (3) Describes the limits to be imposed if the Secretary seeks to limit the accrediting agency; (4) Specifies the effective date of the limitation, suspension, or termination; and (5) Informs the agency that it may_ (i) Submit to the designated Department official a written response to the notice no later than 30 days after it receives the notice; and (ii) Request a hearing, which shall take place in Washington, DC, before the Advisory Committee or subcommittee if the agency submits a hearing request to the designated Department official no later than 30 days after it receives the notice. (c)(1) As part of its response to the limitation, suspension, or termination notice or its hearing request, if any, the accrediting agency shall identify the issues and facts in dispute and its position with regard to those issues and facts. (2) After receipt of the agency's response and hearing request, if any, the designated Department official_ (i) Transmits the limitation, suspension, or termination notice and the agency's response, if any, to that notice to the Advisory Committee or subcommittee; and (ii) Establishes the date and time of any hearing before the Advisory Committee or subcommittee. (d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, if a hearing is held, the Advisory Committee or subcommittee shall allow the designated Department official, the accrediting agency, and any interested party to make an oral or written presentation. That presentation may include the introduction of written and oral evidence. (2) If the designated Department official and the accrediting agency each agree, the Advisory Committee or subcommittee review shall be based solely on the written materials submitted to it under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. (e)(1) After the Advisory Committee or subcommittee reviews the presentations, it shall issue an opinion in which it_ (i) Makes findings of fact based upon the evidence presented; (ii) Recommends whether a limitation, suspension, or termination of the agency's recognition is warranted; and (iii) Provides the reasons for that recommendation. (2) The Advisory Committee or subcommittee shall_ (i) Transmit its written opinion to the Secretary; and (ii) Provide a copy of its opinion to the designated Department official and the accrediting agency. (f)(1) Unless the Advisory Committee's or subcommittee's recommendation is appealed, after receiving the recommendation, the Secretary issues a decision on whether to limit, suspend, or terminate the agency's recognition, based upon the Advisory Committee's or subcommittee's recommendation and the full record before the Advisory Committee or subcommittee. (2) Either the accrediting agency or the designated Department official may appeal the Advisory Committee's or subcommittee's recommendation by filing a notice of appeal with the Secretary within 10 days of receipt of the Advisory Committee's or subcommittee's recommendation. If either party files an appeal with the Secretary, that party shall simultaneously provide a copy of the notice of appeal to the other party. (3) The party appealing the Advisory Committee's or subcommittee's recommendation has 30 days after its receipt of the recommendation to make a written submission to the Secretary challenging the recommendation. However, the appealing party may not submit any evidence that was not submitted to the Advisory Committee or subcommittee. The appealing party shall simultaneously provide a copy of the submission to the other party. (4) The nonappealing party has 30 days from the date it receives the appealing party's submission to file a written response to the Secretary regarding the submissions of the appealing party and shall simultaneously provide the appealing party with a copy of its response. The nonappealing party may not submit any evidence that was not submitted to the Advisory Committee or subcommittee. (5) If the Advisory Committee's or subcommittee's recommendation is appealed, the Secretary renders a final decision after taking into account that recommendation and the parties' written submissions on appeal. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.15 Appeals procedures.
