FR941222-1-00067 FR941222-1-00008 From the three FD&C wastewater samples collected, the following three constituents were observed that are attributable to FD&C colorant production: Aniline, 3-hydroxyphenol, and phenol. During the risk assessment screening, the Agency found that the three constituents present in the waste ( i.e., aniline, 3-hydroxyphenol, and phenol) do not pose a risk at the concentrations detected. In fact, the ratios of maximum measured concentration in the wastestream to the HBL were less than 1 for aniline and phenol. Since there currently is no HBL available for 3-hydroxyphenol, the concentration of 3-hydroxyphenol was compared to that of a surrogate. 3-Hydroxyphenol is not expected to be a potential carcinogen. Furthermore, the Agency selected a surrogate compound that is structurally similar to the compound detected in the waste, and is estimated, by means of structural activity relationships (SARs), to be more toxic than the subject compound. Therefore, phenol was selected as a surrogate for this 3-hydroxyphenol, and the resulting ratio of concentration to HBL was also less than 1. This indicates that if the contaminant concentrations found in the waste were actually present in drinking water, the risks posed by ingesting the drinking water would be insignificant. In conclusion, because the constituents in this wastestream were observed at concentrations that present insignificant risks, and no other hazardous constituents attributed to FD&C colorant production were detected, the Agency is proposing not to list wastewaters from the manufacture of FD&C colorants as hazardous. 7. Dusts and dust collector fines from the manufacture of dyes and pigments. Summary The Agency is proposing not to list dusts and dust collector fines from the manufacture of dyes and pigments because, based on an evaluation of current management and plausible management, this waste does not pose a substantial potential hazard to human health and the environment. Discussion Dusts and dust collector fines are generated during drying, grinding, and blending operations that occur during the manufacture of dyes and pigments. Dust collectors and baghouses generally are used to capture and collect the dust. The total volume of this wastestream reported in response to the 1991 RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire is 143 metric tons. According to questionnaire data, some of the dusts and fines reported by the industry are recovered and recycled back to the manufacturing process or sold to shoe-polish manufacturers as a raw material. Information on the percentage handled in this manner is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. There is a distinct economic incentive for these facilities to continue reusing or selling dusts and fines in this way. This handling of dusts and fines is not expected to present any significant risk to human health and the environment. Seventeen percent of the reported waste volume is generated by a facility that currently manages dusts and fines in a Subtitle C landfill and the Agency believes that this facility will continue to manage dusts and fines in such a manner. The dusts and fines generated at this facility from organic pigments covered by this listing determination are mixed with dusts and fines from inorganic pigments that contain lead and chromium. The entire volume of dusts and fines, comprised of the commingled organic and inorganic products dusts and fines, is characteristically toxic for both lead and chromium and, therefore, is a hazardous waste as defined by 40 CFR 261.24. It is impractical for the facility to separate the dusts and fines covered by this listing determination from these characteristic inorganic dusts and fines and, thus, the facility manages the dusts and fines covered by this listing determination in a Subtitle C landfill. Analysis of existing plant design shows that dusts and fines are comingled in ductwork that is structured such that these wastes are mixed. Without significant re-design and construction, segregation of the wastes is impossible. The Agency does not believe that it is plausible for the facility to discontinue the practice of combining all of its dusts and fines wastes and disposing of such wastes at a Subtitle C facility given the physical arrangement of this facility. Management of this waste in a Subtitle C landfill is not expected to pose any significant level of risk to human health or the environment. Information on the volume and the percentage of total volume disposed of in Subtitle D landfills is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. The Agency believes the potential risks posed by the plausible management practices for this volume do not warrant a hazardous waste listing for dusts and fines. Although, due to resource constraints, the Agency was unable to collect information on the characteristics of these dusts and fines, the Agency estimated a worst-case risk by estimating the risk associated with disposal of dusts and fines in a Subtitle D landfill based on the physical/chemical properties of a mobile dye product and the toxicological properties of a dye constituent known to be one of the most toxic and mobile dye or pigment waste constituents. This analysis demonstrated that the risk is below the initial level of concern associated with disposal of this waste in a Subtitle D landfill. Management of this waste in an on-site monofill was determined to be not plausible because the volumes generated would not justify an on-site monofill. For further information see the background document on risk assessment, available in the public docket for this rule. The Agency requests comment on the approach used to determine risk posed by plausible management of the wastes and requests comment on the proposed determination not to list this waste.
