FR941006-1-00029 FR941006-1-00008 In the current processing environment for State and Local Government Series securities, the Bureau of the Public Debt has authorized selected Federal Reserve Banks or Branches, acting as fiscal agents of the United States, to provide services in connection with the purchase of, transactions involving, and redemption of, the securities. Subscriptions for the purchase of State and Local Government Series securities are accepted at designated Federal Reserve Banks or Branches, subject to verification by the Bureau of the Public Debt. Full payment for each subscription must be available in an account for debit by the Federal Reserve Bank or Branch on or before the date of issue. The current processing environment requires that staffing and technical expertise be maintained at 12 designated Federal Reserve Banks or Branches to provide unique services in connection with State and Local Government Series securities. The Bureau of the Public Debt, Office of Securities and Accounting Services, Division of Special Investments (hereafter referred to as the Division of Special Investments) has determined that the volume of transactions in this securities program does not merit the expense of maintaining technical expertise at 12 different locations. The Bureau of the Public Debt has decided to centralize all issuance, funds collection, and accounting functions for the State and Local Government Series securities program in the Division of Special Investments. The responsibility for these functions will be withdrawn from the designated Federal Reserve Banks beginning on a specific issue date which will be announced in the final rule. It is anticipated that this date will be January 3, 1995. After centralization, Federal Reserve Bank or Branch involvement in this program will be limited to processing interest and redemption payments made through reserve account credits for a very small number of existing securities accounts. This method of payment is limited to securities for which subscriptions were submitted prior to February 1, 1987. More than 98% of all interest and redemption payments for State and Local Government Series securities are made by the Automated Clearing House method (ACH), with credit directed to the owner's account at a financial institution. Beginning on the effective date of the final rule, subscriptions for the purchase of State and Local Government Series securities which request issuance on or after a designated date will only be accepted by the Division of Special Investments. Full payment for each subscription will be submitted by the investor's financial institution on or before the issue date utilizing the Fedwire funds transfer system which is available throughout the commercial banking industry. It will no longer be necessary for investors to deposit the funds in an account subject to debit by a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch on or before the date of issue. This proposed rule change is expected to provide investors in State and Local Government Series securities with several benefits. Investors will enjoy a higher level of customer service and more consistent application of the regulations pertaining to this securities program. Investors will be dealing directly with staff in the Division of Special Investments who are trained and skilled in the many unique aspects of this securities program and whose principal responsibility it is to manage the State and Local Government Series securities program. In addition, United States taxpayers will benefit in terms of the reduced costs of operating this securities program which will be realized by centralizing operations within the Division of Special Investments. Because the responsibility for all issuance, funds collection, and accounting functions for the State and Local Government Series securities program will be withdrawn from the designated Federal Reserve Banks and because the Division of Special Investments must assume these operations on or about January 3, 1995, the Bureau of the Public Debt has determined that a comment period of 15 days is necessary. This will allow time for comments to be incorporated in a final rule within operational time constraints. Although most of the changes in this proposed rule are ministerial in nature (for example, changes to increase the use of facsimile transmittals and to provide new addresses), proposed changes concerning amending subscriptions (ยง344.3(b)(3)(iv) and ยง344.7(b)) and concerning waivers and fees associated with the failure to settle subscriptions (ยง344.4(b) and ยง344.8(b)) merit special attention. The Department of the Treasury is also in the process of considering the revision of the regulations governing the State and Local Government Series securities program, with a view to increasing the flexibility of the program. The proposed rule does not include these types of changes due to the need to adopt the proposed rule very quickly. Changes to the State and Local Government Series securities program could include changes in the certification requirements and in the rules relating to the redemption of SLGS securities before maturity. II. Section By Section Summary Subpart A_General Information Provisions included in the general information section apply to time deposit, demand deposit, and special zero interest State and Local Government Series securities. Proposed changes from the 1989 regulations are as follows:
