FR940711-2-00169 FR940711-2-00072 The total amount available in fiscal year 1994 for grant awards in the research program area of Solar Ultraviolet Radiation Monitoring is approximately $800,000. The National Research Initiative Competitive Grants Program, in addition to providing support for research on biological response to predicted effects of stratospheric ozone depletion, invited applications in 1991 for development of instrumentation for a solar ultraviolet radiation monitoring network. Based on the results now available from that earlier activity, the Department desires to support continued development of high quality spectroradiometers for measurements of ultraviolet-B radiation and utilization of the spectroradiometers in research to accurately determine ultraviolet-B radiation at ground level. Such information will more accurately document levels of UV radiation reaching the Earth's surface. Such knowledge is needed in order to develop an understanding of the response of living systems to current conditions, to forecast future effects, and to develop response strategies for mitigating effects resulting from any future increases in UV radiation. The following specific program area and guidelines are provided as a base from which proposals may be developed. Proposals developed for the Solar Ultraviolet Radiation Monitoring program should include field instrumentation for high quality spectral irradiance measurements and a research plan for data collection, analysis, and use. Emphasis should be placed on the following instrumentation specifications and operating protocols: General: The instrument should measure the global horizontal terrestrial solar UV&hyph;B spectral irradiance over the spectral wavelength region from 280&hyph;400 nm. Overall network radiometric uncertainty should be no more than 10% (3 sigma) at 295 nm decreasing to less than 5% (3 sigma) at 340 nm. These and following specifications are applicable over the ambient range of temperature, humidity, and pressure found in northern temperate latitudes.
