FR940830-2-00152 FR940830-2-00067 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20497; 812&hyph;8992] Crestfunds, Inc., et al.; Notice of Application August 24, 1944. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). applicants: CrestFunds, Inc. (the ``Fund''), Capitoline Investment Services Incorporated (the ``Adviser''), and Fidelity Distributors Corporation (the ``Distributor''). relevant act sections: Order requested under section 6(c) for an exemption from sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 22(c), and 22(d) and rule 22c&hyph;1, and to amend a previous order (the ``Prior Order'') that granted applicants an exemption relief from sections 18(f), 18(g), and 18(i). 1 1 CrestFunds, Inc., et al ., Investment Company Act Release Nos. 19149 (Dec. 8, 1992) (notice) and 19206 (Jan. 5, 1993) (order). SUMMARY of application: Applicants request an amendment to the Prior Order which permits the Fund to offer multiple classes of shares. As amended, the order would permit the Fund to assess a contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') on certain redemptions of shares. The order also would let applicants add a conversion feature to their existing multiple class distribution arrangement. filing DATE: The application was filed on May 17, 1994 and amended on August 1, 1994. hearing or notification of hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on September 19, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. The Fund and the Distributor, 82 Devonshire Street, Boston, MA 02109; the Adviser, 919 East Main Street, Richmond, VA 23219. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Deepak T. Pai, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0574, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Office of Investment Company Regulation, Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Fund is an open-end management investment company, which currently consists of ten series. The series represent interests in three money market portfolios, four bond portfolios, and three equity portfolios (the ``Portfolios''). The Adviser is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Crestar Bank, which is a subsidiary of Crestar Financial Corporation. The Distributor is a wholly-owned subsidiary of FMR Corp. 2. The Prior Order permits the Fund to issue an unlimited number of classes of shares. The Prior Order recognizes certain permissible class differences, including: (a) the allocation among classes of certain expenses including 12b&hyph;1 fees and shareholder servicing fees, transfer agency fees, blue sky fees and certain other fees; (b) the fact that classes will vote separately with respect to the classes' 12b&hyph;1 plans and/or shareholder services plans; (c) the exchange privileges of the various classes; and (d) the manner in which each class of shares are designated. The Fund's existing classes of shares are sold subject to a traditional front-end sales load and/or rule 12b&hyph;1 fees. 3. Applicants request an exemption to let them impose a CDSC on certain redemptions of shares and waive the CDSC in certain cases. Applicants also request an exemption to allow them to offer one or more classes of shares with a conversion feature. Applicants request that the relief apply to all other investment companies or series thereof that are, or in the future will be, advised by the Adviser, or a person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Adviser, or that are, or in the future will be, distributed by the Distributor, or a person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the Distributor and that have or will have the ability to issue classes of shares that are identical in all material respects to those described in the application. All existing entities that presently intend to rely on the requested order have been named as applicants. 4. The terms of the CDSC and the circumstances under which it is imposed may vary among the Portfolios and among classes within a Portfolio. A CDSC may be imposed in combination with an initial sales load, in connection with redemptions of shares for which an initial sales load was waived, or in connection with redemptions of shares sold at net asset value. The CDSC will be calculated as the lesser of the amount that represents a specified percentage of the net asset value of the shares at the time of purchase or redemption. No CDSC will be imposed on amounts representing capital appreciation or shares acquired through reinvestment of dividends or capital gain distributions. 5. Applicants request the ability to waive or reduce the CDSC. In waiving or reducing a CDSC, the Fund will comply with the requirements of rule 22d&hyph;1. Applicants may provide a credit in the amount of the CDSC to a shareholder who reinvests in Fund shares within a certain period after redemption. Any credit will be paid by the Distributor or the Adviser. 6. Shareholders may be permitted to exchange shares subject to a CDSC for shares of the same class of another Portfolio and for shares of the money market Portfolios. Any exchange privilege will comply with rule 11a&hyph;3. 7. Applicants may offer one or more classes of shares subject to a conversion feature. After the expiration of a specified period, shares of one class (``Purchase Class'') automatically will convert at their net asset value to shares of another class with different features (``Target Class''). After conversion, the Target Class shares will be subject to an asset-based sales charge and/or service fee, if any, that in the aggregate are lower than the asset-based sales charge and service fee of the Purchase Class. Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Applicants believe that the proposal to impose a CDSC is fair, in the public interest and the interest of the Fund's shareholders, and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and the provisions of the Act. Consequently, applicants request an order under section 6(c) of the Act for an exemption from sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 22(c), and 22(d) of the Act and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder to the extent necessary to permit the proposed CDSC arrangement. 2. Applicants also request an amendment to the Prior Order to let them add a conversion feature as a difference between the classes of shares. Applicants believe that the conversion feature is equitable and will not discriminate against any group of shareholders.
