FR941005-1-00022 FR941005-1-00004 17. Should the existing float deductions be eliminated? State the advantages and disadvantages of eliminating these adjustments to deposits. 18. Should other adjustments to deposits that are currently provided for be eliminated (such as ``BICs'' and pass-through reserve balances)? State the advantages and disadvantages of eliminating these adjustments. 19. Identify other advantages or disadvantages of this option for defining the assessment base. C. Expanded Base: Non-Deposit Secured Liabilities Under this option, the assessment base would consist, in general terms, of total adjusted domestic deposits plus non-deposit secured liabilities (such as secured notes and other secured borrowings). One argument given for assessing secured liabilities is that they are protected before the FDIC in the event of a failure and, accordingly, increase the risk of loss to the FDIC. Secured creditors of insured depository institutions are protected against loss by assets of the institution that are pledged as security for its debts to those creditors. Because more favorable terms can be obtained on borrowings by pledging high-quality, marketable assets as security, there is a tendency for institutions to pledge such assets for that purpose. If the institution were to fail, these pledged assets would not be available to reduce the FDIC's losses or to settle the claims of other unsecured creditors. As more of the institution's assets are pledged_often, the highest-quality, most marketable assets_there are fewer assets remaining to satisfy unsecured obligations, including unsecured deposit and non-deposit liabilities. The likely effect of a shrinking pool of quality assets on the FDIC is to increase its failure-resolution costs. FDIC costs could be increased even further if, as is often the case, the market realizes beforehand that an institution may be heading toward insolvency. Uninsured and unsecured creditors typically flee an institution perceived to be in trouble, leaving the institution more dependent on secured borrowings for funding, and further depleting the pool of unpledged assets available for settling claims. FDICIA allows secured claims to be paid up to the fair market value of the assets pledged against those claims. 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(5)(D). Any remaining portion is to be treated as an unsecured claim. This marginally reduces the FDIC's exposure by restricting secured claimholders' recoveries to the market value of the pledged assets, but by no means eliminates the exposure. If the assessment base were expanded to include secured liabilities, a better measure of these liabilities would be necessary. While rough estimates of secured liabilities are obtainable, an institution's secured, non-deposit borrowings cannot at present be readily determined from data available in the institution's Report of Condition. As a result, if the assessment base were defined to include non-deposit secured liabilities, additional data (and additional recordkeeping) would probably be required. Commenters are requested to provide an evaluation of this option for defining the assessment base, in terms of the following criteria discussed in section III of this Notice: 20. Fairness 21. Measurability 22. Relation to Risk 23. Non-Avoidability 24. Recordkeeping Burden 25. Any other criteria suggested by the commenter.
