FR940202-0-00122 FR940202-0-00013 Wetland compensatory mitigation can be a costly, time-consuming, and difficult endeavor with an uncertain probability of success. However, in the 6 years since the vireo was listed, two agencies have constructed projects that have been subject to this prior replacement requirement, and both have successfully created habitat that now supports vireos. As restoration techniques are further refined, it is likely that revegetation projects will become more successful in shorter time frames. The requirement to create vireo habitat before existing habitat is destroyed ensures that this federally listed species would not sustain a loss of habitat, even temporarily. In some cases, the temporary loss of habitat may have a significant adverse impact on the vireo. Given the uncertainty of wetland creation or restoration, it is unlikely that the Service would support a project proposal that would result in the destruction of large areas of riparian habitat without first providing adequate replacement habitat for the least Bell's vireos in the area. Under section 4(b)(2) of the Act, the Secretary has the authority to exclude an area from critical habitat designation ``*␣*␣* if he determines that the benefits of such exclusion outweigh the benefits of specifying such area as part of the critical habitat, unless he determines, based on the best scientific and commercial data available, that the failure to designate such area as critical habitat will result in the extinction of the species concerned.'' The Gibraltar Reservoir population of the vireo represents the northern edge of its current range, and therefore is most likely to be the source of recolonization to the north or to the Central Valley. Because of this geographical significance, the designation of this area as critical habitat is appropriate. In any case, the proposed project to raise the height of Gibraltar Dam is not currently being considered, since the city of Santa Barbara is using economically feasible alternative water sources. Issue 22: Critical habitat should not be designated because of project delays due to lengthy permitting processes and the time required to offset negative impacts before a project could be constructed. Service Response: For projects where unavoidable impacts to unoccupied vireo habitat would occur, compensatory mitigation in the form of habitat creation may have to be completed prior to the destruction of existing habitat so that the vireo would not sustain a net loss of available nesting or foraging habitat. The amount of time for successful habitat creation would vary depending on the methods used and could take several years. The action agency or permit applicant would need to initiate the restoration activities early enough to allow sufficient time for vireo habitat to develop. Most major projects are in the planning stages long enough to provide adequate time for advance habitat creation if the compensation efforts are done expeditiously. Proper planning would reduce the likelihood of a project delay. Section 7 regulations require the Service to complete formal consultation within 90 days of initiation and issue a biological opinion within an additional 45 days. By policy and in practice, the Service usually completes formal consultation within 90 days. Issue 23: Designation of critical habitat is unnecessary because nest parasitism by cowbirds and predation are responsible for the decline of the vireo, rather than habitat loss. One commenter stated that vireo habitat is plentiful, and efforts to conserve the species should focus on other aspects of its ecology. Service Response: Two major factors have been identified as being responsible for the relatively recent, dramatic decline of the least Bell's vireo: (1) Widespread habitat destruction, and (2) high rates of nest parasitism by cowbirds (Goldwasser et al. 1980). The synergistic effects of these two factors may have further exacerbated the situation. Although cowbird removal programs have effectively solved the problem of excessive parasitism at a number of locales, habitat conservation and creation programs have not achieved the same level of success. These programs eventually must be successful if conservation and recovery of the vireo is to be achieved. To that end, the designation of critical habitat affords a higher level of protection to riparian woodland habitats that currently (or potentially could) support nesting pairs of vireos. The Service considers this action particularly appropriate in light of the inability of existing regulatory mechanisms (e.g., the Clean Water Act, local regulations) to adequately protect vireo habitat.
