FR940412-2-00044 FR940412-2-00026 Retrievability: The file is indexed by social security number or name. Data for loans made under the Federal Direct Student Loan Program, FISL Program, Federal Perkins Loan (formerly National Direct Student Loan) Program, Federal Pell Grant Program, and some FFELs are retrievable by social security number. Safeguards: All physical access to the Department of Education site, and the sites of Department contractors where this system of records is maintained, is controlled and monitored by security personnel who check each individual entering the building for his or her employee or visitor badge. The computer system employed by the Department of Education offers a high degree of resistance to tampering and circumvention. This security system limits data access to Department of Education and contract staff on a ``need to know'' basis, and controls individual users' ability to access and alter records within the system. All users of this system of records are given a unique user ID with personal identifiers. All interactions by individual users with the system are recorded. Retention and disposal: Records of individual loans may be destroyed five years after cancellation, forgiveness or final repayment of the loan. Records of Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant recipients may be destroyed five years after the fiscal operations report is filed. Records of Federal Pell Grant recipients may be destroyed five years after the initial award year has ended, as set forth in appropriate record retention schedules. System managers and addresses: The System Manager for the title IV program file is the Director, Program Systems Support, Student Financial Assistance Programs, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., room 4640, GSA Regional Office Building 3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5258. Notification procedure: If an individual wishes to determine whether a record exists regarding him or her in the system of records, the individual should provide to the system manager his or her name, date of birth, social security number, and the name of the school or lender from which the loan or grant was obtained. Requests for notification about whether the system of records contains information about an individual must meet the requirements of the Department of Education's Privacy Act regulations at 34 CFR 5b.5. Record access procedures: If an individual wishes to gain access to a record in this system, he or she should contact the system manager and provide information as described in the notification procedure. Requests by an individual for access to a record must meet the requirements of the Department of Education's Privacy Act regulations at 34 CFR 5b.5. Contesting record procedures: If an individual wishes to change the content of a record in the system of records, he or she should contact the system manager with the information described in the notification procedure, identify the specific items to be changed, and provide a written justification for the change. Requests to amend a record must meet the requirements of the Department of Education's Privacy Act regulations at 34 CFR 5b.7. Record source categories: Information is obtained from reports from borrowers and their families, lenders, schools, examining or treating physicians, employers, credit agencies, Federal and State governmental agencies, and State or private nonprofit guaranty agencies. However, lenders and guaranty agencies are not a source of information for participants in the Federal Direct Student Loan Program, since the Department maintains individual records of borrowers for this program. System exempted from certain provisions of the Act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8679 Filed 4&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
