FR940228-1-00052 FR940228-1-00007 Serious risk includes situations that may involve the risk of unnecessary treatment, prolonged treatment, lack of treatment, incorrect treatment, medical complication, premature discharge, physiological or anatomical impairment, disability, or death. State health care program means a State plan approved under title XIX, any program receiving funds under title V or from an allotment to a State under such title, or any program receiving funds under title XX or from an allotment to a State under such title. Substantial violation in a substantial number of cases means a pattern of providing care that is inappropriate, unnecessary, or does not meet recognized professional standards of care, or is not supported by the necessary documentation of care as required by the PRO. Urban means a Metropolitan Statistical Area as defined by the Executive Officer of Management and Budget. Vision care professional is a term limited to licensed doctors of medicine who limit their practice to ophthalmology and to doctors of optometry. Subpart B_Sanctions Under the PRO Program; General Provisions §1004.10 Statutory obligations of practitioners and other persons. It is the obligation of any health care practitioner or other person who furnishes or orders health care services that may be reimbursed under the Medicare or State health care programs to ensure, to the extent of his or her or its authority, that those services are_ (a) Provided economically and only when, and to the extent, medically necessary; (b) Of a quality that meets professionally recognized standards of health care; and (c) Supported by evidence of medical necessity and quality in the form and fashion and at such time that the reviewing PRO may reasonably require (including copies of the necessary documentation and evidence of compliance with pre-admission or pre-procedure review requirements) to ensure that the practitioner or other person is meeting the obligations imposed by section 1156(a) of the Act. §1004.20 Sanctions. In addition to any other sanction provided under law, a practitioner or other person may be_ (a) Excluded from participating in programs under titles V, XVIII, XIX, and XX of the Social Security Act; or (b) In lieu of exclusion and as a condition for continued participation in titles V, XVIII, XIX, and XX of the Act, if the violation involved the provision or ordering (or at the medical direction or the prescription of a physician) of health care services that were medically improper or unnecessary, required to pay an amount not in excess of the cost of the improper or unnecessary services that were furnished or ordered (and prescribed, if appropriate). The practitioner or other person will be required either to pay the monetary assessment within 6 months of the date of notice or have it deducted from any sums the Federal government owes the practitioner or other person. Subpart C_PRO Responsibilities §1004.30 Basic responsibilities. (a) The PRO must use its authority or influence to enlist the support of other professional or government agencies to ensure that each practitioner or other person complies with the obligations specified in §1004.10. (b) When the PRO identifies situations where the obligations specified in §1004.10 are violated, it will afford the practitioner or other person reasonable notice and opportunity for discussion and, if appropriate, a suggested method for correcting the situation and a time period for a corrective action in accordance with §§1004.40 and 1004.60. (c) The PRO must submit a report to the OIG after the notice and opportunity provided under paragraph (b) of this section and, if appropriate, the opportunity to enter into and complete a corrective action plan if the PRO determines that the practitioner or other person has_ (1) Failed substantially to comply with any obligation in a substantial number of instances; or (2) Grossly and flagrantly violated any obligation in one or more instances. (d) The PRO report to the OIG must comply with the provisions of §1004.80.
