FR940512-2-00175 FR940512-2-00078 15. Applicant must describe how the activities implemented under this project will be continued by the agency once Federal funding for the project has ended. The applicant must describe specific plans for accomplishing program phase-out for the last two quarters of the 36-month project period in the event the applicant does not receive a new award. Staff Background and Organizational Experience 1. As priority for funding will be given to agencies and organizations that have documented experience in establishing and operating centers that provide direct services to runaway and homeless youth, applicant must include a brief description of the organization and its experience in providing services to this client population. 2. Applicant must include a description of current and proposed staff skills and knowledge regarding runaway and homeless youth and indicate how staff will be utilized in achieving the goals and objectives of the program. Information on proposed staff training and brief resumes or job descriptions may be included. 3. Applicant must describe procedures for maintaining confidentiality of records on the youth and families served. Procedures must insure that no information on the youth and families is disclosed without the consent of the individual youth, parent or legal guardian. Disclosures without consent can be made to another agency compiling statistical records if individual identities are not provided or to a government agency involved in the disposition of criminal charges against an individual runaway or homeless youth. 4. Applicant must describe how the project has established or will establish formal service linkages with other social service, law enforcement, educational, housing, vocational, welfare, legal service, drug treatment and health care agencies in order to ensure appropriate referrals for the project clients when needed. 5. Applicant must describe how community and other support will be secured to continue the project at the conclusion of the Federal grant period. Budget Appropriateness 1. Applicant must discuss and justify the costs of the proposed project in terms of numbers of youth and families to be served, types and quantities of services to be provided, and the anticipated outcomes for the youth and families. 2. The applicant must describe the fiscal control and accounting procedures that will be used to ensure prudent use, proper disbursement, and accurate accounting of funds received under this program announcement. Duration of project: This announcement solicits applications for Basic Center projects of up to three years duration (36-month project periods). Initial grant awards, made on a competitive basis, will be for one-year (12-month) budget periods. Applications for continuation grants beyond the one-year budget periods, but within the 36-month project periods, will be entertained in subsequent years on a non-competitive basis, subject to the availability of funds, satisfactory progress of the grantee, and determination that continued funding would be in the best interest of the government. Federal share of project costs: Priority will be given to applicants which apply for less than $200,000 per year. The maximum Federal share for a 3-year project period is $600,000. Applicant share of project costs: The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act requires a non-Federal matching requirement of ten percent of the total Federal funds awarded. For example, a project requesting $300,000 in Federal funds over a three-year project period (based on an award of $100,000 per twelve-month budget period) must include a match of at least $30,000 (10 % of the Federal share). B. Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth (DAPP) Eligible applicants: Any State, unit of local government (or combination of units of local government), public or non-profit private agency, organization, institution, or other non-profit entity is eligible to apply for these funds. Federally recognized Indian Tribes are eligible to apply for DAPP grants. Non-Federally recognized Indian Tribes and urban Indian organizations are also eligible to apply for grants as private, non-profit agencies. Grantees (including subgrantees) with current DAPP grants with 12 or more months remaining in their project periods may not apply for new DAPP grants under this announcement. Applicants may refer to Part VI, Appendix D.3 for a listing of current grantees which are ineligible to apply for grants under this priority area. No more than one grant per legal entity (organization) will be awarded under this priority area. Organizations submitting more than one application for DAPP funds must understand that only one application will be considered for funding.
