FR940429-0-00134 FR940429-0-00013 (2) Reported to campus security authorities as identified under the institution's statement of current campus policies pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section or local police agencies; and (3) Considered by the institution to represent a threat to students and employees. (f) The following definitions apply to this section: Campus: (1) Any building or property owned or controlled by an institution within the same reasonably contiguous geographic area and used by the institution in direct support of, or in a manner related to, the institution's educational purposes. (2) Any building or property owned or controlled by a student organization recognized by the institution. (3) Any building or property controlled by the institution, but owned by a third-party. Campus security authority: (1) A campus law enforcement unit. (2) An individual or organization specified in an institution's statement of campus security policy as the individual or organization to whom students and employees should report criminal offenses. (3) An official of an institution who has significant responsibility for student and campus activities, but does not have significant counseling responsibilities. Prospective employee: An individual who has contacted an institution participating in any Title IV, HEA program for the purpose of requesting information concerning employment with the institution. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1840&hyph;0537) (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 534, 1092, and 1232g) 6. Section 668.72 is amended by revising paragraph (l) to read as follows: §668.72 Nature of educational program. * * * * * (l) Any matters required to be disclosed to prospective students under §§668.44 and 668.47 of this part. 7. A new Appendix E is added to part 668 to read as follows: Appendix E to Part 668: Crime Definitions in Accordance With the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Uniform Crime Reporting Program The following definitions are to be used for reporting the crimes listed in §668.47, in accordance with the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Uniform Crime Reporting Program. The definitions for murder, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, motor vehicle theft, weapon law violations, drug abuse violations and liquor law violations are excerpted from the Uniform Crime Reporting Handbook. The definitions of forcible and nonforcible sex offenses are excerpted from the National Incident-Based Reporting System Edition of the Uniform Crime Reporting Handbook. Crime Definitions From the Uniform Crime Reporting Handbook Murder The willful (nonnegligent) killing of one human being by another. Robbery The taking or attempting to take anything of value from the care, custody, or control of a person or persons by force or threat of force or violence and/or by putting the victim in fear. Aggravated Assault An unlawful attack by one person upon another for the purpose of inflicting severe or aggravated bodily injury. This type of assault usually is accompanied by the use of a weapon or by means likely to produce death or great bodily harm. (It is not necessary that injury result from an aggravated assault when a gun, knife, or other weapon is used which could and probably would result in serious personal injury if the crime were successfully completed.) Burglary The unlawful entry of a structure to commit a felony or a theft. For reporting purposes this definition includes: unlawful entry with intent to commit a larceny or felony; breaking and entering with intent to commit a larceny; housebreaking; safecracking; and all attempts to commit any of the aforementioned. Motor Vehicle Theft The theft or attempted theft of a motor vehicle. (Classify as motor vehicle theft all cases where automobiles are taken by persons not having lawful access even though the vehicles are later abandoned_including joyriding.) Weapon Law Violations The violation of laws or ordinances dealing with weapon offenses, regulatory in nature, such as: manufacture, sale, or possession of deadly weapons; carrying deadly weapons, concealed or openly; furnishing deadly weapons to minors; aliens possessing deadly weapons; and all attempts to commit any of the aforementioned. Drug Abuse Violations Violations of State and local laws relating to the unlawful possession, sale, use, growing, manufacturing, and making of narcotic drugs. The relevant substances include: opium or cocaine and their derivatives (morphine, heroin, codeine); marijuana; synthetic narcotics (demerol, methadones); and dangerous nonnarcotic drugs (barbiturates, benzedrine). Liquor Law Violations The violation of laws or ordinances prohibiting: the manufacture, sale, transporting, furnishing, possessing of intoxicating liquor; maintaining unlawful drinking places; bootlegging; operating a still; furnishing liquor to a minor or intemperate person; using a vehicle for illegal transportation of liquor; drinking on a train or public conveyance; and all attempts to commit any of the aforementioned. (Drunkenness and driving under the influence are not included in this definition.) Sex Offenses Definitions From the National Incident-Based Reporting System Edition of the Uniform Crime Reporting Program Sex Offenses_Forcible Any sexual act directed against another person, forcibly and/or against that person's will; or not forcibly or against the person's will where the victim is incapable of giving consent. A. Forcible Rape _The carnal knowledge of a person, forcibly and/or against that person's will; or not forcibly or against the person's will where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity (or because of his/her youth). B. Forcible Sodomy _Oral or anal sexual intercourse with another person, forcibly and/or against that person's will; or not forcibly against the person's will where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her youth or because of his/her temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity. C. Sexual Assault With An Object_ The use of an object or instrument to unlawfully penetrate, however slightly, the genital or anal opening of the body of another person, forcibly and/or against that person's will; or not forcibly or against the person's will where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her youth or because of his/her temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity. D. Forcible Fondling _The touching of the private body parts of another person for the purpose of sexual gratification, forcibly and/or against that person's will; or, not forcibly or against the person's will where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her youth or because of his/her temporary or permanent mental incapacity. Sex Offenses_Nonforcible Unlawful, nonforcible sexual intercourse. A. Incest _Nonforcible sexual intercourse between persons who are related to each other within the degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by law. B. Statutory Rape _Nonforcible sexual intercourse with a person who is under the statutory age of consent. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10207 Filed 4&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
