FR941110-0-00254 FR941110-0-00016 488.438␣Civil money penalties: Amount of penalty. 488.440␣Civil money penalties: Effective date and duration of penalty. 488.442␣Civil money penalties: Due date for payment of penalty. 488.444␣Civil money penalties: Settlement of penalties. 488.450␣Continuation of payments to a facility with deficiencies. 488.452␣State and Federal disagreements involving findings not in agreement in non-State operated NFs and dually participating facilities when there is no immediate jeopardy. 488.454␣Duration of remedies. 488.456␣Termination of provider agreement. Subpart F_Enforcement of Compliance for Long-Term Care Facilities with Deficiencies §488.400 Statutory basis. Sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act specify remedies that may be used by the Secretary or the State respectively when a SNF or a NF is not in substantial compliance with the requirements for participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These sections also provide for ensuring prompt compliance and specify that these remedies are in addition to any others available under State or Federal law, and, except for civil money penalties, are imposed prior to the conduct of a hearing. §488.401 Definitions. As used in this subpart_ New admission means a resident who is admitted to the facility on or after the effective date of a denial of payment remedy and, if previously admitted, has been discharged before that effective date. Residents admitted before the effective date of the denial of payment, and taking temporary leave, are not considered new admissions, nor subject to the denial of payment. Plan of correction means a plan developed by the facility and approved by the certifying agency which describes the actions the facility will take to correct deficiencies and specifies the date by which those deficiencies will be corrected. §488.402 General provisions. (a) Purpose of remedies. The purpose of remedies is to ensure prompt compliance with program requirements. (b) Basis for imposition and duration of remedies. When HCFA or the State chooses to apply one or more remedies specified in §488.406, the remedies are applied on the basis of noncompliance found during surveys conducted by HCFA or by the survey agency. (c) Number of remedies. HCFA or the State may apply one or more remedies for each deficiency constituting noncompliance or for all deficiencies constituting noncompliance. (d) Plan of correction requirement. (1) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, regardless of which remedy is applied, each facility that has deficiencies with respect to program requirements must submit a plan of correction for approval by HCFA or the survey agency. (2) Isolated deficiencies. A facility is not required to submit a plan of correction when it has deficiencies that are isolated and have a potential for minimal harm, but no actual harm has occurred. (e) Disagreement regarding remedies. If the State and HCFA disagree on the decision to impose a remedy, the disagreement is resolved in accordance with §488.452. (f) Notification requirements _(1) All facilities other than non-State operated NFs. Except when the State is taking action against a non-State operated NF, HCFA gives the provider notice of the remedy, including the_ (i) Nature of the noncompliance; (ii) Which remedy is imposed; (iii) Effective date of the remedy; and
