FR940426-2-00056 FR940426-2-00037 Applications that are accepted for review will be assigned to an Initial Review Group (IRG) composed primarily of non-Federal experts. Notification of the IRG's recommendation will be sent to the applicant upon completion of the initial review. In addition, the IRG recommendations on technical merit of applications will undergo a second level of review by the CMHS National Advisory Council, whose review may be based on policy considerations as well as technical merit. Applications may be considered for funding only if the advisory council concurs with the IRG's recommendation for approval. Review Criteria: The points noted in the parentheses for each criterion indicate the maximum number of points the reviewers may assign to that criterion. These points will be used to calculate a raw score for each application. The raw score will be converted to the official priority score. The following criteria will be included in the technical merit review of applications: Significance of the Project (35) •Demonstrated understanding of community-based systems of care for children and their families •Appropriateness of the applicant's proposed project to the goals of the announcement/program •Consistency of the proposed project relative to the state of the art with respect to providing technical assistance to community-based organizations Adequacy and Appropriateness of Prihect Plans (35) •In terms of the applicant's stated goals and objectives; •In terms of the proposed level of staffing and resources •In terms of the project management plan •In terms of the implementation plan •In terms of sensitivity of the project to cultural competence and gender issues Adequacy and Appropriatiness of Evaluation Plans (10) •In terms of the applicant's stated goals and objectives; •In terms of the proposed staffing and resources •In terms of the project management plan •In terms of the implementation plan •In terms of the Center's goals and objectives Appropriateness of Staffubg, Project Organization, and Resources (20) •Qualifications and experience of the project director and other key personnel •Adequacy of available resources (e.g., facilities, equipment) •Feasibility of the project •Capability and experience of the applicant organization with similar projects •Adequacy of support for the project from other relevant organizations •Appropriateness of the proposed budget for each of the requested years Award Decision Criteria: Applications recommended for approval by the Initial Review Group and the appropriate advisory council will be considered for funding on the basis of their overall technical merit as determined through the review process. Other award criteria will include: •Availability of funds •Coordination with other Federal/non-Federal programs CONTACTS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Questions concerning program issues may be directed to: Gary De Carolis, Chief, Child, Adolescent, and Family Branch, Division of Demonstration Programs, Center for Mental Health Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11C&hyph;09, Rockville, Maryland 20857, (301) 443&hyph;1333. Questions regarding grants management issues may be directed to: Carole Edison, Grants Management Officer, Center for Mental Health Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, room 15&hyph;87, Rockville, MD 20857 (301) 443&hyph;4456. Dated: April 20, 1994. Richard Kopanda, Acting Executive Officer, SAMHSA. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10012 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4162&hyph;20&hyph;P
