FR940503-1-00042 FR940503-1-00010 The Regional Administrator must provide the legal and factual basis for any modification of the recommended decision. Withdrawal of the penalty assessment, which does not constitute final Agency action, occurs without prejudice to the Agency. Any order issued by the Regional Administrator becomes effective thirty days after issuance, unless either the Environmental Appeals Board (the Board) suspends the implementation of the order pursuant to its sua sponte review authority, or a judicial appeal is taken pursuant to section 113(d)(4) of the Act. The Board, on behalf of the Administrator, is authorized to review the decisions of Regional Administrators, sua sponte, on issues of law. The Board may not review fact-finding; second guess the penalty amount issued by the Regional Administrator; or overturn orders issued on consent. The Board may withdraw a Regional Administrator's order if it determines that the Agency lacks jurisdiction to assess a penalty, or if it determines that the Respondent is not liable under applicable law. The Board shall remand an administrative order if it determines that elements of the Respondent's liability are different from those found by the Regional Administrator. Under such a remand, the remedy should be conformed to the amended conclusions of law. The order shall also be remanded if the Board finds that the order fails to provide clear reasons for the decision. The Board shall allow the Regional Administrator's order to issue unchanged if it finds that the order is legally sufficient and it agrees with all material conclusions of law. Within thirty days after the penalty assessment becomes final, the Respondent may appeal to the appropriate United States District Court. Procedural Due Process As noted previously, Mathews v. Eldridge requires consideration of three factors in evaluating whether the proposed administrative procedures satisfy the Fifth Amendment's due process requirements. The relevant factors are: (1) The private interest that will be affected; (2) the risk of an erroneous deprivation of this interest and the probable value, if any, of additional or substitute procedural safeguards; and (3) the Government's interest including the function involved and the fiscal or administrative burdens that the additional procedural requirements would entail. The private interest at stake is payment of a civil penalty. The maximum amount that may be assessed, $5,000 per day of violation, is significantly less than the penalty that may be assessed under the other civil penalty authorities in the Act. In addition, EPA's proposed rules would establish a maximum amount that might be assessed in any one citation. It is also expected that the actual penalties assessed per violation will generally be less than the statutory maximum. The circumstances expected in the great majority of cases is a proper focus for assessing due process concerns. Chemical Waste Management, Inc. v. U.S.E.P.A., 873 F.2d 1477, 1484 (D.C. Cir. 1989). In addition, the straightforward and simple hearing procedures proposed would minimize the cost for private parties to contest assessment of a field citation. The procedures proposed in this third option should minimize the risk of an erroneous deprivation of property. Under the proposed rules, a respondent would be served with a citation that clearly identified the alleged violation and provided a reasonable opportunity to request a hearing. If a hearing was requested, it would be presided over by a neutral agency official that had no prior connection with the action, including investigative or prosecutorial functions. The Presiding Officer also would have no interest in the outcome of the action. This offers the respondent a hearing before a neutral and unbiased tribunal, and clearly minimizes any risk of error from institutional or other bias. The parties have the right to discover, before the hearing, all the information necessary to provide for a fair and adequate hearing. Parties may obtain the names of all witnesses that will be presented, along with a brief description of the witnesses qualifications and the subject matter of the testimony, and they may obtain each document that will be introduced by the other party. Since the violations involved will be minor in nature and are expected to typically involve simple and straightforward factual and legal circumstances, this should provide a respondent with all the information needed to adequately contest a citation. In addition, the citation would typically have been issued immediately upon or shortly after the violation is detected, providing respondents with ample opportunity to investigate the circumstances of an alleged violation. In these circumstances, additional discovery would not be expected to significantly advance the accuracy of the final decision.
