FR940930-2-00070 FR940930-2-00037 [GN # 2274] Announcement of Cooperative Agreements to the Minority Health Professions Foundation The Public Health Service announces that certain of its components will enter into umbrella cooperative agreements with the Minority Health Professions Foundation (MHPF), the education arm of the Association of Minority Health Professions Schools (AMHPS). It is anticipated that the components of PHS listed below will negotiate an umbrella cooperative agreement with MHPF. These cooperative agreements will establish the broad programmatic framework within which specific projects can be funded as they are identified during the project period. The PHS components are: the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration; the Office of Minority Health, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health; the Health Resources and Services Administration; and the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research. The purpose of these cooperative agreements is to (1) foster cooperation and collaboration among the Minority Health Professions schools and (2) to assist the AMHPS member institutions in expanding and enhancing their educational and research opportunities, with the ultimate goal of improving the health status of minorities and disadvantaged people. Eligible Applicant Assistance will be provided only to MHPF. No other applications are solicited. MHPF is the only organization capable of administering these cooperative agreements because it is the only organization that has: 1. Established a comprehensive database related to teaching and other activities of all African-American medical, dental, pharmacy and veterinary schools; 2. Developed and evaluated an inventory of essential disease prevention and health promotion skills needed by all medical and health profession students; 3. Assessed the current education, research and disease prevention and health promotion activities for students and its member institutions; 4. Developed a national organization whose member institutions are all predominately minority health professions institutions with excellent professional performance records; 5. Developed an inventory of critical knowledge, skills and abilities related to instruction in medical and health professional preparation. Through the collective efforts of its member institutions, the MHPF has demonstrated (1) the ability to work with academic institutions and official health agencies on mutual education, service, and research endeavors and (2) the leadership necessary to attract minority health professionals into public health careers. These cooperative agreements will be awarded in FY 1995 for a 12-month budget period within a project period of five years. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. Where to Obtain Additional Information If you are interested in obtaining additional information regarding this project, please contact Mr. Stuart Feldsott, Public Health Service, Parklawn Building, Room 17A&hyph;45, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, telephone (310) 443&hyph;1832. Dated: September 22, 1994. Wilford J. Forbush, Director, Office of Management, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24215 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;17&hyph;M
