FR941021-0-00191 FR941021-0-00022 (1) For geostationary satellite orbit satellites, the license term will begin at 3 a.m. EST on the date the licensee certifies to the Commission that the satellite has been successfully placed into orbit and that the operations of the satellite fully conform to the terms and conditions of the space station radio authorization. (2) For non-geostationary satellite orbit satellites, the license term will begin at 3 a.m. EST on the date that the licensee certifies to the Commission that its initial space station has been successfully placed into orbit and that the operations of that satellite fully conform to the terms and conditions of the space station system authorization. All space stations launched and brought into service during the ten-year license term shall operate pursuant to the system authorization, and the operating authority for all space stations will terminate upon the expiration of the system license. (e) Renewal of licenses. Applications for renewals of earth station licenses must be submitted on FCC Form 405 (Application for Renewal of Radio Station License in Specified Services) no earlier than 90 days, and no later than 30 days, before the expiration date of the license. Applications for space station system replacement authorization for non-geostationary orbit satellites shall be filed no earlier than 90 days, and no later than 30 days, prior to the end of the seventh year of the existing license term. 6. Section 25.130 is amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §25.130 Filing requirements for transmitting earth stations. * * * * * (b) A frequency coordination analysis in accordance with §25.203 shall be provided for earth stations transmitting in the frequency bands shared with equal rights between terrestrial and space services, except that applications for user transceiver units associated with the NVNG mobile-satellite service shall instead provide the information required by §25.135 and applications for user transceiver units associated with the 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service shall demonstrate that user transceiver operations comply with the requirements set forth in §25.213. 7. Section 25.133 is amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §25.133 period of construction; certification of commencement of operation. * * * * * (b) Each license for a transmitting earth station included in this part shall also specify as a condition therein that upon the completion of construction, each licensee must file with the Commission a certification containing the following information: The name of the licensee; file number of the application; call sign of the antenna; date of the license; a certification that the facility as authorized has been completed and that each antenna facility has been tested and is within 2 dB of the pattern specified in §25.209, §25.135 (NVNG MSS earth stations), or §25.213 (1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service earth stations); the date on which the station became operational; and a statement that the station will remain operational during the license period unless the license is submitted for cancellation. For stations authorized under §25.115(c) of this part (Large Networks of Small Antennas operating in the 12/14 GHz bands) and §25.115(d) of this part (User Transceivers in the Mobile-Satellite Service), a certificate must be filed when the network is put into operation. 8. A new §25.136 is added to read as follows: §25.136 Operating provisions for earth station networks in the 1.6/2.4 GHz mobile-satellite service. In addition to the technical requirements specified in §25.213, earth stations operating in the 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service are subject to the following operating conditions: (a) User transceiver units associated with the 1.6/2.4 Mobil-Satellite service may not be operated on civil aircraft unless the earth station has a direct physical connection to the aircraft Cabin Communication system. (b) User transceiver units in this service are authorized to communicate with and through U.S. authorized space stations only. No person shall transmit to a space station unless the specific transmission is first authorized by the space station licensee or by a service vendor authorized by that licensee. (c) Any user transceiver unit associated with this service will be deemed, when communicating with a particular 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service system pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, to be temporarily associated with and licensed to the system operator or service vendor holding the blanket earth station license awarded pursuant to Section 25.115(d). The domestic earth station licensee shall, for this temporary period, assume the same licensee responsibility for the user transceiver as if the user transceiver were regularly licensed to it. 9. Section 25.141 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (f) to read as follows: §25.141 Licensing provisions for the radio-determination satellite service.
