FR940830-0-00132 FR940830-0-00015 Tuesday August 30, 1994 Part VII Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control 31 CFR Part 515 Department of Commerce Bureau of Export Administration 15 CFR Part 771 Cuban Assets Control Regulations; Restrictions on Remittances and Travel Transactions; General License GIFT; Final Rules Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 167␣/␣Tuesday, August 30, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Office of Foreign Assets Control 31 CFR Part 515 Cuban Assets Control Regulations; Restrictions on Remittances and Travel Transactions AGENCY: Office of Foreign Assets Control, Treasury. ACTION: Final rule; amendments. SUMMARY: Pursuant to the President's announcement on August 20, 1994, the Treasury Department is revoking the general authorizations permitting cash remittances to Cuba, except to facilitate lawful immigration; revoking the general authorizations for persons engaging in travel&hyph;related transactions in Cuba for purposes of family visits and professional research; and significantly restricting the general authorization incorporating the authorization contained in the General License GIFT, administered by the Department of Commerce, to limit the permissible contents of gift parcels eligible for exportation to Cuba to medicine, food and strictly humanitarian items. Except for purposes of facilitating lawful immigration, cash remittances to Cuba will only be permitted for limited humanitarian purposes through case&hyph;by&hyph;case specific licensing. Charter flights between Miami and Havana will only be authorized to carry legal immigrants, U.S and foreign government and international organization employees traveling on official business, journalists, and persons traveling under specific license. Travel&hyph;related transactions by persons demonstrating a compelling need to travel to Cuba for humanitarian reasons involving extreme hardship, for clearly and narrowly defined educational and religious activities, for activities of recognized human rights organizations investigating cases of human rights violations, or for activities related to professional research, telecommunications, or the exportation, importation, or transmission of information or informational materials will be considered for a specific license on a case&hyph;by&hyph;case basis. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 26, 1994, 11:00 a.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Steven I. Pinter, Chief of Licensing (tel.: 202/622&hyph;2480), William F. Wasley, Chief of Enforcement (tel.: 202/622&hyph;2430), Dennis P. Wood, Chief, Compliance Programs Division (202/622&hyph;2490), or William B. Hoffman, Chief Counsel (tel.: 202/622&hyph;2410), Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury, Washington, D.C. 20220. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Electronic Availability: This document is available as an electronic file on The Federal Bulletin Board the day of publication in the Federal Register . By modem dial 202/512&hyph;1387 or call 202/515&hyph;1530 for disks or paper copies. This file is available in Postscript, WordPerfect 5.1 and ASCII. Background On August 20, 1994, President Clinton announced steps to limit the ability of the Cuban government to accumulate foreign exchange. Accordingly, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (``FAC'') is amending the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, 31 CFR Part 515 (the ``Regulations''), to implement these measures by revising existing provisions that heretofore have generally authorized travel&hyph;related transactions, cash remittances, and the shipment of gift parcels to Cuba. Specifically, §515.533 no longer authorizes exportation to Cuba of gift parcels pursuant to General License GIFT, §771.18 of the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR Parts 768&hyph;799 (the ``EAR''), except those containing only food, vitamins, seeds, medicines, medical supplies and devices, hospital supplies and equipment, equipment for the handicapped, clothing, personal hygiene items, veterinary medicines and supplies, fishing equipment and supplies, soap&hyph;making equipment, or certain radio equipment and batteries for such equipment. The complete list of eligible items is set forth in §771.18 of the EAR. Section 515.560 of the Regulations is revised to limit the categories of travelers to Cuba who are generally authorized to engage in travel&hyph;related transactions to journalists and officials of the United States or foreign governments or international organizations traveling on official business. ``Fully&hyph;hosted'' travelers are no longer authorized to travel aboard charter flights between the United States and Cuba. Section 515.416 is revised to set forth the criteria by which specific licenses may be issued for travel&hyph;related transactions for ``professional research.'' Travel transactions by close relatives of Cuban nationals may only be authorized on a case&hyph;by&hyph;case basis by specific license, and only under circumstances of extreme hardship. Specific licenses for travel&hyph;related transactions may still be issued for other strictly humanitarian purposes, for clearly defined educational or religious activities, for activities of recognized human rights organizations investigating human rights violations, or for activities related to professional research, telecommunications, or the exportation, importation or transmission of information or informational materials. Section 515.563, which previously provided general authorization for family remittances for the support of close relatives in Cuba, is revised to permit transfers of funds to Cuba only if authorized on a case&hyph;by&hyph;case basis for humanitarian purposes upon a demonstration of extreme hardship. However, payments not exceeding $500 to facilitate a close relative's lawful immigration to the United States remain generally licensed. All other general authorizations contained in the Regulations for remittances are revoked. In particular, §515.564 is revised to specify that remittances to Cuba for purposes of facilitating a Cuban national's travel to the United States for purposes other than immigration may only be made pursuant to a specific license. Similarly prohibited are remittances to Cuba in connection with intellectual property protection (§515.528) and public performances (§515.565). Because the Regulations involve a foreign affairs function, Executive Order 12866 and provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553, requiring notice of proposed rulemaking, opportunity for public participation, and delay in effective date are inapplicable. Because no notice of proposed rulemaking is required for this rule, the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612, does not apply. List Of Subjects in 31 CFR Part 515 Administrative practice and procedure, Cuba, Exports, Foreign trade, Intellectual property, Remittances, Travel restrictions. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 31 CFR part 515 is amended as set forth below: PART 515_CUBAN ASSETS CONTROL REGULATIONS 1. The authority citation for part 515 continues to read as follows: Authority: 50 U.S.C. App. 1&hyph;44; 22 U.S.C. 6001&hyph;6010; 22 U.S.C. 2370(a); Proc. 3447, 3 CFR, 1959&hyph;1963 Comp., p. 157; E.O. 9193, 3 CFR, 1938&hyph;1943 Comp., p. 1174; E.O. 9989, 3 CFR, 1943&hyph;1948 Comp., p. 748; E.O. 12854, 58 FR 36587, July 7, 1993. Subpart D_Interpretations 2. Section 515.416 is revised to read as follows: §515.416 Professional research and similar activities. (a) Section 515.560(b) sets forth the criteria by which specific licenses for transactions related to travel to, from, and within Cuba may be issued for persons who are engaging in professional research and similar activities of a noncommercial, academic nature. (1) Persons are considered to be engaged in professional research for purposes of this section only if they are full&hyph;time professionals who travel to Cuba to do research in their professional areas, their research is specifically related to Cuba and will constitute a full work schedule in Cuba, and there is a substantial likelihood of public dissemination of the product of their research. No transactions related to tourist or recreational travel within Cuba are authorized in connection with professional research, except those that are consistent with a full schedule of research activities. (2) Similar activities include attendance by professionals with an established interest in Cuba at professional meetings where research on Cuba is shared, and travel for noncommercial research purposes specifically related to Cuba by persons who are working to qualify themselves academically as professionals (e.g., certain graduate degree candidates). Study visits to Cuba in connection with pre&hyph;college or undergraduate college course work are not within the scope of the term professional research and similar activities . (b) Categories of travel which do not qualify as professional research or similar activities and for which specific license requests will be denied include recreational travel; tourist travel; travel in pursuit of a hobby; general study tours; general orientation visits; student class field trips; youth camps; research for personal satisfaction only; travel by fishing or bird&hyph;watching groups and similar affinity groups; and any travel for an authorized research purpose, if the schedule of activities includes free time, travel, or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full work schedule of professional research and similar activities. (c) A group does not fall within the scope of the term professional research and similar activities merely because some members of the group could qualify individually for specific licensing under this category. For example, a specific license authorizing travel&hyph;related transactions by a fish biologist who travels to Cuba to engage in professional research does not authorize other persons who might travel with the fish biologist but whose principal purpose in travel is to engage in recreational or trophy fishing. The fact that such persons may engage in certain activities with, or under the direction of, the professional fish biologist, such as measuring or recording facts about their catch, does not bring these individuals' activities within the scope of professional research and similar activities. (d) A person will not qualify as engaging in professional research or similar activities merely because that person is a professional who plans to travel to Cuba. For example, a professor of history interested in traveling to Cuba for the principal purpose of learning or practicing Spanish or attending general purpose lectures devoted to Cuban culture and contemporary life would not qualify for a specific license. A doctoral candidate in economics traveling to Cuba to undertake research for a dissertation on the Cuban economy may qualify for a specific license for activities directly related to the research, but would not be authorized to stay an extra week in Cuba in order to attend a seminar on Cuban arts and crafts. Subpart E_Licenses, Authorizations, and Statements of Licensing Policy §515.522 [Removed and reserved] 3. Section 515.522 is removed and reserved. 4. Introductory paragraph (a) of §515.528 is amended by adding the following before the colon: ``, provided any payment to Cuba or a Cuban national is deposited into a blocked, interest&hyph;bearing account at a domestic bank'' 5. Section 515.533 is amended by adding a new paragraph (d) to read as follows: §515.533 Transactions incident to exportations to designated countries. * * * * * (d) This section does not authorize any exportation under General License GIFT, 15 CFR 771.18, except gift parcels that contain only food, vitamins, seeds, medicines, medical supplies and devices, hospital supplies and equipment, equipment for the handicapped, clothing, personal hygiene items, veterinary medicines and supplies, fishing equipment and supplies, soap&hyph;making equipment, or certain radio equipment and batteries for such equipment, as specifically set forth in §771.18, and that otherwise comply with the requirements of that section. 6. Paragraph (g) of §515.560 is amended by adding after the word ``provided'' in the last sentence thereof the words ``that the travel is not aboard a direct flight between the United States and Cuba and'' and by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: §515.560 Certain transactions incident to travel to and within Cuba. (a) General license . The transactions in paragraph (c) of this section are authorized in connection with travel to Cuba by: (1) Persons who are officials of the United States Government or of any foreign government, or of any intergovernmental organization of which the United States is a member, and who are traveling on official business; or (2) Journalists regularly employed in that capacity by a news reporting organization. (b) Specific Licenses . Specific licenses authorizing the transactions in paragraph (c) of this section may be issued when extreme hardship is demonstrated in cases involving extreme humanitarian need to persons and their close relatives, or other persons living in the same household, who are traveling to visit close relatives in Cuba. Specific licenses may also be issued to persons demonstrating a compelling need to travel to Cuba for humanitarian reasons, for professional research and similar activities as defined in §515.416, for clearly defined educational or religious activities, for activities of recognized human rights organizations investigating human rights violations, or for purposes related to the exportation, importation, or transmission of information or informational materials. (1) For purposes of this section, the term close relative means spouse, child, grandchild, parent, grandparent, great grandparent, uncle, aunt, brother, sister, nephew, niece, first cousin, or spouse, widow, or widower of any of the foregoing. The term close relative also means mother&hyph;in&hyph;law, father&hyph;in&hyph;law, daughter&hyph;in&hyph;law, son&hyph;in&hyph;law, sister&hyph;in&hyph;law, or brother&hyph;in&hyph;law. (2) Nothing in this section authorizes transactions in connection with tourist travel to Cuba. Travel to Cuba that is characterized as falling within the criteria specified in paragraph (b) is prohibited unless specifically licensed. * * * * * 7. The introductory text of paragraph (a) and paragraph (a)(1) of §515.563 is revised to read as follows, and paragraph (c) is removed. §515.563 Family remittances to nationals of Cuba. (a) Specific licenses may be issued on a case&hyph;by&hyph;case basis authorizing remittances to a close relative of the remitter or of the remitter's spouse who is a national of Cuba and who is resident in Cuba or in the authorized trade territory, provided they are not made from blocked accounts. Such remittances will be authorized only: (1) In circumstances where extreme humanitarian need is demonstrated, including terminal illness or severe medical emergency. * * * * * 8. Paragraph (d) of §515.564 is removed and paragraph (c) is revised to read as follows: §515.564 Certain transactions incident to travel to, from and within the United States by certain Cuban nationals. * * * * * (c) Remittances by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction to Cuba or a Cuban national, directly or indirectly, for transactions on behalf of a Cuban national, are only authorized pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section when made for the purpose of enabling the payee to emigrate from Cuba to the United States, including the purchase of airline tickets and payment of visa fees or other travel&hyph;related fees. Such remittances may not exceed $500, and, except for purposes of processing a letter of invitation or similar document on behalf of a Cuban national, may be transferred only after the Cuban national has received a valid visa issued by the State Department or other approved U.S. immigration documentation. Any amount remitted to Cuba directly or indirectly in conjunction with the processing of a letter of invitation or similar document must be deducted from the $500 limit. Specific licenses may be issued to permit remittances by persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction to Cuba or a Cuban national, directly or indirectly, for transactions to facilitate non&hyph;immigrant travel by a Cuban national to the United States under circumstances where extreme humanitarian need is demonstrated, including terminal illness or severe medical emergency. §515.565 [Amended] 9. Paragraph (b) of §515.565 is removed, paragraph (c) is redesignated as paragraph (b), and the words ``or (b)'' are removed. §515.566 [Amended] 10. Section 515.566 is amended by changing the reference in paragraph (a)(3) from ``this section'' to ``this part'', and by amending paragraph (c)(4)(ii) by removing the words ``exceeded the annual ceiling on remittances to any one household or payee established in this section'' and adding in their place ``violated the terms of any authorization for remittances contained in or issued pursuant to this part''. §515.569 [Amended] 11. In §515.569, the first sentence of paragraph (c) is amended by adding the words ``or pursuant to'' before ``§515.563.'', and paragraph (d) is amended by removing the words ``remittances authorized for the traveler's household by §515.563(a)(1) and''. Dated: August 25, 1994. Steven I. Pinter, Acting Director, Office of Foreign Assets Control. Approved: August 25, 1994. R. Richard Newcomb, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary (Law Enforcement). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21447 Filed 8&hyph;26&hyph;94; 11:00 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;25&hyph;F
