FR940804-2-00119 FR940804-2-00068 May 31, 1994. Richard L. Rosen, Chief, Communications and Finance Section, Antitrust Division, Department of Justice, 555 Fouth Street, NW, Room 8104, Washington, DC 20001. Re: Telecommunications, Inc., and Liberty Media Proposed Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement Dear Mr. Rosen: Please be advised the I represent myself as bankruptcy trustee and Dennis F. Gianotti t/d/b/a GTV in a civil action pending in United States Bankruptcy for the Western District of Pennsylvania which bears upon the suitability of the proposed merger and its impact on competition in video programming. A copy of that Complaint is enclosed for your review and for inclusion in the record concerning this matter. For the reason stated in the Complaint, objection is made to the proposed final judgment and competitive impact statement. Very truly yours, ␣␣␣␣K. Lawrence Kemp KLK:jj c. D.F. Gianotti Encl. United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania Civil Action No. 93&hyph;1564 Amended Complaint Dennis F. Gianotti, individually and trading and doing business as GTV and K. Lawrence Kemp, Trustee in Bankruptcy for Dennis F. Gianotti, bring this civil action against KBL Sports Network, Inc., for compensatory damages in excess of $50,000.00 together with liquidated damages, punitive damages and attorneys fees, and, in support thereof respectfully represent as follows: Jurisdiction 1. This Court has subject matter jurisdiction because this action is based in part on 15 U.S.C. 1,2 and 18 and thus subject matter jurisdiction is confered by 15 U.S.C. 15. 2. This Court has personal jurisdiction over defendant, KBL Sports Network, Inc., (hereinafter ``KBL'') as it regularly conducts business in this state and within the geographic territory assigned to this Court and maintains an office at 1301 Grandview Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and has in the past maintained a place of business in the Ramada Hotel in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 3. This Court has personal jurisdiction over Tele-Communications, Inc., (hereinafter ``TCI'') as it regularly conducts or has conducted business in the State of Pennsylvania and because the transactions and occurrences out of which the causes of action arise took place within the State of Pennsylvania. 4. This Court has personal jurisdiction over Liberty Media, Inc., as it regularly conducts or has conducted business in the State of Pennsylvania and because the transactions and occurrences out of which the causes of action arise took place within the State of Pennsylvania. 5. Venue exists in this Court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1391(b) because all claims arose in this district; and pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1391(c) because defendant is a corporation which is doing business in this district. Parties 6. Dennis F. Gianotti is an individual who resides in the City of New Kensington, Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania, and his traded under the name of GTV and will hereafter be referred to as ``Gianotti.'' 7. K. Lawrence Kemp was appointed interim trustee of the bankruptcy case of Gianotti and Nancy C. Gianotti, his wife, at No. 91&hyph;03156 BM in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
