FR941021-2-00144 FR941021-2-00092 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: San Francisco, CA agency: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. action: Notice of intent. summary: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an Environmental Impact Statement will be prepared for a proposed project in San Francisco, California. for further information contact: John R. Schultz, Chief, District Operations ``A'', Federal Highway Administration, California Division, U.S. Bank Plaza, 980 Ninth Street_Suite 400, Sacramento, California 95814&hyph;1714, Telephone: (916) 551&hyph;1314. supplementary information: The FHWA, in cooperation with the California Department of Transportation and the City and County of San Francisco, will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) on alternatives to replacement of the Embarcadero Freeway and access ramps to/from the Bay Bridge, I&hyph;80 and U.S. 101 known as the Terminal Separator Structure. The proposed project would involve an area bounded by the eastern edge of the Embarcadero Roadway on the east side, Broadway on the north and Bryant Street on the south side, while portions of Fifth, and Sansome Streets, form the boundary to the west. The proposed project is located in an existing urban area and will affect public, commercial, and residential properties, some of which have an historic interest. The project is funded in part by Federal Emergency Relief funds. Alternatives under consideration include: 1. Taking no action: Maintain the local surface roadway which links The Embarcadero north and south and provide no new access ramps to/from the Bay Bridge, I&hyph;80 and U.S. 101. 2. Reconstructing The Embarcadero roadway between Folsom and Broadway as a four to six lane roadway but providing no new access ramps to/from the Bay Bridge, I&hyph;80 and U.S. 101. 3. Reconstructing The Embarcadero roadway, as in 2. above and constructing a new on-ramp starting from Harrison Street and Essex Street, crossing over Second Street, connecting to I&hyph;80 westbound U.S. 101, and a new off-ramp accessing Second Street between Bryant and Harrison Streets from U.S. 101 northbound. 4. Reconstructing The Embarcadero roadway, as in 2. above, with various minor modifications to the existing system. 5. Reconstructing The Embarcadero roadway, as a four to six-lane roadway with a split at the foot of Market Street and constructing a new on-ramp starting from Harrison Street and Essex Street, crossing over Second Street, connecting to I&hyph;80 westbound U.S. 101, and a new off-ramp accessing Second Street between Bryant and Harrison Streets from U.S. 101 northbound. In addition to these alternatives, the City may also consider alternatives which would involve reconstructing The Embarcadero roadway, as in 2. above and rebuilding the Terminal Separator Structure (TSS) to its original configuration. An EIS for the Embarcadero Replacement Project was already underway when the San Francisco Board of Supervisors asked that the scope be expanded to include the Terminal Separator Structure. Public scoping session for the expanded EIS was held in March 1994. The Draft EIS will be available for public and agency review prior to the required public hearing. Public notice will be given of the time and place of meetings and hearing. To ensure that the full range of issues relating to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program). Issued on: October 12, 1994. John R. Schultz, Chief, District Operations ``A'', California Division, Federal Highway Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26086 Filed 10&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
