FR940323-0-00052 FR940323-0-00020 (b) Provide the State with a reasonable opportunity to revise and resubmit the application; (c) Provide technical assistance, if necessary; and (d) Promptly reconsider the resubmitted application and make a decision. §2516.520 How does a State, Indian tribe, or grantmaking entity review the merits of an application? In reviewing the merits of an application for a subgrant under this part, a Corporation grantee must use the criteria and priorities in §2516.500. Subpart F_Distribution of Funds §2516.600 How are funds for school-based service-learning programs distributed? (a) Of the amounts appropriated to carry out this part for any fiscal year, the Corporation will reserve not more than three percent for grants to Indian tribes and U.S. Territories to be allotted in accordance with their respective needs. (b) The Corporation will use the remainder of the funds appropriated as follows: (1) Competitive Grants. From 25 percent of the remainder, the Corporation may make grants on a competitive basis to States, Indian tribes, or grantmaking entities. (2) Allotments to States. (i) From 37.5 percent of the remainder, the Corporation will allot to each State an amount that bears the same ratio to 37.5 percent of the remainder as the number of school-age youth in the State bears to the total number of school-age youth of all States. (ii) From 37.5 percent of the remainder, the Corporation will allot to each State an amount that bears the same ratio to 37.5 percent of the remainder as the allocation to the State for the previous fiscal year under Chapter 1 of Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2711 et seq. ) bears to the allocations to all States. (iii) Notwithstanding other provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, no State will receive an allotment that is less than the allotment the State received for fiscal year 1993 from the Commission on National and Community Service. If the amount of funds made available in a fiscal year is insufficient to make those allotments, the Corporation will make additional funds available from the 25 percent described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for that fiscal year to make those allotments. (3) For the purpose of paragraph (b) of this section, ``State'' means one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. (c) If a State or Indian tribe does not submit an application that meets the requirements for approval under this part, the Corporation (after making any grants to local partnerships or LEAs for activities in nonparticipating States) may use its allotment for States and Indian tribes with approved applications, as the Corporation determines appropriate. (d) Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, if less than $20,000,000 is made available in any fiscal year to carry out this part, the Corporation will make all grants to States and Indian tribes on a competitive basis. Subpart G_Funding Requirements §2516.700 Are matching funds required? (a) Yes. The Corporation share of the cost of carrying out a program funded under this part may not exceed_ (1) Ninety percent of the total cost for the first year for which the program receives assistance; (2) Eighty percent of the total cost for the second year; (3) Seventy percent of the total cost for the third year; and (4) Fifty percent of the total cost for the fourth year and any subsequent year. (b) In providing for the remaining share of the cost of carrying out a program, each recipient of assistance must provide for that share through a payment in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including facilities, equipment, or services, and may provide for that share through State sources, local sources, or Federal sources (other than funds made available under the national service laws). (c) However, the Corporation may waive the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section in whole or in part with respect to any program in any fiscal year if the Corporation determines that the waiver would be equitable due to a lack of available financial resources at the local level. §2516.710 Are there limits on the use of funds? Yes. The following limits apply to funds made available under this part: (a)(1) The recipient of a direct grant from the Corporation may spend no more than five percent of the grant funds on administrative costs for any fiscal year. (2) If a Corporation grantee makes a subgrant to an entity to carry out a service-learning program, the Corporation grantee may determine how the allowable administrative costs will be distributed between itself and the subgrantee. (b) (1) An SEA or Indian tribe must spend between ten and 15 percent of the grant to build capacity through training, technical assistance, curriculum development, and coordination activities. (2) However, the Corporation may waive this requirement in order to permit an SEA or a tribe to use between ten percent and 20 percent of the grant funds to build capacity. To be eligible to receive the waiver, the SEA or tribe must submit an application to the Corporation. (c) Funds made available under this part may not be used to pay any stipend, allowance, or other financial support to any participant in a service-learning program under this part except reimbursement for transportation, meals, and other reasonable out-of-pocket expenses directly related to participation in a program assisted under this part. §2516.720 What is the length of each type of grant? (a) One year is the maximum length of_ (1) A planning grant under §2516.200 (a), (c) or (e); and (2) A grant to a local partnership for activities in a nonparticipating State under §2516.200 (b)(2) and (d)(2). (b) All other grants are for a period of up to three years, subject to satisfactory performance and annual appropriations.
