FR940503-2-00153 FR940503-2-00100 Tuesday May 3, 1994 Part II Department of Education Direct Grant Programs and Fellowship Programs; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 84␣/␣Tuesday, May 3, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Direct Grant Programs and Fellowship Programs AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of direct grant programs and fellowship programs under which the Secretary is making new awards for fiscal year 1994. SUMMARY: The Secretary updates the list of the Department's direct grant programs and fellowship programs under which the Secretary is making new awards for fiscal year (FY) 1994 and estimates the deadline dates for the transmittal of applications for those programs for which application notices have not yet been published. The Secretary also revises the list of State Single Points of Contact (SPOCs) for programs subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs). The notice is intended to help potential applicants in planning for the remainder of this fiscal year. DATES: The actual or estimated deadline dates for transmitting applications under these programs are listed in column four of the chart contained in this notice. If a program has yet to publish an application notice, an estimated date is listed in this notice, and the actual deadline date will appear in the application notice to be published in the Federal Register . For previously announced programs that are subject to Executive Order 12372, the deadline dates for the transmittal of State Process Recommendations by SPOCs and comments by other interested parties are listed in the application notices for those programs (see column three of the chart for the respective publication dates of_and Federal Register volume and page references to_those notices). The deadline date will also appear in the respective application notices for those programs yet to be announced (see column three). The date on which applications will be available for any given program is in the application notice for that program. ADDRESSES: The address and telephone number for obtaining applications for, or further information about, an individual program are in the application notice for that program. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number, if any, listed in the individual application notices. If a TDD number is not listed for a given program, individuals who use a TDD may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. The address for transmitting recommendations and comments under Executive Order 12372 is in the appendix to this notice. The appendix also contains the addresses of individual SPOCs. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On September 24, 1993, the Secretary published in the Federal Register (58 FR 50138) the Department's annual combined application notice (CAN). That notice listed almost all of the direct grant and fellowship programs under which the Secretary planned to make new awards in FY 1994 and included the application notices for many of those programs. The list included some programs for which application notices had not yet been published. Since publication of the CAN, additional application notices have been published. In addition, on February 11, 1994, the Secretary published in the Federal Register (59 FR 6826) a notice extending application deadline dates for certain programs. The Secretary took this action to assist potential applicants who may have been adversely affected by severe weather conditions in various parts of the Nation or by the earthquake in California. Also, since publication of the CAN, some new programs have been added, and some other programs have been withdrawn or replaced. The Secretary therefore determined that publication of an update would be useful to the educational community. This notice, therefore, lists all FY 1994 programs previously announced in the Federal Register , including those for which the deadline dates have already passed, as well as FY 1994 programs to be announced at a later date. As is the case with the CAN, this notice is designed to assist potential applicants in planning projects and activities. However, to expedite publication of this update, the Secretary has decided not to include any individual application notices. Application notices are published separately in the Federal Register . If additional competitions are carried out in FY 1994 because of events not known at this time, the Secretary will announce those competitions in future issues of the Federal Register .
