FR941213-0-00013 FR941213-0-00003 Based on these findings, NHTSA and FHWA tentatively concluded in the NPRM that School Bus Safety is not a problem that merits designation as a National Priority program area. Two commenters argued that any number of school bus fatalities above zero is too high a fatality rate and, therefore, justifies designating School Bus Safety as a Priority program. According to the California Department of Education, ``school bus safety must be a priority issue for both the State and Federal Government for as long as our accident statistics show one `1' pupil passenger or one `1' pupil pedestrian fatality. Zero `0', tolerance of pupil passenger and pedestrian fatalities must be our goal.'' Similarly, the Center for Auto Safety argued that ``the only way DOT could reject school bus safety as a Priority Program would be to find that such a designation would not reduce injuries and deaths in school buses at all.'' The agencies disagree, and while other commenters sought to have the agencies designate School Bus Safety as a priority program area, they did not suggest that School Bus Safety represents a significant national problem. In fact, the Superintendent of Public Instruction for Washington State said, ``We cannot disagree with [the statistics] you have published [and w]e can not provide any additional statistics that disagree with what you have already stated regarding Pupil Transportation as the safest means of travel in the highway safety system.'' Most commenters fully agreed with the agencies' conclusion that School Bus Safety does not represent a serious problem when compared to safety in other types of vehicles. The Oregon Department of Transportation, for example, stated ``Oregon has had one serious school bus accident in the last seventeen years. And, even though safety of our children is a major concern, I do not believe school busses should be a NHTSA priority. *␣*␣* School busses are probably the safest place for students to be. We do not need to concentrate extraordinary effort on school bus safety.'' The North Carolina Department of Transportation commented, ``In North Carolina, as in the rest of the nation, school buses remain the safest mode of transportation. *␣*␣* While the safety of our children is still paramount, it will be extremely difficult for any further school bus safety initiatives to be cost effective.'' New Mexico provided data which supported the agencies' conclusion. The State's comments indicated, ``95 percent of school children in serious crashes during school hours were in conventional passenger vehicles_passenger cars, pickups, and vans.'' Only one percent of New Mexico's school children in serious crashes during school hours were in buses. The remaining 4 percent were pedestrians, on motorcycles, on pedalcycles, and others, at one percent each. New Mexico's comments continued, ``It is fair to say that non-use of safety belts in private vehicles is the largest part of New Mexico's schoolchild safety problem. *␣*␣* Indeed, the only deaths involving school buses in the past decade have occurred outside the bus, or while entering or leaving.'' Based on the comments received and the information available to the agencies, NHTSA and FHWA continue to find that School Bus Safety does not represent a serious problem that warrants its designation as a National Priority program area. Have Effective School Bus Safety Measures Been Developed? NHTSA and FHWA explained in the NPRM that, although statistics demonstrate that school buses already provide a remarkably safe form of transportation, steps have been taken to further improve School Bus Safety. These steps included providing set-aside funds in 1990 and 1991 to assist States in implementing ``effective'' and ``most effective'' school bus safety measures and publishing a number of rulemaking actions, such as a final rule requiring new school buses to be equipped with a stop signal arm, a final rule revising the minimum requirements for school bus emergency exits and improving access to school bus emergency doors and a final rule requiring that school buses enable drivers to see either directly or through mirrors certain specified areas in front of and along both sides of the vehicle. For a full discussion of these and other actions, interested individuals are encouraged to read the NPRM (59 FR 2341&hyph;42). NHTSA has taken a number of additional steps that were not listed in the NPRM to improve School Bus Safety. For example, to improve the lateral stability and control of medium and heavy vehicles (including school buses) during braking, NHTSA issued an NPRM proposing to require that these vehicles be equipped with an antilock brake system (58 F.R. 50738). NHTSA also published a School Bus Safety Report and an annual publication entitled ``Traffic Safety Facts 1993_School Buses.'' In addition, the National Safety Council (NSC) has agreed to undertake a comprehensive marketing campaign on a school bus/pedestrian safety educational program, developed recently by NHTSA for children in grades K&hyph;6. This program is currently being modified into a product that will be more marketable. NSC anticipates reaching over seven million people in its initial marketing effort. NHTSA has also taken steps to improve communications with the Pupil Transportation community. The Department issued a press release concerning school bus safety in August 1994, just prior to the beginning of the new school year and, on August 18, 1994, NHTSA conducted a National Meeting on Transporting Pre-Kindergarten Children on School Buses. The meeting brought together, for the first time, school bus manufacturers, child safety seat manufacturers, pupil transportation officials, child safety seat trainers, injury control professionals and Federal officials to discuss this emerging transportation issue. NHTSA and FHWA will continue to engage in appropriate activities that improve the safety of school buses. Do State School Bus Safety Measures Appear To Be Among the Most Effective in Reducing Crashes, Injuries, and Fatalities? As stated previously, school buses already provide the safest form of transportation in our country. Since the number of fatalities that are school bus-related is already so small, it is difficult to quantify the benefits of the actions that have been taken. The agencies believe, however, that these actions (described above), are the ones most likely to reduce or eliminate fatal and serious injuries. Other Comments Received About School Bus Safety Fourteen commenters supported the agencies' tentative conclusion not to designate School Bus Safety as a National Priority program area. These commenters included three national highway safety organizations, ten State highway safety/transportation agencies and one State highway patrol. Twelve commenters urged the agencies to reconsider their tentative conclusion. These commenters included one national highway safety organization, one national police organization, three national pupil transportation organizations, five State departments of education, one local PTA council and one private bus operator.
