FR940721-2-00169 FR940721-2-00086 2. Application Submission One signed original, and two copies, of the grant application, including all attachments, may be mailed by the specific closing date to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor East, OFM/DDG, Washington, DC 20447, Attention: William J. McCarron, ANA No. 93612&hyph;951. Hand delivered applications are accepted during the normal working hours or 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, on or prior to the established closing date at: Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 6th Floor OFM/DDG, 901 D Street, SW., Washington, DC 20447. The application must be signed by an individual authorized (1) to act for the applicant tribe or organization, and (2) to assume the applicant's obligations under the terms and conditions of the grant award, including Native American Program statutory and regulatory requirements. Each tribe, Native American organization, or other eligible applicant may compete and receive a grant award in each of the three competitive areas under this announcement. The Administration for Native Americans will accept only one application per competitive area from any one applicant. Alaska Native entities may submit a SEDS application under either competitive area 1 or 2, but not under both. If an eligible applicant sends in two applications for the same competitive area, the one with the earlier postmark will be accepted for review unless the applicant withdraws the earlier application. 3. Application Consideration The Commissioner of the Administration for Native Americans determines the final action to be taken on each grant application received under this program announcement. The following points should be taken into consideration by all applicants: •Incomplete applications and applications that do not conform to this announcement will not be accepted for review. Applicants will be notified in writing of any such determination by ANA. •Complete applications that conform to all the requirements of this program announcement are subjected to a competitive review and evaluation process (discussed in section G below). Independent review panels consisting of reviewers familiar with (1) American Indian Tribes and Native American communities and organizations, (2) environmental issues, and (3) Native American languages, as appropriate, evaluates each application using the published criteria in each funding competitive area. As a result of the review, a numerical score will be assigned to each application. •The Commissioner's funding decision is based on the review panel's analysis of the application, recommendation and comments of ANA staff, State and Federal agencies having contract and grant performance related information, and other interested parties. •The Commissioner makes grant awards consistent with the purpose of the Act, all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements, this program announcement, and the availability of funds. •After the Commissioner has made decisions on all applications, unsuccessful applicants are notified in writing within approximately 120 days of the closing date. The notification will be accompanied by a critique including recommendations for improving the application. Successful applicants are notified through an official Financial Assistance Award (FAA) document. The Administration for Native Americans staff cannot respond to requests for information regarding funding decisions prior to the official notification to the applicants. The FAA will state the amount of Federal funds awarded, the purpose of the grant, the terms and conditions of the grant award, the effective date of the award, the project period, the budget period, and the amount of the non-ACF matching share requirement. G. The Review Process 1. Initial Application Review Applications submitted by the closing date and verified by the postmark under this program announcement will undergo a pre-review to determine that: •The applicant is eligible in accordance with the Eligible Applicants Section of this announcement; and •The application narrative, forms and materials submitted are adequate to allow the review panel to undertake an in depth evaluation. (All required materials and forms are listed in the Grant Application Checklist in the Application Kit). 2. Competitive Review of Accepted Applications Applications which pass the pre-review will be evaluated and rated by an independent review panel on the basis of the specific evaluation criteria listed in Part II. These criteria are used to evaluate the quality of a proposed project, and to determine the likelihood of its success.
