FR941205-1-00043 FR941205-1-00014 It should be stated at this juncture that the proposed rule includes a procedure whereby the Commission may grant a waiver from full compliance with the rule's requirements, if a group of carriers applies for and justifies such relief. A waiver could apply to any part of the rule, including the requirement that data be reported by individual country sub-trades. For example, an agreement might be permitted to report by a multi-country region rather than by individual countries, if it could show that the major moving commodities moving into or out of a particular group of countries did not vary much country by country, and so regional data would provide a reasonably accurate and complete description of the trades with those countries. The waiver procedure could also be used to allow conferences made up of relatively small carriers serving a relatively small trade to submit post-implementation monitoring reports at wider intervals (for example, once a year). The waiver provisions specifically state that the Commission will take into account the presence or absence of shipper complaints in considering an application for a waiver. 3. ``Class A'' Agreements Under the Proposed Rule The information form for a ``Class A'' agreement begins by requiring a listing of all effective agreements covering all or part of the geographic scope of the proposed agreement, whose parties include one or more of the parties to the proposed agreement. This provision is designed to ensure that the Commission has accurate information regarding the recent trend toward networks of agreements connected by common parties. Next, the form requires an identification of all ``Class A/B'' activities that the agreement seeks to authorize. After obtaining the market share data discussed above, the information form then inquires into the recent agreement-wide cargo carryings and revenue results of each of the carriers that would now join together into the agreement. Otherwise, the information form focuses primarily on the state of affairs in each of the agreement's sub-trades before the agreement was filed. This is done by reference to the major commodities moving to and from the United States in each sub-trade. Using the actual commodities moving under an agreement as the chief frame of regulatory reference is an important feature of the proposed rule, and represents a significant departure from current practice. At present, the information obtained by the Commission on carrier rate and service practices via the monitoring reports submitted for certain major agreements does not describe the cargo being transported, and is stated in the aggregate (for example, total number of service contracts executed) or as broad averages (for example, average revenue per TEU of all cargoes). In contrast, the proposed information form, while continuing to require the submission of aggregate data in certain areas, mainly requires carriers to identify the commodities that have made up the bulk of their cargo in each sub-trade and then to submit data on the price and service practices they have applied to each of those commodities. With this information in hand, the Commission will have a reasonably comprehensive summary of pre-agreement rate and service practices in each sub-trade covered by the new agreement, as well as in the agreement's entire geographic scope. If the agreement is permitted to go into effect, that summary will serve as a baseline for analyzing the corresponding information later obtained through the post-implementation reports. In sum, the proposed rule both changes the orientation of agreement review to that of the cargo being affected, and also calls for more refined and differentiated data from the carriers. These reforms should provide the Commission with improved and more useful indicators of the potential or actual impact of an agreement on the needs of shippers for good service at reasonable rates, and in particular whether the agreement might cause or has caused unfair or unreasonable conditions for specific commodities, classes of shippers, or geographic areas. It should be noted that, while the proposed rule is constructed around the major moving commodities in each sub-trade, nothing prevents the Commission from taking appropriate action if it receives information that an agreement is harming the fair and reasonable transportation of a relatively minor commodity.
