FR940419-0-00121 FR940419-0-00021 (4) One comment stated that this recordkeeping should be required on the international level to avoid duplicative national laws. Though this idea may have merit, it is outside of the scope of this rulemaking. II. Applicability (Section 151.55(a)) (1) The Coast Guard is in the process of converting measurements in many of its regulations to the metric system. Therefore, ยง151.55(a)(1) has been changed to refer to vessels of ``12.2 meters (approximately 40 feet).'' (2) Eleven comments were received from representatives of the offshore oil and gas industry indicating that regulations on discharges already exist for fixed and floating platforms and that this additional requirement would be unnecessary and redundant. Offshore platforms are made subject to the recordkeeping requirement in 33 U.S.C. 1903(b)(2)(A)(i) because platforms are included in the term ``ship'' as used in that provision. However, this rulemaking should have little effect on platform operators as all discharges, except for ground victual waste beyond 12 nautical miles, are prohibited already under 33 CFR 151.73. (3) One comment suggested that vessels or platforms discharging garbage to offshore supply vessels (OSV's) be required to provide the OSV with records indicating the generator and amount of waste so that the OSV can make an accurate record of waste it discharges ashore. The records required by this rule are for establishing compliance and maintaining a statistical record of garbage discharged at sea. This will be done by inspections on the ships in question. Therefore, there is no justification to put an additional burden on vessels and platforms by requiring them to provide OSV's with garbage records. Furthermore, an OSV is not required under this rule to keep records of garbage it takes as cargo from another vessel or platform. The word ``garbage'', as used throughout part 151, is defined in 33 CFR 151.05 as waste generated during the normal operation of the ship. Garbage taken from a vessel or platform for shipment ashore is considered cargo on the OSV and is regulated by the Shore Protection Act of 1988 (33 U.S.C. 2601 et seq. ). It can not be mixed with the OSV's ship-generated garbage and disposed of at sea. (4) One comment from an association representing a large segment of the passenger vessel industry recommended that passenger vessels certificated for ocean service, though engaged exclusively in inland trade, not be required to maintain refuse records. While these vessels usually discharge at shore reception facilities, it would be difficult, if not impossible, for enforcement officials to determine that these vessels never operate outside of inland waters. However, ยง151.55(c)(6) has been changed to exclude garbage discharged to shore reception facilities from the requirement that garbage be described by category. Shore discharges do not have the limitations as to contents as to discharges at sea. This change significantly reduces the reporting burden for passenger, as well as other, vessels that discharge to shore. (5) One comment from a representative of the coastal towing industry stated that their vessels rarely operate outside of 20 miles, have small crews, and are able to retain their garbage on board for shore disposal. Therefore, they should be exempt from the rule. The capability of retaining garbage on board for disposal ashore is not sufficient justification to be exempted from this rule. However, as with other vessels, if towing vessels retain their garbage on board for disposal to a shore reception facility, they would be exempt from the requirements that they categorize their garbage under ยง151.55(d)(6). (6) Two comments stated that foreign ships were a major contributor to debris in the marine environment and should be included in this rule. These regulations are limited by 33 U.S.C. 1903(b)(2)(A) to ships of United States registry or nationality or operated under the authority of the United States. (7) One comment stated that recreational vessels were a major cause of garbage in the marine environment and should be included in this requirement.
