FR940713-2-00040 FR940713-2-00026 Monthly Rate: The monthly rate for capacity and energy sold under this rate schedule shall be: Demand Charge: $2.738 per kilowatt/month of total contract demand. Energy Charge: None. Energy to be Furnished by the Government: The Government shall make available each contract year to the Customer from the Projects through the Customer's interconnections with TVA and the Customer will schedule and accept an allocation of 1,500 kilowatt-hours of energy delivered at the TVA border for each kilowatt of contract demand. A contract year is defined as the 12 months beginning July 1 and ending at midnight June 30 of the following calendar year. The energy made available for a contract year shall be scheduled monthly such that the maximum amount scheduled in any month shall not exceed 220 hours per kilowatt of the Customer's contract demand and the minimum amount scheduled in any month shall not be less than 60 hours per kilowatt of the Customer's contract demand. The Customer may request and the Government may approve energy scheduled for a month greater than 220 hours per kilowatt of the Customer's contract demand; provided, that the combined schedule of all SEPA Customers outside TVA and served by TVA does not exceed 220 hours per kilowatt of the total contract demands of these Customers. In the event that any portion of the capacity allocated to the Customers is not initially delivered to the Customers as of the beginning of a full contract year, the 1500 kilowatt hours shall be reduced 1/12 for each month of that year prior to initial delivery of such capacity. Billing Month: The billing month for power sold under this schedule shall end at 2400 hours CDT or CST, whichever is currently effective on the last day of each calendar month. Service Interruption: When delivery of capacity is interrupted or reduced due to conditions on the Administrator's system beyond his control, the Administrator will continue to make available the portion of his declaration of energy that can be generated with the capacity available. For such interruption or reduction due to conditions on the Administrator's system which have not been arranged for and agreed to in advance, the demand charge for capacity made available will be reduced as to the kilowatts of such capacity which have been interrupted or reduced in accordance with the following formula: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1Monthly capacity charge 1␣ 1Contract demand Number of kilowatts unavailable for at least 12 hours in any calendar day × Number of days in billing month × 880,000 kilowatts. Dated: July 1, 1994. Wholesale Power Rate Schedule CC&hyph;1&hyph;D Availability: This rate schedule shall be available to public bodies and cooperatives served through the facilities of Carolina Power & Light Company, Western Division (hereinafter called the Customers). Applicability: This rate schedule shall be applicable to electric capacity and energy available from the Dale Hollow, Center Hill, Wolf Creek, Cheatham, Old Hickory, Barkley, J. Percy Priest and Cordell Hull Projects (all of such projects being hereinafter called collectively the ``Cumberland Projects'') and sold in wholesale quantities. Character of Service: The electric capacity and energy supplied hereunder will be three-phase alternating current at a nominal frequency of sixty hertz. The power shall be delivered at nominal voltages of 161,000 volts to the transmission system of Carolina Power & Light Company, Western Division. Points of Delivery: The points of delivery will be at interconnecting points of the Tennessee Valley Authority system and the Carolina Power & Light Company, Western Division system. Other points of delivery may be as agreed upon. Monthly Rate: The monthly rate for capacity and energy sold under this rate schedule shall be: Demand Charge: $3.116 per kilowatt/month of total contract demand. Energy Charge: None. Transmission Charge: $1.6254 per kilowatt of total contract demand. The transmission rate is subject to annual adjustment on April 1 of each year and will be computed subject to the formula in Appendix A attached to the Government_Carolina Power & Light Company contract. Energy to be Furnished by the Government: The Government will sell to the customer and the customer will purchase from the Government energy each billing month equivalent to a percentage specified by contract of the energy made available to Carolina Power & Light Company (less six percent (6%) losses). The Customer's contract demand and accompanying energy allocation will be divided pro rate among its individual delivery points served from the Carolina Power & Light Company's, Western Division transmission system.
