FR940831-2-00154 FR940831-2-00106 Runzheimer excluded expenditure data for homeowning families without a mortgage because they were not typical of homeowners in the base area or in the allowance areas with the largest concentrations of federal employees. The 1988 CES was also used to identify which home-maintenance items to price and to establish the relative importance of those items. 4.2.2␣Development of Housing Profiles To compare housing costs accurately in all locations, Runzheimer constructed a model to measure housing costs under six different circumstances; that is, we identified six typical housing profiles and matched these profiles to three income levels, as shown in the table below. Runzheimer and OPM agreed that at least one criterion for the owner profile should be the square footage of the home and at least one criterion for the renter profile should be the number of bedrooms in the rental unit. The profiles for homeowners and renters are: Housing Profiles 1Income level 1Renter profile 1Owner profile Lower 3&hyph;1&hyph;1 600* sq. ft. apt 4&hyph;2&hyph;1 900 sq. ft. Condo or detached house. Middle 4&hyph;2&hyph;1 900 sq. ft. apt 5&hyph;3&hyph;1.5 1,300 sq. ft. detached house.** Upper 4&hyph;2&hyph;2 or 5&hyph;3&hyph;2 1,100 sq. ft. townhouse or detached house 7&hyph;3&hyph;2 1,700 sq. ft. detached house. *Defined as ``Total rooms_Bedrooms_Baths and representative size.'' Total rooms excludes bathrooms, hallways, entrance areas, and closets but includes bedrooms, living room, family room, kitchen, formal dining room, and den/study. The representative size is roughly the midpoint size for the range of housing surveyed at the income level. **Row houses may be used in Northeast Washington, D.C., where the availability of single family detached homes is limited. 4.2.3␣Living Community Selection Runzheimer surveyed the same living communities for the Winter 1994 survey as it did for the winter survey portion of the 1992/1993 study. To gather data, our researchers contacted real estate brokers, residential appraisers and other knowledgeable real estate professionals in each area to obtain information on the predominant age(s), size(s) and type(s) of housing in various communities and housing subdivisions. When available and appropriate, Runzheimer identified at least six communities (two at each income level) in each allowance area. However, this goal was not achievable in some of the smaller allowance areas. For the Washington, D.C., area, Runzheimer selected nine communities (three at each income level) in which to gather renter and homeowner data. A table of living communities used for pricing can be found in Appendix 6. 4.2.4␣Identification and Quantification of Housing-Related Expenses From the 1988 CES, Runzheimer identified and categorized housing-related expense items into one of five groups: •utilities, •real estate taxes, •owners/renters insurance, •maintenance, and •telephone. 4.2.4.1␣Utilities For this study, Runzheimer classified electric, heat (oil or gas), water and sewer as utilities. Although most utility companies had ready access to current charges per unit of consumption and average consumption patterns for all households, very few (if any) separated consumption patterns by number of family members in a household or by size/type of accommodation. Runzheimer focused on average annual consumption experience per household, gathering this information from utility companies serving each allowance area and the Washington, D.C., area. Combining this consumption data with current utility rates, Runzheimer computed average annual utility costs for each of electric, gas or oil (whichever Runzheimer found to be more widely used, if used at all), water and sewer. Runzheimer then assigned this average consumption pattern to the homeowner profile at the middle income level. Because some utility costs vary by size of house and yard, Runzheimer calculated a multiplier consistent with the standard home sizes to arrive at utility rates for the other five profiles. The table below shows the standard sizes and utility factors for each profile. The standard sizes roughly equate to the reference size of each profile. The formula to calculate each multiplier was: Multiplier = 1 + (.5 × (Standard square feet_1300)/1300)
