FR940719-2-00036 FR940719-2-00013 Processing Standards Publication 186 Announcing the Digital Signature Standard (DSS) Federal Information Processing Standards Publications (FIPS PUBS) are issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) after approval by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to Section 111(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 as amended by the Computer Security Act of 1987, Public law 100&hyph;235. Name of Standard: Digital Signature Standard (DSS). Category of Standard: Computer Security; Cryptography. Explanation: This Standard specifies a Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) appropriate for applications requiring a digital rather than written signature. The DSA digital signature is a pair of large numbers represented in a computer as strings of binary digits. The digital signature is computed using a set of rules (i.e., the DSA) and a set of parameters such that the identity of the signatory and integrity of the data can be verified. The DSA provides the capability to generate and verify signatures. Signature generation makes use of a private key to generate a digital signature. Signature verification makes use of a public key which corresponds to, but is not the same as, the private key. Each user possesses a private and public key pair. Public keys are assumed to be known to the public in general. Private keys are never shared. Anyone can verify the signature of a user by employing that user's public key. Signature generation can be performed only by the possessor of the user's private key. A hash function is used in the signature generation process to obtain a condensed version of data, called a message digest (see Figure 1). The message digest is then input to the DSA to generate the digital signature. The digital signature is sent to the intended verifier along with the signed data (often called the message). The verifier of the message and signature verifies the signature by using the sender's public key. The same hash function must also be used in the verification process. The hash function is specified in a separate standard, the Secure Hash Standard (SHS), FIPS 180. Similar procedures may be used to generate and verify signatures for stored as well as transmitted data. Billing Code 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEN19MY94.057 BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;C Approving Authority: Secretary of Commerce. Maintenance Agency: U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Computer Systems Laboratory (CSL). Applicability: This standard is applicable to all Federal departments and agencies for the protection of unclassified information that is not subject to section 2315 of Title 10, United States Code, or section 3502(2) of Title 44, United States Code. This standard shall be used in designing and implementing public-key based signature systems which Federal departments and agencies operate or which are operated for them under contract. Adoption and use of this standard is available to private and commercial organizations. Applications: The DSA authenticates the integrity of the signed data and the identity of the signatory. The DSA may also be used in proving to a third party that data was actually signed by the generator of the signature. The DSA is intended for use in electronic mail, electronic funds transfer, electronic data interchange, software distribution, data storage, and other applications which require data integrity assurance and data origin authentication. Implementations: The DSA may be implemented in software, firmware, hardware, or any combination thereof. NIST is developing a validation program to test implementations for conformance to this standard. Information about the planned validation program can be obtained from the National Institute of Standards and Technology, Computer Systems Laboratory, Attn: DSS Validation, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. Export Control: Implementations of this standard are subject to Federal Government export controls as specified in Title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 768 through 799. Exporters are advised to contact the Department of Commerce, Bureau of Export Administration for more information. Patents: The Department of Commerce is not aware of any patents that would be infringed by this standard. Implemented Schedule: This standard becomes effective December 1, 1994. Specifications: Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS186) Digital Signature Standard (DSS), (affixed). Cross Index a. Federal Information Resources Management Regulations (FIRMR) subpart 201.20.303, Standards, and subpart 201.39.1002, Federal Standards. b. FIPS PUB 46&hyph;2, Data Encryption Standard. c. FIPS PUB 73, Guidelines for Security of Computer Applications. d. FIPS PUB 140&hyph;1, Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules. e. FIPS PUB 171, Key Management Using ANSI X9.17. f. FIPS PUB 180, Secure Hash Standard. Qualifications: The security of a digital signature system is dependent on maintaining the secrecy of users' private keys. Users must therefore guard against the unauthorized acquisition of their private keys. While it is the intent of this standard to specify general security requirements for generating digital signatures, conformance to this standard does not assure that a particular implementation is secure. The responsible authority in each agency or department shall assure that an overall implementation provides an acceptable level of security. This standard will be reviewed every five years in order to assess its adequacy.
