FR940223-1-00050 FR940223-1-00008 (3) If documents are not prepared using electronic media, diskettes need not be created and filed. A party that generates documents subject to this section using non-electronic means is to file an affidavit or declaration so stating within five business days of the initial filing of the hard copy. The declaration or affidavit may be the statement of a witness, counsel or an official representative of the participant. Such an affidavit or declaration need be filed only once during the course of a proceeding, within five business days of the filing of the first document subject to this section. (4) The Commission intends to file within five business days of their initial issuance in hard copy form diskettes of all documents issued by the Commission or the Presiding Officer. This includes Presiding Officer's rulings, Commission orders, notices of inquiry and other notices and Commission opinions and recommended decisions. (5) Any changes or revisions to electronically-filed documents shall be filed on updated diskettes. The updated diskettes are to be filed within five business days of the initial filing of the hard copy of the revisions. 3. Section 3001.12 would be amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §3001.12 Service of documents. * * * * * (b) Service by the parties. Every document filed by any person with the Commission in a proceeding shall be served by the person filing such document upon the participants in the proceeding individually or by such groups as may be directed by the Commission or presiding officer except for discovery requests as governed by §§3001.25 to 3001.27. Special requests relating to discovery must be served individually upon the party conducting discovery and state the witness who is the subject of the special request. * * * * * 4. Section 3001.20a would be amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: §3001.20a Limited participation by persons not parties. * * * * * (c) Scope of participation. Subject to the provisions of §3001.30(f), limited participators may present evidence which is relevant to the issues involved in the proceeding and their testimony shall be subject to cross-examination on the same terms applicable to that of formal participants. Limited participants may file briefs or proposed findings pursuant to §§3001.34 and 3001.35, and within 15 days after the release of an intermediate decision, or such other time as may be fixed by the Commission, they may file a written statement of their position on the issues. The Commission or the presiding officer may require limited participators having substantially like interests and positions to join together for any or all of the above purposes. Limited participators are not required to respond to discovery requests under §3001.25 through §3001.28 except to the extent that those requests are directed specifically to testimony which the limited participators provided in the proceeding; however, limited participators, particularly those making contentions under 39 U.S.C. 3622(b)(4), are advised that failure to provide relevant and material information in support of their claims will be taken into account in determining the weight to be placed on their evidence and arguments. 4. Section 3001.25 would be amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) to read as follows:
