FR940207-2-00160 FR940207-2-00075 [Release No. 34&hyph;33546; File No. SR&hyph;PTC&hyph;92&hyph;16] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing of Proposed Rule Change by Participants Trust Company Relating to Margin Levels for Collateralized Mortgage Obligations January 31, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on December 28, 1992, the Participants Trust Company (``PTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to allow PTC to establish margin levels on Collateralized Mortgage Obligations (``CMO security'' or ``CMO'') currently eligible for deposit or which may become eligible for deposit at PTC by formula as follows: Each time a CMO security initially is deposited at PTC, PTC's management will set the margin level for each tranche of that CMO security (``CMO tranche'') at a percentage which exceeds the CMO tranche's maximum two-day downward price volatility, based on a model which assumes: i) A change in prepayment speeds based on a sustained change in interest rates; and ii) the largest historic two day movement in the yield of the underlying Treasury security. 2 Margin on CMO tranches which cannot be modeled by an independent pricing source will be set at 100%. 2 The latter assumes: A 35 basis point upward shift in the underlying Treasury security for CMO securities which exhibit ``positive effective duration'' (i.e., rise in value with falling interest rates) (letter from Michael D. Frieband, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, PTC, to Judith Poppalardo, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation (``Division''), Commission, and James Hodgetts, Assistant Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of New York (``FRBNY''), amending the original proposed use of a 25 basis point upward shift in the underlying Treasury security); or A 50 basis point move in the underlying Treasury security for CMO securities which exhibit ``negative effective duration'' ( i.e., decline in value with falling interest rates). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements.
