FR941110-0-00187 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: A few commenters proposed that the number of days in which a facility may request, or waive the right to, a hearing be changed. The alternatives were 10, 20 or 30 days. Response: We do not accept the commenters' recommendations to change the number of days in which a facility may request or waive its right to a hearing. The existing 60 day timeframe to request a hearing has been effective in accommodating the needs of the government to move quickly in situations of noncompliance without unduly compromising the due process considerations of the provider. It often provides sufficient time to the facility to resolve disagreements prior to the initiation of costly litigation or, failing resolution of disagreements, adequate time to prepare for a hearing. To adopt a shorter timeframe, as suggested by the commenters, could compromise these opportunities. Comment: A couple of the commenters offered the following alternative text for proposed §488.230(e): ``The facility must pay the civil money penalty that was imposed, less 35 percent, and correct the deficiencies for which the civil money was imposed, within 10 days of receipt of the notice. This waiver of hearing is called settlement.'' Response: We do not accept these comments. We believe these suggestions do not allow a facility enough time to make a decision regarding whether to waive or request a hearing. Section 488.438␣Amount of Penalty Comment: Several commenters supported the ``two tier'' civil money penalty system as enunciated in proposed §488.230(f)(1). Response: We appreciate the support of these commenters for this regulatory provision. Comment: Many commenters believed that the civil money penalty fines of up to $10,000 a day are excessive and exorbitant. A few comments stated that the range is too broad and would create inconsistency on a national level. Some commenters said that imposing civil money penalties for non-immediate jeopardy deficiencies is severely punitive and ``overreacting'' and they should only be imposed in severe, life threatening or repeated situations. Response: The Act allows a maximum civil money penalty of $10,000 per day of noncompliance. By designating the highest two thirds of the civil money penalties as the immediate jeopardy range, we believe we have developed a system for the States to use under which relatively few facilities will be subject to a maximum penalty. We expect that the higher penalties will seldom be imposed, because situations involving immediate jeopardy occur far less frequently than those with no immediate jeopardy. Furthermore, the range of civil money penalties for immediate jeopardy cases is broad enough to allow us the flexibility to impose the maximum civil money penalty in only the most egregious cases and some lower amount within the range for other situations of immediate jeopardy. We believe penalties imposed in the immediate jeopardy range are justified because residents are in life threatening situations, and we want to motivate the facility to immediately correct deficiencies. We set the amounts of the penalties within the two ranges to allow consideration of the unique characteristics of each situation of noncompliance. It is inappropriate to refer to a ``consistent'' application of civil money penalties because each situation of noncompliance and the factors that affect the amount of the civil money penalty are unique for each facility. Comment: Several commenters stated that the civil money penalty system appears to duplicate existing State systems and doubled fines could financially destroy facilities. A few commenters asked that the proposed rule be amended to allow States to use their civil money penalty system when they have demonstrated that their system is effective. Response: The Medicare and Medicaid programs are separate and distinct from State licensure programs. It is possible that a civil money penalty could be imposed under the State licensure program as well as under the Medicare and Medicaid programs; however, there is no reason to assume that the penalties would be doubled.
