FR941206-1-00002 FR941206-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Food Safety and Inspection Service 9 CFR Parts 318 and 381 [Docket No. 93&hyph;008P] RIN 0583&hyph;AB68 Poultry Products Produced by Mechanical Separation and Products In Which Such Poultry Products Are Used AGENCY: Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is proposing to amend the Federal poultry products inspection regulations to prescribe a definition and standard of identity and composition for the finely comminuted poultry product that results from the mechanical separation and removal of most of the bone from poultry carcasses and parts of carcasses (``Mechanically Separated (Kind) (MS(K))'' including requirements for bone solids content (measured as calcium content) and bone particle size; specify certain limitations for the use of MS(K); establish recordkeeping requirements for bone solids content and bone particle size; and establish labeling requirements for MS(K), and for poultry products and meat food products containing MS(K) as an ingredient. This proposed action is intended to establish the Agency's requirements with respect to poultry products produced by mechanical separation, including the requirement that they be labeled as, in the case of MS(K) derived from chicken carcasses, ``mechanically separated chicken.'' Such action would help ensure that meat and poultry products distributed to consumers are not labeled in a false or misleading manner and are not misbranded. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 6, 1995. ADDRESSES: Written comments to: Policy, Evaluation and Planning Office, Attn: Diane Moore, FSIS Docket Clerk, Room 3171, South Building, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Oral comments should be directed to Mr. John W. McCutcheon, (202) 720&hyph;2709. (See also ``Comments'' under ``Supplementary Information.'') FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John W. McCutcheon, Deputy Administrator, Regulatory Programs, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, Area Code (202) 720&hyph;2709. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Purpose of the Proposal This proposal would amend the regulatory requirements for the finely comminuted poultry product resulting from the mechanical separation and removal of most of the bone from poultry carcasses and parts of carcasses and for the finished poultry products and meat food products in which this product is used as an ingredient. The Department first conducted a rulemaking regarding this product in 1969. Over the years, the amount of such product being manufactured and the number and range of poultry products and meat food products in which it is used as an ingredient, has increased significantly. Moreover, the Department has gained a great deal of knowledge from its rulemakings regarding the livestock product resulting from the mechanical separation and removal process which is called Mechanically Separated (Species) (MS(S)). More recently, in a lawsuit, Bob Evans Farm, Inc. et al., v. Mike Espy, Secretary of Agriculture (D D.C. Civil Action No. 93&hyph;0104), several red meat sausage manufacturers alleged that, without a regulatory definition and standard for poultry products produced by mechanical separation, a disparate situation exists between labeling mechanically separated poultry and the livestock product resulting from the mechanical separation and removal process for which a regulatory definition and standard exist. The red meat sausage manufacturers have alleged that the disparate labeling situation poses an unfair advantage for the manufacturers of mechanically separated poultry products. In view of these developments, and taking into account the information and experience acquired since 1969 and current regulatory policies, the Agency reviewed and reevaluated the existing regulations, particularly in light of the labeling issues. As a result of its review and reevaluation, the Agency believes that further regulatory action is necessary pursuant to its statutory responsibilities to protect the public and prevent the preparation and distribution in commerce of poultry products and meat food products which are misbranded or not properly marked, labeled, or packaged. See sections 4(h) and 8 of the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA) (21 U.S.C. 451 et seq.) and sections 1(n) and 7 of the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ); 21 U.S.C. 453(h), 457 and 601(n), 607. In particular, the Department now believes:
