FR940222-1-00052 FR940222-1-00008 7. In §417.800, the section heading is revised, the definition of reporting period is added, and paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) are revised to read as follows: §417.800 Payment to HCPPs: Definitions and basic rules. (a) Definitions. * * * * * Reporting period means a period specified by HCFA, for which the HCPP must report its cost and utilization data. (b) Qualifying conditions. An organization wishing to participate as an HCPP must_ (1) Enter into a written agreement with HCFA as specified in §417.801; (2) Furnish physicians' services through its employees or under a formal arrangement with a medical group, individual practice association, or individual physicians; (3) Furnish covered part B services to its Medicare enrollees through institutions, entities, and persons that have qualified under the applicable requirements of title XVIII of the Social Security Act; and (4) If it does not furnish inpatient hospital services as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, demonstrate to HCFA's satisfaction that it has in place systems that will enable it to use the Medicare billing codes to document on its cost reports the cost of each part B service furnished to its Medicare enrollees. (c) Payment of reasonable costs_ (1) Applicability. This paragraph applies to HCPPs that do not furnish inpatient services in general acute-care, short-term hospitals. For HCPPs that furnish inpatient services in those hospitals, the rules of §417.532(b) apply. (2) Payment for part B services: Basic rules_ (i) Cost basis payment. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, HCFA pays an HCPP on the basis of the reasonable cost it incurs, as specified in subpart O of this part, for the covered part B services furnished to its Medicare enrollees. (ii) Deductions. In determining the amount due an HCPP for covered part B services furnished to its Medicare enrollees, HCFA deducts, from the reasonable cost actually incurred by the HCPP_ (A) An amount equal to 20 percent of the incurred cost, representing the Medicare coinsurance; and (B) The actuarial value of the part B deductible. (3) Criteria for reasonableness. The costs incurred by the HCPP in furnishing physicians' services and other part B supplier services may be considered reasonable if they_ (i) Are comparable to costs incurred for similar services furnished by similar physicians and other suppliers in the same or a similar location; and (ii) Do not exceed what HCFA would pay, in the aggregate (as determined under subpart E of part 405 or part 415 of this chapter, as appropriate), for the same services under the fee-for service system. (4) An HCPP must use the Medicare billing codes to document, on its cost reports, the cost of each part B service furnished to its Medicare enrollees. (5) Verification by HCFA. All information furnished by the HCPP is subject to verification by HCFA or its authorized representatives. Methods of verification may include but are not limited to on-site visits and audits. (d) Payment for services furnished by providers. For part A or part B services furnished to the HCPP's Medicare enrollees by a provider, HCFA pays the provider through the provider's Medicare intermediary. * * * * * 8. In §417.801, paragraphs (a), (b)(4) and (b)(5) are revised and paragraph (b)(7) is added; and revise paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (d)(1)(iii) and add a paragraph (d)(1)(iv), to read as follows:
