FR940912-0-00025 FR940912-0-00006 12 CFR Part 630 RIN 3052&hyph;AB23 Disclosure to Investors in Systemwide and Consolidated Bank Debt Obligations of the Farm Credit System AGENCY: Farm Credit Administration. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Farm Credit Administration (FCA), by the FCA Board, adopts new final regulations governing the Farm Credit System's (FCS or System) preparation and reporting of Systemwide financial information to investors. The final rule requires that each bank of the System, the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation (Funding Corporation), and the Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation (Financial Assistance Corporation) jointly publish periodic reports to investors and potential investors in Systemwide debt obligations and consolidated bank debt obligations of the Farm Credit System (FCS debt obligations). The purpose of the rule is to ensure that timely and accurate Systemwide financial information continues to be disclosed to investors and the public to assist them in making informed decisions regarding FCS debt obligations and System institutions. The required report to investors must present Systemwide combined financial statements, supplemental financial statement information, and related analyses pertaining to System institutions on a combined basis. The final rule covers Systemwide financial and non-financial information now regularly disclosed by the Funding Corporation in annual and quarterly information statements and press releases. The final regulations generally parallel the existing Farm Credit System Disclosure Program (System Disclosure Program) and should not impose any significant additional burdens on System institutions. Consistent with the System Disclosure Program, the final rule preserves the existing reporting relationship between a System bank and its related associations. EFFECTIVE DATE: The regulations shall become effective upon the expiration of 30 days after publication in the Federal Register during which either or both Houses of Congress are in session. Notice of the effective date will be published in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tong-Ching Chang, Staff Accountant, Policy Development and Planning Division, Office of Examination, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4483, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444, ␣␣or William L. Larsen, Senior Attorney, Regulatory Operations Division, Office of General Counsel, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4020, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Under the System Disclosure Program, the Funding Corporation, on behalf of the System, periodically distributes to investors a disclosure document containing Systemwide financial information. The System institutions that participate in the System Disclosure Program ( i.e., each of the System banks, the Funding Corporation, and the Financial Assistance Corporation 1 ) jointly publish the Report to Investors of the Farm Credit System (FCS Report) on an annual basis. The FCS Report includes an Information Statement and a general report. The Information Statement contains combined financial statements and related analyses pertaining to all System institutions. The general report contains other information about the System, its debt obligations, and the environment in which it operates. Except for the quarter that coincides with the end of the fiscal year, System institutions also jointly publish a quarterly Information Statement. In connection with the sale of debt securities, the Funding Corporation routinely distributes the FCS Report and quarterly Information Statement to the investment dealers and dealer banks (selling group) that sell FCS debt securities. The FCA currently has no regulations that specifically govern the System's disclosure of Systemwide financial information to investors. 1 Since the board of the Funding Corporation is also the board of the Financial Assistance Corporation, the Financial Assistance Corporation's participation in the System Disclosure Program is implied.
