FR940413-1-00002 FR940413-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service 7 CFR Part 708 End-Use Certificate System AGENCY: Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, USDA. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) of the Department of Agriculture gives notice that it is currently planning to issue a proposed rule to implement U.S. end-use certificates for commodities imported from any foreign country or instrumentality that requires end-use certificates. The proposed action is in accordance with section 321(f) of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Implementation Act (the Act) which requires such action be taken by the Secretary of Agriculture. The primary purpose of the U.S. end-use certificate requirement is to help ensure that foreign agricultural commodities are not used in U.S. Government-assisted export programs. ASCS requests comments and suggestions from the public on the alternatives and issues that need to be addressed in implementing such a proposal including, but not limited to, those issues mentioned in this notice. Supporting data for comments are requested. DATES: Comments should be submitted on or before May 13, 1994 to be assured of consideration. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to the Deputy Administrator, Commodity Operations, ASCS, P.O. Box 2415, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;2415. All written comments received in response to this advance notice will be available for public inspection in room 5755, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Steve Gill, Chief, Inventory Management Branch, Commodity Operations Division, ASCS, P.O. Box 2415, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;2415; phone 202&hyph;720&hyph;6500. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Section 321(f) of the Act established an end-use certificate requirement for wheat and barley imported into the U.S. from any foreign country, such as Canada, or instrumentality that requires end-use certificates for imports that are products of the U.S. The primary purpose of the U.S. end-use certificate requirement is to help ensure that foreign produced agricultural commodities are not used in U.S. Government-assisted export programs. The Act is not specific regarding the type of end-use certificate system to be implemented or the information to be collected. The Secretary of Agriculture is directed to issue regulations regarding the information to be provided in end-use certificates. The information could include type of commodity, class, quantity, country of origin, importer of the commodity, and the end-use of the commodity, if known at the time of importation of the commodity. As a means of protecting the interests of U.S. agricultural producers, the Act provides that the Secretary may, after consulting with domestic producers and reporting to the Congress, suspend end-use certificate requirements if the requirements have directly resulted in the reduction of: (1) Income to U.S. producers of agricultural commodities, or (2) Competitiveness of U.S. agricultural commodities in world export markets. If a foreign country or instrumentality that requires end-use certificates eliminates its system, the Secretary is to suspend the U.S. end-use certificate requirement 30 calendar days after the suspension by the foreign country or instrumentality. Further, the Act provides that it shall be a violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001 for a person to engage in fraud or knowingly violate Section 321(f) or applicable regulations. As of this date, only Canada requires end-use certificates on U.S. grain entering the country.
