FR940404-2-00187 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Meeting of Study Group 3, Working Party 5, Universal Personal Telecommunications, Telecommunication Standardization Bureau, International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Montreal, September 20&hyph;24, 1993 Representative Earl S. Barbely, Director, Telecommunications and Information Standards, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Wendell Harris, Assistant Chief/International, Federal Communications Commission Thoms Wasilweski, Policy Specialist, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Roger Hubbell, Consultant, Washington, DC Robert Madden, Manager, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, Morristown, New Jersey Philip Onstad, Manager, International Public Policy, International Communications Policy, Edison, New Jersey Marcel Scheidegger, MCI International, Rye Brook, New York United States Delegation to the Working Party on the Facilitation of International Trade Procedures (WP4) and its Subgroups, Economic Commission for Europe (ECE), Geneva, September 20&hyph;24, 1993 Representative Clifford W. Woodward, Jr., Division Chief, Trade, Facilitation and Technical Issues Division, Office of International Transportation and Trade, Department of Transportation Advisers Barbara Bissell, Chief, International Organizations, Office of International Affairs, U.S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury Bernadette Curry, Manager of Electronic Commerce, Department of the Treasury Vicki Hodziewich, Customs Attache, United States Mission to the European Communities, Brussels William H. Kenworthey, Jr., Data Systems Manager, Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Defense for Management Systems, Department of Defense Private Sector Advisers Irwin W. Chmielewski, Business Planning Specialist, Electronic Data Systems, Troy, Michigan Thomas P. Colberg, Principal, Price Waterhouse, Chicago, Illinois Nicole Willenz-Gardner, Price Waterhouse, Washington, DC Gregory D. Harter, President and Chief Operating Officer, Electronic Data Interchange Association, Alexandria, Virginia Robert Hurd, Pan American EDIFACT, Data Interchange Standards Association, Alexandria, Virginia Jeffrey B. Ritter, Legal Adviser and Co-Rapporteur on Legal Questions, Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease, Columbus, Ohio Carrie L. Spencer, PAEB Database, Publications and Maintenance Administrator, EDIFACT Technical Assessment Group Secretary/Secretariat, Alexandria, Virginia Jeffrey Sturrock, Ernst & Young, Irving, Texas Robert K. Windsor, Executive Director, CITD_The International Trade Facilitation Council, Alexandria, Virginia
