FR941103-2-00154 FR941103-2-00085 14. Any information concerning a person's indebtedness to the United States by virtue of that person's participation in a benefit program administered by VA, including personal information obtained from other Federal agencies through computer matching programs, may be disclosed to any third party, except consumer reporting agencies, in connection with any proceeding for the collection of any amount owed to the United States. Purposes of these disclosures may be to (a) assist VA in collection of title 38 and 10 U.S.C. ch. 106 program debts and/or costs of services, and (b) initiate legal actions for prosecuting individuals who willfully or fraudulently obtain title 38 or 10 U.S.C. ch. 106 benefits without entitlement. 15. The debtor's name, address, Social Security number and the amount (excluding interest) of any indebtedness waived, compromised or written off may be disclosed to the Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service, as a report of income under 26 U.S.C. 61(a)(12). 16. The name of a debtor, any other information reasonably necessary to identify such individual and any other information concerning the individual's indebtedness under a VA program, may be disclosed to the Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service, for the collection of that indebtedness by offset of Federal income tax refunds pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3720A. 17. Debtors' social security numbers, VA claim numbers, loan account numbers and other information as is reasonably necessary to identify individual VA indebtedness accounts may be disclosed to the Department of Housing and Urban Development for inclusion in the Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS). Information in CAIVRS may be disclosed to all participating agencies and lenders who participate in the agencies' programs to enable them to verify information provided by new loan applicants and evaluate the creditworthiness of applicants. Records are disclosed to participating agencies and private-sector lenders by an ongoing computer matching program. 18. Name, Social Security numbers and any other information reasonably necessary to ensure accurate identification may be disclosed to the Department of the Treasury, Internal Revenue Service, to obtain the mailing address of taxpayers who are debtors under this system of records. Disclosure is made by computer matching and pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6103(m)(2). 19. Any information in a record under this system of records may be disclosed to the United States General Accounting Office (GAO) to enable GAO to pursue collection activities authorized to that office or any other activities within their statutory authority. Disclosure to consumer reporting agencies: Disclosures pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(12) may be made from this record system to consumer reporting agencies as defined in the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(f)) or the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966 (31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3)). The disclosure is limited to information necessary to establish the identity of the individual, including name, address, and taxpayer identification number (Social Security number), the amount, status and history of the claim; and the agency or program under which the claim arose for the sole purpose of allowing the consumer reporting agency to prepare a commercial credit report. 38 U.S.C. 5701(g) governs the release of names and addresses of any person who is a present or former member of the Armed Forces, or who is a dependent of such a person, to consumer reporting agencies under certain circumstances. Routine uses, above, provide for disclosure under those circumstances. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are maintained on magnetic tape and disk, microfilm, microfiche, optical disk and paper documents. DMC does not routinely maintain paper records of individual debtors in file folders with the exception of correspondence, and replies thereto, from Congress, the White House, members of the Cabinet and other similar sources. The finance division of VARO St. Louis maintains certain debtor correspondence in folders by terminal digit. Paper records related to accounts receivable may be maintained in individual file folders located at VA regional offices. Generally, such papers maintained outside of DMC are not used directly in the debt collection process unless they are first forwarded to DMC. Information stored on magnetic media for most benefit debts may be accessed through a data telecommunications terminal system designated as CAROLS (Centralized Accounts Receivable On-Line System). Most CAROLS terminals are located in DMC; however, VA regional offices generally each have one terminal for inquiry purposes. Information stored on magnetic media and related to the All-Volunteer Force Educational Assistance or education loan debt collection programs may be accessed through personal computers. Records provided to the Department of Housing and Urban Development for inclusion in the Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) are maintained on magnetic media at the HUD Data Processing Center in Lanham, Maryland. Identifying information, the amount of the debt and benefit source of the debt may be stored on magnetic media in records that serve as the database for the VA Benefits Delivery Network (BDN). The BDN is operated for the adjudication of claims and the entry of certain fiscal transactions. The identifying information, the amount of the debt and benefit source of the debt are transmitted to the Centralized Accounts Receivable System (CARS) or a personal computer local area network system before collection activity commences. When a debtor is awarded gratuitous benefits under VA programs, the BDN may operate to offset all or part of retroactive funds awarded, if any, to reduce the balance of the indebtedness.
