FR940506-2-00083 FR940506-2-00050 (2) In addition, such product or package itself bears a clear identification of the specific plastic resin(s) from which it is made. For purposes of this provision, a disclosure elsewhere on the product package shall be deemed to be ``in close proximity'' to such representation if there is a clear and conspicuous cross-reference to the disclosure. The use of an asterisk or other symbol shall not constitute a clear and conspicuous cross-reference. A cross-reference shall be deemed clear and conspicuous if it is of sufficient prominence to be readily noticeable and readable by the prospective purchaser when examining the part of the package on which the representation appears. II It is further ordered that respondents, Oak Hill Industries Corp., a corporation, its successors and assigns, and its officers, and Malcolm Foster, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and respondents' agents, representatives, and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with the labeling, advertising, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of any product or package in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from representing, in any manner, directly or by implication, that any such product or package offers any environmental benefit, unless at the time of making such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable evidence, which when appropriate must be competent and reliable scientific evidence, that substantiates such representation. III It is further ordered that for five (5) years after the last date of dissemination of any representation covered by this Order, respondents, or their successors and assigns, shall maintain and upon request make available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: A. All materials that were relied upon in disseminating such representation; and B. All tests, reports, studies, surveys, demonstrations, or other evidence in their possession or control that contradict, qualify, or call into question such representation, or the basis relied upon for such representation, including complaints from consumers. IV It is further ordered that the corporate respondents shall distribute a copy of this Order to each of its operating divisions and to each of its officers, agents, representatives, or employees engaged in the preparation and placement of advertisements, promotional materials, products, labels or other such sales materials covered by this Order. V It is further ordered that the individual respondent shall notify the Commission in the event of the discontinuance of his present business or employment and of each affiliation with a new business or employment. In addition, for a period of five (5) years from the date of service of this Order, he shall promptly notify the Commission of each affiliation with a new business or employment whose activities include the sale, distribution, and/or manufacturing of any plastic product or package or of his affiliation with a new business or employment in which his own duties and responsibilities involve the sale, distribution, and/or manufacturing of any plastic product or package. Each such notice shall include the individual respondent's new business address and a statement of the nature of the business or employment in which such respondent is newly engaged, as well as a description of such respondent's duties and responsibilities in connection with the business or employment. The expiration of the notice provision of this paragraph shall not affect any other obligation arising under this order. VI It is further ordered that respondents shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any proposed change in the corporation such as a dissolution, assignment, or sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation, the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries, or any other change in the corporation which may affect compliance obligations under this Order. VII It is further ordered that respondents shall, within sixty (6) days after service of this Order upon them, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which they have complied with this Order.
