FR940525-1-00064 FR940525-1-00008 ( 6 ) The claim indicates that the development of cancer depends on many factors. (B) Nature of the food. The product shall meet the requirements for ``low fat'' as defined in §317.362, except that the product may meet the total fat and cholesterol criteria for ``extra lean'' in §317.362. (4) Optional information. (i) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors for development of cancer: Family history of a specific type of cancer, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity, ultraviolet or ionizing radiation, exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, and dietary factors. (ii) The claim may include information from paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, which summarizes the relationship between dietary fat and cancer and the significance of the relationship. (iii) The claim may indicate that it is consistent with ``Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans.'' (iv) The claim may include information on the number of people in the United States who have cancer. The source of this information must be identified, and it must be current information from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (5) Model health claims. The following model health claims may be used in food labeling to describe the relationship between dietary lipids and cancer: (i) Development of cancer depends on many factors. A diet low in total fat may reduce the risk of some cancers. (ii) Eating a healthful diet low in fat may help reduce the risk of some types of cancer. Development of cancer is associated with many factors, including a family history of the disease, cigarette smoking, and what you eat. (c) Sodium and high blood pressure _(1) Relationship between sodium and hypertension (high blood pressure). (i) Hypertension, or high blood pressure, generally means a systolic blood pressure of greater than 140 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) or a diastolic blood pressure of greater than 90 mm Hg. Normotension, or normal blood pressure, is a systolic blood pressure below 140 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure below 90 mm Hg. Sodium is specified here as the chemical entity or electrolyte ``sodium'' and is distinguished from sodium chloride, or salt, which is 39 percent sodium by weight. (ii) The scientific evidence establishes that diets high in sodium are associated with a high prevalence of hypertension or high blood pressure and with increases in blood pressure with age, and that diets low in sodium are associated with a low prevalence of hypertension or high blood pressure and with a low or no increase of blood pressure with age. (2) Significance of sodium in relation to high blood pressure. (i) High blood pressure is a public health concern primarily because it is a major risk factor for mortality from coronary heart disease and stroke. Early management of high blood pressure is a major public health goal that can assist in reducing mortality associated with coronary heart disease and stroke. There is a continuum of mortality risk that increases as blood pressures rise. Individuals with high blood pressure are at greatest risk, and individuals with moderately high, high normal, and normal blood pressure are at steadily decreasing risk. The scientific evidence indicates that reducing sodium intake lowers blood pressure and associated risks in many but not all hypertensive individuals. There is also evidence that reducing sodium intake lowers blood pressure and associated risks in many but not all normotensive individuals as well. (ii) The populations at greatest risk for high blood pressure, and those most likely to benefit from sodium reduction, include those with family histories of high blood pressure, the elderly, males because they develop hypertension earlier in life than females, and black males and females. Although some population groups are at greater risk than others, high blood pressure is a disease of public health concern for all population groups. Sodium intake, alcohol consumption, and obesity are identified risk factors for high blood pressure. (iii) Sodium intakes exceed recommended levels in almost every group in the United States. One of the major public health recommendations relative to high blood pressure is to decrease consumption of salt. On a population-wide basis, reducing the average sodium intake would have a small but significant effect on reducing the average blood pressure, and, consequently, reducing mortality from coronary heart disease and stroke. (iv) Sodium is an essential nutrient, and experts have recommended a safe minimum level of 500 mg sodium per day and an upper level of 2,400 mg sodium per day, which is the Daily Reference Value for sodium. (3) Requirements. (i) All requirements set forth in §317.314 shall be met. (ii) Specific requirements. (A) Nature of the claim. A health claim associating diets low in sodium with reduced risk of high blood pressure may be made on the label or labeling of a meat or meat food product described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; Provided , That: ( 1 ) The claim states that diets low in sodium ``may'' or ``might'' reduce the risk of high blood pressure; ( 2 ) In specifying the disease, the claim uses the term ``high blood pressure''; ( 3 ) In specifying the nutrient, the claim uses the term ``sodium''; ( 4 ) The claim does not attribute any degree of reduction in risk of high blood pressure to diets low in sodium; and ( 5 ) The claim indicates that development of high blood pressure depends on many factors. (B) Nature of the food. ( 1 ) The product shall meet the requirements for ``low sodium'' as defined in §317.361; and ( 2 ) The product may meet the cholesterol criterion for ``extra lean'' as defined in §317.362.
