FR941205-1-00015 FR941205-1-00003 (ii) Securities structured for the purpose of evading the restrictions on capital distributions in this section. (4) Troubled condition means any savings association that: (i) Has a composite rating of 4 or 5 under the examination rating system; (ii) Is subject to a capital directive, a cease and desist order, a consent order, a formal written agreement, or a prompt corrective action directive, relating to the safety and soundness or financial viability of the savings association, unless otherwise informed in writing by the OTS; or (iii) Is informed in writing by the OTS that it has been designated in troubled condition based on the current financial statements, report of examination, or limited scope review of the savings association. (b) Capital Distribution Restrictions. (1) An undercapitalized association is not authorized to make any capital distributions except in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. (2) Subject to the concurrence of the Corporation, applications to repurchase, redeem, retire or otherwise acquire shares or ownership interests may be approved in the case of: (i) An association operating in compliance with an approved capital restoration plan under ยง565.5 of this subchapter; or (ii) An association that is well or adequately capitalized and that wishes to make a capital distribution that would result in the association being undercapitalized; Provided, that the association has filed with the OTS, and obtained approval for, a capital restoration plan under ยง565.5 of this subchapter. (3) The proposed repurchase, redemption, retirement or other acquisition of shares or ownership interests must: (i) Be consistent with the association's capital restoration plan; (ii) Be made in connection with the issuance of additional shares or obligations of the institution in at least an equivalent amount; and (iii) Reduce the financial obligations or otherwise improve the association's financial condition. (c) Notices and applications. (1) Notices. A savings association that: (i) Is at least adequately capitalized, as defined in part 565 of this subchapter; (ii) Is not deemed to be in troubled condition, as defined herein; and (iii) Will remain at least adequately capitalized following the proposed capital distribution must notify the OTS pursuant to ยง516.3(a) of this chapter of its intent to make a capital distribution; Provided, That a savings association meeting the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) (i) through (iii) of this section that is not held by a savings and loan holding company and that received a composite rating of ``1'' or ``2'' is exempt from the notice requirement. (2) Applications. An association that proposes to make a capital distribution must submit a written application to the OTS pursuant to ยง516.2 of this chapter if it is:
