FR940203-1-00027 FR940203-1-00005 For the reasons set out in the preamble, 18 CFR parts 11 and 381 are proposed to be amended in the alternative as follows: Alternative A PART 11_ANNUAL CHARGES UNDER PART I OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT 1. The authority citation for Part ll continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 791a-825r; 42 U.S.C. 7101&hyph;7352. 2. Section 11.1 is revised to read as follows: ยง11.1 Costs of administration. (a) Authority. Pursuant to section 10(e) of the Federal Power Act and section 3401 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986, the Commission will assess reasonable annual charges against licensees and exemptees to reimburse the United States for the costs of administration of the Commission's hydropower regulatory program. (b) Scope. The annual charges under this section will be charged to and allocated among: (1) all licensees; (2) all holders of exemptions under section 30 of the Federal Power Act; and (3) all holders of exemptions under sections 405 and 408 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended by section 408 of the Energy Security Act of 1980. (c) Formula. A determination shall be made for each fiscal year of the costs of administration of Part I of the Federal Power Act, from which shall be deducted administrative costs fixed in the licenses and exemptions and those fixed by the Commission in determining headwater benefit payments. For each fiscal year, the costs of administration will be assessed against each licensee and exemptee in the proportion that the annual charge factor for each such project bears to the total of the annual charge factors under all such outstanding licenses and exemptions. The annual charge factor for each such project shall be its authorized installed capacity as measured in kilowatts. The assessments will include all such licensed and exempted projects that have been constructed, and all such licensed and exempted projects whose construction has been commenced. In the event that construction commences during a fiscal year, the charges will be prorated based on the day on which construction commenced. (d) Municipal exemptions. (1) To enable the Commission to compute on the bill for annual charges the exemption to which State and municipal licensees and exemptees are entitled because of the use of power by the licensee or exemptees for State or municipal purposes, each such licensee or exemptee must file with the Commission, on or before November 1 of each year, a statement under oath showing the following information with respect to the power generated by the project and the disposition thereof during the preceding fiscal year, expressed in kilowatt-hours: (i) Gross amount of power generated by the project. (ii) Amount of power used for station purposes and lost in transmission, etc. (iii) Net amount of power available for sale or use by licensee or exemptee, classified as follows: (A) Used by licensee or exemptee. (B) Sold by licensee or exemptee. (2) When the power from a licensed or exempted project owned by a State or municipality enters into its electric system, making it impracticable to meet the requirements of this section with respect to the disposition of project power, such licensee or exemptee may, in lieu thereof, furnish similar information with respect to the disposition of the available power of the entire electric system of the licensee or exemptee. (e) Transmission lines. For projects involving transmission lines only, the administrative charge will be stated in the license. (f) Minimum and maximum charges. (1) The minimum annual charge under this section will be $100 per year for each licensed or exempted project, subject to reduction based on partial or total exemption pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. (2) No licensed or exempted project's annual charge may exceed a maximum charge established each year by the Commission to equal 2.0 percent of the adjusted costs of administration of the hydropower regulatory program. For every project with an annual charge determined to be above the maximum charge, that project's annual charge will be set at the maximum charge, and any amount above the maximum charge will be reapportioned to the remaining projects. The reapportionment will be computed using the method outlined in paragraph (c) of this section (but excluding any project whose annual charge is already set at the maximum amount). This procedure will be repeated until no project's annual charge exceeds the maximum charge. (g) Commission's costs. (1) With respect to costs incurred by the Commission, the assessment of annual charges will be based on an estimate of the costs of administration of Part I of the Federal Power Act that will be incurred during the fiscal year in which the annual charges are assessed. After the end of the fiscal year, the assessment will be recalculated based on the costs of administration that were actually incurred during that fiscal year; the actual costs will be compared to the estimated costs; and the difference between the actual and estimated costs will be carried over as an adjustment to the assessment for the subsequent fiscal year. (2) The issuance of bills based on the administrative costs incurred by the Commission during the year in which the bill is issued will commence in 1993. The annual charge for the administrative costs that were incurred in fiscal year 1992 will be billed in 1994. At the licensee's option, the charge may be paid in three equal annual installments in fiscal years 1994, 1995, and 1996, plus any accrued interest. If the licensee elects the three-year installment plan, the Commission will accrue interest (at the most recent yield of two-year Treasury securities) on the unpaid charges and add the accrued interest to the installments billed in fiscal years 1995 and 1996.
