FR940805-0-00057 FR940805-0-00021 Minimum Share and Matching Considerations (§§388.21(a) and 388.30) Comments: Five commenters suggested deleting §388.21(a)(4), which provides a minimum share of not less than one-eighth of one percent of the amounts made available for in-service training to Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Republic of Palau. The commenters believe agencies in the territories, some of which have as many employees as small designated State agencies, should receive the same minimum share of not less than one-third of one percent of the amounts made available for the fiscal year as provided in §388.21(a)(3) to small agencies. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the same minimum share provided to small designated State agencies is appropriate for the specified territories. The Secretary also notes that the territories are eligible to compete for the remaining funds to be allocated based on the quality of the application as determined by competitive reviews conducted by the Department using the selection criteria in §388.20 and the priorities in §388.22. Changes: A revision has been made to §388.21(a) by deleting paragraph (4) so that all grant recipients receive the same minimum share of the sums made available for in-service training for the fiscal year. A revision of §388.30, deleting paragraph (c), which provides special matching considerations for the territories, also has been made in the final regulations. Program Purpose (§388.1) Comments: Two commenters requested definitions for the terms ``succession planning'' and ``capacity building'' used in §388.1. Discussion: The Secretary notes that these terms are found in the statute, but are optional for State agencies to address in their in-service training. There are alternative ways to address these concepts, and the Secretary prefers not to define them, thus leaving the widest possible discretion to State agencies. Changes: None. Comment: A commenter observed that §388.1 should be revised, and the regulations changed throughout, to emphasize human resource development in place of training. Peer reviewers should be oriented to human resource development prior to their service as reviewers. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the term human resource development is descriptive of many appropriate activities under this program. However, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, uses the term ``in-service training,'' so that term is used in the regulations. Changes: None. Annual Needs Assessment (§388.20(a)(2)(iii)) Comments: Three commenters addressed the requirement in §388.20(a)(2)(iii) for an annual needs assessment of in-service training needs. The commenters believe an annual assessment is not necessary and recommend a comprehensive needs assessment every three years and a less comprehensive review annually. Discussion: Although an assessment must be conducted during the course of the project period, the Secretary agrees that a comprehensive assessment is not needed annually. Changes: A revision, deleting the word ``annual,'' has been made to §388.20(a)(2)(iii) in the final regulations. Project Length Comments: Three commenters noted that the regulations do not specify the length of projects. Recommendations of project periods of 36 and 60 months were made. Discussion: The Secretary notes that regulations usually do not specify project duration and instead leave flexibility for the Secretary to determine an appropriate project period each time a competition is announced. Changes: None. Allowable Costs (§388.31(d)) Comment: A commenter asked that the phrase ``in connection with a distance learning training course'' be dropped from the description of allowable telecommunications and technology fees in §388.31(d). Discussion: The Secretary agrees that distance learning may include valuable in-service training activities, such as a lecture or technology demonstration, that are not part of a training course. Changes: Section 388.31(d) has been revised by deleting the words ``in connection with a distance learning training course.'' Distance Education Priority (§388.22(b)(2)) Comment: A commenter noted that it was an unnecessary limitation to require that distance education for rehabilitation workers be at their job sites as stated in §388.22(b)(2). The commenter noted that it may be necessary or efficient for an agency to gather a group of employees at a central location removed from individual offices for distance education. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that there is no compelling reason to require in this priority that training occur at an individual job site. Changes: Section 388.22(b)(2) has been revised by deleting the words ``at their job sites.''
