FR940912-0-00014 FR940912-0-00005 The FCA has also recently received the results of a study it commissioned through the University of Illinois to perform independently of the development of these regulations (University of Illinois study). This study examined the loan origination volume, associated defaults, and loan losses for a specific Farm Credit district for a period between 1973 and 1992 to determine, among other things, whether large loans have a higher default rate than small loans. In addition, the Farm Credit Council, on behalf of the System institutions, has provided additional loan-size and loan-loss data to the FCA for further consideration of the de minimis level. Finally, the American Bankers Association (ABA) has also completed a survey, 8 which included a sample of 246 commercial banks of various sizes and portfolio structures. The survey stratified the loan portfolios by loan size and by loan type (construction, farmland, multifamily, and nonfarm). 9 8 ``Commercial Real Estate Appraisal Survey''; Surveys and Statistics Division, American Bankers Association; Report of Results, June 4, 1992. 9 The total sample of the ABA survey consisted of 9,329 banks of various sizes with 51,931 loans reported for a total sample volume of $22 billion (average size loan is $424,000, average size farmland loan is $83,900, and average commercial loan is $820,000). Upon review of the available data, the University of Illinois' study data, the System's data, and the ABA's commercial bank data, several conclusions can be drawn. Each of the studies attempted to study the correlation between loan losses and loan size. There appears to be very little difference in the average size of the ABA reported farmland loans and the System institutions' loans. The establishment of a consistent threshold level would encompass similar percentages of the farmland-based loan portfolio of System institutions and commercial banks. However, the System institutions will have a greater percentage of farmland-based loan volume that would be in excess of a $250,000 de minimis level. An increase in the de minimis level would result in the System institutions being afforded the same flexibility as the commercial lenders to perform collateral valuations rather than USPAP-based, State-sanctioned appraisals. This will result in a significant reduction in the number of loans that would require the use of a State-sanctioned appraiser 10 and thus result in cost savings to the borrowers/consumers. The System data indicate that the difference in the cost of an appraisal versus a valuation averages approximately $300 per evaluation. Such reported cost differences are consistent with cost data that have been reported by the commercial banking industry. 10 Under the current FCA de minimis level of $100,000 approximately 80 percent of the number (38 percent of the volume) of FCBs' and associations' real estate loans would be exempted. With an increase of the de minimis level to $250,000, 95 percent of the number of loans and 66 percent of the loan volume would be exempted from the appraisal requirements. The FCA recognizes that increasing the de minimis level will reduce the number of transactions requiring a USPAP appraisal completed by a State-sanctioned appraiser. The FCA's analysis of the available data suggested that for loans in excess of $250,000, the rate of loss justifies the cost of the USPAP appraisal requirement, while for loans of less than $100,000, the cost of requiring USPAP appraisals may exceed the volume of losses. For loans in the $100,000 to $250,000 range, the data do not clearly establish that the rate of loss justifies the cost of requiring USPAP appraisals. Therefore, the FCA believes that a de minimis level of $250,000 is a reasonable point above which the additional appraisal requirements are justified. In addition, the FCA is comfortable that safety and soundness concerns at or below $250,000 can be adequately addressed by the collateral valuation requirements of the regulations. B. Business Loans The regulations amend ยง614.4260(b) to provide the System institutions with a $1.0 million threshold for requiring appraisals for small- and medium-sized ``business loans'' where the loan repayment is not derived from the sale or cash rental of real estate. The purpose of this exemption is to provide greater flexibility for institutions to provide credit to small- and medium-sized businesses where the owners are subject to the risk of operational losses. The exemption is not intended to ease credit requirements for real estate investors or passive landowners. A $1.0 million exemption would be consistent with the positions taken by the Federal regulatory agencies and will afford the System institutions a ``level playing field'' with respect to the required use of State-sanctioned appraisers. Based on FCA's analysis of the data studies, it should be noted that, in addition to the additional 15 percent (by number) of System loans exempted by the new $250,000 de minimis level exception, approximately an additional 5 percent of the number of loans will be exempted by the $1.0 million ``business loan'' exemption.
