FR940725-0-00047 FR940725-0-00008 (p) Free appropriate public education. Special education and related services for children ages 3&hyph;21 years (inclusive) that: (1) Are provided at no cost (except as provided in paragraph (xx)(1) of this section, to parents or child with a disability and are under the general supervision and direction of a Section 6 School Arrangement. (2) Are provided at an appropriate preschool, elementary, or secondary school. (3) Are provided in conformity with an Individualized Education Program. (4) Meet the requirements of this part. (q) Frequency and intensity. The number of days or sessions that a service will be provided, the length of time that the service is provided during each session, whether the service is provided during each session, and whether the service is provided on an individual or group basis. (r) Health services. Services necessary to enable an infant or toddler, to benefit from the other early intervention services under this part during the time that the infant or toddler is receiving the other early intervention services. The term includes: (1) Such services as clean intermittent catheterization, tracheostomy care, tube feeding, the changing of dressings or osteotomy collection bags, and other health services. (2) Consultation by physicians with other service providers on the special health care needs of infants and toddlers with disabilities that will need to be addressed in the course of providing other early intervention services. (3) The term does not include the following: (i) Services that are surgical in nature or purely medical in nature. (ii) Devices necessary to control or treat a medical condition. (iii) Medical or health services that are routinely recommended for all infants or toddlers. (s) Hearing impairment. A hearing loss, whether permanent or fluctuating, that adversely affects an infant's, toddler's, preschool child's, or child's educational performance. (t) High probability for developmental delay. An infant or toddler with a medical condition that places him or her at substantial risk of evidencing a developmental delay before the age of 5 years without the benefit of early intervention services. (u) Include; such as. Not all the possible items are covered, whether like or unlike the ones named. (v) Independent evaluation. An evaluation conducted by a qualified examiner who is not employed by the DoD Section 6 Schools. (w) Individualized education program (IEP). A written statement for a preschool child or child with a disability (ages 3&hyph;21 years inclusive) developed and implemented in accordance with this part (appendix B to this part).
