FR940503-2-00126 FR940503-2-00085 [Release No. 34&hyph;33958; File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;12] Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Depository Trust Company; Order Temporarily Approving a Proposed Rule Change Expanding the Money Market Instrument Settlement Program on a Pilot Basis April 22, 1994. On October 19, 1993, The Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;12) under section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 to implement a pilot program to include additional types of money market instruments (``MMIs'') in its MMI settlement program. Notice of the proposal was published in the Federal Register on November 8, 1993. 2 The Commission did not receive any comment letters on the proposed rule change. 3 For the reasons discussed below, the Commission is granting temporary approval of the pilot program until April 30, 1995. 1 15 U.S.C. 78(b)(1) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33126 (November 1, 1993), 58 FR 59283. 3 At the request of the Commission, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (``FRBNY''), and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (``Fed'') DTC issued a notice to participants requesting comment on issues raised by the regulators. DTC received ten comment letters. The issues and the comment letters will be discussed in detail later in this approval order. I. Description A. Generally The proposed rule change makes DTC's existing MMI settlement services available for transactions in additional types of MMIs. New MMI programs include those for institutional certificates of deposit (``CD''), municipal commercial paper, and bankers' acceptances. The existing DTC MMI programs to be expanded or enhanced include those for corporate commercial paper, medium-term notes, preferred stock in a CP-like mode, short-term bank notes, and discount notes. The new MMI programs, along with the existing MMI programs, are an extension of DTC's Same-Day Funds Settlement (``SDFS'') system. 4 The automated operating procedures for MMIs are virtually the same as those followed by SDFS participants and by Institutional Delivery (``ID'') system users for basic depository services in other eligible SDFS securities. The MMI issues being made SDFS-eligible will be distributed in book-entry-only form by the issuer's issuing agent that, as in the commercial paper (``CP'') and medium-term note MMI programs, will send MMI issuance instructions to DTC electronically. Settlement of an issue will be on the same day as the issuance or on a specified future day. The issuer's paying agent, that will also serve as DTC's custodian, will hold a master or balance MMI certificate for DTC unless the issuer and its issuing and paying agent bank choose to distribute uncertificated MMIs through DTC. 5 Because SDFS-eligible MMIs will be book-entry-only, participant operating procedures for deposits and withdrawals will not apply to MMIs. 4 DTC's SDFS system currently includes the following issue types: Corporate commercial paper, municipal notes and bonds, municipal variable-rate demand obligations, zero coupon bonds backed by U.S. Government securities, continuously offered medium-term corporate notes, short-term bank notes, auction-rate and tender-rate preferred stocks and notes, collateralized mortgage obligations and other asset-backed securities, Government trust certificates and Government agency securities not eligible for the Fed's book-entry system, retail certificates of deposit, corporate and municipal variable mode obligations, corporate bonds, discount notes, and unit trusts. For a detailed description and discussion of DTC's SDFS system, including the implementation of the commercial paper program, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 26051 (August 31, 1988), 53 FR 34853 [File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;88&hyph;06] (order permanently approving DTC's SDFS system) and 30986 (July 31, 1992), 57 FR 35856 [File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;92&hyph;01] (order approving implementation of commercial paper program). 5 Uncertificated MMIs are not evidenced by any certificate whatsoever. Bills, notes, bonds, and other securities have been issued in uncertificated form by U.S. government and federal agencies for many years. B. New MMI Programs The fundamental risk in the SDFS system is that a participant will default in its payment obligation. The new MMI programs are offered as an extension of DTC's current SDFS system; therefore, DTC will employ the same risk management controls ( e.g., net debit collateralization, net debit caps, and receiver-authorized deliveries) to transactions in these new programs as are employed in the current SDFS system. 6 6 supra note 4. Net debit collateralization requires each participant to maintain in its account throughout the processing day collateral at least equal in value to the participant's net settlement debit. If during the processing day a transaction will cause a net debit greater than the amount of collateral in the participant's account at the time the transaction is being processed, DTC will recycle the transaction until there is sufficient collateral in the participant's account. Transactions in the new MMI programs also will be subject to the participant's net debit cap. 7 The net debit cap helps to protect against abnormal intraday debit peaks that are out of line with a participant's prior month's average daily activity level. The net debit cap also reduces the possibility that the failure to settle by more than one participant will not cause DTC to exceed its liquidity resources. The new MMI programs also will utilize the receiver-authorized delivery control which allows a participant to monitor deliveries and payment orders directed to its account before the orders are posted to the account. 7 Each participant's net debit is limited throughout the processing day to a net debit cap that is the least of the following four amounts: (1) an amount forty times the participant's required and voluntary deposits to the SDFS fund, (2) an amount that is equal to seventy-five percent of DTC's liquidity resources, including cash deposits to the SDFS fund and lines of credit for loans to facilitate SDFS settlement, (3) an amount, if any, determined by the participant's settling bank, and (4) an amount, if any, determined by DTC. Supra note 4.
