FR940429-0-00086 FR940429-0-00011 The Secretary also does not agree that it would be appropriate to assume that all claims which have been paid as defaults have been properly serviced or collected. While failure to pay a default claim may be based on a finding of improper servicing or collection, payment of a default claim is not absolute proof of compliance with the Secretary's requirements. Accordingly, institutions should have the opportunity to review servicing and collection records relating to these loans. In regard to the issue of a lender's failure to respond to deferment requests, the Secretary notes that he has consistently treated deferment errors as ``erroneous data'' in adjudicating appeals of cohort default rate determinations. This treatment benefits the appealing institution since a determination that erroneous data was reported results in the affected loan being removed from the calculation of defaulted loans (the numerator), but it remains in the calculation of loans in repayment (the denominator). In contrast, loans which are excluded from the calculation of the cohort default rate based on improper servicing or collection are excluded from both the numerator and the denominator. The Secretary does not believe there is any reason to change his treatment of deferment errors. Finally, the Secretary notes that guaranty agency servicing is not relevant to the default rate calculation. A guaranty agency does not begin to service a loan until it has already defaulted and, thus, its servicing does not affect the institution's cohort default rate. Comment : Some commenters proposed that the Secretary remove from the calculation of the cohort default rate loans on which the lender did not request preclaims assistance from the guaranty agency or on which the agency did not provide notice of the request to the institution. Response : A lender's failure to request preclaims assistance could, in certain circumstances, be considered improper servicing or collection if it would result in the loss of reinsurance on the principal of the loan based on the applicable rules and policies and if the borrower defaulted due to lack of notification that the time for repayment had begun. Comment : Some commenters suggested that an institution should remain eligible to participate in the FFEL program during the appeal process. Response : As provided in current regulations, an eligible institution that files and pursues an appeal in accordance with the regulatory requirements will be able to continue to participate in the FFELP until and unless the Secretary issues a decision determining that the institution's cohort default rates remain above the threshold limits.
