FR940802-2-00096 FR940802-2-00054 On the first issue, the courts have said that the time limits in an eligibility rule such as Section 15 of the Code are contractual, they do not operate like a statute of limitations, and, therefore, they are generally not subject to tolling. See, e.g., AT&T Technologies, supra; Paine Webber Inc. v. Hofmann, 984 F.2d 1372 (3d Cir. 1993). The NASD has not applied tolling to eligibility issues historically, and does not plan to apply tolling under the proposed rule. 20 Contrary to the assertion of the commenter, application of the eligibility limit without tolling will not deprive investors of their right to recourse. An ineligible claimant will retain his right to seek relief in the courts to the same extent as it existed prior to filing the claim in arbitration. 20 Section 18(b) of the Code provides that the six year limitation on submission to arbitration provided under Section 15 of the Code is tolled for so long as a court of competent jurisdiction retains jurisdiction over the matter. This provision is a contractual tolling provision which prevents the eligibility limit from running under the narrow circumstance specified. Equitable tolling, by contrast, is a creature of the equitable powers of the courts to the effect that the fraud or dilatory conduct of the defendant should not be permitted to result in the lapse of time for bringing a cause of action. As stated above, the eligibility limitation addresses only the access of parties to the NASD's forum, not the merits of the claim, defenses thereto or the ability of a claimant to pursue his claim in court. On the second issue, also raised in the February 4, 1994 letter from the SEC, the proposed rule change will require bifurcation of claims to the extent claims which are based on events or occurrences more than six years prior to the filing of the claim will be ineligible for arbitration. Thus, where a statement of claim sets forth events or occurrences as the basis for claims for relief, those which occurred less than six years ago will be eligible for arbitration, while the claimant would be required to pursue his remedies in court for claims based on events or occurrences more than six years old. In the NASD's view, bifurcation is an acceptable result in such cases. See Pompano-Windy City Partners v. Bear Stearns & Co., 698 F.Supp. 504 (S.D.N.Y. 1988), citing Dean Witter Reynolds v. Byrd, 470 U.S. 213, 225 (1985) (White, J. concurring). With respect to the third issue, the NASD takes no position on how such bifurcated claims should proceed. The NASD's Arbitration Department manages its docket without regard to issues facing participants in other forums. To the extent a court permits or requires the ineligible portion of a bifurcated matter to proceed, it is entirely within its power to do so. Finally, on the fourth issue, it is not only fair, but essential for public arbitration claimants, for the proposed rule change to bar parties from seeking to enforce an agreement to arbitrate where the claim has been determined to be ineligible. For example, if a claim is ruled ineligible, the proposed rule will bar the respondent from seeking an order from a court compelling the arbitration of the case. This will relieve the claimant of defending against such collateral attacks on the eligibility determination while pursuing his remedies in court, a situation which would be vexatious and expensive for claimants. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: A. By order approve such proposed rule change, or B. Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments The NASD's proposed rule change addresses an important issue increasingly common in arbitration proceedings, namely, the use of contentious litigation tactics to determine whether claims are eligible for arbitration under NASD rules. Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. The Commission requests that, in addition to any general comments concerning whether the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 15A(b)(6) of the Act, commentators address the following:
