FR940429-0-00273 FR940429-0-00015 (F) Falsification, including false certifications, of any document pertaining to the performance of any loan collection activity, including activity that is not required by the HEA or applicable program regulations. (4) The hearing official bases findings of fact only on evidence considered at the hearing and on matters given judicial notice. If a hearing is conducted solely through written submissions, the parties must agree to findings of fact. (b) (1) In a suspension proceeding, the Secretary reviews the hearing official's initial decision and issues a final decision within 20 days after the initial decision. The Secretary adopts the initial decision unless it is clearly unsupported by the evidence presented at the hearing. (2) The Secretary notifies the institution or servicer and, in the case of a suspension proceeding against a third-party servicer, each institution that contracts with the servicer of the final decision. If the Secretary suspends the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility, the suspension takes effect on the later of_ (i) The day that the institution or servicer receives the notice; or (ii) The date specified in the designated department official's original notice of intent to suspend the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility. (3) A suspension may not exceed 60 days unless a designated department official begins a limitation or termination proceeding under this subpart before the expiration of that period. In that case, the period may be extended until a final decision is issued in that proceeding according to paragraph (c) of this section. (c) (1) In a fine, limitation, or termination proceeding, the hearing official's initial decision automatically becomes the Secretary's final decision 30 days after the initial decision is issued and received by both parties unless, within that 30-day period, the institution or servicer, as applicable, or the designated department official appeals the initial decision to the Secretary. (2) (i) A party may appeal the hearing official's initial decision by submitting to the Secretary, within 30 days after the party receives the initial decision, a brief or other written statement that explains why the party believes that the Secretary should reverse or modify the decision of the hearing official. (ii) At the time the party files its appeal submission, the party shall provide a copy of that submission to the opposing party. (iii) The opposing party shall submit its brief or other responsive statement to the Secretary, with a copy to the appellant, within 30 days after the opposing party receives the appellant's brief or written statement. (iv) The appealing party may submit proposed findings of fact or conclusions of law. However, the proposed findings of fact must be supported by_ (A) The evidence introduced into the record at the hearing; (B) Stipulations of the parties if the hearing consisted of written submissions; or (C) Matters that may be judicially noticed. (v) Neither party may introduce new evidence on appeal. (vi) The initial decision of the hearing official imposing a fine or limiting or terminating the institution's participation or servicer's eligibility does not take effect pending the appeal. (vii) The Secretary renders a final decision. The Secretary may delegate to a designated department official the functions described in paragraph (c)(2) (vii) through (ix) of this section. (viii) In rendering a final decision, the Secretary considers only evidence introduced into the record at the hearing and facts agreed to by the parties if the hearing consisted only of written submissions and matters that may be judicially noticed. (ix) If the hearing official finds that a termination is warranted pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Secretary may affirm, modify, or reverse the initial decision, or may remand the case to the hearing official for further proceedings consistent with the Secretary's decision. If the Secretary affirms the initial decision without issuing a statement of reasons, the Secretary adopts the opinion of the hearing official as the decision of the Secretary. If the Secretary modifies, remands, or reverses the initial decision, in whole or in part, the Secretary's decision states the reasons for the action taken. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1082, 1094) 30. Section 668.91 is amended by revising the heading; and revising paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (b) heading, (b)(1), (b)(2) introductory text, and (c) to read as follows: §668.91 Filing of requests for hearings and appeals; confirmation of mailing and receipt dates. (a) *␣*␣* (1) A request by an institution or third-party servicer for a hearing or show-cause opportunity, other material submitted by an institution or third-party servicer in response to a notice of proposed action under this subpart, or an appeal to the Secretary under this subpart must be filed with the designated department official by hand-delivery, mail, or facsimile transmission. (2) Documents filed by facsimile transmission must be transmitted to the designated department official identified, either in the notice initiating the action, or, for an appeal, in instructions provided by the hearing official, as the individual responsible to receive them. A party filing a document by facsimile transmission must confirm that a complete and legible copy of the document was received by the Department of Education, and may be required by the designated department official to provide a hard copy of the document. * * * * * (b) Confirmation of mailing and receipt dates. (1) The mailing date of a notice from a designated department official initiating an action under this subpart is the date evidenced on the original receipt of mailing from the U.S. Postal Service. (2) The date on which a request for a show-cause opportunity, a request for a hearing, other material submitted in response to a notice of action under this subpart, a decision by a hearing official, or a notice of appeal is received is, as applicable_ * * * * * (c) Refusals. If an institution or third-party servicer refuses to accept a notice mailed under this subpart, the Secretary considers the notice as being received on the date that the institution or servicer refuses to accept the notice. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 31. Section 668.92 is revised to read as follows: §668.92 Fines. (a) In determining the amount of a fine, the designated department official, hearing official, and Secretary take into account_ (1) (i) The gravity of an institution's or third-party servicer's violation or failure to carry out the relevant statutory provision, regulatory provision, special arrangement, agreement, or limitation entered into under the authority of statutes applicable to Title IV of the HEA; or
