FR940203-2-00145 FR940203-2-00068 Selection Criteria_General Comment: One commenter believed the notice must be strengthened to ensure that all youth receive the assistance and services they need to fully participate and succeed and processes are in place for identifying and addressing disparities in participation and success. The commenter recommended that the Secretaries add a selection factor that reads: ``Are there adequate State and local provisions to ensure equal access to all programs and program components; supplemental services and accommodations necessary for various students to participate and succeed; the collecting of disaggregated data on how well different groups are being served; and the taking of effective steps to remedy unequal participation or outcomes (based on data concerning how groups need to be served)?'' Discussion: In reviewing applications under this competition, the Secretaries will seek to determine the extent to which applications propose realistic strategies and programs to ensure that ``all students'' have an opportunity to participate in the State's School-to-Work Opportunities programs. In order to succeed in a School-to-Work Opportunities program, some students may need additional assistance. In this regard, the selection criterion ``Student Participation'' will be used to assess applicants' strategies for recognizing barriers to participation and proposing effective ways of overcoming them. However, the program funded under this competition does not purport to guarantee access to every student. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that the selection criteria consider the extent and quality of a State's implementation of key Perkins Act provisions, including all aspects of the industry, academic-vocational integration, full access, services and success for individuals who are members of special populations, and effective participatory planning with students, parents, teachers, and area residents in terms of: (a) the extent of the State's current implementation of those provisions, and (b) how they will be coordinated with and incorporated into the comprehensive school-to-work system. This commenter believed the individual States' track records in implementing these Perkins Act provisions would be good indicators of their capacities for commitments to high quality implementation of School-to-Work Opportunities systems. Discussion: Because the School-to-Work Opportunities system to be developed and implemented under the priority will involve the coordination of education and training resources of many different Federal, State, and private sources, the Secretaries believe that a State's track record in implementing Perkins Act provisions, while important, is only one of many critical factors that serve as indicators of commitment and ultimately contribute to a successful School-to-Work Opportunities system. The Secretaries do not believe that giving special emphasis to a State's implementation of provisions under the Perkins Act fosters the intent that States develop comprehensive School-to-Work Opportunities systems that incorporate the best practices and programs regardless of funding source. Changes: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2387 Filed 2&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
