FR940203-1-00024 FR940203-1-00005 The charges in all of these transition years, however, would be subject to the proposed minimum and maximum charges. 21 In addition, in all of these transition years, charges would be assessed only with respect to hydropower projects that have been constructed or whose construction has commenced. 22 21 Thus, even during the transition period the minimum charge would be $100 and the maximum charge would not exceed two percent of the total of all charges assessed. See Appendices A and B for illustrative examples. 22 The regulatory amendments proposed herein are intended to be purely prospective in nature. Thus, to the extent that any licensee has obtained approval for an installment or deferred payment plan, the amendments, if adopted, would not extinguish that licensee's responsibility to pay whatever amounts were assessed under the existing regulations even if such amounts have been deferred for later payment. Finally, as discussed above, if the major changes have their most significant impact only on minor licensees and exemptees, a transition period could be established solely for those entities. C. From Horsepower to Kilowatts As discussed above, the existing regulations at §11.1 provide different allocation formulae for municipal and non-municipal projects of more than 2,000 horsepower of installed capacity. Both formulae, however, take into account a project's authorized installed capacity defined in terms of horsepower. The computation of a project's capacity in terms of horsepower likely arose in the earlier years of the Commission's regulatory oversight, when the then-existing projects included a greater percentage of hydromechanical equipment. 23 Today, however, the determination of a hydroelectric project's authorized capacity is generally stated in terms of kilowatts; that is the manner in which authorized capacity is stated in the licenses. 24 In fact, the Commission's staff determines a project's horsepower capacity by converting kilowatts into horsepower. Therefore, the Commission proposes to revise §11.1 to substitute kilowatts for horsepower in stating a project's authorized installed capacity. 23 In other words, horsepower was a convenient measure for comparing the capacity of hydropower projects, some of which generated electricity and some which did not. In rough terms, horsepower measures the weight that an average draft horse can pull in a circular path around a rotary grinder. The common definition in the United States is that one horsepower is equal to 550 foot-pounds per second or approximately 746 watts. 24 The exception is that the license article on annual charges states the capacity in horsepower. For the few licensed hydromechanical projects, all of which are quite small, the Commission would impute a kilowatt figure by multiplying these projects' existing horsepower capacity by three-fourths. We believe that using kilowatts as the standard and converting the few hydromechanical project capacities into an imputed kilowatt capacity is far easier than converting all of the hydroelectric project capacities from kilowatts to horsepower. D. The Determination of Authorized Installed Capacity Questions have occasionally arisen as to how to define ``authorized installed capacity.'' What if the capacity of the generator exceeds the capacity of the turbine? What if the available stream flow is insufficient to fully utilize the capacity of the turbine and generator installed in the project? 25 25 Such situations might arise, for instance, if it were cheaper for a project operator to purchase an ``off-the-shelf'' or a used generator whose capacity exceeded the capacity of the turbine or the stream flow available at the project site. The Commission proposes to take this occasion to clarify the concept of ``authorized installed capacity'' by defining it. The authorized installed capacity would be expressed in kilowatts, and would be the lesser of the capacity of the generator or the turbine. Thus, if the capacity of the generator exceeded the capacity of the turbine, then the capacity of the turbine would apply, and vice-versa. The availability of stream flow, however, would not be considered. 26 26 The proposed rule would codify the policy articulated in Public Utility District No. 2 of Grant County, Washington, 62 FERC ¶61,229 (1993). The capacity would be based on the actual power of the equipment in question without regard to whatever ``nameplate'' rating might be physically affixed to the unit (although, with respect to a new or unmodified unit, the ``nameplate rating'' may well coincide with the definition proposed herein). If the generator or turbine are subsequently modified, such as by rewinding the generator, the capacity would be recalculated accordingly. We believe that the proposed definition provides a means of determining capacity that is both workable and fair. The capacity of the generator and the turbine are reasonably ascertainable, and do not involve the potential complexities and controversies inherent in determining the availability of usable stream flow. If a project operator, for whatever reason, chose to purchase, install or operate equipment whose capacity exceeded the available stream flow needed to operate it, the operator would have to accept the consequence of having that equipment's capacity used as the basis for determining the project's annual charges. E. The Five Megawatt and Conduit Exemption Costs Section 30 of the FPA 27 provides that the Commission may exempt from the FPA's licensing provisions any facility (other than a dam, and within certain megawatt limits) which is constructed or operated to generate electric power, if the facility is located on non-federal land and ``utilizes for such generation only the hydroelectric potential of a manmade conduit, which is operated for the distribution of water for agricultural, municipal, or industrial consumption and not primarily for the generation of electricity.'' 27 18 U.S.C. 823a. Sections 405 and 408 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA), as amended by section 408 of the Energy Security Act of 1980, 28 provide that the Commission may exempt from the FPA's licensing requirements small hydroelectric power projects that are located at the site of an existing dam (or utilize natural water features without the need for a dam) and that have a proposed installed capacity of five megawatts (MW) or less. 28 16 U.S.C. 2708.
