FR940617-2-00160 FR940617-2-00093 Another professional body, the Société des Bourses Françaises, implements the CBV regulations, monitors the trading system, disseminates data on market conditions, provides a number of listing and issuing services and acts as a clearing house between member firms. The SBF handles day to day administration, surveillance, and development of the market. The Commission des opérations de bourse (COB), an independent administrative body, is responsible for overall supervision of French securities, options and futures markets. Under the Ordinance of September 28, 1967, setting up the COB, the COB is responsible for seeing to the protection of savings invested in securities and all other investments involving a public offering, to the provision of information to investors and to the proper functioning of markets for securities, listed financial products or negotiable futures contracts. If the SBF primarily regulates and carries out the surveillance of the market, including by controlling quotation rules, participant's risks or margin calls, the market surveillance carried out by the COB is of a different nature because the COB is entrusted with the broad mission of protecting investors. The market surveillance carried out by the COB aims at (i) detecting abnormal situations in the functioning of the markets (ii) sorting and treating data that enable the COB to check that its rules are complied with, including those relating to public offers and information of shareholders (iii) detecting securities and futures frauds as well as violations to the business codes of conduct and to regulations of the CBV and the Conseil des Marchés à Terme (Futures Market Council). The surveillance department of the Enforcement Division of the COB is connected to the various computers of the Paris Bourse, among which the CAC, TOPVAL and REUTER workstations providing the COB with data on a real time basis. Moreover, the COB has set up its own data base directly linked to the Paris Bourse, the MONEP and the MATIF. On December 14, 1989, the Commission des opérations de bourse and the Securities and Exchange Commission entered into an administrative agreement on cooperation and exchange of information. This Administrative Agreement entered into force on January 31, 1991. Under this Agreement, the COB and the SEC may exchange transaction information, including the identity of customers, where necessary, in the course of an investigation initiated by either of the Commissions. D. Laws and Regulations Governing Fraudulent and Manipulative Practices Provisions relating to fraudulent and manipulative practices are set forth mainly in the Ordinance of September 28, 1967, and in COB Regulation No. 90.04 and No. 90.08. 17 Article 10.1 of the Ordinance of September 1967 makes it a criminal offense for any persons who have access to privileged information on an issuer of securities or on the futures prospects of a security or a negotiable future contract to effect transactions on the market, either directly or through a third party, before the general public was aware of this information. It would also be a criminal offense for such a person to communicate such information to a third party outside the normal course of his professional activities. Under article 10.1, criminal sanctions shall also apply to any persons who have knowingly disseminated to the public, through whatever channels or means, false or deceitful information on an issuer of securities or on the future prospects of a security, a quoted financial product or a negotiable futures contract of such nature as to influence prices. Under article 10.3, similar penalties shall apply to any person who, either directly or indirectly, has knowingly carried out or attempted to carry out a purpose-fully misleading act on a financial market with the aim of impeding the normal functioning of the market. It should be stressed that under article 40 of the Criminal Proceeding Code, any governmental entity who becomes aware of a fact that may constitute a criminal offense has to transmit the information to the Public Prosecutor. 17 It could, however, be considered more generally that all regulations taken by the COB aim at preventing fraudulent practices and ensuring investors protection. The violation of COB Regulation No. 90.08 relating to the use of privileged information is sanctioned by the COB through an administrative proceeding. COB Regulation No. 90.04 provides that price setting on the market shall result from the general matching of bids and offers in compliance with the Regulation of the Conseil des Bourses de Valeurs or the Counseil du Marché à Terme. Orders transmitted on the market shall not be aimed at hindering or misleading the setting of prices on the market. If the COB so requires in the course of an investigation, any person transmitting orders on the market must be able to publicly explain the reasons for, and the details of, the orders. Regulation 2.3.11 of the CBV requires the member firms to maintain records of securities transaction effected by them. Such records must be maintained for at least five years from the date thereof. To ensure that the market's rules and business code of conduct are complied with by all participants, member firms must specify, when entering orders into the system, whether these orders come from customers or are being executed for the firm's own account, and whether such orders are the result of program trading. The required transaction information includes (i) the name of the security that is the subject of the transaction, (ii) the date of the transaction, (iii) the price and size of the transaction, (iv) whether the transaction was effected for a customer or a proprietary account, (v) the market on which the transaction is effected, (vi) whether the transaction was a purchase or a sale and (vii) the identity of the account on whose behalf the transaction was effected. III. Proposed Exemption From Rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7, 10b&hyph;8 A. Reasons for Relief The application of rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7 and 10b&hyph;8 to the activities of distribution participants and their affiliates outside the United States, as experienced on the occasion of several public offerings in the past few years, 18 often conflicts with market practices in France and impose compliance burdens and costs on French issuers and underwriters and their affiliated purchasers. The application of rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7 and 10b&hyph;8 outside the United States has and would have, inter alia, the following consequences, which jeopardize the success of primary or secondary offering. 18 Elf Acquitaine distributions: June 1991 and February 1994. Total distributions: October 1991 and June 1992. Alcatel Alsthom distribution: May 1992. Rhône-Poulenc distributions: January 1993 and November 1993. 1. Distribution participants, including the underwriters and in particular the lead underwriter would be unable to maintain an orderly market by buying and selling affected securities as principles during the offering, within the limits set forth in COB Regulations. Moreover, the affiliates of the distribution participants would be precluded from fulfilling their formal market-making obligations on the MONEP with respect to listed options that are affected securities. 2. The underwriters might not be able to continue certain of their regular contacts with customers such as discussions regarding investment strategies with respect to the rights and shares and might not be permitted to buy and sell affected securities in connection with their customers' trading activities. 3. Distribution participants' risk management activities would be restricted. They would be precluded by rule 10b&hyph;6 from hedging in derivatives or other affected securities. 4. Distribution participants' customary proprietary trading activities, involving arbitrage and other trading strategies would be curtailed. B. Scope of Exemption We propose that the Commission grant exemptions to the effect that rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7 and 10b&hyph;8 shall not apply to distribution participants, including issuers of qualified French securities (as defined below), and their affiliated purchasers (the Relevant Parties) in connection with transactions in Relevant Securities (as defined below) outside the United States during distributions in the United States of Qualified French Securities (as defined below), subject to the following terms, conditions and limitations: 1. Securities (a) The security being distributed (a ``Qualified French Security'') must: (i) Be issued by (aa) a ``foreign private issuer'' within the meaning of rule 3b&hyph;4 under the Exchange Act incorporated under the laws of France, which issuer (a ``French Issuer'') has outstanding a component security of the CAC 40 Index 19 (bb) or a subsidiary of a French Issuer; and 19 The CAC 40 is a regularly updated market capitalization weighted performance index of CAC 40 French Companies; the shares included in the CAC 40 are selected on the basis of their market capitalization, their trading volume and their sector of activity so that the CAC 40 index covers a diversified range of activities. References to the CAC 40 refer to the composition of the index on the date of this letter; provided, however, that any security added to the CAC 40 after the date of this letter also will be treated as a Qualified French Security if its issuer satisfies the requirements in 1.a.i and such security has an aggregate market value that equals or exceeds the equivalent of FF 6 billion (which exceeded US $1 billion at June 6, 1994,) and an average daily trading volume that equals or exceeds the equivalent of FF 30 million (which exceeded US $5 million at June 6, 1994,) as published by FFRAs (as defined in note 2 below) and any US securities exchanges or automated inter-dealer quotation systems during a period (the ``Reference Period'') that is 20 consecutive business days in Paris within 60 consecutive calendar days prior to the commencement of the Covered Period (as defined in 3.a below).
