FR941128-2-00016 FR941128-2-00010 Based upon our analysis of the petition and the responses to our questionnaires, we preliminarily determine the following: I. Programs Preliminarily Determined to be Countervailable A. Benefits Provided Under Law 675/77 Law 675/77 was enacted in 1977 to bring about restructuring and reconversion in the following industrial sectors: (1) electronic technology; (2) the manufacturing industry; (3) the agro-food industry; (4) the chemical industry; (5) the steel industry; (6) the pulp and paper industry; (7) the fashion sector; and (8) the automobile and aviation sectors. Law 675/77 also sought to promote optimal exploitation of energy resources, and ecological and environmental recovery. A primary goal of this legislation was to bring all government industrial assistance programs under a single law. Other goals were (1) to reorganize and develop the industrial sector as a whole; (2) to increase employment in the South; and (3) to maintain employment in depressed areas. Among other measures taken, the Interministerial Committee for the Coordination of Industrial Policy (``CIPI'') was created as a result of Law 675/77. CIPI approves individual projects in each of the industrial sectors listed above. Six main programs were provided under Law 675/77: (1) interest contributions on bank loans; (2) mortgage loans provided by the Ministry of Industry at subsidized interest rates; (3) interest contributions on funds raised by bond issues; (4) capital grants for projects in the South; (5) personnel retraining grants; and (6) VAT reductions on purchases of capital goods by companies in the South. Dalmine reported that it received benefits under items (1), (2), and (5) above. In its response, the GOI asserts that the steel and automobile industries did not receive a ``disproportionate'' share of benefits associated with interest contributions when the extent of government investment in those industries is compared to the extent of investment in other industries. However, in keeping with past practice, we did not consider the level of investment in the individual industries receiving benefits under Law 675/77. Instead, we followed the analysis outlined in Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel and Final Affirmative Countervailing Duty Determination: Certain Steel Products from Brazil , 58 FR 37295, 37295 (July 9, 1993), of comparing the share of benefits received by the steel industry to the collective share of benefits provided to other users of the programs. According to the information provided by the GOI, the two dominant users of the interest contribution program were (1) the Italian steel industry which accounted for 33 percent of the benefits, and (2) the auto industry which accounted for 34 percent of the benefits. Likewise, with respect to the mortgage loans, the two dominant users were the auto and steel industries which received 45 percent and 31 percent of the benefits, respectively. In light of the above evidence, we preliminarily determine that the steel industry was a dominant user of both the interest contribution and the mortgage loan programs under Law 675/77 because the steel industry has been a dominant user of these programs. ( See section 355.43(b)(2)(iii) of the Proposed Regulations .) Therefore, we preliminarily determine that benefits received by Dalmine under these programs are being provided to a specific enterprise or industry or group of enterprises or industries. On this basis, we preliminarily find Law 675/77 financing to be countervailable. Under the interest contribution program, Italian commercial banks provided loans to industries designated under Law 675/77. According to the responses of the GOI and Dalmine, the interest owed by the recipient companies was partially offset by interest contributions from the GOI. Dalmine received bank loans with interest contributions under Law 675/77 which were outstanding in the POI.
