FR940822-2-00020 FR940822-2-00017 Office of Economic Impact and Diversity Guidelines for Department of Energy Mentor Protege Initiative AGENCY: U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice of availability of guidelines and request for comment. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy is publishing and requests comments on its draft guidelines for its Mentor-Protege Pilot Initiative. The Mentor-Protege Pilot Initiative is designed to encourage Department of Energy management and operating contractors to assist energy related small disadvantaged and women-owned businesses in enhancing their business and technical capabilities to ensure full participation in the mission of the Department. DATES: Written comments on the draft guidelines and supporting materials are due on or before September 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments (3 copies) should be submitted to: U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, 1707 H Street, Room 915, Washington, DC 20585. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Brenda DeGraffenreid at (202) 254&hyph;5592. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Purpose and Program Overview The Department Energy Mentor-Protege Pilot Initiative is designed to encourage Department of Energy management and operating contractors to assist energy related small disadvantaged businesses in enhancing their business and technical capabilities to ensure full participation in the mission of the Department. The use of this integrated working arrangement between companies will promote economic and technological growth, foster the establishment of long term business relationships and increase the number of small disadvantaged businesses that receive Department of Energy, other Federal and commercial contracts. B. General Policy (a) Department of Energy management and operating contractors who are approved as mentor firms may enter into agreements with eligible small disadvantaged businesses as protege firms to provide appropriate developmental assistance to enhance the business and technical capabilities of small disadvantaged businesses to perform as contractors, subcontractors and suppliers. (b) The mentor-protege initiatives described in these regulations constitutes a pilot program that will have a duration of two years with a one year option commencing from the date of the published final rule. During this period, management and operating contractors, which have received approval by the Department of Energy to participate in the program may enter into agreements with protege firms. C. Incentives for Mentor Participation (a) Active participation in the Department of Energy Mentor Protege Initiative may be a source selection factor in the awarding of Department of Energy contracts. (b) The award fee evaluation plans contained in all Department of Energy Performance-Based Management contracts may include a factor for evaluation of a contractor's performance associated with Mentor-Protege initiative participation. (c) Mentor firms shall receive credit toward Department of Energy subcontracting goals contained in their subcontracting plan. D. Mentor Firms Department of Energy mentor candidates must be: (1) Management and operating contractors (M&Os) of Department of Energy facilities. E. Protege Firms Department of Energy Protege candidates must be: (1) A small disadvantaged or women-owned small business concern as defined by Federal Acquisition Regulation; (2) Certified as small in the Standard Industrial Classification code for the services or supplies to be provided by the protege to the mentor; (3) Eligible for receipt of government contracts, and; (4) In operation and actively engaged in an energy related, technical or construction business field for two years prior to applying for participation in the Mentor-Protege Initiative. F. Selection of Protege Firms (a) Protege selection will be implemented through a tier development plan as provided in subsection (b) below. This tier development plan is intended as a guide from which an ``individualized'' plan can be developed for each protege. The tier development structure recognizes the protege firms current business capacity and sets the parameters of assistance for monitoring purposes. (b) Mentor firms are encouraged to select proteges from each of the following areas: (1) Small disadvantaged businesses that presently have contracts or subcontracts with the Department; (2) Small disadvantaged businesses that are presently 8(a) or 8(a) graduates under the Small Business Administration Program that have been actively engaged in business for at least five years; and (3) Emerging small disadvantaged business firms that possess energy related or technical capability and have been actively engaged in business for at least two years. (c) Once a protege firm has been selected for participation in the program, a Mentor-Protege Plan signed by the respective firms should be submitted to the Office of Small Disadvantaged Business Utilization for approval. At the minimum, the Plan should contain a description of the developmental assistance that is mutually agreed upon and in the best developmental interest of the protege firm. Such assistance may not include payment of any monies.
