FR940114-2-00179 FR940114-2-00102 G. Bypass of Treatment Facilities 1. Bypass not exceeding limitations. The permittee may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause effluent limitations to be exceeded, but only if it also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this section. 2. Notice: a. Anticipated bypass. If the permittee knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit prior notice, if possible at least 10 days before the date of the bypass. b. Unanticipated bypass. The permittee shall submit notice of an unanticipated bypass as required under Part III.G., Notice of Noncompliance Reporting. 3. Prohibition of bypass. a. Bypass is prohibited and the Director or ADEC may take enforcement action against a permittee for a bypass, unless: (1) The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage; (2) There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and (3) The permittee submitted notices as required under paragraph 2 of this section. b. The Director and ADEC may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its adverse effects, if the Director and ADEC determine that it will meet the three conditions listed above in paragraph 3.a. of this section. H. Upset Conditions 1. Effect of an upset. An upset constitutes an affirmative defense to an action brought for noncompliance with such technology based permit effluent limitations if the requirements of paragraph 2 of this section are met. An administrative review of a claim that noncompliance was caused by an upset does not represent final administrative action for any specific event. A determination is not final until formal administrative action is taken for the specific violation(s). 2. Conditions necessary for a demonstration of upset. A permittee who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant evidence that: a. An upset occurred and that the permittee can identify the cause(s) of the upset; b. The permitted facility was at the time being properly operated; c. The permittee submitted notice of the upset as required under Part IV.G., Notice of Noncompliance Reporting; and d. The permittee complied with any remedial measures required under Part V.D., Duty to Mitigate. 3. Burden of proof. In any enforcement proceeding, the permittee seeking to establish the occurrence of an upset has the burden of proof. I. Toxic Pollutants The permittee shall comply with effluent standards or prohibitions established under section 307(a) of the Act for toxic pollutants within the time provided in the regulations that establish those standards or prohibitions, even if the permit has not yet been modified to incorporate the requirement. VI. General Requirements A. Changes in Discharge of Toxic Substances Notification shall be provided to the Director and ADEC as soon as the permittee knows of, or has reason to believe: 1. That any activity has occurred or will occur which would result in the discharge, on a routine or frequent basis, of any toxic pollutant which is not limited in the permit, if that discharge will exceed the highest of the following ``notification levels'':
