FR940503-1-00074 FR940503-1-00012 EPA has been unable to identify any foreign refiners other than PDVSA who intend to produce any reformulated gasoline, 11 though there nevertheless could be some because there is no requirement that refiners must announce their intentions at this time. The absence of identified foreign reformulated gasoline refiners (other than PDVSA) does present the possibility that there will be few, if any, foreign reformulated gasoline refiners who would have a ``cleaner''-than statutory baseline (but who would opt for the statutory baseline). If true, this would resolve EPA's gaming concern. 11 EPA does expect some imports of reformulated gasoline under the Final Rule's provision that applies to a foreign refinery that is owned by the U.S. importer and where at least 75% of the refinery's 1990 production was imported into the U.S. These refineries are relevant to this discussion. Moreover, even to the extent there are foreign refiners who would qualify for ``cleaner''-than-statutory baselines EPA believes there is a possibility that their gasoline would nevertheless be cleaner than the statutory baseline, which would limit the likelihood for adverse air quality effects. This possibility was presented to EPA by a foreign refiner who argued that such ``clean'' refiners may in fact be technologically incapable of relaxing production parameters so as to realize a benefit from the statutory baseline. To the extent this may be true, such ``clean'' refiners might reduce any adverse air quality impact associated with providing an option to establish individual baselines. The principal reason limiting the potential for adverse air quality effects from gaming under today's proposal is, however, that use of ``dirtier''-than-statutory individual baselines would be restricted. It has been argued that this would in turn limit any adverse air quality effects, in relation to the current final rule. 12 At the same time, any reformulated gasoline imported under an individual baseline would be required to meet the same standards that apply to any other refiner, foreign or domestic, with the same baseline. For the three parameters of interest under the simple model for reformulated gasoline, sulfur, olefins, and T&hyph;90, reformulated gasoline produced by a foreign or domestic refiner with an individual baseline would have to meet an annual average limit set at 100% of the individual baseline level for those parameters. This effectively requires that the gasoline stay as clean as it was in 1990, for those three specific parameters. 12 It is important to note that the potential for adverse air quality effects discussed in this preamble is in relation to gasoline that would be imported under the approach contained in the Final Rule, i.e., to imported gasoline that meets the statutory baseline. That comparison may not be fair. Another comparison that may be more appropriate would be with imported gasoline that is produced to each foreign refinery's individual baseline, like is done for domestic refiners. When imported gasoline is compared based on individual foreign refinery baselines, there may be no potential for adverse air quality effects from today's proposal. EPA has considered the level of emissions that would result from gasoline imported under the approach contained in the final rule, versus gasoline imported under the approach described in today's proposal. While no baselines have been established yet for any refiner or importer, PDVSA has submitted to the reformulated gasoline docket a record that describes the baseline it would be able to establish if given the opportunity. The baseline it describes is dirtier than the statutory baseline for some parameters, and cleaner for other parameters. In the case of sulfur and olefins, PDVSA's stated baseline levels would be significantly higher than the statutory baseline: PDVSA's claimed sulfur level is 644 parts per million (ppm), and the statutory baseline level is 339 ppm; PDVSA's claimed olefin level is 22 vol% and the statutory baseline level is 9.2 vol%. The environmental implication is that NO X emissions are higher with larger sulfur and olefin levels. Taking into account the volume of PDVSA's gasoline that is used in the Northeast U.S._its primary market, EPA's preliminary analysis shows that PDVSA's 1995 gasoline would increase overall NO X emissions there by only 0.08% during the high ozone season, 13 in comparison to the case where PDVSA would produce gasoline to meet the statutory baseline for sulfur and olefins. 13 The high ozone season is the appropriate period for evaluating NO X emissions, because NO X is of primary concern as an ozone precursor. Also, PDVSA's 1995 gasoline quality will be approximately equal to the quality of statutory gasoline in terms of VOC emissions, and will be much cleaner in terms of toxics emissions. 14 14 EPA has placed in the docket an analysis of the environmental impacts of the use of gasoline having properties equal to those described by PDVSA. The proposed program elements that would help to limit the impact of ``dirtier''-than-statutory baselines are the limited volume of a foreign refinery's reformulated gasoline that could use the individual baseline, the limited time period during which the individual baseline could be used, the fact that the individual baseline could be used only for reformulated gasoline, and EPA's belief that the individual baseline option would not be attractive to most foreign refiners.
