FR941219-2-00158 FR941219-2-00081 B. Other Suggested Exemptions The Summers letter suggested exempting municipal leases municipal notes, and municipal bonds sold to nondepository participants. The MSRB rejected this suggestion, stating that it was not aware of any reason that these types of securities should be treated differently than other municipal securities. III. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and particularly with the requirements of Section 15B(b)(2)(C). 14 Section 15B(b)(2)(C) requires that the rules of the MSRB be designed to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, and facilitating transactions in municipal securities. The proposed rule change meets this requirement by creating a more efficient, safe, and cohesive environment for the transfer of municipal securities. 14 15 U.S.C. 78o&hyph;4(b)(2)(C) (1988). By requiring dealers acquiring new issue municipal securities to apply for depository eligibility, the proposal will help to ensure that the great majority of new issue municipal securities are made depository eligible. As a result, the number of interdealer and institutional customer transactions that must be settled by book-entry under MSRB Rules G&hyph;12(f)(ii) and G&hyph;15(d)(iii) should increase greatly. By increasing the number of book-entry settlements and by limiting the number of physical deliveries that occur, the rule will enhance the efficiency of the clearance and settlement of municipal securities. As a consequence, a safer environment in which to facilitate transactions in municipal securities will exist. The proposed rule change also facilitates the conversion to T+3 settlement of municipal securities and thus promotes cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, and settling municipal securities. The Commission believes that the limited exemption for issues under $1 million in par value adequately addresses the concerns of the commenters. The PSA noted that almost 20% of the new issues in 1992 would have been eligible for the small issue exemption. The Commission believes that it is important that the vast majority of securities be made depository eligible. There are concerns, however, that underwriters of smaller issues may not be prepared for book-entry distribution. The Commission believes that the temporary exemption will give underwriters of smaller issues an opportunity to adapt to book-entry distribution while establishing a definite date by which smaller issues must be made depository eligible. The Commission also agrees with the MSRB's determination not to exempt municipal leases, municipal notes, and municipal bonds sold to nondepository participants. The Commission believes that every effort should be made to make as many types of municipal securities depository eligible as practicable. IV. Conclusion On the basis of the foregoing, the Commission finds that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the Act and particularly with Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. It is therefore ordered, pursaunt to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;13) be, and hereby is, approved and will become effective February 7, 1995. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 15 15 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31040 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
