FR940208-2-00113 FR940208-2-00075 15. Pursuant to the existing orders, applicants may assess and under certain circumstances, waive a CDSC on certain redemptions of shares. Applicants seek exemptive relief to the extent necessary to permit the Funds to assess a CDSC on certain redemptions of any class of Deferred Option shares of the Funds, and to waive or reduce the CDSC with respect to certain types of redemptions. 16. The amount of any CDSC will depend on the number of years since the investor made the purchase payment from which an amount is being redeemed and the net asset value of the shares at the time of redemption as set forth in a Fund's prospectus. 4 4 Under proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 (Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (Nov. 2, 19988)), a CDSC payable upon redemption is based on the lesser of the amount that represents a specified percentage of net asset value of the shares at the time of purchase or the amount that represents the same or a lower percentage of the net asset value of the shares at the time of redemption. 17. No CDSC will be imposed on (a) redemptions of shares purchased more than a specified period prior to their redemption or (b) Deferred Option shares derived from reinvestment of distributions. Further, no CDSC will be imposed on any amount representing an increase in the value of a shareholder's account due to capital appreciation. In determining the applicability and rate of any CDSC, it will be assumed that a redemption is made first of shares representing capital appreciation, next of shares representing reinvestment of dividends and capital gain distributions, and finally of shares held by the shareholder for the longest period of time. 18. The Funds request the ability to waive or reduce the CDSC in the following instances: (a) On redemptions following the death or disability of a shareholder, as defined in Section 72(m)(7) of the Code; (b) in connection with mandatory distributions from an IRA or other qualified retirement plan; (c) on redemptions pursuant to the Funds' right to liquidate accounts or charge an annual small account fee; and (d) upon the liquidation or dissolution of a Fund. If the Funds waive or reduce the CDSC, such waiver or reduction will be uniformly applied to all offerees in the class specified. 19. If a Fund discontinues any waiver described above, the disclosure in the Fund's prospectus will be appropriately revised. Any Deferred Option shares purchased prior to the termination of such waiver would be able to have the CDSC waived as provided in such Fund's prospectus at the time of the purchase of such shares. Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Applicants request an exemptive order to the extent that the proposed issuance and sale of multiple classes of shares representing interests in the Funds might be deemed: (a) To result in the issuance of a ``senior security'' within the meaning of section 18(g) and thus be prohibited by section 18(f)(1); and (b) to violate the equal voting provisions of section 18(i). 2. Applicants believe that the proposed Multi-Class System would better enable the Funds to meet the competitive demands of today's financial services industry. Applicants assert that the proposed arrangement would permit the Funds to facilitate both the distribution of their securities and provide investors with a broader choice as to the method of purchasing shares without assuming excessive accounting and bookkeeping costs or unnecessary investment risks. Moreover, applicants state that owners of shares may be relieved under the Multi-Class System of a portion of the fixed costs normally associated with mutual funds since such costs would, potentially, be spread over a greater number of shares than would otherwise be the case. 3. Applicants believe that the proposed Multi-Class System does not raise any of the legislative concerns that section 18 of the Act was designed to address. The Multi-Class System will not increase the speculative character of the shares of the Funds. The proposed arrangement does not involve borrowing, nor will it affect the Funds' existing assets or reserves.
