FR940126-2-00013 FR940126-2-00010 Finding of No Significant Impact: Interim Storage of Plutonium Components at the Pantex Plant, Amarillo, TX AGENCY: United States Department of Energy. ACTION: Finding of No Significant Impact for the Interim Storage of Plutonium Components at the Pantex Plant. SUMMARY: In compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., the Council on Environmental Quality regulations implementing the National Environmental Policy Act, 40 CFR 1500 et seq., and the United States Department of Energy's implementing procedures, 10 CFR 1021, the Department of Energy has prepared an Environmental Assessment (DOE/EA&hyph;0812, January 1994) to evaluate the potential environmental impacts of increased interim storage of plutonium components (pits) at the Pantex Plant located in Carson County about 17 miles northeast of Amarillo, Texas. The Environmental Assessment analyzed the potential environmental impacts of interim storage of up to 20,000 pits at the Pantex Plant until decisions can be implemented on the long-term storage of plutonium required for national security purposes and on the disposition of surplus plutonium. In response to comments received from State and local officials and other stakeholders, the Department has decided to store no more than 12,000 pits at Pantex until it completes a site-wide environmental impact statement covering all current and proposed facilities and activities at Pantex. A Record of Decision for this environmental impact statement will be issued by November 15, 1996. The Department's interim storage decision will enable approximately three more years of nuclear weapons dismantlement activities at Pantex. The Department now envisions that the Pantex Site-Wide Environmental Impact Statement will address all storage requirements, including alternative locations, for all plutonium, highly enriched uranium, tritium, and classified weapons components that result from Pantex dismantlement activities. Scoping meetings for this Environmental Impact Statement will be held in Amarillo, Texas, and at other sites that might be affected by the activities at Pantex by June 30, 1994. In addition, the Reconfiguration Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement is scheduled to be completed in 1995. It will analyze all reasonable long-term pit storage alternatives and discuss the disposition options the Department is considering, and the Record of Decision will include decisions on pit storage locations. The Pantex Site-Wide Environmental Impact Statement will take into account any decisions resulting from the Reconfiguration Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement. The Department of Energy provided a pre-approval review copy of the Environmental Assessment to the State of Texas in December 1992. Subsequently, the State provided the pre-approval Environmental Assessment to interested and affected members of the public. State and public comments were submitted to the Department for consideration during February and March, 1993. In response to these comments, the Department reviewed and revised the Environmental Assessment and added a Comment Response Document. This revised pre-approval Environmental Assessment was issued on November 11, 1993, for public review and comment. The Department then held a public meeting on December 6, 1993, in Amarillo, Texas, to discuss the revised Environmental Assessment and Comment Response Document and to respond to comments from State and local officials and the public. Subsequent to the public meeting, the Department accepted written comments on the revised pre-approval Environmental Assessment until December 20, 1993. The Environmental Assessment was expanded to include the Department's response to the comments received on the revised Environmental Assessment. Based upon the analyses in the Environmental Assessment and after careful consideration of all comments from State and local officials and members of the public, the Department of Energy has determined that storage of no more than 12,000 pits at Pantex does not constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act. Therefore, an environmental impact statement is not required and the Department issues this Finding of No Significant Impact. ADDRESSES AND FURTHER INFORMATION: Persons requesting additional information regarding this action or desiring a copy of the Environmental Assessment should contact: Mr. Thomas Walton, Public Affairs Officer, Amarillo Area Office, P.O. Box 30030, Amarillo, Texas 79120, (806) 477&hyph;3120. Copies of the Environmental Assessment are available for public review at the following Department of Energy reading rooms: U.S. Department of Energy, Freedom of Information Reading Room, Forrestal Building, room 1E&hyph;190, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;6020.
