FR941202-0-00141 FR941202-0-00013 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This rulemaking concerns the Department of Transportation's alcohol testing requirements. Larger employers are required to begin alcohol testing in accordance with the Department's regulations on January 1, 1995. Smaller employers are required to begin testing on July 1, 1995, or January 1, 1996, as provided in applicable operating administration rules. Those employers who are scheduled to begin testing January 1, 1995, are expected to be ready to begin testing on that date, including acquisition of equipment and training of personnel. No postponements of this compliance date have been granted. Since employers will have been on notice of this compliance date since February 15, 1994, the Department believes that employers will have had a reasonable time to prepare. The NPRM When the Department proposed the alcohol testing rules that it adopted in February 1994, one of the most important, most frequently commented-upon issues was the choice of testing methodology. After carefully considering comments about a variety of methods and devices, including arguments concerning the degree of discretion employers should have in choosing a testing method, the Department decided that the use of evidential breath testing devices (EBTs) was the most appropriate approach to take. The Department discussed the reasons for this decision at some length in the preamble to its alcohol testing procedures rule. See 59 FR 7342&hyph;7347; February 15, 1994. At the same time, the Department sought comments, through a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM), on whether the Department should authorize blood testing for alcohol to be used in certain specific, very limited circumstances. See 59 FR 7367&hyph;7371; February 15, 1994. Under the proposal, blood would be used ``only in those reasonable suspicion and post-accident testing circumstances where it is not practicable to use breath testing.'' Id . at 7367. The Department specifically noted that blood testing was ``not intended, under the proposal, to be an equal alternative method that an employer can choose as a matter of preference.'' Id . The NPRM did not propose re-opening the underlying decision that breath testing is to be the basic testing method under the rules. The rationale for the proposal was that ``in some circumstances, the unavailability of EBTs *␣*␣* may make breath testing impracticable.'' Id . The Department noted that [R]easonable suspicion and post-accident tests are more likely than other kinds of tests to happen at unpredictable times and in remote locations *␣*␣* [I]t may be substantially easier and less costly to arrange for a blood alcohol test [than a breath test] in these circumstances. In some cases, it may be impossible to get an EBT to a remote location in time to conduct a meaningful test. Id. Under such circumstances, the NPRM said, it might be better to test using blood, despite its known disadvantages (which the preambles to both the Part 40 final rule and the NPRM spelled out), than to be unable to complete a reasonable suspicion or post-accident test. The NPRM noted that there would probably be a small number of such tests per year (roughly estimated at 2500 per year), which could mitigate the effect of these disadvantages. The remainder of the NPRM proposed procedures that would be used in the event the Department adopted the proposal. These proposals addressed such subjects as collection procedures, qualification of testing personnel, laboratories and laboratory procedures, and ``fatal flaws'' that would invalidate tests. Comments
