FR940105-2-00058 FR940105-2-00021 Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted, subject to final approval, an agreement to a proposed consent order from William E. Taylor and Susan L. Taylor, who do business under the name Sandcastle Creations (``proposed respondents''). The proposed respondents are located in Newport, Oregon. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement and take other appropriate action, or make final the proposed order contained in the agreement. Sandcastle Creations disseminates advertising seeking individuals to assemble craft items at home. It sells instructional kits and craft materials, and/or charges registration fees, to individuals wanting to perform such assembly work. The complaint alleges that proposed respondents have misrepresented the weekly earnings that are regularly realized by Sandcastle Creations' home assemblers, through performing such assembly work and submitting it to Sandcastle Creations for Compensation. The complaint alleges that this misrepresentation violates section 5(a)(1) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45(a)(1)). The proposed order requires proposed respondents to cease making any material misrepresentations, including specifically misrepresentations regarding past, present or future earnings or profits of participants in any work opportunity. The order further prohibits misrepresentations regarding the marketplace demand for any product or service for which proposed respondents are offering a work opportunity. The proposed order also prohibits proposed respondents from making any earnings-related or profit-related claims through using phrases such as ``up to,'' or through stating any dollar amount, unless the stated earnings or profit figures can be achieved by an appreciable number of participants. The latter prohibition also requires disclosure of the class of consumers who can achieve stated earnings or profit levels, where factors or conditions affecting earnings or profits are not reasonably foreseeable by prospective workers. The proposed order additionally requires proposed respondents to retain specified records relating to their advertising of work opportunities, the persons who paid money to participate in any work opportunity, and the earnings or profits of participants. Additionally, the proposed order requires the individual proposed respondents to notify the Commission of their discontinuance of their present business or employment and each new business or employment affiliation, and requires the proposed respondents to file compliance reports with the Commission. Proposed respondents would be subject to civil penalties if they did not comply with any of the above order provisions. The proposed order also requires proposed respondents to pay to the Federal Trade Commission $536,000 for consumer redress or disgorgement. This liability is suspended, however, on the basis of financial disclosures made by proposed respondents to the FTC, and the payment to the Federal Trade Commission of $25,000, with the proviso that the Commission can reopen the proceeding if it subsequently determines that there are material misrepresentations or omissions in the financial disclosures. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed order. It is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify in any way their terms. Benjamin I. Berman, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;156 Filed 1&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
