FR940425-2-00065 FR940425-2-00048 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry [CDC&hyph;414] RIN 0905-ZA25 Announcement of a Cooperative Agreement With the Association of Schools of Public Health Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) through an interagency agreement with CDC, announce the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a cooperative agreement program with the Association of Schools of Public Health (ASPH) for the improvement of the interaction between public health academicians and public health practitioners. Approximately $6,000,000 is anticipated in FY 1994 depending upon the priorities of CDC/ATSDR. It is expected that the award will begin on September 28, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 5 years. The funding estimate may vary and is subject to change. The purpose of this cooperative agreement is to assist ASPH in improving the interaction between public health academicians and public health practitioners, enhancing the preparation of public health workers, and strengthening the public health system. CDC/ATSDR will collaborate with ASPH in the following activities: (1) Supporting research to stimulate the development of knowledge which will improve the preparation of public health personnel and increase the effectiveness and efficiency of public health programs designed to reduce unnecessary morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life; (2) Identifying priority needs for public health programs at the local, regional, State, national, and international levels. Provide assistance to ASPH in planning, delivering, and evaluating programs to meet identified needs; (3) Developing and testing more effective and efficient models of instruction, disease prevention, health promotion, and health services delivery and financing. Encourage the adoption of validated models by local, State and international public health agencies and assist in incorporating the results into appropriate teaching and learning experiences in the schools of public health; (4) Identifying new approaches and opportunities for field experiences in which students can practice applying skills and knowledge learned in the classroom; (5) Participating in workshops and conferences to exchange current information, opinions, and findings in specified fields of disease prevention and health promotion; and (6) Developing an annual work plan that addresses administrative and programmatic concerns of ASPH and CDC/ATSDR. The format and contents of plan will be decided by mutual agreement of CDC/ATSDR and ASPH. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to all the ``Healthy People 2000'' priority areas. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section Where To Obtain Additional Information .) Authority This program is authorized under Section 301(a) of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 241(a), as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicant Assistance will be provided only to ASPH for this project. No other applications are solicited. The program announcement and application kit have been sent to ASPH. ASPH is the most appropriate and qualified agency to provide services specified under this cooperative agreement because:
