FR940825-1-00058 FR940825-1-00008 (h) Retention of documents. The project owner shall retain for a minimum of 5 years the following documents that may have been submitted to the project owner by the family, or provided to the project owner as part of the INS appeal or the informal hearing process: (1) The application for financial assistance; (2) The form completed by the family for income re-examination; (3) Photocopies of any original documents (front and back), including original INS documents; (4) The signed verification consent form; (5) The INS verification results; (6) The request for an INS appeal; (7) The final INS determination; (8) The request for an informal hearing; and (9) The final hearing decision. (i) Termination of assisted occupancy. Assisted occupancy is terminated by: (1) If permitted under the lease, the project owner notifying the tenant that because of the termination of assisted occupancy the tenant is required to pay the HUD-approved market rent for the dwelling unit. (2) The project owner and tenant entering into a new lease without financial assistance. (3) The project owner evicting the tenant. An owner may continue to receive assistance payments if action to terminate the tenancy under an assisted lease is promptly initiated and diligently pursued, in accordance with the terms of the lease, and if eviction of the tenant is undertaken by judicial action pursuant to State and local law. Action by the owner to terminate the tenancy and to evict the tenant must be in accordance with 24 CFR part 247 and other HUD requirements. For any jurisdiction, HUD may prescribe a maximum period during which assistance payments may be continued during eviction proceedings and may prescribe other standards of reasonable diligence for the prosecution of eviction proceedings. ยง200.187 Preservation of mixed families and other families. (a) Assistance available for mixed families _(1) Assistance available for tenant mixed families. For a mixed family assisted under a program by this subpart on [insert the effective date of the final rule], one of the following three types of assistance may be available to the family: (i) Continued assistance (see paragraph (b) of this section); (ii) Prorated assistance (see ยง200.188); or (iii) Temporary deferral of termination of assistance (see paragraph (c) of this section). (2) Assistance available for applicant mixed families. Prorated assistance is also available for mixed families applying for assistance as provided in ยง200.188. (3) Assistance available to other families in occupancy. For families receiving assistance under a program covered by this subpart on [insert the effective date of the final rule] and who have no members with eligible immigration status, the project owner may grant the family temporary deferral of termination of assistance. (b) Continued assistance. A mixed family shall receive continued housing assistance if all of the following conditions are met: (1) The family was receiving assistance under a program covered by this subpart on [insert the effective date of the final rule]; (2) The family's head of household or spouse has eligible immigration status as described in ยง200.182; and (3) The family does not include any person (who does not have eligible immigration status) other than the head of household, any spouse of the head of household, any parents of the head of household, any parents of the spouse, or any children of the head of household or spouse. (c) Temporary deferral of termination of assistance _(1) Eligibility for this type of assistance. If a mixed family qualifies for prorated assistance (and does not qualify for continued assistance), but decides not to accept prorated assistance, or if a family has no members with eligible immigration status, the family shall be eligible for temporary deferral of termination of assistance if necessary to permit the family additional time for the orderly transition of those family members with ineligible status, and any other family members involved, to other affordable housing. Other affordable housing is used in the context of transition of an ineligible family from a rent level that reflects HUD assistance to a rent level that is unassisted; the term refers to housing that is not substandard, that is of appropriate size for the family and that can be rented for an amount not exceeding the amount that the family pays for rent, including utilities, plus 25 percent. (2) Conditions for granting temporary deferral of termination of assistance. The project owner shall grant a temporary deferral of termination of assistance to a mixed family if one of the following conditions is met: (i) The family demonstrates that reasonable efforts to find other affordable housing of appropriate size have been unsuccessful (for purposes of this section, reasonable efforts include seeking information from, and pursuing leads obtained from the State housing agency, the city government, local newspapers, rental agencies and the owner); (ii) The vacancy rate for affordable housing of appropriate size is below five percent in the housing market for the area in which the project is located; or
