FR940527-0-00070 FR940527-0-00023 §2400.61 Renewal of awards. (a) Provided that Fellows have submitted all required documentation, it is the intent of the Foundation to renew junior fellowship awards annually for a period not to exceed two calendar years and senior fellowships for a period not to exceed five calendar years (except when those periods have been altered because of changes in Fellows' programs of studies as provided for in §2400.65), or until a Fellow has completed all requirements for a master's degree, whichever comes first. In no case, however, will the Foundation continue payments under a fellowship to a Fellow who has reached the maximum payments under a fellowship as indicated in §2400.50, or completed the minimum number of credits required for the degree. Although Fellows are encouraged to take courses in addition to those required for the degree or required to maintain full-time status, the Foundation will not in such cases pay for those additional courses unless they are credited to the minimum number of credits required for the degree. (b) Fellowship renewal will be subject to an annual review by the Foundation and certification by an authorized official of the university at which a Fellow is registered that: The Fellow is making satisfactory progress toward the degree and is in good academic standing according to the standards of each university. (c) As a condition of renewal of awards, each Fellow must submit an annual activity report to the Foundation by July 15th. That report must indicate, through submission of a copy of the Fellow's transcript, courses taken and grades achieved; courses planned for the coming year; changes in academic or professional plans or situations; any awards, recognitions, or special achievements in the Fellow's academic study or school employment; and such other information as may relate to the fellowship and its holder. Fellows must also submit a final report to the Foundation following completion of their fellowships. §2400.62 Postponement of awards. Upon application to the Foundation, a Fellow may seek postponement of his or her fellowship because of ill health or other mitigating circumstances, such as military duty, temporary disability, necessary care of an immediate family member, or unemployment as a teacher. Substantiation of the reasons for the requested postponement of study will be required. §2400.63 Evidence of master's degree. At the conclusion of the fellowship term, each Fellow must provide evidence that he or she has secured an approved master's degree as set forth in the Fellow's original plan of study/or approved modifications thereto. §2400.64 Excluded graduate study. (a) James Madison Fellowships do not provide support for study toward doctoral degrees, for the degree of master of arts in public affairs or public administration, or toward the award of teaching certificates. Nor do fellowships support practice teaching required for professional certification or other courses related to teaching unless those courses are required for the degree. In those cases, however, the Foundation will provide reimbursement only toward those courses related to teaching that fall within the minimum number of courses required for the degree, not in addition to that minimum. (b) If a course or courses required toward a Fellow's master's degree are coincidentally credited toward a Fellow's future doctoral degree or teaching certificate, the Foundation will provide reimbursement toward that course or those courses. Such reimbursement will be governed by all other rules, requirements, and obligations set forth in subparts E through G. §2400.65 Alteration of plans of study. Although Junior Fellows are expected to pursue full-time study and Senior Fellows to pursue part-time study, the Foundation may permit Junior Fellows with an established need (such as the need to accept a teaching position) to study part time and Senior Fellows with established need (such as great distance between the Fellow's residence and the nearest university, thus necessitating a full-time leave of absence from employment in order to study) to study full time. §2400.66 Completion of fellowships. A Fellow will be deemed to have satisfied all terms of a fellowship and all obligations under it when the Fellow has completed no fewer than 12 credits of study of the Constitution, formally secured the masters degree, attended the Foundation's Summer Institute on the Constitution, completed teaching for the number of years and fractions thereof required as a condition of accepting Foundation support for study, and submitted all required reports. Subpart H_Summer Institute on the Constitution §2400.70 Institute relationship to fellowship. Each year, the Foundation offers, normally during July, a four-week graduate-level Institute on the principles, framing, ratification, and implementation of the United States Constitution at an accredited university in the Washington, DC area. The Institute is an integral part of each fellowship.
