FR940622-0-00046 FR940622-0-00011 Another commenter suggested that the certification requirement in proposed §489.24(d)(1)(i)(B) (now §489.24(d)(1)(ii)(B)) be made a part of a standard transfer form. The commenters believed these suggestions would educate hospital personnel, provide a record for enforcement of the statute, help assure that the receiving physicians receive appropriate medical information for each patient, and deter patient dumping. Response: We believe that the requirements for requests for transfer, certification, and the sending of medical records are sufficient to provide the information necessary for the receiving hospital to treat the individual and to detect inappropriate transfers in order to fulfill its reporting requirement. While a memorandum of transfer might provide a useful summary, we do not believe it is necessary in light of our other requirements. Also note the earlier Comment and Response concerning another recommendation for the use of memoranda of transfer. Hospitals that frequently receive inappropriate transfers may choose to document their transfers by tape recording telephone requests in accordance with applicable State laws; however, we believe it both costly and impractical to require all hospitals to invest in technology to document transfer circumstances verbatim in this way. In addition, since these additional requirements would need to be adopted through the rulemaking process and the Secretary has not elected to establish further requirements in this regulation, we are not including in this final rule the language in proposed §489.24(d)(2)(iv) concerning other requirements to avoid the implication that there may be additional requirements not included in this regulation. ``Appropriate'' Transfer Comment: One commenter raised the issue of whether all transfers must be appropriately made (that is, effectuated) or whether the rules governing appropriateness applied only to a physician-directed transfer. Response: All transfers must be effectuated appropriately and the statute and regulations already make this point. It is true that an individual may demand a transfer that the physician does not believe is appropriate, but once the decision to transfer has been made_by the physician or the individual_the regulations and the law require that it be done appropriately. Also with regard to appropriate transfers, we note that the Secretary has taken the position that in proving that a hospital or physician violated section 1867 of the Act, there is no requirement to prove that the transfer was effected due to some ``impermissible motive.'' This position has been upheld in Burditt v. U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, 934 F.2d 1362, 1373 (5th Cir. 1991), wherein the court rejected Dr. Burditt's argument that the statute requires proof that the transfer was motivated by an improper or nonmedical reason. Comment: One commenter thought that the phrase ``without prior arrangement'' in §489.20(g) may imply that a hospital may transfer a patient in violation of §489.24 if it is done with prior arrangement. Response: We agree and are removing the phrase ``without prior arrangement.'' Comment: Two commenters believed that we should make the requirements for appropriate transfer more specific. Another raised a series of hypothetical questions and asked how the regulations would apply. Response: We decline the invitation to attempt to define in advance all circumstances making the transfer of an unstabilized individual ``appropriate.'' There will be many medical emergencies arising in a variety of settings. The proper handling of those emergencies will depend upon the resources available and the exercise of medical judgment focused on the best interest of the individual's health and safety. We find the broad guidelines offered by Congress in section 1867(c)(2)(C) of the Act sufficiently specific to guide the exercise of that discretion and our evaluation of cases in which dumping is alleged. For the present we do not believe that any additional elaboration is required or desirable.
