FR940124-0-00030 FR940124-0-00003 (e) Other eligibility standards or preferences. If consistent with paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, a homeownership plan may include any other standards for eligibility or preference, or both, that are not contrary to law, at the discretion of the Housing Authority. (f) Homeownership plan eligibility standards. Once a homeownership plan has been approved by HUD and prior to the sale of a unit identified for sale under the homeownership plan, the Housing Authority must use the eligibility standards and procedures outlined in its homeownership plan pursuant to this section in placing residents in occupancy of vacant public housing units using the order of the homeownership program waiting list. ยง907.9 Counseling, training, and technical assistance. (a) Supportive services. The Housing Authority shall ensure the availability of supportive services to each family participating in the demonstration program through its own resources and through coordination with Federal, State, and local agencies and private entities. Supportive services available under the demonstration program may include counseling, remedial education, education for completion of high school, job training and preparation, financial counseling emphasizing planning for homeownership, and any other appropriate services. The Housing Authority must identify the needs of prospective homebuyers for supportive services and must adequately provide for all identified needs. (b) Counseling. Appropriate counseling shall be provided to prospective and actual purchasers, as necessary for each stage of implementation of the homeownership plan. Particular attention must be given to the terms of purchase and financing, along with the other financial and maintenance responsibilities of homeownership. In addition, where applicable, appropriate training and technical assistance shall be provided to any entity (such as a RMC, other resident organization, or a cooperative or condominium entity) that has responsibilities for carrying out the plan. ยง907.10 Nonpurchasing residents. (a) General. If an existing resident of a dwelling authorized for sale under a homeownership plan is ineligible to purchase, or declines to purchase that unit or another unit under the homeownership plan, the resident may choose to relocate. However, no person who is a tenant of public housing may be involuntarily relocated or displaced (forced to relocate permanently) from his or her dwelling as a result of the demonstration program. A violation of this relocation/ displacement prohibition may, in addition to applicable program sanctions, trigger a requirement to provide relocation assistance in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, and implementing rules. (b) Notice. As soon as feasible after they can be identified, all nonpurchasing residents shall be given written notice of their options under this section. The notice must contain a clear statement that the resident will not be displaced if he or she does not wish to participate in the program. (c) Relocation assistance to residents who elect to relocate permanently. A tenant/resident who chooses to relocate permanently shall be offered at least the following relocation assistance: (1) Advisory services, including timely information about the assistance to be provided under this section, counseling, referrals to suitable, affordable, decent, safe and sanitary alternative housing, inside and outside areas of minority concentration, and an explanation of the resident's rights under the Fair Housing Act. (2) Payment for actual, reasonable moving expenses. (3) Replacement housing assistance sufficient to permit relocation to suitable, decent, safe and sanitary replacement housing (at a rent no higher than permitted by the 1937 Act) in accordance with the relocation assistance component of the HUD-approved homeownership assistance program. This requirement will be met if the resident is offered the opportunity to relocate to another suitable dwelling under the Public Housing Program, any of the housing assistance programs under Section 8 of the 1937 Act, or any other Federal, State, or local program that is comparable, as to standards for housing quality, admission and rent, to the programs under the 1937 Act, and provides a term of assistance of at least five years.
