FR941222-0-00013 FR941222-0-00003 With respect to canister equipment and design, the DSC or canister is designed to the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (BPVC), Section III, Subsection NB. The DSC provides a containment boundary for the radioactive material and the cladding of the fuel rods provides confinement of fuel pellets. Only intact fuel assemblies (rods) with no known cladding defects greater than pin holes and hairline cracks are permitted to be stored. This approach assures the structural integrity of the fuel to confine the fuel pellets and its retrivability. In the unlikely event of a breach that required the canister to be unloaded, the canister can be returned to the reactor spent fuel pool. Therefore, it is incorrect to assert that there is no place to unload a canister. The Horizontal Storage Module (HSM) is designed to American Concrete Institute (ACI) 349, which is the required code for nuclear structures made of reinforced concrete. The transfer cask is designed according to the ASME BPVC, Section III, Subsection NC; ANSI-N14.6 for heavy loads; ANSI&hyph;50.9 for load combinations; and NUREG/CR 1815 for impact testing. Because the cask itself is required to meet such exacting standards of construction, the transport mechanism and the trailer that move the canister into the HSM are not considered to be important to safety. Therefore, the design that meets industry standards is sufficient. B. A number of commenters raised issues relating to releases of radioactivity from surface contamination and leakage from the casks under normal and accident conditions. B.1. Comment. One commenter pointed out that the Certificate of Compliance Surveillance Requirement 1.2.12 does not have a section stating the action that is to be taken when the contamination level in the transfer cask exceeds limits after the DSC has been transferred to the concrete HSM. Response. The Certificate of Compliance Surveillance Requirement in Section 1.2.12 has been modified to clarify that decontamination of the transfer cask is required if the surface contamination limit is exceeded. B.2. Comment. One commenter, who was concerned with the seismic events at the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, stated that a displacement pulse of 60 cm, as observed in the Lander's quake in the Mojave Desert northeast of Los Angeles, would completely destroy the HSM and allow a substantial release of radioactivity from the fuel within. Response. The potential for a seismic event is not the same at every reactor site in the United States. For Davis-Besse, the maximum ground displacement has been calculated to be 3.33 inches (8.46 cm), corresponding to a 0.15g maximum ground acceleration. This is substantially less than the displacement observed in the Lander's quake and appears to be well within the design of the Standardized NUHOMS. Each general licensee using the Standardized NUHOMS, including Davis-Besse is required to document their evaluations to determine that the reactor site parameters, including seismic events, envelope the cask design basis, as specified in its SAR and SER. B.3. Comment. One commenter, citing a Wisconsin Public Service Commission draft environmental impact statement (EIS) for Point Beach, asked for an explanation of why NUHOMS and metal casks have a greater potential to spread contamination than the Pacific Sierra Nuclear Associates ventilated storage cask (VSC) system, VSC&hyph;24 cask.
