FR940505-1-00236 FR940505-1-00012 With respect to the feasibility of the enhanced nonroad engine standards, the reader is referred to the discussion of the onhighway standards feasibility question. EPA believes that the technological approaches expected to be used for onhighway engines will also find application for nonroad engines. More specifically, diesel engine manufacturers make engines for both onhighway and nonroad applications and some individual engine families have been used for both. The Agency therefore projects that the diesel engine developments applied to onhighway engines will also need to be applied to nonroad engines. Although at this time there are very few gasoline or alternative fuel (mainly LPG) engines in these categories, such engines may find it easier to meet the nonroad NO X standards than the onhighway standards because of the steady-state nature of the in-use test. (Gasoline may have difficulty with the evaporative hydrocarbon requirements described below.) Optimization of these engines may be less complex because transient fuel/air mixture control is less of a concern. Alternative fuel related technology and longer-term engine changes described for onhighway engines are also candidates for use in the nonroad market. EPA is aware that packaging concerns can be an issue for nonroad equipment, as they are for onhighway vehicles. Many manufacturers of nonroad equipment will have to make changes to their equipment designs if the profile of the engine is altered substantially or there are other, new, requirements such as fuel system changes. Moreover, there are also differences in use between nonroad and onhighway engines which lead to different load requirements. EPA believes that the four-year lead time provided in the FIP will be sufficient for such issues to be resolved but requests comment from equipment manufacturers on unique packaging and use issues for nonroad equipment. b. Hydrocarbon standard. EPA proposes to set the exhaust NMHC standard at 1.2 g/bhp-hr, the current onhighway heavy-duty diesel engine standard. If EPA, in the national rule for CI nonroad engines at or above 37 kw, finalizes a different standard for these engines, EPA will consider that standard for FIP engines as well. Additionally, since these engines are a small but significant contributor to HC inventories in the areas, EPA requests comment on lower HC standards such as those described in the proposal for onhighway heavy-duty vehicles (section B.(3)(b) of this appendix). Once again paralleling the onhighway heavy-duty vehicle provisions, EPA proposes to require nonroad equipment using engines over 37 kw to have inherently low evaporative emissions. Qualifying as low evaporative would require a demonstration that the equipment does not have the potential for significant evaporative emissions when operating in high temperature conditions. The demonstration (via testing or engineering analysis) would be based on a maximum emission level of 5 grams for combined diurnal (adjusted to a nominal 20 gallon fuel tank volume), hot soak, running loss, and resting loss emissions, without an evaporative control system. Diurnal emissions would be based on the engine and fuel system being exposed to ambient heating from 72 ○ to 96 ○ F with a 40 percent fill of 9 psi RVP fuel, or the parallel California requirements of 65 ○ to 105 ○ F using 7 psi RVP fuel (if gasoline is used). EPA would have the option of testing to confirm the results. This requirement will ensure that evaporative emissions remain low in use, which is especially important given there is no inspection and maintenance program for these engines. EPA data show most heavy-duty nonroad applications at or above 37 kw use diesel fuel or liquefied petroleum gas (propane). Engines operating on these fuels are likely to be able to comply with the low evaporative requirement without modification. The low evaporative requirement, therefore, would affect the small portion of the nonroad fleet operating on gasoline and would prevent other changes in the makeup of the existing fleet that could increase the potential for evaporative emissions. In applications where gasoline-fueled engines are used, new engines in this size range would have to be redesigned to operate low evaporative. Very low volatility gasoline could be investigated as an option to use of diesel or other fuels. EPA seeks comment on other options that could provide assurance that hydrocarbon emissions would not increase from these engines and that a shift to high volatility gasoline engines would not occur. Commenters should review the treatment of light-duty vehicles under the enhanced in-use compliance program (section A. of this appendix).
