FR940602-2-00065 FR940602-2-00038 C. Representing, directly or by implication, except through short broadcast advertisements referred to in paragraph I.D. herein, and except through endorsements or testimonials referred to in paragraph I.E. herein, that participants on any weight loss program have successfully maintained weight loss, unless respondents disclose, clearly and prominently, and in close proximity to such representation, the following information: (1) The average percentage of weight loss maintained by those participants; (2) The duration over which the weight loss was maintained, measured from the date that participants ended the active weight loss phase of the program, provided, further, that if any portion of the time period covered includes participation in a maintenance program(s) that follows active weight loss, such fact must also be disclosed; and (3) If the participant population referred to is not representative of the general participant population for respondents' programs: (a) The proportion of the total participant population in respondents' programs that those participants represent, expressed in terms of a percentage or actual numbers of participants, or (b) The statement: ``[Quick Weight Loss Centers] makes no claim that this [these] result[s] is [are] representative of all participants in the [Quick Weight Loss Centers] program.'' provided, further, that compliance with the obligations of this paragraph I.C. in no way relieves respondents of the requirement under paragraph I.A. of this Order to substantiate any representation about the success of participants on any weight loss program in maintaining weight loss. D. Representing, directly or by implication, in short broadcast advertisements, that participants of any weight loss program have successfully maintained weight loss, unless respondents: (1) Include, clearly and prominently, and in immediate conjunction with such representation, the statement: ``Check at our centers for details about our maintenance record''; (2) For a period of time beginning with the date of the first broadcast of any such advertisement and ending no sooner than thirty days after the last broadcast of such advertisement, comply with the following procedures upon the first presentation of any form asking for information from a potential client, but in any event before such person has entered into any agreement with respondents: (a) Give to each potential client a separate document entitled ``Maintenance Information,'' which shall include all the information required by paragraph I.B. and subparagraphs I.C. (1)&hyph;(3) of this Order and shall be formatted in the exact type size and style as the example form below, and shall include the heading (Helvetica 14 point bold), lead-in (Times Roman 12 point), disclosures (Helvetica 14 point bold), acknowledgment language (Times Roman 12 point), and signature block therein; provided, further, that no information in addition to that required to be included in the document required by this subparagraph I.D (2) shall be included therein; Maintenance Information You may have seen our recent ad about maintenance success. Here's some additional information about our maintenance record. [Disclosure of maintenance statistics goes here XXXX ] For many dieters, weight loss is temporary. I have read this notice. (Client Signature) ␣␣ (Date)
