FR940919-0-00088 FR940919-0-00016 Comments received on the Agency's proposal to remove this condition from the exclusion were favorable. Although several commenters said that the Agency should go further in modifying the existing regulations to encourage the recycling of hazardous wastes, such an action is beyond the scope of this proceeding. Such further action could result from the efforts currently underway to reevaluate the regulations applicable to hazardous waste recycling (i.e., the Roundtable discussions undertaken by the Definition of Solid Waste Task Force). One commenter also urged the Agency to make regulatory modifications only as part of the Definition of Solid Waste Task Force. EPA does not view the salutary and relatively modest change to the rules promulgated here as undermining the Task Force effort, and so is adopting the amendment. Thus, the Agency is today removing this condition (i.e., that the process be a primary production process) from the ``closed-loop'' recycling exclusion. By doing this, secondary materials that are recycled back into the secondary production process from which they were generated are excluded from the definition of solid waste. Following the same reasoning, the Agency proposed and is today finalizing a modification to section 260.30(b), a related case-by-case variance for materials that are reclaimed prior to reuse in the original primary production process from which they were generated (see 50 FR 652 (January 4, 1985) for a discussion of the existing variance). This modification similarly expands the variance to make it available for materials that are returned to secondary processes, as well as those returned to primary processes. 2. Storage Prior to Recycling At proposal, the Agency proposed to condition the ``closed- loop'' exclusion (and the related 260.30(b) variance) such that secondary materials recycled back into secondary processes from which they were generated would continue to be managed in an environmentally sound manner. The Agency proposed this condition to address concerns that, absent this condition, a listed waste that would otherwise be required to be managed in a protective manner (e.g., without direct placement on the land) could begin to be managed in an unprotective manner because, as an excluded secondary material, no regulatory requirements would apply. Storage of hazardous secondary materials on the land can be deemed to be a type of discarding (``part of the waste disposal problem'' in the words of the D.C. Circuit), and hence provide a basis for classifying the materials as solid and hazardous wastes. AMC II, 907 F.2d at 1187. The only comments received addressing this proposed condition asked for more clarification of what would be considered ``a protective manner.'' The Agency is promulgating the condition to the exclusion that such secondary materials be managed in a protective manner such that there is no placement on the land, that is no land disposal as defined in §3004(k). See §261.4(a)(10) and (11) where EPA has attached this same condition to comparable exclusions. Management that is designed to contain the material or otherwise prevent its release to the environment, such as in a containment building (see 40 CFR 264.1100) or tank, is permissible. The Agency believes that this condition will not require any changes in how these secondary materials are currently managed and will ensure that providing regulatory relief will not unintentionally increase risk to human health and the environment. Additional changes were proposed and are being promulgated in this rule in order to implement and be consistent with the changes in variances discussed above. Previously the Regional Administrator granted variances from classification as a solid waste in 40 CFR 260.30, 260.31, 260.32, and 260.33. Today's rule transfers this authority to grant variances from the Regional Administrator to the Administrator. The changes in §§260.30 and 260.31 are necessary because such variances involve determining RCRA jurisdiction over secondary materials going to secondary processes. The other changes in authority to grant variances in §§260.32 and 260.33 are being made in order to be consistent with the provisions of §§260.30 and 260.31. X. Compliance Monitoring and Notification A. Compliance Monitoring As proposed, the Agency is adopting an approach that will allow generators and facilities that manage organic toxicity characteristic (TC) wastes in systems other than those regulated under the Clean Water Act (CWA), those engaged in CWA-equivalent treatment prior to land disposal, and those injecting into Class I deep injection wells, to monitor or otherwise determine the presence of underlying hazardous constituents ``reasonably expected to be present'' in their waste. (See definition at 268.2(i).) This means that regulated entities do not have to ascertain the presence of all hazardous constituents for which EPA is promulgating a universal treatment standard. Generators may base this determination on their knowledge of the raw materials they use, the process they operate, and the potential reaction products of the process, or upon the results of a one-time analysis for the entire list of constituents at §268.48. The Agency solicited comment on whether generators should be required to do some testing of organic TC wastes to determine what underlying hazardous constituents are present and whether they meet UTS. Furthermore, the Agency noted that generators who also treat (including generators who decharacterize their waste but do not treat for underlying hazardous constituents) are classified as treaters, and would therefore be required to do some analysis of their wastes pursuant to §268.7(b) and prepare a treater's certification pursuant to §268.9(d) (58 FR 48134). A few commenters believed that generators should have to test their organic TC wastes at least once. Most commenters on this issue, however, strongly opposed a generator testing requirement and said that generators should be allowed to use knowledge of their wastes to make such a determination. Based on these comments, and the Agency's reluctance to require generator testing of characteristic wastes but not listed wastes, the Agency is not imposing a testing requirement on generators of organic TC wastes at this time.
