FR940114-1-00017 FR940114-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;ASW&hyph;59] Proposed Modification of Class D Airspace: Roswell, NM AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice proposes to modify the current Class D airspace and to establish a Class E extension to the Class D surface area at Roswell, NM. This action proposes to amend a previous airspace action that established a 14.8 NM Class D airspace extension to the Class D surface area for Roswell, NM. Because the arrival extension is greater than two miles, it should have been classified as Class E airspace. However, it was incorrectly classified as Class D airspace. The intended effect of this proposal is to reclassify a portion of the current Class D airspace extension at Roswell, NM to a class E airspace extension to contain instrument approach procedures and to provide adequate Class D airspace to contain IFR operations and require two-way radio communications at Roswell Industrial Air Center. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to Manager, System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Southwest Region, Docket No. 93&hyph;ASW&hyph;59, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530. The official docket may be examined in the office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX, between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Alvin DeVane, System Management Branch, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530; telephone: 817&hyph;222&hyph;5595. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed under the caption ADDRESSES . Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit, with those comments, a self-addressed, stamped, postcard containing the following statement: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;ASW&hyph;59.'' The postcard will be date and time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in the light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel at 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) by submitting a request to the Manager, System Management Branch, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A, which describes the application procedure.
