FR940817-2-00221 FR940817-2-00113 Mercury compounds are potent neurotoxic substances and have caused a number of human poisonings, with symptoms of vision, speech, and coordination impairments (Chang, 1980). Erethism, a syndrome with such neurologic features as tremor and behavioral symptoms as anxiety, irritability, and pathologic shyness, is seen in people exposed to elemental mercury (Bidstrup, 1964). One major incidence of human exposure occurred in the mid-1950's when a chemical plant near Minamata Bay, Japan, discharged mercury as part of waste sludge. An epidemic of mercury poisoning developed when the local inhabitants consumed contaminated fish and shellfish. Congenitally affected children displayed a progressive neurological disturbance resembling cerebral palsy and manifested other neurological problems as well. In 1971, an epidemic occurred in Iraq from methylmercury used as a fungicide to treat grain (OTA, 1990). Manganese is used in metal alloys and has been proposed to replace lead in gasoline. It is an essential dietary substance for normal body functioning yet parenteral exposure to manganese can be neurotoxic, producing a dyskinetic motor syndrome similar to Parkinson's disease (Cook et al., 1974). Exposed miners in several countries have suffered from ``manganese madness'' characterized by hallucinations, emotional instability, and numerous neurological problems. Long-term manganese toxicity produces muscle rigidity and staggering gait similar to that seen in patients with Parkinson's disease (Politis et al., 1980). A Parkinsonian-like syndrome was also observed in people who accidentally ingested 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) (Langston et al., 1983). MPTP was a byproduct of a meperidine derivative sold illicitly as ``synthetic heroin.'' Organic solvents are encountered frequently in occupational settings. Most solvents are volatile, i.e., they can be converted from a liquid to a gaseous state and readily inhaled by the worker. They are also lipid soluble and readily accumulate in the fat deposits of the exposed organism. An example of a solvent exposure in humans is carbon disulfide. Workers exposed to high levels of this solvent were found to have an increased frequency of depression and suicide (Seppalainen and Haltia, 1980). Furthermore, repeated exposure to organic solvents is suspected of producing chronic encephalopathy. Workers exposed to methyl-n-butyl ketone, a dye solvent and cleaning agent, displayed peripheral nervous system neuropathy involving degeneration of nerve fibers (Spencer and Schaumburg, 1980). Solvents including ether, ketones, alcohols, and various combinations are commonly used in glues, cements, and paints and when inhaled can be neurotoxic. Repeated abuse of such solvents can lead to permanent neurological effects due to severe and permanent loss of nerve cells (OTA, 1990). Pesticides are one of the most commonly encountered classes of neurotoxic substances. These can include insecticides (used to control insects), fungicides (for blight and mildew), rodenticides (for rodents such as rats, mice, and gophers), and herbicides (to control weeds). Active ingredients are combined with so-called inert substances to make thousands of different pesticide formulations. Workers who are overexposed to pesticides may display obvious signs of poisoning, including tremors, weakness, ataxia, visual disturbances, and short-term memory loss (Ecobichon and Joy, 1982). Chlordecone exposure results in nervousness and tremors (Cannon et al., 1978). The organophosphorous insecticides have neurotoxic properties and account for approximately 40 percent of registered pesticides. A delayed neurotoxicity can be seen as a result of exposure to certain organophosphate pesticides, producing irreversible loss of motor function and an associated neuropathology (Ecobichon and Joy, 1982). Organophosphate and carbamate insecticides are known to interfere with a specific enzyme, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) (Davis and Richardson, 1980). Paralysis has also been reported following consumption of nonpesticide organophosphate products such as tri-o-cresylphosphate (TOCP). Neurotoxicities in humans, domestic livestock, and poultry associated with fungal toxins (mycotoxins) have been well documented (Kurata, 1990; Aibara, 1986; Wyllie and Morehouse, 1978). Mycotoxins not only have a negative economic effect on animal production, but they also represent a definite threat to human health. Mycotoxins occur in forages, field crops, and grains used for livestock; they also are incorporated into cereals, grains, and grain-based products used for human consumption. Therefore, human exposure may occur either through direct consumption of these products or secondarily through consumption of meat, milk, or eggs. An example of human exposure to fungal toxins is Claviceps purpurea - or C. paspali -infected wheat, barley, and oats used for bread and as a dietary supplement for livestock. These fungal toxins are notorious for producing the gangrenous and convulsive forms of the disease known as ``ergotism'' (Bove, 1970). These fungi are in the family Clavicipitaceae and produce a group of compounds known as ergot alkaloids, which have neurotropic, uterotonic, and vasoconstrictive activities. They may act as dopamine agonists or serotonin antagonists, and also block alpha-adrenergic receptors. Since there are numerous naturally occurring ergot alkaloids, this represents only part of their pharmacopoeia (Berde and Schield, 1978). These alkaloids are highly toxic and cause both acute and chronic poisonings. Although guidelines now limit the amount of Claviceps -contaminated, or ``ergot''-contaminated, grains, these compounds may enter human food sources through secondary mechanisms. Other fungi associated with ergot-like syndromes in livestock include Acremonium lolii (Gallagher et al., 1984) and A. coenophialum (Thompson and Porter, 1990). Cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) is an indole tetramic acid produced by Aspergillus flavus, A. oryzae, Penicillium cyclopium , and P. camemberti. This mycotoxin is suspected of causing ``kodua poisoning'' in humans who consumed kodo millet seed in India (Rao and Husain, 1985). Fusarium moniliforme is a common fungal infection in corn (Bacon et al., 1992) and directly related to neurotoxic syndrome in horses known as equine leukoencephalomalaisia (ELEM). Natural plant toxins also represent a health risk to both livestock and humans. Movement toward limited uses of herbicides, fungicides, and no-till agricultural practices increases the possibility of noxious weeds and weed seeds being incorporated into food products. Ergot alkaloids also are produced by morning glories (Ipomea violacea) and may be incorporated into soybeans, corn, peas, etc., during harvest. Export regulations limit morning glory-contaminated soybeans because of the hallucinogenic and other effects produced by ergot alkaloids. Jimson weed (Datura stramonium) , another weed incorporated into agricultural commodities, produced scopolamine, hyocyamine, and stropine, all of which have parasympatholytic (anticholinergic) activities. Recently, an outbreak of toxic encephalopathy caused by eating mussels contaminated with domoic acid, an excitotoxin, was reported (Perl et al., 1990).
