FR940112-0-00122 FR940112-0-00024 B. Paperwork Reduction Act Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the Commission, before promulgating a rule that requires the ``collection of information,'' must obtain approval from the Office of Management and Budget. The amendments only require that certain information be disclosed to consumers. In 1990, the Supreme Court ruled that the authority of the Office of Management and Budget to approve ``collection of information'' by Federal agencies does not include authority to review agency rules requiring companies to disclose information to third parties. Dole v. Steelworkers, 494 U.S. 26, 35 (1990). Under this case, the metric labeling requirements would not be considered collection of information. Thus, the Commission need not seek approval from the Office of Management and Budget. C. The Metric Conversion Act Section 205b of the Metric Conversion Act, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act, expresses Congressional policy regarding measurement systems. This Act states that the metric measurement system is the preferred system of weights and measures in the United States. It also requires federal agencies to use the metric system of measurement in all procurement, grants, and other business-related activities (which include rulemakings), except to the extent that such use is impractical or is likely to cause significant inefficiencies or loss of markets to United States firms. The amendments adopted today by the Commission fully comply with the requirements of the Metric Conversion Act. Each of the amended regulations providing for quantity disclosure requires a statement of net quantity of contents in metric units as well as in customary inch/pound units. The amendments add metric examples and parenthetical metric equivalents to the existing regulations. Further, the amendments explicitly present conversion factors from inch/pound to metric and vice versa and fully describe metric units and prefixes. D. The Commission's Regulatory Review Program As part of the Commission's ten-year regulatory-review plan for existing rules and guides, the Commission specifically sought comments in the NPR on the costs and benefits of the existing and amended regulations under the FPLA and their regulatory and economic impact. There were two comments that related to the economic impact on small business of the metric amendments. 48 There were no comments relating to the economic impact of the regulations on larger businesses. 48 Cram, 18, 1; and Cong. Meyers, 17, 2.
