FR941220-0-00014 FR941220-0-00005 D. Requirements for the Plan of Care We set forth the criteria that would have to be met in order for the plan of care to be considered acceptable. We addressed: •Those items that must be contained in the plan of care. •The specificity of the physician's orders for services. •The timing of review of the plan of care. •The termination of the plan of care. E. Requirements for Qualifying Skilled Services To Be Covered and Billable We described the overall nature of the services that must be furnished for the care to be considered skilled care and the general concepts under which a decision regarding whether the services are reasonable and necessary should be made. F. Dependent Services Requirements We proposed that the services listed below would be covered only if the beneficiary had a need for at least one of the qualifying skilled services. We also proposed requirements, based on the statute or long-standing policy, that these services must meet in order to be covered by Medicare. •Home health aide services. •Medical social services. •Occupational therapy. •Durable medical equipment. •Medical supplies. •Services of interns and residents. G. Allowable Administrative Costs We proposed that, in general, payment for certain services would be made as an administrative cost. H. Place of Service Requirements We proposed, for purposes of Medicare coverage of home health services, that a beneficiary's home is any place in which a beneficiary resides that does not meet the definition of a hospital, skilled nursing facility (SNF), or nursing facility as defined in sections 1861(e)(1), 1819(a)(1), or 1919(a)(1) of the Act, respectively. We proposed that for services to be covered in an outpatient setting, they had to require equipment that could not be made available in the beneficiary's home or were services that were furnished while the beneficiary was at the facility to receive services requiring equipment that could not be made available in his or her home. We proposed that an outpatient setting might include a hospital, SNF, rehabilitation center, or outpatient department affiliated with a medical school, with which the HHA has an arrangement to provide services. I. Number of Visits We proposed that all Medicare home health services would be covered under Part A if the beneficiary had Part A entitlement and, if the beneficiary had only Part B entitlement, under Part B. We proposed that, if all coverage requirements were met, payment could be made for an unlimited number of covered visits. J. Excluded Services We specified that certain items would be excluded from coverage as Medicare home health services: •Drugs and biologicals. •Transportation. •Services that would not be covered as inpatient hospital services. (Note: Although we discussed this proposed provision in the preamble of the proposed rule, it was inadvertently omitted from the proposed regulation text). •Housekeeping services. •Services covered as end stage renal disease services. •Prosthetic devices. •Medical social services provided to family members. K. Condition of Participation: Clinical Records We proposed that the discharge summary, including the patient's medical and health status at discharge, must be sent to the attending physician.
