FR940128-2-00144 FR940128-2-00093 Health Resources and Services Administration Ryan White Title IV_HIV Demonstration Program for Children, Adolescents, and Families AGENCY: Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), PHS. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds. SUMMARY: The Maternal and Child Health Bureau (MCHB), HRSA, announces that fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds are available for grants for demonstration projects to provide services for children, adolescents, women and families infected with or affected by the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). Projects will be funded to demonstrate strategies and innovative models of family-centered, community-based coordinated care and research for children, youth, women of childbearing age, and families infected and affected by HIV infection, AIDS or other related conditions, or those at risk for developing infection. Funds were appropriated for this purpose under Section 2671, Title IV, of the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resource Emergency (CARE) Act of 1990, Public Law 101&hyph;381, which amended Title XXVI of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S. Code 300ff&hyph;11 et seq. ). The PHS is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS national activity for setting priority areas. Title IV directly addresses the Healthy People 2000 objectives related to the priority area of HIV infection. Potential applicants may obtain a copy of Healthy People 2000 (Full Report; Stock Number 017&hyph;001&hyph;0474&hyph;0) or Healthy People 2000 (Summary Report: Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;1) through the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;9325 (telephone 202 783&hyph;3238). ADDRESSES: Grant applications for HIV Demonstration Program for Children, Adolescents, and Families (PHS form # 5161&hyph;1, approved under OMB # 0937&hyph;0189) must be obtained from and submitted to: Chief, Grants Management Branch, Office of Program Support, Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services Administration, room 18&hyph;12, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, (301) 443&hyph;1440. DATES: The application deadline date is April 8, 1994. Competing applications will be considered to be on time if they are either: (1) Received on or before the deadline date, or (2) postmarked on or before the deadline date and received in time for orderly processing. (Applicants should request a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service postmark or obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing. Late applications not accepted for processing or those sent to an address other than specified in the ADDRESSES section will be returned to the applicant. Applicants will be notified of grant awards in July 1994. The starting dates for projects will be specified in the program guidance. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Additional information regarding technical and program issues may be obtained from: Beth Roy, Division of Services for Children with Special Health Needs, Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services Administration, room 18A&hyph;19, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, Telephone (301) 443&hyph;9051. Requests for information concerning business management issues should be directed to: John Gallicchio, Grants Management Officer (GMO), Maternal and Child Health Bureau, at the address specified in the ADDRESSES section. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Program Background and Objectives The Pediatric AIDS Demonstration Program was initiated in 1988. The program grew from 13 projects funded at $4.4 million to a total of 44 projects funded at $20.8 in 1993. Since 1988, the program has evolved from a primary focus on the coordination of services for the management and care of infected children and their families to also address the broader prevention and care needs of youth and women affected by the HIV infection, AIDS or related conditions. In FY 1994, Congress funded the Pediatric AIDS Demonstration Program under Title IV of the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act (Title IV). The program will be permanently authorized in section 2671 of the Public Health Service Act. Title IV authorizes demonstration grants to organizations to provide comprehensive services and enhance access to clinical research trials for children, youth, women, and families with or affected by HIV infection. As a result of this transfer to Title IV, the focus of the program is further expanded to develop innovative models that link systems of comprehensive primary/community-based medical and social services for the affected population with NIH and other clinical research trials. Purpose The purpose of the funding is to improve and expand the system of comprehensive care services for children, youth, women, and families who are infected with or affected by HIV and AIDS and to link comprehensive care systems with clinical research. Funds authorized and appropriated under Title IV will be used to demonstrate and test potentially replicable models of service delivery and clinical research to respond to the unique and challenging problems of access to a comprehensive care system faced by HIV and AIDS affected children, youth, women, and families. While children, youth, and women represent the most rapidly growing population groups affected by HIV and AIDS, they also represent the groups facing the greatest barriers in accessing care and research. These groups disproportionately are minorities and living in poverty. Children, youth, and women have a complex array of economic and social problems that increase their need for comprehensive services and increase the cost and intensity of care. Furthermore, since they comprise the most recent and fastest growing population groups impacted by HIV and AIDS, the care infrastructure and provider capacity are often not developed and require targeted resources and efforts to develop an appropriate system of care. Given these unmet needs, activities under the demonstration grants should address the following goals: _Foster the development of comprehensive care infrastructures, including primary care, that increase access to culturally-competent, family-centered, community-based, coordinated care. _Emphasize prevention within the comprehensive care system in order to reduce the spread of the HIV infection to vulnerable populations.
