FR940930-0-00103 FR940930-0-00017 §417.154 HMOs that must be included in a health benefits plan. (a) HMOs of different models _(1) Categories of HMO models . The following categories describe the manner in which an HMO furnishes the basic health services that are provided by physicians. (i) A ``staff/group model HMO'' provides more than one-half of those services through members of the HMO's staff or of a medical group or groups. (ii) An ``IPA/direct contract model HMO'' provides those services through__ (A) An IPA or IPAs; or (B) A combination of IPAs, medical groups, staff, and individual physicians and other health professionals under contract with the HMO. (2) Requirement . If at least one HMO from each category described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section requests inclusion in a health benefits plan, the employing entity must include at least one HMO from each category. (3) Terms . For purposes of this paragraph (a), ``health professionals under contract'' does not include health professionals who are members of any of the following: (i) The HMO's staff. (ii) Medical groups. (iii) Entities that would be medical groups if they met the following requirements: (A) For the group members individually, the coordinated practice of their profession represents more than 50 percent of their professional activity. (B) For the group as a whole, the delivery of health services to HMO enrollees represents more than 35 percent of their professional activity. (b) Additional HMOs that must be included . An employing entity that is subject to this subpart must offer its eligible employees the option of enrollment in additional qualified HMOs if the HMOs demonstrate that at least 25 of those eligible employees reside in the HMO's service areas and meet either of the following conditions: (1) They do not reside in the service areas of other HMOs already included in the employing entity's health benefits plan. (2) They cannot enroll in any other HMO included in the plan because those HMOs have closed their enrollment to additional eligible employees of the employing entity. (c) Optional inclusion of alternative HMOs . An employing entity may include in its health benefits plan, instead of an HMO that made a timely request for inclusion, one or more other HMOs that may not have made a request within the established time limits but are willing to be included, if the following conditions are met: (1) The alternative HMOs are of the same type (as described in paragraph (a) of this section) as the HMO that submitted the timely request. (2) All of the eligible employees who reside in the service area of the HMO that made the timely request reside in the service areas of the alternative HMOs. §417.155 How the HMO option must be included in the health benefits plan. (a) HMO access to employees _(1) Purpose and timing . (i) Purpose . The employing entity must provide each HMO included in its health benefits plan fair and reasonable access to all employees specified in §417.153(b), so that the HMO can explain its program in accordance with §417.124(b). (ii) Timing . The employing entity must provide access beginning at least 30 days before, and continuing during, the group enrollment period. (2) Nature of access . (i) Access must include, at a minimum, opportunity to distribute educational literature, brochures, announcements of meetings, and other relevant printed materials that meet the requirements of §417.124(b).
