FR940922-2-00017 FR940922-2-00006 DOC Position In our preliminary results, we did not include respondent's value for the interest expense in our analysis. The Department only allows an offset of interest expenses by short-term interest income. Thus, no change in our calculations is necessary. Grower 4 Comment 26 Petitioners argue that this grower's allocations of certain direct and indirect costs to kiwifruit based on the ratio of kiwifruit canopy area to total cultivated area or on the percentage of kiwifruit revenue of the grower's total revenue are flawed. Furthermore, petitioners support the Department's decision to recalculate expenses based on the ratio of total kiwifruit area to total cultivated area in the preliminary results. Respondent argues that the Department allocated farm expenses among the grower's various crops incorrectly by allocating non-productive headlands and sidelands area only to kiwifruit, while ignoring the headlands and sidelands that surround the grower's passionfruit orchard. DOC Position We agree, in part, with petitioners' argument regarding allocation of costs between canopy and non-productive areas. Costs, such as fertilizers, that are directly applicable to the canopy area only, should be allocated exclusively to productive areas ( see our position under Comment 8). However, costs applicable both to canopy and non-canopy areas should be allocated over the gross kiwifruit area. Accordingly, we have made an adjustment to the fertilizer expenses for this grower. Regarding respondent's argument that the Department ignored headlands and sidelands surrounding the passionfruit orchard, because the respondent did not provide an exact breakdown among headlands, sidelands, and shelterbelts for either kiwifruit or passionfruit, the Department decided to impute the area devoted to headlands, sidelands, and shelterbelts for cost allocation purposes. Furthermore, we could not firmly establish from this grower's response whether shelterbelts, headlands, and sidelands were also applicable to the passionfruit crop. Therefore, we imputed shelterbelts, headlands, and sidelands for kiwifruit only. Comment 27 Petitioners maintain that respondent allocated ``standing'' charges to kiwifruit on the basis of the ratio of kiwifruit expenses to all operating expenses. Petitioners argue that some of these operating expenses were for contracting which occurs off-farm and is not financing or mortgage intensive. Therefore, according to petitioners, the Department should recalculate set up costs for this grower by allocating all interest expenses to kiwifruit. DOC Position We disagree. Respondent allocated interest charges to kiwifruit on the basis of the ratio of kiwifruit expenses to all operating expenses. There is no evidence on the record that indicates that all interest expense should be dedicated to kiwifruit. Therefore, we have used respondent's allocation in the final results. Grower 5 Comment 28 Petitioners argue that the Department should revise its allocation of shelter costs based on land area. According to petitioners, given that the area of shelter devoted to each crop is known, a more accurate approach would be to calculate kiwifruit shelter area as a percentage of total shelter area. DOC Position We disagree with petitioners. Since it was not possible to identify shelter costs for a specific crop or activity, we imputed the shelter cost attributable to kiwifruit based on land area. The methodology suggested by petitioners is not necessarily more accurate than the one used by the Department in the preliminary results. Therefore, we have not made any adjustments in the final results. Comment 29 Respondent argues that the Department should allocate orchard expenses using net canopy area. Furthermore, respondent argues that the pastoral portion of the farm should be included in the allocation of orchard expenses. DOC Position We agree with respondent regarding allocation of certain orchard expenses over net canopy area ( see our response to Comment 8). However, we disagree with respondent regarding the allocation of all orchard expenses over the pastoral portion of the farm ( see our position under Comment 9). Accordingly, we have adjusted certain orchard expenses for this grower. Grower 6 Comment 30 Petitioners argue that this grower's labor cost should be recomputed because the reported cost is imputed rather than actual.
