FR940927-0-00106 FR940927-0-00016 5. Section 10.209 is revised to read as follows: §10.209 Requirements for renewal of licenses and certificates of registry. (a) General. Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, an applicant for renewal of a license or certificate of registry shall establish possession of all of the necessary qualifications before the license or certificate of registry is issued. (1) Each application must be on a Coast Guard furnished form and be accompanied by the evaluation fee set out in §10.109. An approved application is valid for 12 months. (2) The applicant may apply in person at any Regional Examination Center listed in §10.105 or may renew the license or certificate of registry by mail under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. (3) The applicant shall submit the original or a photocopy of the license or certificate of registry to be renewed. A photocopy will include the back and all attachments. If requested, the old license or certificate of registry will be returned to the applicant. (b) Fitness. No license or certificate of registry will be renewed if it has been suspended without probation or revoked as a result of action under part 5 of this chapter, or facts that would render a renewal improper have come to the attention of the Coast Guard. (c) Professional requirements. (1) In order to renew a license as master, mate, engineer, pilot, or operator, the applicant shall: (i) Present evidence of at least 1 year of sea service during the past 5 years; (ii) Pass a comprehensive, open-book exercise covering the general subject matter contained in appropriate sections of subpart I of this part; (iii) Complete an approved refresher training course; or (iv) Present evidence of employment in a position closely related to the operation, construction or repair of vessels (either deck or engineer as appropriate) for at least 3 years during the past 5 years. An applicant for a deck license with this type of employment must also demonstrate knowledge on an applicable Rules of the Road exercise. (2) The qualification requirements for renewal of radar observer endorsement are in §10.480. (3) Additional qualification requirements for renewal of a license as pilot are contained in §10.713. (4) An applicant for renewal of a radio officer's license shall, in addition to meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, present a currently valid license as first- or second-class radiotelegraph operator issued by the Federal Communications Commission. This license will be returned to the applicant. (5) An applicant for renewal of a medical doctor or professional nurse certificate of registry shall, in addition to meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, present evidence that he or she holds a currently valid appropriate license as physician, surgeon, or registered nurse issued under the authority of a state or territory of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. (d) Physical requirements. (1) An applicant for renewal of a license shall submit a certification by a licensed physician or physician assistant that he or she is in good health and has no physical impairment or medical condition which would render him or her incompetent to perform the ordinary duties of that license. This certification must address visual acuity and hearing in addition to general physical condition and must have been completed within 12 months of the date of application. (2) If the OCMI has reason to believe that an applicant for renewal of a license suffers from some physical impairment or medical condition which would render the applicant incompetent to perform the ordinary duties of that license, the applicant may be required to submit the results of an examination by a licensed physician or physician assistant that meets the requirements for original license. (3) An applicant who has lost the sight of one eye may obtain a renewal of license, provided that the applicant is qualified in all other respects and that the visual acuity in the one remaining eye passes the test required under §10.205(d). (4) Physical examinations are not required for renewal of certificates of registry. (e) Special circumstances _(1) Period of grace. Except as provided herein, a license may not be renewed more than 12 months after it has expired. To obtain a reissuance of the license, an applicant must comply with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. When an applicant's license expires during a time of service with the Armed Forces and there is no reasonable opportunity for renewal, including by mail, this period may be extended. The period of military service following the date of license expiration which precluded renewal may be added to the 12 month period of grace. The 12 month period of grace, and any extension, do not affect the expiration date of the license. A license is not valid for use after the expiration date. (2) Renewal in advance. A license or certificate of registry may not be renewed more than 12 months before expiration unless it is being renewed in conjunction with a merchant mariner's document which is either due for renewal or being endorsed, or unless the OCMI is satisfied that special circumstances exist to justify renewal. (3) Renewal by mail. (i) Applications for renewal by mail of licenses or certificates of registry may be sent to the Coast Guard office that issued the license or certificate of registry or holds the applicant's file. The following documents must be submitted: (A) A properly completed application on a Coast Guard furnished form and the evaluation fee required by §10.109.
