FR940223-2-00164 FR940223-2-00097 Part III_Panels Announcement of Panel 42. On the completion of the selection of a panel, the responsible Secretary shall notify the participants and the other involved Secretary of the names of the panelists. Violation of Code of Conduct 43. Where a participant believes that a panelist or an assistant to a panelist is in violation of the Code of Conduct, the participant shall forthwith notify the responsible Secretary in writing of the alleged violation. The responsible Secretary shall promptly notify the other involved Secretary and the involved Parties of the allegations. Part IV_Proprietary Information and Privileged Information Filing or Service Under Seal 44. (1) Where, under these rules, a document containing proprietary information or privileged information is required to be filed under seal with the Secretariat or is required to be served under seal, the document shall be filed or served in accordance with this rule and, where the document is a pleading, in accordance with rule 56. (2) A document filed or served under seal shall be (a) bound separately from all other documents; (b) clearly marked (i) with respect to a panel review of a final determination made in Canada, (A) in the case of a document containing proprietary information, ``Proprietary'', ``Confidential'', ``De nature exclusive'' or ``Confidentiel'', and (B) in the case of a document containing privileged information, ``Privileged'' or ``Protégé'', (ii) with respect to a panel review of a final determination made in Mexico, (A) in the case of a document containing proprietary information, ``Confidencial'', and (B) in the case of a document containing privileged information, ``Privilegiada'', and (iii) with respect to a panel review of a final determination made in the United States, (A) in the case of a document containing proprietary information, ``Proprietary'', and (B) in the case of a document containing privileged information, ``Privileged''; and (c) contained in an opaque inner wrapper and an opaque outer wrapper. (3) An inner wrapper referred to in subrule (2)(c) shall indicate (a) that proprietary information or privileged information is enclosed, as the case may be; and (b) the Secretariat file number of the panel review. 45. Filing or service of proprietary information or privileged information with the Secretariat does not constitute a waiver of the designation of the information as proprietary information or privileged information. Proprietary Information Access Orders 46. (1) A counsel of record, or a professional retained by, or under the control or direction of, a counsel of record, who wishes disclosure of proprietary information in a panel review shall file a Proprietary Information Access Application with respect to the proprietary information as follows: (a) with the responsible Secretariat, four copies; and (b) with the investigating authority, one original and any additional copies that the investigating authority requires. (2) A Proprietary Information Access Application referred to in subrule (1) shall be served (a) where the Proprietary Information Access Application is filed before the expiration of the time period fixed for filing a Notice of Appearance in the panel review, on the persons listed in the service list; and (b) in any other case, on all participants other than the investigating authority, in accordance with subrule 24(1). 47. (1) Every panelist, assistant to a panelist, court reporter, interpreter and translator shall, before taking up duties in a panel review, provide to the responsible Secretary a Proprietary Information Access Application. (2) A panelist, assistant to a panelist, court reporter, interpreter or translator who amends or modifies a Proprietary Information Access Application shall provide the responsible Secretariat with a copy of the amendment or modification. (3) Where the investigating authority receives, pursuant to subrule 14(1), a Proprietary Information Access Application or an amendment or modification thereto, the investigating authority shall issue a Proprietary Information Access Order, amendment or modification accordingly. 48. The investigating authority shall, within 30 days after a Proprietary Information Access Application is filed in accordance with subrule 46(1), serve on the person who filed the Proprietary Information Access Application (a) a Proprietary Information Access Order; or (b) a notification in writing setting out the reasons why a Proprietary Information Access Order is not issued. 49. (1) Where (a) an investigating authority refuses to issue a Proprietary Information Access Order to a counsel of record or to a professional retained by, or under the control or direction of, a counsel of record, or (b) an investigating authority issues a Proprietary Information Access Order with terms unacceptable to the counsel of record, the counsel of record may file with the responsible Secretariat a Notice of Motion requesting that the panel review the decision of the investigating authority. (2) Where, after consideration of any response made by the investigating authority referred to in subrule (1), the panel decides that a Proprietary Information Access Order should be issued or that the terms of a Proprietary Information Access Order should be modified or amended, the panel shall so notify counsel for the investigating authority. (3) Where the final determination was made in the United States and the investigating authority fails to comply with the notification referred to in subrule (2), the panel may issue such orders as are just in the circumstances, including an order refusing to permit the investigating authority to make certain arguments in support of its case or striking certain arguments from its pleadings. 50. (1) Where a Proprietary Information Access Order is issued to a person in a panel review, the person shall file with the responsible Secretariat a copy of the Proprietary Information Access Order. (2) Where a Proprietary Information Access Order is revoked, amended or modified by the investigating authority, the investigating authority shall provide to the responsible Secretariat and to all participants a copy of the Notice of Revocation, amendment or modification.
