FR941012-0-00081 FR941012-0-00011 Many commenters, on the other hand, while supporting ROPS and FOPS requirements for new machines, opposed retrofitting older machinery (Ex. 5&hyph;19, 5&hyph;22, 5&hyph;25, 5&hyph;27, 5&hyph;33, 5&hyph;53, 5&hyph;57, 5&hyph;74 through 5&hyph;92, 9&hyph;5, 9&hyph;17; Tr. W1 203, OR 170). Their opposition was based on several reasons. First, commenters said that machines should not be required to be retrofitted to meet current standards when the installed ROPS and/or FOPS met industry standards in effect at the time of manufacture (Ex. 5&hyph;22; Tr. W1 203, OR 170). One commenter said that older machines in the logging industry were equipped with rollover protection, but those machine structures still in service do not meet the revised industry standards (Ex. 5&hyph;22). Second, some commenters said that retrofitting machines would be very burdensome and costly, especially given the limited useful life of such machines (Ex. 5&hyph;74 through 5&hyph;92, 9&hyph;5). They said retrofitting would be expensive because it would require complete rebuilding and testing of the frame structure. These commenters also said that employers would have to hire outside contractors to test the retrofitted equipment since most employers did not have the personnel, expertise or equipment to install and test protective structures (Ex. 5&hyph;35). In addition, other commenters said that the retrofitting requirement would be too burdensome for small employers, both in terms of absorbing the cost in small operations and in finding persons who could do the retrofitting (Tr. OR 119, 263, 307). Third, commenters indicated that the retrofitting requirement was not essential since most of the machines specified in the proposed standard already are manufactured with ROPS and FOPS as standard equipment (Tr. W1 184, 203, OR 170). For example, most log-skidders manufactured after 1974 have ROPS and FOPS meeting the performance criteria specified by the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE). Most mobile equipment used in the Southeastern United States already has ROPS or FOPS (Ex. 5&hyph;19). Other commenters said that skidders now come with fully enclosed cabs (Tr. W1 184). After consideration of all the comments and information received in the rulemaking record, OSHA has decided for several reasons not to require machines placed into service before the effective date of this standard to be retrofit with ROPS and FOPS, provided that ROPS and FOPS have not been removed from machines so equipped at the time of manufacture. First, OSHA has determined that many of the machines currently in use already have protective structures meeting various performance criteria. The final standard requires that these protective structures continue to be maintained throughout the useful life of the machine, and that they be replaced where they have been removed (e.g., removed after machine accident). Second, many machines currently in use and virtually all machines recently manufactured meet the performance criteria specified in the proposed standard (Ex. 9&hyph;2; Tr. OR 185&hyph;87). OSHA believes that older machines, that either do not have protective structures or have ROPS and FOPS meeting earlier standards, are few in number and are rapidly nearing the end of their useful life. As such, OSHA believes that most employers are substantially in compliance with the requirement for machine protective structures and will reach full compliance in short period of time. Therefore, OSHA determines that compliance with the protective structure requirement can be achieved without requiring retrofitting. b. Incorporation of standards by reference. In the hearing notice, OSHA requested comment on the appropriateness of incorporating by reference updated consensus standards governing machine protective devices. In the proposed standard OSHA required ROPS and FOPS to be installed, tested and maintained in accordance with the following SAE national consensus standards: SAE 1040c June 1979 ``Performance Criteria or Rollover Protective Structures (ROPS) for Construction, Earthmoving, Forestry, and Mining Machines'' and J231 Jan 1981 ``Minimum Performance Criteria for Falling Object Protective Structures (FOPS).'' The SAE ROPS standard was updated in 1988 as was the SAE standard on ``Deflection Limiting Volume-ROPS/FOPS Laboratory Evaluation.''
