FR940817-1-00044 FR940817-1-00013 Section 66.71 The proposed §66.71 is based upon the current §65.71 and differs from that section solely in the language of subparagraph (a)(2). The proposal differs from current §65.71, because in addition to requiring an applicant for an aviation maintenance technician certificate to read, write, speak, and understand the English language, as is currently required, it would require the applicant to demonstrate this knowledge by reading and explaining appropriate maintenance publications and by writing defect and repair statements. The proposal also differs from the current section in that it would eliminate the issuance of certificates to individuals who cannot meet this requirement and who are employed solely outside the United States by a U.S. air carrier. Section 66.73 The proposed §66.73 would establish the ratings issued under this subpart. This proposed section is based on current §65.73. The proposal would revise current paragraph (b), to establish the equivalency of the current mechanic certificate and the proposed aviation maintenance technician certificate. The proposal also provides for the exchange of corresponding certificates and ratings. Section 66.75 The proposed §66.75 would establish the knowledge requirements for certificates and ratings issued under this part. This proposed section is based on current §65.75. The proposed revisions to the current knowledge requirements encompass the current requirement that the applicant be tested in the applicable provisions of Parts 43 and 91 of this chapter and also expand the knowledge required of an applicant by requiring the applicant to pass a written test that includes material on all applicable provisions of this chapter. To clarify the existing language of §65.75, the proposed revisions would require the applicant to pass all sections of the written test (as opposed to each section) before applying for the oral and practical tests for the certificate or rating sought. Because of the increased use of computer-based testing, the proposal would require a report of the written test to be made available to the applicant upon completion of the test. The current section requires the FAA to send the applicant a report. Section 66.77 The proposed §66.77 would establish the experience requirements for certificates and ratings issued under this part. This proposed section is based on current §65.77. The proposed revisions to the current experience requirements would result in experience requirements being specified in hours instead of months. All proposed experience requirements are approximate equivalents of the current full-time experience requirements.
