FR941227-0-00012 FR941227-0-00004 Rural Telephone Bank Rural Utilities Service 7 CFR Parts 1600 and 1610 and Chapter XVII Nomenclature Changes of Chapter and Part Headings and in Internal References AGENCY: Rural Telephone Bank and Rural Utilities Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Rural Telephone Bank (RTB) and the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) hereby amend the regulations originally published by the Rural Electrification Administration (REA) and by the RTB. These amendments revise nomenclature in order to implement recent legislation directing the Secretary of Agriculture to establish the Rural Utilities Service (RUS), with responsibility for the electric and telephone loan programs formerly administered by REA, including loan programs of the RTB. Nomenclature changes to regulations affecting other programs administered by RUS, including water and waste facility loan and grant programs and certain other programs previously administered by the former Rural Development Administration and the former Farmers Home Administration will be published separately. The amendments published in this document consist solely of nomenclature changes required by law and of amendments necessary to conform to these nomenclature changes. The substance of the regulations is not affected by these amendments. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sue Arnold, Financial Analyst, Program Support Staff, Rural Utilities Service, room 2234, South Building, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;1500, telephone number 202&hyph;720&hyph;0736; FAX 202&hyph;720&hyph;4120. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;354, 108 Stat. 3178) (Reorganization Act) signed by President Clinton on October 13, 1994, provides for a streamlining and reorganizing of the Department of Agriculture (Department). The Reorganization Act requires the Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary) to establish the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) within the Department. On October 20, 1994, the Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary), in Secretary's Memorandum 1010&hyph;1, abolished the Rural Electrification Administration (REA) and established RUS, as required by the Reorganization Act. The functions of RUS include, among other things, administration of the electric and telephone loan programs authorized by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 et seq. ) (RE Act) and of the water and waste facility loan and grant programs authorized by various laws. The rights, interests, obligations, duties, and assets of REA have been vested in and transferred to RUS. In order to enhance the delivery of customer services, provide continuity of service, and minimize public confusion about the administration and functions of the newly established agency, RUS is amending regulations originally published by REA and by the Rural Telephone Bank (RTB) to replace references to REA and its officials with references to RUS and to officials of the newly established agency. A few definitions are being revised to conform with the new nomenclature. Additional regulations implementing other aspects of the reorganization of the Department of Agriculture will be published at a later date. Since this action relates solely to agency organization, procedure, or practice, notice and comment is not required prior to publication of this final rule. This final rule is published in accordance with the Reorganization Act.
