FR940317-2-00021 FR940317-2-00016 Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for the Interim Management of Nuclear Materials at the Savannah River Site AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy (DOE) announces its intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.). DOE proposes to evaluate nuclear materials currently stored at the Savannah River Site (SRS) and determine what materials can safely remain in their current form for an interim period (approximately 5 years) until disposition decisions can be made. DOE will also determine what materials are at risk and therefore require near-term stabilization to assure continued safe management. DOE will evaluate the nuclear materials using a proposed set of criteria to determine materials which require near-term stabilization to help maintain the health and safety of workers and the public and to maintain environmental quality. DOE would then stabilize the materials determined to be of concern. DOE also proposes that some nuclear materials at the SRS should be converted, or should be considered for conversion, to a useable form. Plutonium-242 is used for research and development programs and the SRS inventory of this material is needed for this programmatic purpose. As a result, DOE proposes to convert the SRS inventory of plutonium-242 solution to an oxide. Additionally, DOE is in the process of determining whether a programmatic need exists for americium-243, curium-244, and neptunium-237. If it is determined that a need for this material exists, the EIS will also evaluate its conversion to a useable form. Any conversion of this material would be for purposes other than the production of nuclear weapons. The nuclear materials to be evaluated will be those which have historically been either the feed materials for, or the in-process material of, SRS production and reprocessing programs. 1 The need for the EIS is driven by the evolving requirements associated with the defense programs of the United States and the resultant requirement to manage the materials in the interim pending disposition decisions. 1 This material does not include that associated with the plutonium-238 production mission in HB-Line. The purpose of that mission is to support the National Aeronautics Space Administration deep space probe program. This effort is the subject of separate NEPA documentation. DOE plans to address waste management activities at SRS in a separate EIS. The waste management EIS for SRS will be announced shortly, by a separate Notice of Intent. INVITATION TO COMMENT: To ensure the EIS addresses the full range of issues and alternatives related to this proposal, DOE invites comments on the proposed scope of the EIS from all interested parties. Please direct written comments to assist DOE in identifying significant environmental issues and defining the appropriate scope of the EIS to Mr. Stephen R. Wright at the address indicated below. DOE also invites agencies, organizations, and the general public to present oral comments pertinent to the preparation of this EIS at the public scoping meetings on the dates indicated below. In addition, DOE will accept comments electronically via voice mail or facsimile transmission by calling 1&hyph;800&hyph;242&hyph;8269. DOE will give equal consideration to all comments. After the completion of the public scoping process, DOE will prepare an EIS Implementation Plan and make it available to the public upon request. The Implementation Plan will record the results of the scoping process and define the alternatives and issues that DOE will evaluate in the EIS. DOE intends to complete the Draft EIS in late 1994, and will announce its availability in the Federal Register . DOE will solicit comments from the public, organizations, and other agencies on the Draft EIS, and will consider all comments in its preparation of the Final EIS. DATES: The public scoping period will continue until May 31, 1994. DOE will consider all written comments postmarked by May 31, 1994, and will consider comments postmarked after that date to the extent practicable. ADDRESSES: Please direct written comments or suggestions on the scope of the EIS and questions concerning the project to: Mr. Stephen R. Wright, U.S. Department of Energy, Savannah River Operations Office, P.O. Box A, Aiken, South Carolina 29802, (803) 725&hyph;3957. Mark the envelopes: ``Nuclear Materials Interim Management EIS.''
