FR940527-1-00025 FR940527-1-00012 7. With respect to analysis of horizontal ownership and vertical integration in the cable industry, the Inquiry notes that substantial reliance was placed on the 1990 Report when establishing the subscriber and channel occupancy limits. The Inquiry seeks to gather data to create a baseline that may be used to provide a comprehensive report, and that will also aid the Commission in its periodic review of the appropriateness of those limits. 8. In addition, the Inquiry proposes to gather information on the existence and extent of affiliations, including, but not limited to, investments, joint ventures, and partnerships between multichannel video programming distributors and other communications companies. Comment is sought on how these and other types of business relationships will affect the cost, quality, and variety of video programming. The Inquiry acknowledges that some information that could be requested might include proprietary or otherwise confidential information or data. Comment is requested on how the Commission should gather, examine, protect or release such information and data, and on possible methods for protecting individual confidentiality. 9. The Inquiry seeks comments on the effect that the 1992 Cable Act and the Commission's implementing rules, and the effect of the changes in the multichannel video marketplace resulting from the 1992 Act and rules, have had on the entry and development of competitors in the marketplace, e.g., negotiations, sales, marketing, and carriage practices. 10. The Inquiry also seeks to determine whether anticompetitive practices in the multichannel video programming and distribution markets have diminished, and whether new and potentially anticompetitive conduct has developed. To the extent commenters express continued concerns about the existence of undue market power by cable operators, other multichannel video programming distributors, or vertically integrated programming vendors engaging in conduct that is not encompassed within the Commission's rules, they are requested to suggest regulatory responses that will address them. 11. Since the Inquiry acknowledges that it may be desirable in the future to establish more systematic reporting procedures, it seeks comments on specific studies, survey methodologies, etc. that the Commission might undertake to gather the information that will enable it to prepare accurate and comprehensive reports. The Inquiry seeks comment on whether the Commission should adopt annual reporting requirements on various licensees providing multichannel video programming distribution services and on vertically integrated programming vendors, and what such reporting requirements should entail. 12. The Inquiry emphasizes that the Commission wishes to gather and compile all of this information without unduly burdening the information providers. Thus, the Inquiry seeks comment on the least intrusive means for gathering the necessary information and data. Administrative Matters Ex Parte. This is a non-restricted proceeding subject to 47 CFR ยง1.1206(b)(2). Comments. Interested parties may file comments on or before June 29, 1994, and reply comments on or before July 29, 1994. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 76 Cable television. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13146 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
