FR940819-1-00040 FR940819-1-00011 FRA also proposes to make it clear that overhead is to be excluded from damage costs. FRA does not wish to dictate a specific rate for overhead, but it also finds the non-uniform treatment of overhead under the current process to be unacceptable. Rather than have damage estimates that have an unknown level of overhead, FRA has decided to propose excluding overhead from the direct damage estimates. Lastly, material costs would be calculated based upon the costs of acquiring new material, even if the railroad chooses to use refurbished or used material in their actual repairs. In summary, the proposed changes in the reporting definitions would allow the industry maximum flexibility in cost accounting and management, and would not dictate set practices to restrict that flexibility, but would require enough disclosure of the practices used so that FRA could convert the information to common terms before any analysis is performed. c. Filing of an Amended Form FRA F 6180.54. At the time the ANPRM for accident reporting was published, the FRA Guide provided that Form FRA F 6180.54 was to be amended if, after filing, it was determined that the damage estimate ``was significantly in error *␣*␣*.'' Since the term ``significantly'' was not defined in the FRA Guide at that time, railroads used varying definitions of ``significant'' differences and, as a result, submitted few updated accident reports. Because of the doubt as to the definition of the term, the majority of commenters proposed that ``significantly'' be defined as at least a ten-percent change in the estimated or actual damages submitted to FRA. In response to the comments, the FRA Guide was changed to specifically provide that an amended report be filed only if subsequently acquired information showed the damage to be at least a ten-percent variance from the amount originally reported to FRA ( see page V&hyph;2 of the FRA Guide). This change became effective January 1, 1993. 3. Form FRA F 6180.55a_``Railroad Injury and Illness (Continuation Sheet)'': Numerous Changes The ``Railroad Injury and Illness (Continuation Sheet)'' (Form FRA F 6180.55a) collects information about injuries, fatalities, and illnesses of railroad workers, trespassers, contractors, and passengers and about highway-rail grade crossing injuries and fatalities. 49 CFR 225.19(d) and 225.21(c). Only the barest of information is currently available on Form FRA F 6180.55a: the railroad reporting the incident, the State in which the incident occurred, type of person injured or ill, age, type of injury or illness, what the person was doing at the time of the incident, and, for railroad workers, the number of workdays lost and restricted and the results of administered alcohol/drug tests. FRA does not believe the information currently requested on Form FRA F 6180.55a is sufficient for analyzing the causal factors related to injuries and illnesses. FRA thus proposes numerous changes to the Form in order to collect data that would aid in development of railroad injury and accident prevention programs. The format of the proposed Form FRA F 6180.55a is set forth in Appendix 4 to this NPRM. Appendix 5, the currently used ``Railroad Injury and Illness (Continuation Sheet)'' is provided for comparison purposes. a. Exposure to hazardous materials. When a railroad accident causes a release of hazardous materials, FRA cannot determine, using Form FRA F 6180.55a as it now stands, if any injuries are associated with the hazardous materials release. There is an increased need for information on the number of persons injured or killed due to exposure to hazardous materials. FRA thus proposes to add an additional block ``5u'' on Form FRA F 6180.55a to collect data on the number of injuries, as well as type of injury ( e.g., burn, inhalation, rash), due to release and exposure to hazardous materials.
