FR941007-0-00007 FR941007-0-00002 List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 210 Children, Commodity school program, Food assistance programs, Grants programs_Social programs, Incorporation by reference, National School Lunch Program, Nutrition, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surplus agricultural commodities. Accordingly, 7 CFR part 210 is amended as follows: PART 210_NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 210 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1751&hyph;1760, 1779. 2. In Appendix A_Alternate Foods for Meals; Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein: (a) The heading of Appendix A is revised. (b) A new subheading is added under the heading of Appendix A. (c) Paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) are amended by adding ``(28.35 grams)'' after the words ``ounce'' or ``ounces'' wherever they appear. (d) A new paragraph 1(c) is added. (e) Paragraphs 2 and 3 are revised. Appendix A to Part 210_Alternate Foods for Meals Enriched Macaroni Products With Fortified Protein 1. *␣*␣* (c) Enriched macaroni product may not be used for infants under 1 year of age. 2. Only enriched macaroni products with fortified protein that have been accepted by FNS for use in the USDA Child Nutrition Programs may be labeled as provided in paragraph 1(b) of this appendix. Manufacturers seeking acceptance of their product shall furnish FNS a chemical analysis, the Protein Digestibility-Corrected Amino Acid Score (PDCAAS), and such other pertinent data as may be requested by FNS, except that prior to November 7, 1994, manufacturers may submit protein efficiency ratio analysis in lieu of the PDCAAS. This information is to be forwarded to: Director, Nutrition and Technical Services Division, Food and Nutrition Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 3101 Park Center Drive, room 607, Alexandria, VA 22302. All laboratory analyses are to be performed by independent or other laboratories acceptable to FNS. (FNS prefers an independent laboratory.) All laboratories shall retain the ``raw'' laboratory data for a period of 1 year. Such information shall be made available to FNS upon request. Manufacturers must notify FNS if there is a change in the protein portion of their product after the original testing. Manufacturers who report such a change in protein in a previously approved product must submit protein data in accordance with the method specified in this paragraph. 3. The product should not be designed in such a manner that would require it to be classified as a Dietary Supplement as described by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 21 CFR part 105. To be accepted by FNS, enriched macaroni products with fortified protein must conform to the following requirements: (a)(1) Each of these foods is produced by drying formed units of dough made with one or more of the milled wheat ingredients designated in 21 CFR 139.110(a) and 139.138(a), and other ingredients to enable the finished food to meet the protein requirements set out in paragraph 3.(a)(2)(i) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this Appendix. Edible protein sources, including food grade flours or meals made from nonwheat cereals or from oilseeds, may be used. Vitamin and mineral enrichment nutrients are added to bring the food into conformity with the requirements of paragraph (b) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this Appendix. Safe and suitable ingredients, as provided for in paragraph (c) under Enriched Macaroni Products with Fortified Protein in this Appendix, may be added. The proportion of the milled wheat ingredient is larger than the proportion of any other ingredient used.
