FR940318-2-00113 FR940318-2-00075 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general program information and technical assistance, please contact Ms. Cynthia H. Amis, Chief, Human Resource Development Branch, National Health Service Corps (NHSC), BPHC, HRSA, 4350 East West Highway, Rockville, Maryland 20857, at (301) 594&hyph;4180. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: An estimated $478,000 will be available to support approximately 10 to 15 new awards for a 12-month budget period with project periods of up to 3 years. The FY 1994 range of project support for new and competing continuation awards will be approximately $5,000 to $75,000. Under this program, States enter into agreements with public or private nonprofit community organizations located in federally designated HPSAs. These organizations will recruit qualified residents of their communities and provide scholarships to them to become physicians, certified nurse practitioners, certified nurse midwives, or physician assistants based on the needs of the communities. This grant program is intended to be consistent with the efforts of the NHSC Scholarship and Loan Repayment Programs to meet the needs of underserved populations in federally designated HPSAs through the placement of primary care practitioners. For purposes of this program, the term ``primary health care'' means health services regarding family medicine, general internal medicine, general pediatrics, or obstetrics and gynecology, that are provided by physicians, certified nurse practitioners, certified nurse midwives, or physician assistants. The Secretary is required by statute [section 338L(l)(3) of the PHS Act] to ensure that, to the extent practicable, not less than 50 percent of the amount appropriated will be in the aggregate expended by the States for making grants to community organizations that are located in rural federally designated HPSAs. Eligibility Requirements In order for a State to receive a grant under this program, the State must: 1. Receive funding for at least one grant, cooperative agreement, or contract under any provisions of the PHS Act other than section 338L for the fiscal year for which the State is applying; 2. Agree that the grant program will be administered directly by a single State agency; 3. Agree to make grants to community organizations located in federally designated HPSAs in order to assist those community organizations in providing scholarships to individuals enrolled or accepted for enrollment as full-time students in health professions schools accredited by a body or bodies recognized for accreditation purposes by the Secretary of Education; 4. Agree that 40 percent of the total costs of the scholarships will be paid from the Federal grant made to the State; and 5. Agree that 60 percent of the total costs of the scholarships will be paid from non-Federal contributions made in cash by both the State and the community organization through which the scholarship is provided. a. The State must make available through these cash contributions not less than 15 percent nor more than 25 percent of the scholarship costs. b. The community organization must make available through these cash contributions not less than 35 percent nor more than 45 percent of the scholarship costs. c. Non-Federal contributions provided in cash by the State and community organization (as described in a and b above) may not include any amounts provided by the Federal Government to the State, or community organization involved, or to any other entity. Non-federal contributions required may be provided directly by the State and community organization involved, and may be provided through donations from public and private entities. States should be aware, however, that donations from providers may be subject to provisions of Public Law 102&hyph;234, the Medicaid Voluntary Contribution and Provider-Specific Tax Amendments of 1991. Scholarship Requirements To receive a grant, the State must agree that it will award a grant to a community organization for scholarships only if: 1. The individual who is to receive the scholarship under a contract is a resident of a federally designated HPSA in which the community organization is located and will provide primary health care services for:
