FR940412-1-00014 FR940412-1-00004 (a) Scope and application. (1) This subpart applies to all scaffolds, except as indicated below, used in shipyard employment (e.g., shipbuilding, ship repairing, shipbreaking, and related employments), but does not apply to construction operations being performed in shipyards by outside contractors using non-shipyard employees. (i) Types of scaffolds which are specifically covered by 29 CFR part 1926 subpart L, but which are not specifically addressed by this subpart, shall meet the applicable requirements of part 1926 subpart L, except that fall protection shall be provided for each shipyard employee working more than 5 feet (1.52 m) above a lower level on such scaffolds. B. Qualified Person OSHA proposed in §§1915.252 (b)(11), (b)(12), (b)(18)(i), and (d)(4) that scaffolds be evaluated by a capable person, and in §1915.252(d)(7) that scaffolds not be erected, moved, dismantled, or altered except under the supervision of a capable person. Furthermore, OSHA proposed the following definition, which is identical to the definition of ``competent person'' in §1926.32(f), for ``capable person'': ``Capable person'' means one who is capable of identifying existing and predictable hazards in the surroundings or working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous or dangerous to employees, and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate them. At its meeting on November 20, 1991, the Shipyard Employment Standards Advisory Committee (SESAC) recommended (Tr. p. 84) that OSHA replace the term ``capable person'' with the term ``qualified person'' throughout the shipyard standards (29 CFR part 1915). Accordingly, OSHA is considering the appropriateness of replacing the term ``capable person'' with the term ``qualified person (QP)'' in the above-mentioned standards. The definition being considered for ``qualified person (QP)'' is based on the definition for ``qualified'' found in §1926.32(l) of the construction standards to which the word ``person'' and the clause ``and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate any such problems'' have been added in order to indicate clearly that a ``qualified person (QP)'', for the purposes of subpart N, would have both the ability and the authority needed to correct problems. Accordingly, OSHA seeks comment on the following definition, which would apply to subpart N only: ``Qualified person (QP)'' means an individual who by possession of a recognized degree or certificate of professional standing, or who, by extensive knowledge, training, and experience, has successfully demonstrated the ability to solve or resolve problems related to the subject matter, the work, or the project, and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate any such problems. Does a person who evaluates scaffolds need authority over other employees in order to perform his or her duties? C. Maximum Distance Between the Front Edge of a Platform and the Face of a Vessel or Structure Proposed paragraph §1915.252(b)(4), which is effectively identical with proposed §1926.451(b)(4), reads as follows: (4) The front edge of all platforms, except those on outrigger scaffolds, shall be positioned not more than 14 inches (36 cm) from the face of the vessel, vessel section, building or structure being worked on, unless Type I guardrails are erected along the open edge or body belt/harness systems are used to protect employees from falling. The maximum distance for outrigger scaffolds shall be 3 inches (8 cm). OSHA is concerned that allowing a 14-inch (36 cm) opening may not be justified by the nature of work performed in shipyards. Unlike construction work, where an opening of up to 14 inches (36 cm) may be necessary if the structure is being constructed outward toward the scaffold, the fabrication of vessels and similar structures by shipyard workers is not usually conducted in that manner. Accordingly, OSHA seeks public comment on the appropriateness of reducing the maximum space allowed between the front edge of a platform and the face of the structure. Should OSHA extend the 3-inch (7.62 cm) maximum distance provision for outrigger scaffolds to cover all scaffolds? Should OSHA set some other distance? If so, what should that distance be? Please submit supporting information with any suggestions. D. Interior Hung Scaffolds OSHA recently became aware of a type of scaffold used in shipyards that consists of single-level or multi-level platforms suspended by several wire ropes attached to ``S'' hooks inserted through openings in the overhead longitudinal structural members in tanks. Wire rope clips are used to form the ends of the ropes into eyes. Those eyes are placed over the bottom of the ``S'' hooks. The platforms are supported by horizontal struts (usually, metal pipes) with slotted ends into which the suspension ropes are placed with a bolt or wire placed at the end of the opening. The struts rest on wire rope clips attached to the suspension ropes. OSHA is concerned that the proposed rules may not adequately address these scaffolds. The Agency also has some concerns about the adequacy of the proposed requirements for suspension scaffolds, in general. Accordingly, OSHA seeks public comment on the following issues:
