FR940603-0-00143 FR940603-0-00029 VII.B.5_Certification of Resolutions, NCUA 9501 This document certifies that the board of directors of the proposed federal credit union has resolved to apply for insurance of member accounts and has authorized the chief executive officer and chief financial officer to execute the Application and Agreements for Insurance of Accounts. This form must be signed by both the chief executive officer and recording officer of the proposed federal credit union. VII.B.6_Application and Agreements for Insurance of Accounts, NCUA 9500 This document contains the agreements with which federal credit unions must comply in order to obtain National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF) coverage of member accounts. The document must be completed and signed by both the chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Each prospective federal credit union must qualify for federal share insurance. VIII_NCUA Review VIII.A_General As discussed previously, NCUA may provide tentative approval of the proposed federal credit union's field of membership. Additionally, credit and background investigations may be conducted concurrently by NCUA with other work being performed by the organizers and subscribers to reduce the likelihood of delays in the chartering process. Once NCUA receives a complete charter application package, an acknowledgment of receipt will be sent to the organizers within 10 business days of receipt, and a staff member will be assigned to perform an on-site contact with the proposed officials and others having an interest in the proposed federal credit union. NCUA will make every effort to process the application expeditiously. The staff member will review the application package and verify its accuracy and reasonableness. The staff member will inquire into the financial management experience, suitability and commitment of the proposed officials and make an assessment of economic advisability. The staff member will also assist the subscribers in the proper completion of the Organization Certificate, NCUA 4008. By assisting in the completion of the Organization Certificate, the staff member may, without indicating his or her endorsement of the charter application, expedite the process. The staff member will thoroughly analyze the prospective credit union's business plan for realistic projections, attainable goals, and time commitment. Any concerns will be reviewed with the organizers and discussed with the prospective credit union's officials. The staff member will then make a recommendation to the regional director regarding the charter application. His or her recommendation may include specific provisions to be included in a Letter of Understanding and Agreement. In most cases, NCUA will require the prospective federal credit union's officials to enter into an agreement not to engage in certain activities. The agreement is for a limited term_usually two to four years. A sample Letter of Understanding and Agreement is attached in Appendix B. VIII.B_Regional Director Approval Once approved, the board of directors of the newly formed federal credit union will receive a signed charter and bylaws from the regional director. Additionally, the officials will be advised of the name and mailing address of the examiner who has been assigned responsibility for supervising and examining the credit union. Generally, the examiner will contact the credit union officials shortly after approval of the charter in order to arrange for the initial examination (usually within the first six months of operation). Assistance in commencing operations is generally available through the various trade organizations listed in Appendix F. VIII.C_Regional Director Disapproval Where a regional director disapproves any application, in whole or in part, under this Chapter, the organizers will be informed in writing of the specific reasons for the action. Where applicable, the regional director will provide information concerning options or suggestions that they could consider for gaining approval or otherwise acquiring credit union service. The letter of denial will include the procedure for and other information on the group's right to appeal the decision. VIII.D_Appeal of Regional Director Decision The procedures for filing an appeal of any actions taken by NCUA regional directors will be followed. If not included with the denial notice, a copy of these procedures may be obtained from the regional director who made the decision. The prospective group may submit substantive new and additional information to the regional director for reconsideration. In these cases, the request will not be considered as an appeal but as a request for reconsideration by the regional director. If the request is again denied, the group may proceed with the appeal process. IX_Future Supervision Once NCUA has granted a charter to a new federal credit union, an examiner will be assigned to supervise the credit union. The examiner will be responsible for monitoring the progress of the credit union and ensuring it gets off to a good start. The examiner will also monitor compliance with the terms of the Letter of Understanding and Agreement. Typically, the examiner will require copies of monthly board minutes and financial statements. Each federal credit union is examined regularly to NCUA to determine that it remains in compliance with law and regulation and to determine that it does not pose undue risk to the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund. The Federal Credit Union Act requires all newly chartered credit unions, up to two years after the charter anniversary date, to obtain NCUA approval prior to appointment of any board member, any credit or supervisory committee member, or any senior executive officer. Part 701.14 of the NCUA Regulations sets forth the notice and application requirements. If NCUA issues a Notice of Disapproval, the newly chartered credit union is prohibited from making the change. NCUA may disapprove an individual serving as a director, committee member or senior executive officer if it finds that the competence, experience, character, or integrity of the individual would not be in the best interests of the members of the credit union or of the public to permit the individual to be employed by or associated with the credit union.
