FR941128-2-00005 FR941128-2-00004 Foss-Perkins Timber Sale and Vegetation Management Project, Ochoco National Forest, Harney County, Oregon AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the USDA, Forest Service, will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) for a timber sale and vegetation management actions in the Foss-Perkins analysis area. The Foss-Perkins analysis area is about 36 air miles northwest of the Burns/Hines area. Drainages include Delintment, Dodson, and Short Creeks. This proposal is tentatively planned for fiscal years 1995&hyph;96. The Proposed Action for the analysis area includes; timber harvest, road construction, tree thinning, prescribed burning, slash treatment, and watershed improvement projects. The purpose and need for these actions is to improve ecosystem health, reduce fire hazard, maintain and improve water quality, and provide timber to the economy. The Proposed Action will incorporate the direction in the Ochoco National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan as amended by the Regional Forester's Eastside Forest Plans Amendment No. 1, May 20, 1994. The Forest Plan provides the overall guidance for management of the area and the proposed projects. The Ochoco National Forest invites further written comments and suggestions in addition to the comments already received on the scope of the analysis. The agency will also give notice of the full environmental analysis and decision-making process so that interested and affected people have an opportunity to participate and contribute to the final decision. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received in writing by January 17, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send written comments and suggestions concerning the management of this area to Jim Keniston, District Ranger, Snow Mountain Ranger District, HC 74 Box 12870, Hines, OR 97738. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Direct questions about the Proposed Action and EIS to Kathleen Burleigh, Planning Staff and/or Jay Klink, Resource Planner, Snow Mountain Ranger District, HC 74 Box 12870, Hines, Oregon 97738, phone (503) 573&hyph;7292. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Forest Service Proposed Action is to treat 1500 acres of forested vegetation using group and individual tree selection and commercial and precommercial thinning, harvest 7 to 9 million board feet of timber, construct 2 miles of road, reconstruct roads, treat activity and natural fuels on 500 to 1000 acres, and implement riparian, wildlife, and range improvement projects. The Proposed Action is designed: _To treat the most insect and disease infested stands in the analysis area, to reduce the susceptibility of high risk timber stands to insect and disease attack, and to prevent further infestation and accelerated mortality rates. _To provide timber to the economy. _To meet the desired residue profiles for vegetation types in the analysis area. _To maintain and improve water quality to bring the area closer to the desired future condition. _To maintain and improve ecosystem health. The Responsible Official must decide: how much timber to harvest, if any, and where and how the harvest activities would take place; how many miles of roads to construct and reconstruct, if any; how many acres of fuels (activity and natural) to treat, if any, and where and how the fuels treatment should take place; and what riparian, wildlife and range improvement projects to implement, if any. The proposed Action is intended to implement the Chief of the Forest Service's direction to implement ecosystem management and to provide recovery from the insects, disease, and fuel buildup within the Foss-Perkins analysis area. The Foss-Perkins project area borders the Silver Creek Roadless Area. The project area is approximately 9000 acres in size. There is no designated roadless area within the project area, however there is a portion of the Silver Creek Research Natural Area within the project boundary. Silver Creek is located 1/4 to 1/2 mile west of the project area and was recently studied for determination of suitability for inclusion in the Wild and Scenic River System. It was determined that Silver Creek is not suitable for Wild and Scenic designation due to poor riparian condition. Alternatives will include a no action alternative, which involves no harvest or road construction, and additional alternatives to respond to issues generated during the scoping process. Some of these additional alternatives will incorporate the Viable Ecosystem Management Guide developed by the Ochoco National Forest which addresses the historic range of variability of timber stands in this region. The area also needs to be assessed for its roadless area suitability and semi-primitive management potential. However, a decision to amend the Forest Plan and designate any portions of the area as roadless is outside the scope of this project. Initial scoping for this project began in July of 1989. Issues raised by the public during scoping will be used to develop alternatives to the proposed action. Public participation will be especially important at several points during the analysis. The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, local agencies, tribes, and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed actions. This information will be used in preparation of the draft EIS. The scoping process includes: 1. Identifying potential issues. 2. Identifying issues to be analyzed in depth.
