FR940705-0-00035 FR940705-0-00002 (ii) Qualification Test Data, per Appendix A of this section; (iii) A set of instructions for handling the cable; (iv) OSHA Material Safety Data Sheets for all components; (v) Agree to periodic plant inspections; (vi) A certification that the product does or does not comply with the domestic origin manufacturing provisions, of the ``Buy American'' requirements of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938 (52 Stat. 818); (vii) Written user testimonials concerning field performance of the product; and (viii) Other nonproprietary data deemed necessary by the Chief, Outside Plant Branch (Telephone). (3) For requalification acceptance, the manufacturer must submit an original signature certification that the product fully complies with each section of the specification, excluding the Qualification Section, and a certification that the product does or does not comply with the domestic origin manufacturing provisions of the ``Buy American'' requirements of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938 (52 Stat. 818), for acceptance by September 30 every three years. The required data and certification must have been gathered within 90 days of the submission. (4) Initial and requalification acceptance requests should be addressed to: Chairman, Technical Standards Committee ``A'' (Telephone), Telecommunications Standards Division, Rural Electrification Administration, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;1500. (5) Tests on 100 percent of completed cable. (i) The armor for each length of cable must be tested for continuity using the procedures of ASTM D 4566&hyph;90. (ii) Attenuation for each optical fiber in the cable must be measured. (iii) Optical discontinuities must be isolated and their location and amplitude recorded. (6) Capability tests. Tests on a quality assurance basis must be made as frequently as is required for each manufacturer to determine and maintain compliance with: (i) Numerical aperture and bandwidth of multimode fibers; (ii) Cut off wavelength of single mode fibers; (iii) Dispersion of single mode fibers; (iv) Shrinkback and cold testing of loose tube and tight tube buffers; (v) Adhesion properties of the protective fiber coating; (vi) Dielectric strength between the armor and the metallic central member; (vii) Performance requirements for the inner and outer jacketing materials; (viii) Performance requirements for the filling and flooding compounds; (ix) Bonding properties of the coated armoring material; (x) Sequential marking and lettering; (xi) Cable bend and cable impact tests; (xii) Water penetration and compound flow tests; (xiii) Cable twist, cable flex, and cable compression tests; and (xiv) Performance requirements of support messenger. (t) Records of optical and physical tests. (1) Each manufacturer must maintain suitable summary records for a period of at least 3 years of all optical and physical tests required on completed cable by this section as set forth in paragraphs (s)(5) and (s)(6) of this section. The test data for a particular reel must be in a form that it may be readily available to REA upon request. The optical data must be furnished to the purchaser on a suitable and easily readable form. (2) Measurements and computed values must be rounded off to the number of places or figures specified for the requirement according to ASTM E 29&hyph;90. (u) Manufacturing irregularities. (1) Repairs to the armor, when present, are not permitted in cable supplied to end users under this section. (2) Minor defects in the inner and outer jacket (defects having a dimension of 3 millimeter or less in any direction) may be repaired by means of heat fusing in accordance with good commercial practices utilizing sheath grade compounds. (3) Buffer tube repair is permitted only in conjunction with fiber splicing. (v) Packaging and preparation for shipment. (1) The cable must be shipped on reels. The diameter of the drum must be large enough to prevent damage to the cable from reeling and unreeling. The reels must be substantial and so constructed as to prevent damage during shipment and handling. (2) A circumferential thermal wrap or other means of protection complying with the requirements of Appendix B of this section must be secured between the outer edges of the reel flange to protect the cable against damage during storage and shipment. (3) Cable manufactured to the requirements of this section must be sealed at the ends to prevent entrance of moisture. The method of sealing must be accepted by REA prior to its use. (4) The end-of-pull (outer end) of the cable must be securely fastened to prevent the cable from coming loose during transit. The start-of-pull (inner end) of the cable must project through a slot in the flange of the reel, around an inner riser, or into a recess on the reel flange near the drum and fastened in such a way to prevent the cable from becoming loose during installation. (5) Spikes, staples or other fastening devices must be used in a manner which will not result in penetration of the cable. (6) The arbor hole must admit a spindle 63.5 millimeters in diameter without binding. Steel arbor hole liners may be used but must be accepted by REA prior to their use. (7) Each reel must be plainly marked to indicate the direction in which it should be rolled to prevent loosening of the cable on the reel. (8) Each reel must be stenciled or lettered with the name of the manufacturer.
