FR940617-0-00066 FR940617-0-00014 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Department of the Army 32 CFR Part 552 Prohibited Personnel Practices on the Installation of Fort Jackson, SC AGENCY: Department of the Army, DOD. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This action establishes 32 CFR part 552, subpart L, Personnel_Prohibited Practices and authenticates Fort Jackson Regulation 600&hyph;3, printed in the Federal Register as a proposed rule on 29 July 1993 (58 FR 40611). This subpart establishes prohibited practices on the installation of Fort Jackson, South Carolina. These prohibited practices apply to all persons as signed to, attached to, or present on the installation of Fort Jackson, South Carolina. Prohibited practices listed in this part are not all inclusive. EFFECTIVE DATE: This final rule is effective June 17, 1994. ADDRESSES: Commander, U.S. Army Training Center and Fort Jackson, Office of the Staff Judge Advocate, Fort Jackson, SC 29207&hyph;5000. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: CPT Thomas M. Gagne, Trial Counsel, telephone: (803) 751&hyph;6848. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This part does not list all activities or practices prohibited on the installation of Fort Jackson, South Carolina. Various other Army and Fort Jackson regulations specifically prohibit other activities or practices. See Appendix A to this subpart. Executive Order 12291 This rule is not affected by Executive Order 12291. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act has no bearing on this rule. Paperwork Reduction Act This rule does not contain reporting or recordkeeping requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act. List of Subjects in 32 CFR Part 552 Military personnel, government employees. Accordingly, 32 CFR part 552, subpart L is added to read as follows: PART 552_SUBPART L_PROHIBITED PERSONNEL PRACTICES ON THE INSTALLATION OF FORT JACKSON, SOUTH CAROLINA Sec. 552.150␣Purpose. 552.151␣Scope. 552.152␣Prohibited practices. 552.153␣Dissemination. Appendix A to Subpart L_Partial List of Other Publications Applicable on Fort Jackson Which List Prohibited Practices Authority: 10 U.S. Code, Ch. 47, 21 U.S. Code 801, et seq. Subpart L_Prohibited Personnel Practices on the Installation of Fort Jackson, SC §552.150 Purpose. This part is punitive in nature and applies to all persons assigned to, attached to, or present on the installation of Fort Jackson, South Carolina. A violation of, attempted violation of, or solicitation or conspiracy to violate any provision of this part provides the basis for criminal prosecution under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, applicable Federal Law, other regulations, and/or adverse administrative action. Civilian visitors may be barred from the installation of Fort Jackson and prosecuted under appropriate Federal laws. The enumeration of prohibited activities in this part is not intended to preclude prosecution under other provisions of law or regulation. §552.151 Scope. This part does not list all activities or practices prohibited on the installation of Fort Jackson, South Carolina. Various other Army and Fort Jackson regulations specifically prohibit other activities or practices. See Appendix A to this subpart. §552.152 Prohibited practices. The following activities are prohibited: (a) The possession, delivery, sale, transfer, or introduction into the installation of Fort Jackson of any device, instrument or paraphernalia designed or reasonably intended for use in introducing into the human body a controlled substance, as defined in the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 801, et seq. , is prohibited. (b) Unless an exception is approved by the Chief of Staff or a Major Subordinate Commander for a special occasion, consumption of alcoholic beverages, or the possession of an open container thereof, is prohibited under the circumstances listed in this section. For the purpose of this part, an ``alcoholic beverage'' is any liquid beverage containing any amount of ethyl alcohol, including wines, malt beverages and distilled spirits. (1) By military personnel in uniform during duty hours (0730&hyph;1630). (2) By military personnel during their assigned duty hours when different than those in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (3) By civilian employees during their assigned duty hours. Lunch time is not considered duty time for civilian employees. (4) By civilian or military personnel in places of duty. (5) By any person in a public place, except: in the Twin Lakes and Weston Lake Recreational Areas, in the immediate vicinity of Oyster Point (Officers' Club), at installation club facilities governed by section II of AR 215&hyph;2, and at Army/Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) eating establishments which serve alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption. (6) By any person in any Fort Jackson parking lot or parking area, to include the Burger King parking lot and all parking lots of AAFES facilities and installation club facilities. (c) The presence of any person in a training area or of any permanent party soldier or civilian employee in a trainee/receptee billeting area while impaired by alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs is prohibited. For the purpose of this part, ``Impaired by alcoholic beverages'' for military personnel is defined as having a blood alcohol level of .05 percent (.05 is equivalent to 55 milligrams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood) or more. (d) Privately Owned Firearms and Ammunition. For the purpose of this part, a ``firearm'' means any device which is designed to or readily may be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive. Air/pellet guns, BB guns and bows are subject to all of the provisions of this paragraph except paragraph (d)(1) of this section. (1) It is prohibited for persons residing on the installation to fail to register privately owned firearms with their unit commander. (2) Storage of privately owned firearms in the barracks is prohibited. For the purposes of this part, ``barracks'' does not include BOQs or SBEQs. (3) It is prohibited to store privately owned firearms in BOQs, SBEQs, or family quarters unless the firearm is unloaded, ammunition is stored separately from the firearm in a locked container, and one of the following methods for firearms storage is employed: by using a trigger locking device, by storing the firearm in a locked container, by removing the firing pin from the firearm and storing the firing pin in a locked container, or by disassembling the firearm and storing the disassembled parts in separate places. For the purposes of this part a ``locked container'' and a ``locking device'' mean locked containers and locking devices the keys to which are stored in a place not assessable to persons under 18 years of age. (4) It is prohibited to carry on one's person any privately owned firearm in a public place on the installation of Fort Jackson unless participating in an authorized sporting activity or hunting in accordance with applicable regulations.
