FR940607-1-00016 FR940607-1-00003 IV. Description of Proposal To Amend Requirements for the Annual Filing of Amendments to Registration Statements of National Securities Exchanges, Securities Associations, and Reports of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board As described above, Rule 6a&hyph;2 of the Exchange Act requires an exchange to update and file annually certain amendments to its registration with the Commission. Exchanges submit these filings on Form 1&hyph;A by referencing the appropriate exhibit to the exchange registration being amended. Because the Commission believes that this is unnecessary for much of this information, the Commission is proposing amendments to Rule 6a&hyph;2 that would eliminate or reduce this annual filing requirement for the following: Exhibit B (forms pertaining to application for membership and approval as a person associated with a member); Exhibit C (forms of financial statements, reports, or questionnaires relating to financial responsibility); Exhibit D (documents comprising listing applications including agreements required in connection therewith, and a schedule of listing fees); Exhibit I (list of all individual members and related information); Exhibit J (certain information related to a list of all member organizations of the exchange); and Exhibit K (schedule of securities listed on the exchange). For all the remaining exhibits, with the exception of Exhibits E and F, which concern financial statements, 33 exchanges would have the option, in lieu of the annual filing, to publish or cooperate in the publication of this information on an annual or more frequent basis, and to certify to the accuracy of the information. Exchanges would have the further option of keeping the information in Exhibits A(1), A(2), A(3), L, and M up to date, and certifying that the information is up to date and available to the Commission and the public upon request. 34 In addition, the Commission is proposing to add the date of election to membership, if available, as an item to be filed by exchanges annually under Exhibit J. This is necessary to enable the Commission to monitor the obligation of broker-dealers to be a member of an SRO. 35 It also will help the Commission to designate an appropriate examining authority for each broker-dealer. 36 33 The annual filing requirement for these exhibits would be retained because they are necessary to enable the Commission to comply with Section 23(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78w(b). That section requires the Commission to include in its report to Congress each year a statement and analysis of the expenses and operations of each SRO. 34 Exhibit A(1) contains the constitution, articles of incorporation, by-laws, and rules of the exchange; Exhibit A(2) contains written rulings, settled practices, and interpretations not contained in A(1); Exhibit A(3) contains the constitution, articles of incorporation, by-laws, and rules of each affiliate or subsidiary of the exchange; Exhibit L contains a schedule of securities admitted to unlisted trading practices; and Exhibit M contains a schedule of unregistered securities admitted to trading on the exchange which are exempt from registration. 35 Section 15(b)(8) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(8). 36 The Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 contemplates a designated examining authority for broker-dealers. 15 U.S.C. 78aaa et seq. The Commission also is proposing to make corresponding changes, where applicable, to the requirements for the NASD and MSRB. Thus, the requirement to file certain information annually would be streamlined, and the reporting requirements for the NASD and the MSRB would be conformed, where appropriate, to the requirements for the exchanges. In addition, similar to the proposal for exchanges discussed above, for certain information, these SROs would have the option, in lieu of an annual filing, of identifying the publication in which this information is available or keeping such information up to date and making it available to the Commission and the public. The Commission is requesting specific comment on these proposals. V. Conclusion and Request for Comments The Commission believes that the proposals described above, if adopted, would expedite and streamline the process through which SROs file proposed rule changes with the Commission. 37 The proposals also would streamline the requirements to file amendments to registration statements of national securities exchanges, securities associations, and reports of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. The Commission requests comment on each of these proposals. The Commission requests specific comment on the amendments to the annual filing requirements for securities exchanges, securities associations, and the MSRB, with a view toward maintaining comparable requirements for all SROs. 37 These amendments may affect clearing agencies for which the Commission is not the appropriate regulatory agency as defined in Section 3(a)(34) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34). Therefore, in accordance with Section 17A(d)(3)(A)(i) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(d)(3)(A)(i), at least 15 days before this announcement, the Commission consulted and requested the views of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. VI. Effects on Competition and Regulatory Flexibility Act Considerations Section 23(a) of the Exchange Act 38 requires the Commission, in adopting rules under the Exchange Act, to consider the impact on competition of those rules, if any, and to balance that impact against the regulatory benefits gained in terms of furthering the purposes of the Exchange Act. The Commission preliminarily is of the view that adoption of the proposed amendments to Rule 19b&hyph;4, Form 19b&hyph;4, and Rule 6a&hyph;2 would not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act. The Commission requests comment, however, on any competitive burdens that might result from adoption of these amendments. 38 15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2). In addition, Section 3(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (``RFA'') 39 requires the Commission to undertake an initial regulatory flexibility analysis of the proposed amendments on small entities unless the Chairman certifies that the rule, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. 40 Rule 19b&hyph;4 and Form 19b&hyph;4 apply only to SROs. Rule 6a&hyph;2 applies only to national securities exchanges. Furthermore, the proposed amendments are intended to streamline a process to which these SROs already are subject. The Chairman has certified that the proposed amendments, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. 39 5 U.S.C. 603(a). 40 5 U.S.C. 605(b). List of Subjects in 17 CFR Parts 240 and 249 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities. Statutory Basis and Text of Proposed Amendments In accordance with the foregoing, Title 17, Chapter II of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 240_GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 1. The authority citation for Part 240 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss, 77ttt, 78c, 78d, 78i, 78j, 78 l, 78m, 78n, 78 o , 78p, 78s, 78w, 78x, 78 ll (d), 79q, 79t, 80a&hyph;20, 80a&hyph;23, 80a&hyph;29, 80a&hyph;37, 80b&hyph;3, 80b&hyph;4 and 80b&hyph;11, unless otherwise noted. * * * * *
