FR940720-2-00141 FR940720-2-00078 [Release No. 34&hyph;34379; File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;94&hyph;15] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to Corporate Governance Issues July 14, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on June 23, 1994, the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. (``CHX'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On June 30, 1994, the Exchange submitted to the Commission Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change in order to narrow the scope of the original filing. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 See letter from David T. Rusoff, Attorney, Foley & Lardner, to Sandra Sciole, Special Counsel, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, dated June 29, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). The portions of this filing that were withdrawn in Amendment No. 1 have been resubmitted to the Commission as File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;94&hyph;17. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The CHX proposes to submit the following rule proposal to amend Article III, Sec. 2 and Article IV, Secs. 4, 5 and 7 of the Exchange's Constitution relating to corporate governance issues. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The purpose of the proposed change is to amend the Exchange's Constitution relating to corporate governance issues. Specifically, the changes concern (i) the creation of a new category of Governor and the addition of one additional non-member Governor and (ii) providing more flexibility by permitting re-categorizations of Governors. The primary purpose of these proposed amendments, along with corresponding and conforming amendments to the By-Laws of the Midwest Clearing Corporation (``MCC'') and the Midwest Securities Trust Company (``MSTC''), 2 is to achieve a governance structure pursuant to which the Exchange and two of its wholly owned subsidiaries, MCC and MSTC, will be able to operate more as a single, coherently run business. Once all the proposed changes are adopted, approved and implemented, the Board of Governors of the Exchange, the Board of Directors of the MCC and the Board of Directors of MSTC would all consist of the same 31 individuals. This would be achieved by, among other things, having the Nominating Committees of MCC and MSTC be the same as the Exchange's Nominating Committee. At the same time, in order to insure fair and meaningful representation of Participants in the governance process of MCC and MSTC, the size of the Board would be increased by four slots to accommodate a new category of Governor that would provide the Board with more expertise on issues affecting MCC and MSTC, as more fully described below. 2 See File Nos. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;94&hyph;07 and SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;09 respectively. New Category of Governor/Increased Board Size The proposed amendment would create a new category of Governor, a Participant Governor. In order to be qualified to be a Participant Governor, a person must be a general partner or officer of a Participant in the MCC or MSTC and must have securities clearance and/or settlement expertise, background or responsibilities. The proposal would call for the addition of four Participant Governors, one each in Class I and Class II and two in Class III. The Exchange does not contemplate that the vacancies in the Participant Governor category would be filled by floor members of the Exchange. 3 The proposed amendment also would add an additional non-member Governor slot, increasing the slots available for non-member Governors from eight to nine. This slot has been added to Class II. This change would maintain the existing balance between the non-member, or ``public,'' Governors and the industry Governors on the Board. In order to accomplish these changes, the amendment would increase the size of the Board of Governors to 31 from its present size of 26. Pursuant to existing Exchange rules, the vacancies created by this amendment (one vacancy in Class I, two vacancies in Class II and two vacancies in Class III) could be filled by the Board, on an interim basis, until the April 1995 annual election. The slots created are as follows: 3 The CHX has stated that, in order to ensure that floor members are not over-represented on the Board, management of the Exchange will use its best efforts to ensure that the newly created Participant Governor positions will not initially or thereafter be filled by floor members of the Exchange. The CHX also has agreed to notify the Commission if a floor member is elected to fill a Participant Governor position, and to revisit this issue if its best efforts do not succeed. See letter from David T. Rusoff, Attorney, Foley & Lardner, to Sharon Lawson, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, dated July 8, 1994. ␣ 1␣ 1Participant governors 1Non-member governors Class I4 One slot created N/A. Class II One slot created One slot created. Class III Two slots created N/A. 4Class I expires in April 1995; Class II in April 1996; and Class III in April 1997.
