FR940317-1-00053 FR940317-1-00013 (2) An office under the supervision of the senior JA of each command in the area of operations of a command claims service so designated by the chief of that service after coordination with the Commander, USARCS (see §536.7(c)(2)). The senior JA in the office is the head of the area claims office. (3) The legal office of each engineer district within the United States and such other engineer commands or agencies as designated by the Commander, USARCS with concurrence of the Chief of Engineers (COE) for all claims generated by such districts, commands, or agencies. The district counsel or the attorney in charge of the legal office of the command or agency is the head of the area claims office. (e) Claims processing offices are normally small legal offices or subordinate elements of area claims offices, which are designated by the Commander, USARCS; a command claims service; or an area claims office. These offices are established for the investigation of all potential and actual claims arising within their jurisdiction, either on an area basis or on a command or agency basis. A claims officer (see appendix B to this part) will not be a claims processing office; his or her role is limited to claims investigation. There are four types of claims processing offices as follows (§536.8(c)): (1) Claims processing offices without approval authority. (2) Claims processing offices with approval authority. (3) Medical claims processing offices. (4) Special claims processing offices. (f) The chief of a command claims service and the head of an area claims office or a claims processing office with approval authority may delegate, in writing, any portion or all of his or her monetary approval authority to a subordinate JA or claims attorney in his or her service or office. The authority to act upon appeals or requests for reconsideration, to disapprove claims (including disapprovals based on substantial fraud), or to make final offers will not be delegated. Copies of delegations within claims processing offices will be provided to the area claims office and, if so directed, to command claims services. §536.6 Designation of claims attorneys. (a) The Commander, USARCS, the senior JA of a command having a command claims service or the Commander, USAREUR Claims Service, the head of an area claims office, or the Chief Counsel, COE may designate a qualified attorney other than a Judge Advocate as a claims attorney. The head of an area claims office may designate a claims attorney to act as a claims processing office with approval authority. (b) To be eligible as a claims attorney, an individual must be a civilian employee of the DA or DOD, in grade GS&hyph;11 or above; a member of the bar of a State, the District of Columbia, or a jurisdiction where U.S. Federal law applies; and be performing primary duties as a legal adviser. These requirements can be waived by the Commander, USARCS, in appropriate cases. Responsibilities, Operations, Policies, and Guidance §536.7 Responsibilities. (a) The Judge Advocate General. TJAG has Army Staff responsibility for administrative settlement of claims worldwide by and against the U.S. Government, generated by employees of the U.S. Army and, DOD components other than the Departments of the Air Force and Navy (see DODD 5515.9). Certain claims responsibilities of TJAG are exercised by The Assistant Judge Advocate General (TAJAG), as set forth in this regulation. (b) Commander, USARCS. Commander, USARCS will_ (1) Supervise and inspect U.S. Army claims activities worldwide. (2) Formulate and implement claims policies and uniform standards for claims office operations. (3) Supervise the investigation, processing, and settlement of claims against and on behalf of the United States under the statutes and regulations listed in paragraph 1&hyph;4. (4) Designate area claims offices, claims processing offices, and claims attorneys within DA and DOD components other than the Departments of the Navy and Air Force. (5) Designate Continental United States (CONUS) geographic areas of claims responsibility. (6) Recommend action to be taken by the Secretary of the Army or the Attorney General of the United States as appropriate, regarding claims in excess of $100,000 under the FCA, the MCA, and the NGCA and other claims that have been appealed to the Secretary of the Army, or are in excess of $25,000 under the FTCA. (7) Operate the ``receiving State office'' for claims cognizable under Article VIII of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), as implemented by 10 U.S.C 2743b (Subpart G). (8) Settle claims of the U.S. Postal Service for reimbursement under 39 U.S.C 411 (see DOD Manual 4525.6&hyph;M) and of DOD under industrial security regulations (DODD 5220.6). (9) Settle claims against carriers, warehouse firms, insurers, and other third parties for loss of, or damage to, personal property of service members incurred while in storage or in transit at Government expense (subpart K). (10) Formulate and recommend proposed legislation for Congressional enactment of new statutes and the amendment of existing statutes considered essential for orderly and expeditious administrative settlement of noncontractual claims. (11) Perform post settlement review of claims. (12) Prepare, justify, and defend estimates of budgetary requirements and administer the Army claims budget. (13) Maintain permanent records of claims for which TJAG is responsible. (14) Assist in developing disaster and maneuver claims plans designed to implement responsibilities set forth in paragraphs (d)(11) of this section and §536.15(c). (15) Develop and maintain plans for a disaster or civil disturbance for geographic areas not under the jurisdiction of an area claims authority and in which the Army has single service responsibility or in which the Army is likely to be the predominant Armed Force.
