FR941202-0-00033 FR941202-0-00001 36. Section 35.404 is revised to read as follows: ยง35.404 Release of patients or human research subjects treated with temporary implants. (a) Immediately after removing the last temporary implant source from a patient or a human research subject, the licensee shall make a radiation survey of the patient or the human research subject with a radiation detection survey instrument to confirm that all sources have been removed. The licensee may not release from confinement for medical care a patient or a human research subject treated by temporary implant until all sources have been removed. (b) A licensee shall retain a record of patient or human research subject surveys for three years. Each record must include the date of the survey, the name of the patient or the human research subject, the dose rate from the patient or the human research subject expressed as millirem per hour and measured at 1 meter from the patient or the human research subject, the survey instrument used, and the initials of the individual who made the survey. 37. In ยง35.406, paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) are revised to read as follows: ยง35.406 Brachytherapy sources inventory. (a) Promptly after removing them from a patient or a human research subject, a licensee shall return brachytherapy sources to the storage area, and count the number returned to ensure that all sources taken from the storage area have been returned. (b) A licensee shall make a record of brachytherapy source use which must include: (1) The names of the individuals permitted to handle the sources; (2) The number and activity of sources removed from storage, the patient's or the human research subject's name and room number, the time and date they were removed from storage, the number and activity of the sources in storage after the removal, and the initials of the individual who removed the sources from storage; (3) The number and activity of sources returned to storage, the patient's or the human research subject's name and room number, the time and date they were returned to storage, the number and activity of sources in storage after the return, and the initials of the individual who returned the sources to storage. (c) Immediately after implanting sources in a patient or a human research subject the licensee shall make a radiation survey of the patient or the human research subject and the area of use to confirm that no sources have been misplaced. The licensee shall make a record of each survey. * * * * * 38. In ยง35.410, the introductory text of paragraph (a), and paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(5) are revised to read as follows:
